Hoodening 

Hoodening (), likewise spelled hodening and oodening, is a society custom found in Kent, a district in south-eastern England. The convention involves the utilization of a wooden pastime horse known as a hooden horse that is mounted on a shaft and conveyed by an individual covered up under a rough clothing. Initially, the custom was confined to the region of East Kent, in spite of the fact that in the twentieth century it spread into neighboring West Kent. It speaks to a local variety of a "hooded creature" convention that shows up in different structures all through the British Isles. 

As recorded from the eighteenth to the mid twentieth hundreds of years, hoodening was a convention performed at Christmas time by gatherings of homestead workers. They would shape into groups to go with the steed on its movements around the neighborhood, in spite of the fact that the cosmetics of such gatherings fluctuated, they regularly incorporated a person to convey the steed, a pioneer, a man in female dress known as a "Mollie", and a few artists. The group would then convey the hooden steed to neighborhood houses and shops, where they would anticipate installment for their appearance. Despite the fact that this training is wiped out, in the present the hooden horse is fused into different Kentish Mummers plays and Morris moves that happen at various occasions of the year. 

The causes of the hoodening custom, and the first determination of the expression "hooden", stay subject to scholastic discussion. An early recommendation was that "hooden" was identified with the Anglo-Saxon pre-Christian god Woden, and that the convention along these lines began with pre-Christian religious practices in the early medieval Kingdom of Kent. This thought has not discovered help from students of history or folklorists concentrating the custom. An all the more generally acknowledged clarification among researchers is that the expression "hooden" identifies with "hooded", a reference to the rough clothing worn by the individual conveying the pony. The nonappearance generally medieval references to such practices and the geographic dispersal of the different British hooded creature customs—among them the Mari Lwyd of south Wales, the Broad of the Cotswolds, and the Old Ball, Old Tup, and Old Horse of northern England—have prompted proposals that they get from the regionalised advancement of the sixteenth and seventeenth-century style for leisure activity steeds among the social first class. 

The most punctual printed reference to the hoodening custom originates from the principal half of the eighteenth century. Dissipated references to it showed up throughout the following century and a half, a significant number of which believed it to be a declining convention that had ceased to exist in numerous pieces of Kent. Mindful of this decrease, in the mid twentieth century the folklorist and student of history Percy Maylam archived what made due of the custom and followed its appearances in chronicled reports, distributing his discoveries as "The Hooden Horse" in 1909. In spite of the fact that regarded wiped out at the season of the First World War, the custom was restored in a changed structure amid the mid-twentieth century, when the utilization of the hooden horse was joined into some cutting edge Kentish people conventions. 

Enduring sources vouch for the way that while there was some variety in the hoodening custom as it was rehearsed by various people in various pieces of East Kent, it was in any case "overall astoundingly uniform". The hooden horse, which was at the focal point of the convention, was normally made out of a wooden pony's head attached to a shaft around four feet long, with a pivoted jaw that was moved by a string. This pony was then conveyed high up by a person who was covered underneath a dim fabric. As a feature of the hoodening custom, a group of "hoodeners", comprising of somewhere in the range of four and eight men, would bring the steed through the boulevards. This group incorporated the pony administrator, a "Man of the hour", "Driver", or "Waggoner" who conveyed a whip and drove the steed by a harness, a "Racer" who might endeavor to mount the steed, a "Mollie" who was a man dressed as a lady, and a couple of performers. The majority of the men were ranch workers, for the most part being the individuals who worked with ponies. 

The group played out the custom at Christmas time, and as a rule on Christmas Eve. The group would touch base at individuals' homes where they would sing a melody before being conceded passage. Once inside, the steed skipped and ground its jaw, while the Jockey endeavored to mount it, and the Mollie cleared the floor with a sweeper while pursuing any young ladies present. Now and then they would sing further tunes and ditties. After being given installment, the group would leave to rehash the procedure at another house. 

Students of history have classified 33 recorded examples of the hoodening convention surviving in Kent preceding the twentieth-century recovery. These are bunched in a bow shape along the eastern and northern banks of the province, and all were found inside the zone generally characterized as East Kent, the custom being obscure in neighboring West Kent. All the more explicitly, the folklorist Percy Maylam noticed that there were no records of the convention having been discovered west of Godmersham. This locale was "an all around populated zone" amid the period in which the hoodeners were dynamic, and Maylam noticed that the majority of the territories in which the custom was discovered contained the East Kentish lingo. The folklorist E. C. Cawte broke down the recorded dispersion of the hoodeners and found that it didn't relate with the regions of early Anglo-Saxon settlement in Kent, nor did it accord with the district's coal mining zones. He inferred that "there is no clear motivation behind why the custom did not spread further abroad". 

Hoodening was a piece of a more extensive "hooded creature" convention that Cawte distinguished as existing in various structures in different pieces of Britain. Highlights basic to these traditions were the utilization of a pastime horse, the execution at Christmas time, a tune or spoken proclamation mentioning installment, and the utilization of a group who incorporated a man wearing ladies' garments. In South Wales, the Mari Lwyd custom highlighted troupes of men with a side interest horse thumping at entryways over the Christmas time frame. In a territory along the fringe among Derbyshire and Yorkshire, the Old Tup convention highlighted bunches thumping on entryways around Christmas conveying a side interest horse that had a goat's head. The folklorist Christina Hole drew parallels among hoodening and the Christmas Bull custom recorded in Dorset and Gloucestershire. In south-west England, there are two surviving side interest horse conventions—the Padstow 'Obby 'Oss celebration and Minehead Hobby Horse—which occur not at Christmas time but rather on May Day. 

In spite of the fact that the starting points of these conventions are not known with any assurance, the absence of any late medieval references to such practices may propose that they rose up out of the archived first class design for leisure activity ponies in the sixteenth and seventeenth hundreds of years. In this, the hooded creature conventions might be practically identical to England's Morris move custom, which turned into an "across the nation fever" in the sixteenth and seventeenth hundreds of years before advancing into "a lot of forcefully depicted local conventions". 

Maylam noticed that most nineteenth-century sources depicting the custom had spelled the word as "hoden", however that he supported "hooden" on the grounds that it better mirrored the elocution of the word with its long vowel. He included that "the word 'hooden' rhymes with 'wooden' and not with 'soaked' as certain journalists seem to think". Given this articulation, Cawte proposed that "oodening" was a superior spelling for the custom's name. Maylam additionally noticed that none of the hoodeners with whom he imparted knew about the derivation of the term, and that also they were ignorant of the custom's verifiable sources. 

The expression "hoodening" is in this way of obscure deduction. One conceivable clarification for the starting point of "hooden" was that it had developed as an error of "wooden", alluding to the utilization of the wooden steed. Maylam was incredulous of this thought, communicating the view that such an error was probably not going to rise up out of the Kentish lingo. A second plausibility is that the name "hooden" was a reference to the hooded idea of the pony's carrier. The history specialist Ronald Hutton esteemed this to be the "least complex" induction, while folklorists Cawte and Charlotte Sophia Burne additionally thought of it as the doubtlessly clarification. Maylam was likewise condemning of this, proposing the material under which the transporter was disguised was too extensive to be in any way thought about a hood. 

In his "History of Kent", the collector Alfred John Dunkin recommended that "Hodening" was a debasement of "Hobening", and that it was at last gotten from the Gothic "hopp", which means horse. Maylam opined that Dunkin's contention could be "disregarded", expressing that it laid on the mistaken suspicion that "Hodening" started with a short vowel. 

Maylam presumed that the hoodening convention was "a ravaged survival" of a type of Morris move. Taking note of that some medieval Morris artists had consolidated amusements dedicated to the English society saint Robin Hood into their custom, he recommended that "hoodening" might have initially been a reference to Robin Hood. This thought was tested by Burne, who noticed that in his legends, Robin Hood was constantly delineated as a toxophilite instead of a pony rider, subsequently addressing how he had come to be related with the hooden horse. She further noticed that the medieval diversions gave to Robin Hood all occurred in May instead of at Christmas, as hoodening did. Cawte likewise reprimanded Maylam's contention, taking note of that there was no proof of Morris moving in Kent before the twentieth century, and that neither hoodening nor Robin Hood had an especially close relationship with the Morris move to begin with. 

In 1807, an unknown eyewitness proposed that the expression "hoden" was connected to the Anglo-Saxon god Woden, and that the custom may be "a relic of a celebration to honor our Saxon progenitors arriving in Thanet". In 1891, it was proposed that the custom had once been known as "Odining", a reference to the early medieval Scandinavian god Odin. The creator of this thought additionally proposed that the custom had started either with the custom wearing of the skins of ponies relinquished to Odin, or as an early Christian joke of such Odinic rehearses. 

Maylam noticed that he was at first pulled in to the possibility that the expression "hodening" had gotten from "Woden"— an Old English name that he thought a more probable inception than the Old Norse "Odin"— yet that after exploring this plausibility found "no adequate proof" for it. He included that it would appear to be far-fetched that the "W" would be lost from "Woden" in the Kentish lingo, refering to the case of Woodnesborough, a Kentish town whose name is frequently translated as having gotten from "Woden" and which plainly holds its utilization of "W". He reasoned that "one feels that the hypothesis depends on deductions and analogies not sufficient for an establishment to convey the structure raised on them". Linking the convention to Woden was additionally expelled as impossible by both Burne and Cawte. 

Trusting it likely that the hoodening custom "significantly pre-dates" its most punctual literary appearances, the folklorist Geoff Doel recommended the likelihood that it had started as a Midwinter ritual to re-empower the vegetation. As proof for this case, Doel noticed that other English winter people traditions, for example, the Apple Wassail, have additionally been translated as such. He likewise proposed that the utilization of the steed in the custom may have a few associations with either the utilization of the white pony as the image of Kent, and the utilization of Hengist and Horsa (signifying "stallion" and "steed" in Old English) as conspicuous characters in the birthplace legends of the early medieval Kingdom of Kent. 

The most seasoned known printed reference to hoodening originates from the "Letters in order of Kenticisms", a composition wrote by Samuel Pegge, a classicist who filled in as the vicar of Godmersham in Kent from 1731 to 1751. After Pegge passed on, the original copy was acquired by the palaeographer Sir Frederic Madden, and after his demise it was bought by the English Dialect Society, who distributed it in 1876. In this original copy, Pegge noted basically that "Hoodening (huod.ing) is a nation disguise at Christmas times", contrasting it with Mumming and the Winster Guisers of Derbyshire. 

The most punctual known printed portrayal of the convention is given by a letter that was distributed in a May 1807 release of "European Magazine". The letter had been composed by an unknown person who was depicting an experience with the hoodeners on a visit to the Kentish waterfront town of Ramsgate in Thanet: 

Later remarking on this source, Maylam featured that its creator did not have all the earmarks of being from Kent and that, from their utilization of wording, it gave the idea that they had been told about the convention by local people however had not really seen it direct. Accordingly, Maylam proposed that the creator may have been off-base in portraying the utilization of a steed's skull in the Ramsgate custom, given that both later sources and the hoodeners of his own time all utilized a wooden model of a pony's head. In the meantime, Maylam noticed that the utilization of a pony's skull was certainly feasible, for such skulls had likewise been utilized in the interest horse customs of different pieces of Britain. 

The namelessly wrote record was rehashed practically verbatim in a scope of different productions in the coming decades, giving its depiction far more extensive presentation. The first printed reference to the hooden horse having a wooden head showed up in Mackenzie E. C. Walcott's "Manual for the Coast of Kent", distributed in 1859, where he alluded to an "inquisitive custom [which] used to win" in Ramsgate. Maylam later proposed that the Ramsgate hooden horse custom ceased to exist somewhere in the range of 1807 and 1838, for he had talked with old town occupants in the mid twentieth century and keeping in mind that few knew that it had once occurred in the town, none could review it occurring in their own lifetime. 

Numerous years after the occasion, the Kentish curator J. Glades Cooper related that while sitting in a bar on the edges of Margate on Boxing Day 1855 he hosted experienced a gathering conveying a hooden horse that entered the structure. Another neighborhood inhabitant, Mrs. Edward Tomlin, later related that as a kid she had inhabited a house named Updown, close Margate, and that she recalled the hooden horse visiting them at Christmas time amid the 1850s and up until 1865. Maylam's looks into additionally discovered memories of a hooden horse that had showed up in Herne and Swalecliffe yet which had been stopped during the 1860s, another that was dynamic from Wingate Farm House in Harbledown amid the 1850s, and one that had been dynamic at Evington however which had stopped by the 1860s. He found another based at Lower Hardres that had been dynamic from at any rate the 1850s under the initiative of Henry Brazier; it was hence taken over by his child John, until the custom finished locally in 1892. 

In a January 1868 version of the "Kentish Gazette", a mysterious creator referenced that hoodening had occurred in Minster, Swale on the Christmas Eve of 1867. The creator noticed that the custom included hymn singing and the ringing of handbells, which were joined by the presence of a hooden horse; they communicated shock at this last occasion since they had suspected that the pony was "as wiped out as the megatherium". 

In their 1888 "Word reference of the Kentish Dialect", W. D. Ward and W. F. Shaw asserted that "Hodening" was a term utilized in Kent to allude to a custom including the singing of songs, however that in the past "Hoodening" had been connected to "a mumming or disguise" including the hooden horse. They included that they had picked up data on this more seasoned custom in 1876 from the Reverend H. Bennett Smith of St Nicholas-at-Wade, who had thusly gained from a resigned rancher in his area that "the rancher used to send yearly round the area the best steed under the charge of the wagoner, and that subsequently rather, a man used to speak to the steed, being provided with a tail, and with a wooden figure of a steed's head, and a lot of pony hair for a mane... The custom has since a long time ago stopped." 

Area and Shaw did not make reference to what season the convention occurred or its topographical area. They likewise made no reference to a sack disguising the individual conveying the pony. Doel thought it likely that neither Parish or Shaw had ever observed a hooden horse, and that rather their data depended on more established composed sources. He additionally thought it significant that they depicted the custom utilizing the past tense, demonstrating that they believed it to be either dead or biting the dust at the season of composing. Maylam trusted that the data with respect to the decay of the custom was wrong, since hoodeners were as yet dynamic in St. Nicholas-at-Wade amid the mid twentieth century and different local people living in the territory at the time could review it occurring in the region back to the 1840s. 

In December 1889, a letter composed by an occupant of St. Lawrence named Charles J. H. Saunders showed up in the "Bromley Record". Saunders expressed that he had bantered with numerous older inhabitants of Thanet regarding the matter of hoodening, and that they educated him that the custom had been ceased around fifty years beforehand, after a lady in Broadstairs was so terrified by the hooden horse that she passed on. He included that a steed's skull was seldom utilized, "attributable to the trouble acquiring one", and that the wooden head was subsequently regularly utilized as a substitution. He expressed that the hoodening organization regularly comprised of a "Racer" who put himself on the back of the individual conveying the pony, and that it was the "sport" that spectators endeavored to distract him, bringing about viciousness. The steed and racer were likewise joined by two vocalists, two specialists, and an individual dressed as an "elderly person" conveying a floor brush; when the organization thumped on individuals' entryways, it was the elderly person's business to clear the occupants feet away with her sweeper and to pursue any young ladies until being satisfied with cash or refreshments. He was of the assessment that the custom had been confined to the Isle of Thanet, noticing that local people educated him that it had been done in Ramsgate, St. Lawrence, Minster, St. Nicholas, Acol, Monkton, and Birchington. Repudiating this were a few letters distributed in the "Congregation Times" in January 1891 which bore witness to the proceeding with routine with regards to the hooden horse custom at both Deal and Walmer. 

Percy Maylam was naturally introduced to a cultivating family in 1865 at Pivington Farm in Pluckley, and in 1890 turned into a specialist of the Supreme Court before functioning as a specialist at Canterbury. Just as being a sharp cricketer and currency authority, Maylam was a beginner student of history and in 1892 joined the Kent Archeological Society. Amid the 1880s, Maylam happened upon the hoodening custom and started undertaking investigation into it, hunting down literary references to the convention in books, periodicals, and papers, and talking those associated with three surviving customs, at St Nicholas-at-Wade, Walmer, and Deal. He communicated the assessment that "in nowadays Kent has so couple of certified well known traditions of this thoughtful that we can't stand to be unconcerned with those still in presence. This is my reason for my endeavor to record the custom as now existing before it is absolutely lost to us." 

The period in which Maylam led his examination was one that was seeing expanded enthusiasm for the chronicle of Britain's country people culture, specifically by individuals from the expert classes—of which Maylam was a part—to a limited extent because of the dread that such conventions were quickly vanishing. Such old stories gathering was energized by The Folklore Society, with whom Maylam was related, and furthermore by the generally perused book "The Golden Bough", a work of near folkloristics wrote by the anthropologist James Frazer. Maylam distributed his exploration in 1909 as "The Hooden Horse", in a version restricted to 303 duplicates. The book was looked into in the diary "Legends" by Burne, who depicted it as "a splendid bit of work, cautious, exhaustive, unambitious, and complete in itself". Cawte later portrayed it as "curiously great", while Fran and Geoff Doel viewed it as "an exceptionally edified bit of Edwardian people investigate". 

Maylam inferred that at the time, there was just a single hooden horse still in dynamic use in Thanet, that put away at Hale Farm in St. Nicholas-at-Wade, which he noted was drawn out every Christmas to visit Sarre, Birchington, and St. Nicholas-at-Wade itself. The individuals incorporated a man in female attire, known as the Mollie, in their parade, however included this had not been accomplished for quite a while and was in this manner reintroduced for Maylam's advantage. In his book, Maylam incorporated a photo of the pony taken at Sarre in 1905. On Christmas Eve 1906, Maylam experienced a second hooden horse, this time at Walmer. This pony came into the neighborhood inn coffee bar at about 6.30 pm, joined by two artists—one playing the tambourine and the other the concertina—and a man named Robert Laming who drove the steed itself. They were wearing common garments, yet educated Maylam that they had once worn coverall gowns as a feature of the custom. They had no Mollie, and the individuals couldn't review a Mollie regularly having been a piece of their custom. The inn proprietor's little girl set a tip in the steed's mouth, before the troupe proceeded onward to the nearby shops, where they were likewise given tips along these lines. Maylam conversed with the troupe about the custom, and in the end sorted out the capturing of the Walmer horse and the individuals who went with it in March 1907. 

Maylam likewise met those associated with the hoodening convention at Deal, whom he experienced in the mid year of 1909. One older man of honor, Robert Skardon, related that his dad had once driven the town's hoodening troupe, in which he by and by conveyed the head, his dad the drum, his "Uncle John Beaney" the fiddle, and "old Harry Chorner" the piccolo. For a long time they had incorporated a man wearing lady's attire, who was known as a "Daisy" as opposed to a "Mollie", yet this had been stopped. Skardon had surrendered the custom numerous years already, and the hooden horse itself had come into the ownership of Elbridge Bowles of Great Mongeham, who kept on driving a hoodening troupe after Christmas every year, visiting Deal just as the neighboring towns of Finglesham, Ripple, Tilmanstone, Eastry, and Betteshanger. Maylam was additionally educated that at the season of Britain's inclusion in the Second Boer War, the steed had been improved with military hardware. The fourth hooden horse that Maylam experienced was possessed by the men who worked at George Goodson's ranch in Fenland, Word, close Sandwich. They educated him that it had been made by a ranch turn in Cleve, Monkton, before being conveyed to Word when one of the Cleve ranch laborers migrated there. 

Maylam trusted that the custom—as a "characteristic and unconstrained recognition" among the general population—was plainly going to cease to exist, communicating his expectation that the hooden ponies could be protected in Kentish exhibition halls and brought out for uniquely masterminded open parades in order to keep up their place in Kentish culture. In later life, Maylam concentrated his considerations on investigating his family ancestry, secretly distributing "Maylam Family Records" in 1932, preceding biting the dust in 1939. In the century following his demise, Maylam's book on hoodening ended up hard to acquire and costly to buy, thus to check the centennial of its first distribution, it was republished in 2009 by The History Press, under the modified title of "The Kent Hooden Horse". Composing a starting article for the second distribution, Doel, an expert in Kentish fables, lauded Maylam's book as a "great investigation" which was "noteworthy for its division of certainty from hypothesis with regards to the causes and essentialness of the custom." 

Writing in 1967, the folklorist Barnett Field guaranteed that sooner or later after Maylam's book was distributed, hoodening had "ceased to exist. The Horses were hung up in the stables, and when the tractors came, were taken out and consumed on the blaze." Doel and Doel later recommended that it was the effect of the First World War which adequately finished the custom. Field noticed that the main restoration of the custom after the war occurred at the 1936 Kent District Folk-Dance Festival at Aylesford. Another steed was uncommonly made for this celebration, and was displayed on a more seasoned model that had been utilized at Sarre. The pastime horse had not recently had any association with Morris moving, despite the fact that was received as a totem creature for a few Morris sides after the Second World War. This recovery in the utilization of the steed was vigorously affected by Maylam's book. The Aylesford horse was received by the Ravensbourne Morris Men, a Morris troupe situated in the West Kentish town of Keston, in 1947. The Ravensbourne Morris' hoodening convention is the soonest known variation of the custom to exist in West Kent, in spite of the fact that there are records of a hooden horse being situated at Balgowan School in the West Kentish town of Beckenham amid the 1930s. At the 1945 festival checking British triumph in the Second World War, a pony was brought out in Acol; this occurrence has been portrayed as "a sort of missing connection among convention and restoration" in light of the fact that the steed had been utilized as a major aspect of the authentic hoodening custom up until the mid-1920s. 

Barnett Field (1912– 2000) as conceived at Wych Cross in the Ashdown Forest and in this way instructed at Tunbridge Wells. He prepared as a broker before filling in as administrator of the Hythe and Folkestone parts of the Westminster Bank until his retirement in 1979. Field and his significant other, Olive Ridley, had a distinct fascination for society moves; she set up the Folkestone National Folk Dance Group in 1950, and he established the East Kent Morris Men in 1953. Field built a hooden horse for the gathering to utilize, situated in vast part on the Deal horse captured for Maylam's book, and revealed it at the Folkestone festivities for the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in June 1953. After this, it came to be utilized by both the East Kent Morris Men and the Folkestone District National Dance Group's Handbell Ringers, who took it with them for exhibitions in different pieces of mainland Europe, including Austria, the Netherlands, Yugoslavia, Sweden, and Czechoslovakia, creating what came to be known as "handbell hoodening". The Handbell Ringers likewise drawn out the steed to go with them as they went around in open gathering cash for philanthropy at Christmas time. 

From 1954, the steed was likewise brought out for a Whitsun festivity in which it was marched from Charing to the park at Wye. A unique administration was held in the Charing Church, in which the Morris Men moved in the chancel and through the passageway, while the vicar put a harness on the steed itself. The pony was additionally brought out for a July 1956 function in which The Swan Inn, a bar at Wickhambreaux, was authoritatively renamed as The Hooden Horse; present were the East Kent Morris Men, the Handbell Ringers, and the Ravensbourne Morris Men. This endeavor prompted the gatherings building up another people custom, "jump hoodening", which was gotten to some extent from a more established bounce picking function found in the Weald region. Their new exclusively included the diverse gatherings combining on a visit around the towns of East Kent, starting at Canterbury Cathedral and experiencing Ramsgate, Cliftonville, and Herne Bay before closure in a horse shelter move at Wickhambreaux. 

In October 1957, Field was acquainted with Jack Laming of Walmer, who as a kid had performed in a hoodening troupe prior in the century. Laming showed Field increasingly about the authentic hoodening convention, and together they uncovered an old hooden horse that was put away at Walmer's Coldblow Farm; this antique was later set in plain view at Deal Maritime and Local History Museum. In June 1961 Field and his better half settled the first Folkestone International Folklore Festival as a semiannual festival of people traditions; it proceeded for a long time. 

Since the second's end World War, the hooden steed's utilization has been resuscitated in Whitstable, where it is regularly brought out for the Jack in the Green celebration each May, and is possessed by a gathering called the Ancient Order of Hoodeners. Since 1981, the Tonbridge Mummers and Hoodeners have utilized a pony, fusing it into a play uncommonly composed for the reason by Doel and Nick Miller. 

A yearly gathering of hoodeners was likewise settled; at first gathering at the Marsh Gate Inn close Herne Bay, it in this manner moved to Simple Simon's in Canterbury. An individual from the St. Nicholas-at-Wade hoodeners, Ben Jones, built up a site committed to the convention. At the provoking of nearby inhabitants, in December 2014 a bar named The Hungry Horse, situated at the intersection of Haine Road and Nash Road in Broadstairs, was renamed as The Hoodening Horse after the society custom. Remarking on the Kentish recovery of hoodening, Hutton recommended that its prosperity was expected generally to the craving of numerous Kentish society to socially separate themselves from neighboring London.