No. 1 Flying Training School RAAF 

No. 1 Flying Training School (No. 1 FTS) was a school of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). It was one of the Air Force's unique units, going back to the administration's arrangement in 1921, when it was built up at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria. By the mid 1930s, the school contained preparing, contender, and seaplane parts. It was re-shaped a few times in the following years, at first as No. 1 Service Flying Training School (No. 1 SFTS) in 1940, under the wartime Empire Air Training Scheme. In the wake of graduating almost 3,000 pilots, No. 1 SFTS was disbanded in late 1944, when there was no further prerequisite to prepare Australian aircrew for administration in Europe. 

The school was restored in 1946 as No. 1 FTS at RAAF Station Uranquinty, New South Wales, and exchanged to Point Cook the next year. Under a rebuild of flying preparing to adapt to the requests of the Korean War and Malayan Emergency, No. 1 FTS was re-shaped in 1952 as No. 1 Applied Flying Training School (No. 1 AFTS); it moved to RAAF Base Pearce, Western Australia, in 1958. For quite a bit of this period the school was likewise in charge of preparing the RAAF's air traffic controllers. Its pilot learners included Army, Navy, and remote understudies just as RAAF staff. The RAAF's revamping of aircrew preparing in the mid 1950s had prompted the arrangement at Uranquinty of No. 1 Basic Flying Training School (No. 1 BFTS), which exchanged to Point Cook in 1958. In 1969, No. 1 AFTS was re-shaped as No. 2 Flying Training School and No. 1 BFTS was re-framed as No. 1 FTS. Legitimization of RAAF flying preparing brought about the disbandment of No. 1 FTS in 1993. 

No. 1 Flying Training School (No. 1 FTS) was the primary unit to be formally settled as a major aspect of the new Australian Air Force on 31 March 1921 (the expression "Imperial" was included August that year). No. 1 FTS was shaped from the leftovers of Australia's unique military flying unit, Central Flying School, at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria. Squadron Leader William Anderson, who was additionally responsible for the Point Cook base, was No. 1 FTS's initially boss. The school's underlying supplement of staff was twelve officers and 67 pilots. 

In December 1921, the Australian Air Board arranged to frame its initial five squadrons and designate airplane to each, just as to the early flying school. The arrangement was for No. 1 FTS to get twelve Avro 504Ks and four Sopwith Pups, and the squadrons a sum of eight Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5s, eight Airco DH.9s, and three Fairey IIIs. Subsidizing issues constrained the Air Force to disband the recently raised squadrons on 1 July 1922 and re-structure them as flights in a composite squadron under No. 1 FTS. That month, Flight Lieutenant Frank McNamara, VC, took direction of the school. 

The debut flying course initiated in January 1923. Essential guidance occurred on the Avro 504Ks, and further developed or concentrated preparing on the school's other airplane. Fourteen understudies initiated the year-long course, and twelve graduated. Just as flying, they examined aviation, interchanges, route, combat hardware and general military subjects. Squadron Leader Anderson continued order of No. 1 FTS in 1925; the next year he gave over to Wing Commander Adrian Cole, who drove the unit until 1929. The main Citizen Air Force (dynamic save) pilots' course kept running from December 1925 to March 1926, 26 of 30 understudies finishing the preparation. In spite of the fact that 24 mishaps happened, there were no fatalities, driving Cole to comment at the graduation service that the understudies were either made of India elastic or had figured out how to crash "modestly securely". In any case, the 1926 Permanent Air Force (PAF) cadet course was damaged by three deadly mishaps. The next year, 29 understudies graduated—thirteen PAF, nine hold, and seven bound for trade with the Royal Air Force (RAF). In June 1928, the school's Avro 504Ks were supplanted by de Havilland DH.60 Cirrus Moths; these were increased by Gipsy Moths initiating in 1930. 

Squadron Leader McNamara continued direction of No. 1 FTS in October 1930. By at that point, two sub-units had been raised at Point Cook under the school's sponsorship: "Contender Squadron", working Bristol Bulldogs; and "Seaplane Squadron", working Supermarine Southamptons, among different sorts. As of February 1934, No. 1 FTS was sorted out into Training Squadron, working Moths and Westland Wapitis, Fighter Squadron and Seaplane Squadron. Warrior and Seaplane Squadrons were formally settled as units that month, yet stayed under the control of the flying school and were "actually minimal more than flights", as indicated by the official history of the pre-war RAAF. Just as taking an interest in preparing works out, Fighter Squadron was frequently utilized for aerobatic shows and banner waving obligations. One of No. 1 FTS's driving teachers amid the mid 1930s, Flight Lieutenant Frederick Scherger, was additionally a flight officer in Fighter Squadron. Seaplane Squadron embraced maritime co-activity and review undertakings, just as seaplane preparing. Contender Squadron was disintegrated in December 1935 when its Bulldogs were exchanged to No. 1 Squadron at RAAF Laverton, while Seaplane Squadron kept on working until June 1939, when it was isolated to frame the core of No. 10 Squadron. 

In 1932, No. 1 FTS began running two courses every year, the first initiating in January and the second in July; it additionally stopped graduating non-charged officers as pilots, and along these lines assumed a personality looking like the other equipped administrations' cadet universities, the Royal Australian Naval College and the Royal Military College, Duntroon. The approximately 1,200 applications for each flying course went after around twelve spots. Wing Commander Hippolyte De La Rue wound up leader in mid 1933. The next year, No. 1 FTS initiated normal courses in signs, photography, air perception, and flying machine upkeep. In April 1936, the school took conveyance of its first Avro Cadets, secured as a moderate mentor to cross over any barrier between the Gipsy Moth utilized for rudimentary flying guidance and the Wapiti utilized for cutting edge preparing. De La Rue was prevailing by Wing Commander Frank Lukis in January 1938. At this point the school was preparing up to 96 new pilots for every year, a little level of whom were slated for secondment to the RAF on short-administration commissions. Connection Trainer test systems were presented in March 1939. 

RAAF flying preparing was intensely revamped not long after the flare-up of World War II, in light of Australia's interest in the Empire Air Training Scheme (EATS). A few basic flying preparing schools were framed, to give fundamental flight guidance to cadets, while further developed pilot guidance was to occur at administration flying preparing schools. On 1 May 1940, No. 1 FTS was re-shaped at Point Cook as No. 1 Service Flying Training School (No. 1 SFTS). Its debut leader was Group Captain John Summers, who drove Fighter Squadron in the mid 1930s and had taken over No. 1 FTS in December 1939. The school's Instructors' Training Squadron was separated to turn into the core of a re-shaped Central Flying School, which migrated to Camden, New South Wales, in June. Courses at the administration flying preparing schools comprised of two streams, transitional and propelled; the all out length shifted amid the war as interest for aircrew changed. At first running for about four months, the course was sliced to ten weeks (which included 75 hours flying time) in October 1940. After a year it was raised to twelve weeks (counting 100 hours flying time), and again to about four months two months after the fact. It kept on expanding after this, topping at 28 weeks in June 1944. 

At the season of arrangement, No. 1 SFTS went under the control of Southern Area Command, headquartered in Melbourne. The school's supplement of 52 airplane included Wapitis, Cadets, Avro Ansons, Hawker Demons, and a de Havilland Tiger Moth. Gathering Captain John McCauley filled in as boss from October 1940 until July 1941, when he gave over to Wing Commander Roy King, who proceeded to assume responsibility for Station Headquarters Point Cook in October. Starting at July, No. 1 SFTS was working in excess of 100 airplane, including Gipsy Moths, de Havilland DH.89 Dragon Rapides, Douglas C-47 Dakotas, CAC Wirraways and Airspeed Oxfords, the last two being the pillars. In August 1941, control of all preparation units in Victoria go from Southern Area Command to the recently shaped No. 1 Training Group. By September, the school had a foundation of 100 officers and more than 2,000 pilots, including 300 cadets. It was sorted out into Intermediate Training Squadron, Advanced Training Squadron, Maintenance Wing, Armament School, and Signal School. Wing Commander Charles Read held order of No. 1 SFTS from October 1943 until its disbandment on 15 September 1944, by which time very nearly 3,000 pilots had graduated. Among these were Nicky Barr, who wound up one of Australia's driving warrior pros in North Africa, and Bill Newton, granted the Victoria Cross for besieging strikes in New Guinea. The RAAF had requested the school's conclusion in August 1944 as a feature of a general decrease in aircrew preparing, in the wake of being educated by the British Air Ministry that it never again required EATS graduates for the war in Europe. Noteworthy stores of prepared Commonwealth aircrew had been developed in the UK from the get-go in 1944 preceding the attack of Normandy, however lower-than-foreseen losses had brought about an over-supply that by 30 June numbered 3,000 Australians. 

On 1 March 1946, No. 5 Service Flying Training School at RAAF Station Uranquinty, New South Wales, was re-framed as No. 1 FTS, under Southern Area Command. Its supplement of airplane included one Anson, two Tiger Moths, and 55 Wirraways, however the unit was principally in charge of the support of hardware and small flying was embraced separated from supplemental classes for pilots presenting on the British Commonwealth Occupation Force in Japan. By 1 September 1947, No. 1 FTS had exchanged to Point Cook, at first as "Flying Training School", under Wing Commander Read. The RAAF's first post-war flying instructional class at the school comprised of 42 understudies and initiated in February 1948, completing in August the next year. Flight reviewing occurred following a half year of general military preparing, so, all in all understudies were chosen to be learner pilots or guides; the previous stayed at No. 1 FTS, while the last exchanged to the School of Air Navigation at RAAF Base East Sale. Not at all like some other aviation based armed forces, which set understudies into specific air ship jobs after fundamental preparing, the RAAF's theory was to give all pilots basically a similar preparing from acceptance to graduation, so they would almost certainly convert all the more effectively starting with one air ship type then onto the next as operational prerequisites developed. In September 1949, Read gave over to Squadron Leader Glen Cooper, who directed the school until August 1951. 

Because of requests for more aircrew to satisfy Australia's duties to the Korean War and Malayan Emergency, flying preparing experienced real changes in 1951– 52, the prospectus at No. 1 FTS being part among three independently found units. No. 1 Initial Flying Training School (No. 1 IFTS) was raised at RAAF Station Archerfield, Queensland, to grant understudies with general aeronautical and military information, after which they got their flight evaluating amid twelve hours on Tiger Moths. Graduate pilots of No. 1 IFTS went on to the recently shaped No. 1 Basic Flying Training School (No. 1 BFTS) at Uranquinty, where they experienced a further 90 hours of ethereal guidance that included instrument, arrangement and night flying, first on Tiger Moths and after that on Wirraways. Effective understudies at long last exchanged to No. 1 FTS, which was renamed No. 1 Applied Flying Training School (No. 1 AFTS) in March 1952. There they attempted 100 flying long periods of cutting edge weapons and battle preparing on Wirraways, before graduating as sergeant pilots. RAAF College, shaped at Point Cook in 1947, was to be the Air Force's essential wellspring of appointed officers. The Tiger Moths and Wirraways of No. 1 BFTS were accordingly supplanted by the CAC Winjeel, first conveyed in 1955. 

When it was re-shaped as No. 1 AFTS, the flying school at Point Cook had additionally been made in charge of preparing the RAAF's air traffic controllers; this job was exchanged to Central Flying School at East Sale in December 1956. Southern Area Command was re-framed as Training Command in September 1953. On 28 May 1958, No. 1 AFTS moved to RAAF Base Pearce, Western Australia, where its Wirraways were supplanted by de Havilland Vampire fly mentors, which required a runway longer than that at Point Cook. The school's place at Point Cook was taken by No. 1 BFTS, which exchanged from Uranquinty on 19 December. At this point the RAAF had chosen to commission all pilots and guides, who might be chosen for these jobs upon acceptance into the administration; guides along these lines went directly to the School of Air Navigation at East Sale, without going to flying preparing school. On 31 December 1958, the Flying Training Squadron of RAAF College was disbanded, and the flight guidance segment of the four-year cadet course turned into the duty of No. 1 BFTS (for fundamental preparing) and No. 1 AFTS (for cutting edge preparing). Already, the cadets had utilized FTS flying machine under RAAF College educators, yet from 1959 their flight preparing was completely incorporated with the FTS framework. 

The interest for prepared aircrew, which had decreased in the mid-1950s, climbed again the next decade because of the RAAF leaving on a noteworthy re-gear program, and Australia's expanding association in the Vietnam War. The RAAF likewise had a continuous pledge to giving flying preparing to understudies from the Australian Army and Royal Australian Navy. By including educators and expanding the proportion of understudies to teachers, the quantity of Air Force graduates was logically brought from 38 up in 1963, to 100 out of 1968. Additionally in 1968, Macchi MB-326H stream mentors started supplanting the Vampires of No. 1 AFTS. The acquaintance of the Macchi drove with a concise tease with "all-through" fly preparing in the Air Force, comprising of 210 hours on this one kind of air ship. The investigation was dropped after two courses as being, in the expressions of the official history specialist of the post-war RAAF, "a costly method for discovering that a few understudies came up short on the bent to end up military pilots"; by 1971 understudies were accepting 60 hours of fundamental preparing on Winjeels at Point Cook, and the Maachi course at Pearce was decreased to 150 hours. On 31 December 1968, No. 1 AFTS was disbanded at Pearce, re-shaping on 1 January 1969 as No. 2 Flying Training School . In the meantime, No. 1 BFTS was disbanded at Point Cook and re-framed as No. 1 FTS. 

The Winjeels of No. 1 FTS were supplanted by CT-4A Airtrainers in late 1975. The principal CT-4 pilots' course of 34 understudies included six from the Royal Australian Navy and three from Malaysia. By 1977, the school was composed into Air Training, Ground Training and Maintenance Squadrons. Just as keeping up its own airplane, it was in charge of specialized help of different units at Point Cook. The Queen's Color was displayed to No. 1 FTS by the Governor-General, Sir Zelman Cowen, in 1981. In November 1989, one of the school's CT-4s re-made the first trans-Australia flight that had occurred 70 years prior, when Captain Henry Wrigley and Sergeant Arthur "Spud" Murphy flew a Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2 biplane from Point Cook to Darwin, Northern Territory, somewhere in the range of 16 November and 12 December 1919. 

An audit of undergrad flying preparing, appointed by the Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Ray Funnell, and went for lessening disappointment rates and improving cost-viability, saw the retirement of the CT-4s in December 1992, trailed by the conclusion of No. 1 FTS. The last RAAF flying course finished on 12 June 1992, and the last Army pilots' course in December. The school was disbanded on 31 January 1993, finishing just about 80 years of military flying preparing at Point Cook, Australia's most established military air base. The event was set apart by a strutting of the Queen's Color and a flypast by six CT-4s before the new CAS, Air Marshal Barry Gration. This was trailed by an administration at the RAAF Chapel of the Holy Trinity overflown by four Winjeels and a Tiger Moth, and later an all-positions feasting in night. Simultaneous with the eliminate of preparing at No. 1 FTS, British Aerospace was contracted to direct flight reviewing at its base in Tamworth, New South Wales. Consequent all-through flight preparing on the Pilatus PC-9 occurred at No. 2 FTS, Pearce. In 1998, British Aerospace was allowed an agreement to supply tri-administration essential flying guidance at the recently framed Australian Defense Force Basic Flying Training School (ADFBFTS) in Tamworth, the primary course initiating in January 1999 on CT-4B Airtrainers, and No. 2 FTS again ended up in charge of cutting edge flying preparing as it were. ADFBFTS in this manner progressed toward becoming, as indicated by the school's head of preparing, "the No. 1 Flying Training School you have when you don't have a No. 1 Flying Training School".