James B. Longacre 

James Barton Longacre (August 11, 1794 – January 1, 1869) was an American portraitist and etcher, and the fourth Chief Engraver of the United States Mint from 1844 until his passing. Longacre is best known for planning the Indian Head penny, which entered trade in 1859, and for the structures of the Shield nickel, Flying Eagle penny and different coins of the mid-nineteenth century. 

Longacre was conceived in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, in 1794. He fled to Philadelphia at age 12, where he turned into a student in a book shop. His masterful ability created and he was discharged to understudy in an etching firm. He struck out without anyone else in 1819, making a name giving delineations to prominent anecdotal books. He depicted the main men of his day; support from some of them, for example, South Carolina Senator John C. Calhoun, prompted his arrangement as boss etcher after the passing of Christian Gobrecht in 1844. 

In Longacre's first years as a central etcher, the Philadelphia Mint was ruled by Mint Director Robert M. Patterson and Chief Coiner Franklin Peale. Struggle among Longacre and the two men created after Congress requested another gold dollar and twofold hawk, with both to be structured by Longacre. Peale and Patterson about had Longacre terminated, yet the main etcher had the capacity to persuade Treasury Secretary William M. Meredith that he ought to be held. Both Patterson and Peale left the Mint in the mid 1850s, finishing the contention. 

In 1856, Longacre structured the Flying Eagle penny. At the point when that plan demonstrated hard to strike, Longacre was in charge of the substitution, the Indian Head penny, issued starting in 1859. Different coins planned by Longacre incorporate the silver and nickel three-penny pieces, the Shield nickel, and the two-penny piece. In 1866– 1867, he updated the coins of Chile. Longacre passed on abruptly on New Year's Day 1869; he was prevailing by William Barber. Longacre's coins are commonly all around respected today, despite the fact that they have been reprimanded for absence of masterful progression. 

James Barton Longacre was conceived on a homestead in Delaware County, Pennsylvania, on August 11, 1794. His mom Sarah (Barton) Longacre passed on right off the bat in his life; his dad, Peter Longacre, was the relative of early Swedish pilgrims of North America. At the point when Peter Longacre remarried, his child found the home life insufferable, and James Longacre left home at 12 years old, looking for work in the adjacent city of Philadelphia. He apprenticed himself at a book shop; the proprietor, John E. Watson, brought the kid into his family. Over the next years, Longacre worked in the book shop, yet Watson understood that the kid's ability was in representation. Watson allowed Longacre a discharge from his apprenticeship in 1813 so he could pursue a masterful dream, yet the two stayed close, and Watson would regularly sell Longacre's works. 

Longacre wound up apprenticed to George Murray, chief in the etching firm Murray, Draper, Fairman and Co. at 47 Sansom Street in Philadelphia. This business got from the firm settled by the Philadelphia Mint's first boss etcher, Robert Scot. Longacre stayed at the Murray firm until 1819; his real work there was pictures of George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and John Hancock which were put on a copy of the Declaration of Independence by distributer John Binns; the work cost Binns an aggregate of $9,000 (equivalent to $ today). Likewise utilized at the Murray firm from 1816 was the man who might be Longacre's ancestor as boss etcher, Christian Gobrecht. Longacre's work at the organization gave him a decent notoriety as an etcher gifted in rendering other craftsmen's compositions as a printed etching, and in 1819, he set up his own business at 230 Pine Street in Philadelphia. 

Longacre's first essential bonus were plates for S.F. Bradford's "Reference book" in 1820; an etching of General Andrew Jackson by Longacre dependent on a representation by Thomas Sully accomplished wide deals. Longacre then consented to imprint representations for Joseph and John Sanderson's "Life stories of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence", distributed in nine volumes somewhere in the range of 1820 and 1827. Despite the fact that the endeavor was set apart by analysis of the composition, deals were sufficient that the undertaking was finished. Numismatic essayist Richard Snow proposes that the books sold on the quality of the nature of Longacre's outlines. Longacre likewise finished a progression of investigations of on-screen characters in their jobs in 1826 for "The American Theater". 

With exercises gained from the Sanderson arrangement, Longacre proposed to issue his very own arrangement of histories represented with plates of the subjects. He was on the purpose of propelling this undertaking, having contributed $1,000 of his own cash (equivalent to $ today) in arrangement, when he discovered that James Herring of New York City was arranging a comparable arrangement. In October 1831, he kept in touch with Herring, and the two men consented to cooperate on "The American Portrait Gallery" (later called the "National Portrait Gallery of Distinguished Americans"), distributed in four volumes somewhere in the range of 1834 and 1839. Herring was a craftsman, yet a significant part of crafted by outlining tumbled to Longacre, who voyaged generally in the United States to draw subjects from life. He again portrayed Jackson, who was at this point president, just as previous president James Madison, both in July 1833. He met huge numbers of the political pioneers of the day, who were inspired by his representations. Among these supporters was the previous VP, South Carolina Senator John C. Calhoun. In July 1832, "Niles' Register" portrayed a Longacre etching, "one of the best examples of American headway in the workmanship". 

Longacre had hitched Eliza Stiles in 1827; between 1828, when their little girl Sarah was conceived, and 1840, they had three young men and two young ladies. Offers of the "Exhibition" slacked because of the Panic of 1837; Longacre was compelled to opt for non-payment and travel through the southern and midwestern states, hawking his books from town to town, with his better half and senior little girl overseeing delivery and funds at home. Later in 1837, he had the capacity to come back to Philadelphia and open a banknote etching firm with accomplices, Toppan, Draper, Longacre and Co. With incredible interest for etching for notes being issued by state banks, the firm thrived, and had workplaces at 60 Walnut Street in Philadelphia and a branch at 1 Wall Street in New York. As per Snow, Longacre was known as the best etcher in the nation. 

Gobrecht's demise in July 1844 remaining the United States Bureau of the Mint (the "Mint") without a main etcher. Among the individuals who sought after arrangement were Philadelphia banknote etcher Charles Welsh, and Allen Leonard, who had displayed the Mint's award for previous president John Quincy Adams. Through the impact of Senator Calhoun, be that as it may, Longacre verified the arrangement. As per coin student of history Don Taxay, Longacre did not endeavor to pick up the help of Mint Director Robert M. Patterson in looking for the arrangement from President John Tyler, and "if Patterson detested the slight, in any case, he was increasingly irritated by Leonard's insistences." 

Longacre was charged by President Tyler on September 16, 1844; his was a break arrangement as the post of boss etcher required Senate affirmation, and that body was not then sitting. Tyler transmitted Longacre's assignment to the Senate on December 17, 1844, which affirmed Longacre without recorded resistance on January 7, 1845. As indicated by numismatist David Lange, Longacre was happy to get the position since etchers were getting less work because of the approach of daguerrotype photography. 

As indicated by coin seller and creator Q. David Bowers, upon arrangement as boss etcher, Longacre "found that he had entered a hornet's home of interest, legislative issues, and infighting, ruled by Franklin Peale, boss coiner since 1839". Peale sent Mint faculty to deal with his private habitation, and notwithstanding his official obligations—for the most part performed by his antecedent, Adam Eckfeldt, who proceeded in his work without pay regardless of his retirement—he had a flourishing side business getting ready kicks the bucket for private awards utilizing government assets. Peale controlled access to bites the dust and materials, and was near Director Patterson; the two men later demonstrated to have been skimming metal from bullion stores. The staying Mint officers were buddies of Patterson, and Longacre got himself a recluse among them. Walter Breen, in his exhaustive volume on U.S. coins, recommends that Patterson loathed Longacre due to the etcher's sponsorship by Calhoun, whom the executive detested as a southerner. 

In Longacre's first years as boss etcher, no unique plans were required for coins. Gobrecht had updated each group of U.S. coinage somewhere in the range of 1835 and 1842, and his successor had sufficient energy to learn expressions essential for coin creation that he had not required as a creator of print inscriptions. These expressions included coin configuration, creation of punches for plan components, and pass on sinking. Longacre's work in the private area had included cutting lines into a copper plate which was then used to print proliferations. Patterson wrote in August 1845 to Treasury Secretary Robert J. Walker that Longacre "is an honorable man of superb character, exceedingly respected in this network, and has gained some superstar as an etcher of copper; however he isn't a Die-Sinker. To be sure I don't have the foggiest idea about that he has ever constructed an endeavor in this workmanship." By December of that year, the Mint chief had kept in touch with Walker in acclaim for Longacre, expressing that the etcher had "more taste and judgment in making gadgets for an improved coinage here than have been displayed by any of his ancestors. He has indicated too that he is very capable to make the required model from his illustrations." Taxay ascribed Patterson's rich recognition of Longacre to proceeded with endeavors by Leonard to pick up the post of boss etcher. 

Various bumbles can be seen among the early coins created at the Mint under Longacre, however it is dubious to whom these blunders ought to be ascribed. These incorporate the 1844 half dollar struck at the New Orleans Mint (1844-O) with a multiplied date, and the 1846 half dollar with the 6 overlying an indistinguishable digit, yet one which had been set on a level plane. Groves shows that Longacre likely assigned such work, despite the fact that in 1849 he composed that his day by day work was punching dates into working bites the dust. Tom DeLorey, in his 2003 article on Longacre, takes note of that Peale and his staff regularly made punches without counseling the Engraver's Department (headed by Longacre), and trusts the central coiner bound to be mindful. 

Regardless of the charged climate at the Philadelphia Mint, Longacre maintained a strategic distance from strife with Patterson and Peale until March 1849, when Congress approved a gold dollar and twofold bird or twenty-dollar gold piece, both new coins. By at that point, Patterson had come to want Longacre's takeoff as he was esteemed a risk to Peale's decoration business, and contradicted new coins which would require the main etcher's abilities. As indicated by Richard Snow in his book on Flying Eagle and Indian Head pennies, "having a moral boss etcher undermined their sideline." The contention came over the utilization of the Contamin representation machine, fundamental really taking shape of passes on both for Longacre in delivering the new coins and Peale in his decoration business. At the point when Longacre griped that Peale was consuming the gadget, Peale chose to disrupt Longacre's coin work and have him expelled from his position. 

In mid 1849, as per a letter composed by Longacre the next year, the central etcher was drawn nearer by an individual from the Mint staff, cautioning him that another officer (obviously Peale) looked to have the etching work done outside of the Mint, making Longacre excess. The outside etcher being referred to was Frenchman Louis Bouvet, whom Patterson had set up a structure for the half hawk, however it was not received. Longacre's reaction to the data was to spend quite a bit of March 1849 setting up the passes on for the gold dollar, at some expense to his wellbeing, as he later related. He requested that Patterson procure help for him, however found the executive willing just to have work contracted out. Longacre was reluctant to agree to this, as he couldn't administer work done outside the Mint (he got help inside the Mint from collaborator etcher Peter Filatreu Cross, who took a shot at the turn around of the gold dollar). Longacre continued with work right this minute bird through late 1849, and portrayed the obstructions set in his way by Peale: 

At the point when Longacre finished the twofold hawk bites the dust, they were dismissed by Peale, who expressed that the plan was engraved also profoundly to completely awe the coin, and the pieces would not stack appropriately. Taxay, notwithstanding, noticed that the one enduring 1849 twofold hawk shows no such issues, and by appearance would be level in a stack. Peale whined to Patterson, who kept in touch with Treasury Secretary William M. Meredith requesting Longacre's evacuation on December 25, 1849, on the ground he couldn't make legitimate bites the dust. Patterson that day guaranteed the situation to etcher Charles Cushing Wright, viable when Longacre was expelled. Meredith addressed whether an equipped substitution could be found; Patterson guaranteed him that one could. Longacre protested Patterson that Peale was deferring acknowledgment of amended twofold bird kicks the bucket, the executive did not answer recorded as a hard copy, yet met with Longacre, disclosed to him the organization had chosen to end him, and that he ought to send in his abdication immediately. Longacre, in the wake of reasoning the issue over, did not do as such, yet rather went to Washington on February 12, 1850, to meet with Meredith. He found that the secretary had been misled about various issues. As indicated by Snow, Longacre did not look for requital, substance to be permitted to proceed with his work in harmony. The twofold falcon went into creation in March 1850, however Patterson griped that the coins did not strike well. The twofold hawk rapidly turned into the favored method to hold gold, and in the years to come progressively gold would be struck into twofold birds than into every single other group joined. 

Patterson composed again to demand Longacre's ouster on April 1, 1850, claiming that President Zachary Taylor had chosen that Longacre be rejected. In spite of these endeavors, Longacre stayed in his position. Additionally in 1850, Longacre's significant other Elizabeth (for the most part Eliza) passed on. The Mint authorities conflicted again in 1851, after Congress approved a silver three-penny piece. Longacre arranged a plan demonstrating a star on one side and the Roman numeral III on the other, which at first won Patterson's endorsement. Peale, be that as it may, influenced Patterson to alter his opinion and approve the main coiner to propose a form himself, duplicating plan components Gobrecht had utilized in 1836. The issue was submitted to the new Treasury Secretary, Thomas Corwin, who chose Longacre's proposition—Longacre had avoided potential risk of sending the secretary a letter clarifying his symbolism. 

In July 1851, Patterson resigned and President Fillmore supplanted him with Thomas Eckert. Peale's decoration business endured a misfortune when Adam Eckfeldt, who was all the while playing out the obligations of boss coiner, kicked the bucket in 1852. In 1854, Mint Director James Ross Snowden terminated Peale after the degree to which he had utilized Mint work for private addition wound up open. All things considered, the terminating caused significant press consideration, a Senate examination, and a substantial interest for remuneration by Peale. With his adversaries gone, life at the Mint improved for Longacre. 

Looked with an ascent in silver costs, Congress diminished the silver substance of the half dime, dime, quarter and half dollar in 1853. Longacre was approached to adjust Gobrecht's structures so new coins could be recognized from old. He proposed setting beams around the heraldic falcon on the switches of the quarter and half dollar, and bolts by the date for the majority of the influenced sections. As the demonstration requiring the decrease in weight enabled the Mint to contract outside craftsmen to take every necessary step, Snowden took into account open structures for the new pieces. No open passage was discovered reasonable, and Longacre's proposition was received. The beams would in general abbreviate kick the bucket life and were dropped inside a year; the bolts were shed after 1855. 

In 1853, Congress approved a three-dollar piece. In a note found among his papers, Longacre composed that his assignment was to make the coin as simple as conceivable to recognize from the quarter hawk, which at $2.50 was close in esteem. Longacre delivered a structure for a Native American princess, which he made not quite the same as Gobrecht's Liberty plan on the quarter falcon with a more slender and more extensive planchet. At the time, a female Native American was regularly used to speak to America in workmanship, and a portrayal of Liberty as an Indian princess was as per contemporary practices. The central etcher wrote to Mint Director Snowden that the three-dollar piece, which went into generation in 1854, was the first occasion when he had been permitted masterful opportunity in structuring a coin. The gold dollar was changed that year to make the planchet both more slender and more extensive; Longacre adjusted his princess structure for the gold dollar. For the turn around of the coins, Longacre made a wreath of wheat, corn, tobacco, and cotton, mixing the agrarian results of the North and the South. This wreath would likewise be utilized on the turn around of the Flying Eagle penny in 1856; reused on the dime starting in 1860, the "grain wreath" would be Longacre's keep going enduring structure on coinage, staying with adjustments until the 1916 relinquishment of the Barber dime. 

In the mid-1850s, Longacre was locked in by the Navy Department to plan a decoration to be introduced to Captain Duncan Ingraham. Longacre created the symbolism utilized for the turn around; the front was by Assistant Engraver Cross. Despite the fact that Bowers depicts Longacre as having been "carefully moral in the obligations of his office", when the Treasury Department discovered that Longacre acknowledged a $2,200 installment from the Navy for his work, they necessitated that he reimburse the cash under a government law excepting pay of this sort. Other than his structure for the 1867 Assay Commission decoration, and his comparative, wreathed switches for the commission awards in 1860, 1861, and 1868, the Ingraham work was Longacre's solitary decoration made for the legislature. 

After an ascent in product costs, the Mint to tried to supplant the substantial copper penny with a littler form. Starting in 1850, various example coins were struck in endeavors to discover a substitution coin. Structures and organizations changed; at first, Mint experts considered an annular, or holed, penny. In 1854 and 1855, much experimentation was done, some with a Liberty Head configuration as highlighted on the huge penny; others with a flying falcon configuration adjusted by Longacre from the Gobrecht dollar of 1836. Gobrecht's plan said to have been demonstrated on Peter the falcon, a manageable feathered creature which frequented the Philadelphia Mint during the 1830s until it was made up for lost time in hardware and killed; Peter, in stuffed structure, was in this manner set on show at the Philadelphia Mint. 

The flying hawk configuration was embraced for a substantial issue of trial designs given to government authorities and others in 1856; that coin was then utilized for the ordinary issue from 1857. The turn around highlighted Longacre's grain wreath, which prompted troubles in authoring; the head and tail of the hawk on the front-side contradicted the wreath, making those plan indicates especially hard strike in the extreme copper-nickel composite which was utilized. Starting in 1859, the penny highlighted a Longacre plan of Liberty wearing a Native American hat. What is known as the "shrub wreath", however really olive, enhanced the turn around of the penny in 1859; start in 1860, a switch with an oak wreath and shield was set on the penny. The swap of the wreath is for no good reason; the shield was added due to Snowden's longing to give the coin a "progressively national character". This invert is commonly credited to Longacre; Snow estimates that it might have been made by Assistant Engraver Anthony C. Paquet. 

By numismatic legend, Longacre's Indian Head penny configuration depended on the highlights of his little girl Sarah; the story runs that she was at the Philadelphia Mint one day when she attempted on the hat of one of various Native Americans who were visiting and her dad portrayed her. Be that as it may, Sarah Longacre was 30 years of age and wedded, not 12 as in the story, in 1858 and Longacre himself expressed that the face depended on a statue of Venus in Philadelphia on credit from the Vatican. James Longacre did frequently portray his senior little girl, and there are likenesses between the delineation of Sarah Longacre and the different portrayals of Liberty on Longacre's coins of the 1850s. These stories were clearly surviving at the time, as Snowden, recorded as a hard copy to Treasury Secretary Howell Cobb in November 1858, denied that the coin was based "on any human highlights in the Longacre family". Lee F. McKenzie, in his 1991 article on Longacre, takes note of that any craftsman can be impacted by numerous things, yet calls the story "basically false". 

The Civil War brought monetary unsettling influences which brought about the evacuation of certain coins, including the base-metal penny, from flow. Paper money (esteemed as low as three pennies), postage stamps, and private tokens, filled the hole. A considerable lot of the tokens were penny measured, yet more slender and made of bronze. Mint experts paid heed that these metal pieces were effectively flowing, and got enactment for a bronze penny. Longacre's Indian head structure proceeded in its place with the new metal; later in 1864 he engraved his underlying "L" in the hat. The demonstration which approved the bronze penny likewise issued a two-penny piece; Longacre outfitted a structure, which Lange calls an "especially alluring arrangement" with bolts and a tree wreath flanking a shield. In any case, workmanship history specialist Cornelius Vermeule expressed that components of the plan "need just flanking gun to be the quintessential articulations of Civil War heraldry." Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Pursue favored setting an outflow of the country's confidence in God in a period of war on the coinage, and wrote to Mint Director Pollock, "You will make a gadget be set up immediately with a proverb communicating in the least tersest terms conceivable this national acknowledgment." Several witticisms were considered by Pollock, including "God Our Trust" and "God and Our Country". Longacre's two-penny piece was the principal coin engraved with "In God We Trust". 

Nickel had been expelled from the penny over the complaint of Pennsylvania industrialist Joseph Wharton, who had vast interests in the metal; his congressman, Thaddeus Stevens, had battled against the demonstration. In 1864, Wharton distributed a flyer contending for a coinage in which all coins under ten pennies would be made of a copper-nickel amalgam with 25% nickel, simply over double the rate which the penny had contained. In March 1865, Congress passed enactment for a three-penny coin of that amalgam, expected to resign partial cash of that division. Longacre outfitted a head of Liberty for the coin taking after his different delineations of the goddess which he had made in the previous 16 years; for the switch he utilized the "shrub" wreath from the 1859 penny encompassing the Roman numeral III acquired from the silver three-penny piece. 

Wharton and others trying to advance the utilization of nickel stayed amazing in Congress, and in 1866 verified approval for a five-penny coin of copper nickel. Longacre arranged various structures; Pollock chose Longacre's plan of a shield (like the two-penny piece) and a starry hover for the invert, and the Shield nickel started to be struck that year. Mint Assayer William DuBois wrote to Longacre, "it is really satisfying to see a man pass the life of three score and ten but then have the capacity to deliver indistinguishable creative works from in prior days." 

In 1865 Congress required the utilization of "In God We Trust" on all coins sufficiently huge to manage the engraving; in 1866, Longacre added the adage to every single silver coin bigger than the dime and every gold coin bigger than the three-dollar piece. He likewise in 1867 made adjustments to the structure of the copper-nickel five-penny piece, or nickel as it was coming to be known. In 1865, Longacre connected with British-conceived etcher William Barber as colleague; William H. Key was likewise made a right hand in 1864 and stayed at the Mint past Longacre's passing. 

A portion of the coinage which had disappeared from dissemination amid the Civil War and had been sent out to South America kept on being utilized in Chilean exchange as nationals found their nearby coinage esteemed ineffectively with the American pieces. In 1866, the Chilean government educated its delegate in Washington to approach the U.S. State Department for authorization to have their coinage passes on made in America. The Andrew Johnson organization was glad to oblige; Treasury Secretary Hugh McCulloch gave the Chileans a letter of prologue to Longacre in Philadelphia. Longacre was locked in by the Chileans to overhaul five silver and four gold coins, and he concurred, inasmuch as consent from McCulloch was acquired for him to acknowledge an outside charge. McCulloch was at first pleasing, yet Mint Director Pollock raised protest on the ground that administration property ought not be utilized to empower private addition. In the end, all gatherings achieved understanding that Longacre could take every necessary step at an all out expense of $10,000 gave that he got an outside etcher to do a portion of the work under Longacre's watch; the main etcher chose Anthony C. Paquet, one of his previous collaborators. Obstruction at the Mint broke up with Pollock's acquiescence over President Johnson's Reconstruction strategies, and the bites the dust and center points (from which more passes on could be made) were made start in November 1866, likely in-house at the Philadelphia Mint. Longacre's structures for Chile were utilized until new ones were embraced during the 1890s. 

In 1867, Longacre proposed the utilization of aluminum in coins; this was rejected as the supply and cost of the metal varied extensively, and it at that point had a high characteristic esteem. In 1868, Wharton's interests proposed making the dime into a copper-nickel piece and to adjust the penny, three-penny piece, and nickel. The task was relinquished when it turned out to be clear the base-metal dime would be too huge to even think about being successfully struck in the intense copper-nickel compound, yet Longacre arranged various half dollar-measure designs. He likewise started work on re-etching the structures of the gold pieces, and finished the $10 piece by the end of the year. 

James Longacre passed on all of a sudden at his home in Philadelphia on January 1, 1869. A commemoration meeting was held at the Philadelphia Mint on January 5, gone to by the office's representatives. The Director of the Mint, Henry Linderman, conveyed a discourse in applause for Longacre before the formal tribute, which was given by Longacre's aide, William Barber, who might be delegated as Longacre's successor. Like every one of his ancestors, Longacre passed on in office. 

Longacre was perceived in a show of 100 remarkable American etchers supported by the New York Public Library in 1928. In 1970, workmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule, in his volume on U.S. coins, saw Longacre and his works less positively, "uniform in their bluntness, absence of motivation, and even curiosity, Longacre's commitments to examples and normal coinage were a chosen venture in reverse from the craft of [Thomas] Sully, [Titian] Peale, [Robert] Hughes, and Gobrecht" and "whatever his past characteristics as an etcher of pictures, he appears not to have conveyed much creative ability to his vital post at the Philadelphia Mint." However, Vermeule considered the Flying Eagle penny to a greater degree a masterpiece, far over the commonplace. 

In his 1991 article, McKenzie takes note of Vermeule's worries, however considers Longacre's work critical for its utilization of American images, including the portrayals of Native Americans. He trusts Longacre's utilization of such images affected later coin originators, for example, George T. Morgan, Victor D. Brenner, and Augustus Saint-Gaudens. He especially adulates the elaborate look on the turn around of the twofold bird, calling it "remarkable in American numismatic craftsmanship and improves the polish of a plan befitting the most elevated division U.S. coin", and hails "the energizing advancement in imagery and articulation of national opinion that he conveyed to U.S. numismatic workmanship". 

As per Bowers, "Today, Longacre is generally respected by numismatists." Lange takes note of that Longacre's "imaginative vision graced 60 years of American coins". Day off,