Hector Waller 

Hector Macdonald Laws (Hec) Waller, (4 April 1900 – 1 March 1942) was a senior officer in the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). His vocation traversed right around thirty years, incorporating administration in both world wars. In charge of in the Mediterranean from 1939 to 1941, he won acknowledgment as a skilful ship's chief and flotilla authority. He at that point exchanged toward the South West Pacific as commander of the light cruiser , and ran down with his ship against overwhelming chances amid the Battle of Sunda Strait in mid 1942. 

Conceived in Benalla, Victoria, Waller entered the Royal Australian Naval College at thirteen years old. Subsequent to graduating, he presented with the Royal Navy in the end phases of World War I. Between the wars, he had some expertise in interchanges and was presented as signs officer on a few British and Australian warships. He picked up his first seagoing order in 1937, as commander of the destroyer . In September 1939, he assumed responsibility for HMAS "Stuart" and four other out of date destroyers that together ended up known as the "Piece Iron Flotilla". In 1940, these were enlarged by different boats to frame the tenth Destroyer Flotilla, supporting Allied troops in North Africa. 

Waller was granted the Distinguished Service Order and Bar, and twice referenced in despatches, for his accomplishments in the Mediterranean. He accepted order of HMAS "Perth" in October 1941, participating in the Battle of the Java Sea in a matter of seconds before his last activity in Sunda Strait. He got a third notice in despatches after death, and in 2011 went under formal thought for the honor of the Victoria Cross for his execution as "Perth's" commander. The submarine is named in his respect. 

Conceived on 4 April 1900 in Benalla, Victoria, Hector MacDonald Laws Waller was the child of William Frederick Waller, a food merchant, and his better half Helen Waller (née Duncan). Hec Waller was named to pay tribute to General Hector MacDonald, legend of the Boer War, and an ancestor called Laws who was a chief of naval operations and a contemporary of Viscount Nelson. The most youthful of ten kids, of whom eight endure earliest stages, he went to Benalla Higher Elementary School. 

Waller entered the Royal Australian Naval College (RANC) as a cadet sailor on 31 December 1913, matured thirteen. He picked up acknowledgment as a rugby player and progressed toward becoming cadet commander. In 1917, his last year at the school, he was raised to boss cadet chief and won the King's Medal, granted for "courteous bearing, character, great impact among his colleagues and officer-like characteristics". Elevated to sailor on 1 January 1918, he was presented on Britain where, in April, he was designated to serve in the Royal Navy's (RN) Grand Fleet with the gunboat . The ship did not see battle while he was ready. 

In February 1919, Waller was alloted to the light cruiser HMAS "Melbourne", and after two months came back to Australia. He exchanged to the light cruiser HMAS "Sydney as an acting sub-lieutenant in September; his rank was made substantive the next month. In April 1920 he was again posted on board "Melbourne". Elevated to lieutenant in March 1921, he experienced further preparing in Britain before coming back to join the staff of the RANC. Waller wedded Nancy Bowes, a clergyman's girl, on 7 April 1923 in the Sydney suburb of Lewisham; the couple had two children, Michael and John. In April 1924, he was presented on the light cruiser HMAS "Adelaide". Soon thereafter, he started preparing as a signs officer in England; his cohorts included Lord Louis Mountbatten. Waller completed at the highest point of the propelled course and, in May 1926, assumed responsibility for the Signals and Wireless-Telegraphy School at Flinders Naval Depot in Westernport, Victoria. From 1928 to 1930, he presented with the RN as a signs officer on board the destroyer HMS "Broke". He was elevated to lieutenant administrator in March 1929. 

By this phase of his profession, Waller had procured a solid notoriety for his interchanges work. In July 1930, he was posted on board the Royal Australian Navy's (RAN) leader, the substantial cruiser HMAS "Australia", as squadron signals officer. He proceeded in this job after exchanging to "Australia"s sister dispatch, HMAS "Canberra", in May 1931. In mid 1932, he was doled out to the Navy Office in Melbourne, coming back to "Canberra" as squadron signals officer in August 1933. He was elevated to administrator in June 1934 and the next month wound up official officer of the RANC. Withdrawing the school in July 1936, he came back to England and went through a half year working in the British Naval Intelligence Division. A spell as official officer of the fix deliver HMS "Asset" pursued. In November 1937, Waller was given his first order adrift, the RN destroyer HMS "Shameless". His ship dealing with was censured at an opportune time, however was before long announced by his bosses as having "improved extraordinarily". Positioned in the Mediterranean, "Shameless" observed advancement of the Spanish Civil War, an obligation that included ensuring British trader vessels and safeguarding the teams of sinking ships. By June 1939, Waller had come back to Australia to progress toward becoming Director of Signals and Communications at the Navy Office. 

At the flare-up of World War II, Waller was selected chief of HMAS "Stuart", assuming responsibility for a gathering of four other out of date ex-RN destroyers—HMA Ships "Vampire", "Grudge", "Voyager", and "Waterhen"— that the Germans later nicknamed the "Piece Iron Flotilla". The boats were on the way to Singapore for preparing when the British and Australian governments concurred that they ought to be alloted to the Mediterranean as the nineteenth Destroyer Division, under Waller's control. Touching base at Malta in late December, Waller established a positive starting connection on senior RN administrators; this was soon borne out by his activities amid the rescue of the "Trocas", an impaired tanker. In May 1940, he was designated to direction the tenth Destroyer Flotilla, which incorporated the vessels of the "Piece Iron Flotilla" in addition to four present day British destroyers, and after a month was elevated to commander. 

Following Italy's entrance into the war on 10 June 1940, Waller was associated with the look for minefields off the North African coast. A sharp shooter, he by and by exploded drifting mines utilizing a rifle and protection puncturing shots. On 21 June, "Stuart" shelled the Italian-held town of Bardia. The following month, his tenth Destroyer Flotilla took an interest in the Battle of Calabria. Waller's boats completed bombardments on Fort Capuzzo on 17 August and an Italian seaplane base in the Gulf of Bomba multi week later. In September, he was granted the Distinguished Service Order (DSO) for "boldness, venture, and commitment to obligation on ongoing commitment"— specifically, his pinpointing of foe minefields. That month, he exchanged to HMAS "Vampire" while "Stuart" went in for refit. As the Allied militaries counterattacked Italian powers in December 1940, the Commander-in-Chief of the Mediterranean Fleet, Admiral Sir Andrew Cunningham, gave Waller order of the recently shaped Inshore Squadron, involving destroyers, minesweepers, and assistants. In his job as Cunningham's Senior Officer Afloat, Waller assumed responsibility for maritime help for the assault on Bardia, which tumbled to the Allies on 5 January 1941. In the blink of an eye a short time later, he gave over order of the Inshore Squadron and exchanged back on board "Stuart". 

"Stuart" and different boats of Waller's tenth Destroyer Flotilla bolstered the strikes on Tobruk in January 1941 and Benghazi the next month. In March, "Stuart" escorted Allied troop transports to Greece as a feature of Operation Luster, barely abstaining from succumbing to Axis plunge aircraft assaults. Amid the Battle of Cape Matapan toward the month's end, Waller's boats were credited with sinking two Italian destroyers. From May to July, the tenth Destroyer Flotilla made 139 ship keeps running amid the Siege of Tobruk, conveying supplies to the town's battalion and clearing the injured. Waller was referenced in despatches twice amid 1941: in July for his military participation job with the Inshore Squadron off the Libyan coast, and in November for his administration amid the Greek battle. In January 1942, he was granted a Bar to his DSO for "valiance and endeavor in the Battle of Cape Matapan". 

Waller earned the individual deference of Admiral Cunningham, who depicted him as "one of the best kinds of Australian maritime officers ... incredibly cherished and appreciated by everybody". On the event of a visit to Alexandria by Australian Prime Minister Robert Menzies, Cunningham escorted him to "Stuart" and pronounced: "And now you are going to meet one of the best skippers who at any point cruised the oceans—his name is Waller". As indicated by writer Ray Parkin, who started composing while a captive, "Andrew Cunningham and Hector Waller were cast in a similar shape: men would tail them, endure, and be happy about it. These were the two men made by Fate for those regularly repeating Saint Crispin's Days of human issues". 

Leaving the Mediterranean, Waller came back to Australia in August 1941 for administration in the South West Pacific. On 24 October, he took order of the light cruiser HMAS "Perth", berthed in Sydney. "Perth" had likewise recently come back from activity in the Mediterranean, where she had partaken in the Greek, Cretan, and Syrian crusades, and been harmed on two events by German aircraft. Waller was purportedly "tired" and "a significant debilitated man" right now, yet in any case arranged "Perth" for activity rapidly. In January 1942, the ship was relegated to American-British-Dutch-Australian Command (ABDA) to help safeguard the Dutch East Indies. She set sail for the ABDA Area on 15 February, the day that Singapore surrendered. 

The ABDA Striking Force that "Perth" had joined was squashed by a staggering Japanese power at the Battle of the Java Sea on 27 February. Low on ammo, Waller settled on the choice to pull back, joined by the cruiser USS "Houston" under the direction of Captain Albert H. Rooks. Waller's activity contradicted the requests of his Dutch predominant, Admiral Conrad Helfrich, to "proceed with activity whatever the expense, and in any case", yet the Australian was persuaded that further commitment would mean futile penance. 

On the next night, 28 February, "Perth" and "Houston" were endeavoring to get through the Sunda Strait to Australia when they experienced a Japanese attack armada escorted by four cruisers and twelve destroyers. As senior officer, Waller was in the number one spot with "Perth", and gave the request to flame after reaching the adversary transports soon after 11:00 pm. In the resulting fight, the Allied cruisers sank four Japanese transports and a minesweeper before they themselves were sunk, soon after 12 pm on 1 March 1942. Having battled to the remainder of its ammo, "Perth" was struck by two torpedoes, losing more than 350 of its supplement of 680 as it keeled over. As per witnesses, Waller was most recently seen remaining on the scaffold after he had given the request to relinquish deliver, "looking down at the quiet turrets". He was authoritatively recorded as absent, assumed slaughtered, and was made due by his better half and children. Naval commander Cunningham depicted Waller's misfortune as "an overwhelming hardship for the youthful Navy of Australia", and Rear Admiral James Goldrick in this manner called him "the extraordinary officer of his age". 

On 15 March 1946, Waller was granted an after death notice in despatches for "valor and goals" on board HMAS "Perth". His more youthful child John tailed him into the Navy, entering the RANC in 1947. Graduating as boss cadet chief, John Waller turned into a weapons electrical designer and accomplished the position of leader in 1967, preceding exchanging to the Emergency Reserve as a senior Navy explore researcher. 

Hec Waller's name shows up on the Roll of Honor situated at Panel 6 in the Commemorative Area at the Australian War Memorial, Canberra, and on the Plymouth Naval Memorial in Devon, England. He is likewise recognized by Waller Crescent and Waller Place in the Canberra suburb of Campbell. The Benalla Costume and Pioneer Museum holds his decorations and dress uniform. The Waller Division of the RAN Recruit School at HMAS "Cerberus", Victoria, was named in his respect until his name exchanged to a division at RAN College in 2013. 

HMAS "Waller", the third of the RAN's "Collins"- class submarines to enter administration, was charged on 10 July 1999. The participants included John Waller, Michael Waller's significant other, and enduring crew members of HMAS "Perth". On 13 March 2010, a dedication to Waller was revealed in the place where he grew up of Benalla. In April 2011, he was one of thirteen servicemen—eleven mariners and two fighters, including Teddy Sheean, Robert Rankin, and John Simpson Kirkpatrick—named by the Australian government for thought as conceivable beneficiaries of the Victoria Cross for extraordinary valor in battle, under an audit by the Defense Honors and Awards Appeals Tribunal; no RAN part had ever been granted the enhancement. Finishing up its examinations in February 2013, the court suggested that no further honor be made to any of the thirteen servicemen, yet that the name "Waller" (among others) should keep on being utilized for RAN sends after the present conveyor was decommissioned.