Henry Conwell 

Henry Conwell (c. 1748 – April 22, 1842) was an Irish-brought into the world Catholic minister in the United States. He turned into a minister in 1776 and served in that limit in Ireland for over four decades. After the Pope declined to designate him Archbishop of Armagh, the bishopric in which he filled in as Vicar General, he was rather introduced as the second Bishop of Philadelphia in 1819. Conwell took up the post at a propelled age, and invested quite a bit of his energy there fighting with the lay trustees of his wards, particularly those of St. Mary's Church in Philadelphia. At the point when Conwell evacuated and banished William Hogan, a questionable minister at St. Mary's, the area trustees rather dismissed Conwell's power, making a minor break. The opposite sides in part accommodated by 1826, however the Vatican pecking order trusted Conwell had surrendered a lot of capacity to the laymen all the while, and reviewed him to Rome. Despite the fact that he held his position, Conwell was constrained to give up real control to his coadjutor priest, Francis Kenrick. He stayed in Philadelphia and played out some clerical obligations, however for every pragmatic reason never again ran the see. He kicked the bucket there in 1842 at the period of around 94. 

Conwell was brought into the world around 1748 in Moneymore, County Londonderry, Ireland (present-day Northern Ireland), the child of Owen Conwell and his better half, Mary (Keegan) Conwell. He learned at the Irish College in Paris and was appointed to the brotherhood there in November 1776. Conwell was knowledgeable, being familiar with Latin, French, Spanish, and Italian, however had a notoriety for being an evangelist of just unobtrusive capacity. Around 1785, he mulled over moving to the United States however was worried about the still questionable monetary condition of the new nation's areas, and eventually chose not to apply for a situation there. He was delegated area cleric of Dungannon in 1792 or 1793 and Vicar General of the Archdiocese of Armagh in 1794. After the demise of Archbishop Richard O'Reilly in 1818, Conwell filled in as acting Archbishop. 

A significant number of the pastorate who served under him in Armagh prescribed that the Pope delegate Conwell to head the bishopric for all time. Some contradicted him, blaming him for being every now and again missing from his area to visit France and Scotland. The British government additionally protested, supporting Patrick Curtis rather, as they considered him to be all the more agreeable to their interests. The Vatican concurred, and Pope Pius VII designated Curtis to Armagh, offering Conwell rather a decision of the sees of Philadelphia or Madras; Conwell picked Philadelphia. Presently over 70 years of age, he was appointed religious administrator in London on September 24, 1819, by Bishop William Poynter, the Vicar Apostolic of the London District, helped by Fathers James Bramston and Joseph Francis Carpue. 

The see of Philadelphia had been empty since the demise of Bishop Michael Francis Egan in 1814, in spite of a few endeavors to fill it. Diocese supervisor John Carroll of Baltimore, whose territory included Philadelphia, had considered no less than fifteen clerics for the position; some had been precluded for some reason, and others (counting the missional overseer, Louis de Barth) had turned the activity down. Some portion of the deferral was strategic—Carroll was uncertain of the careful methodology for choosing a competitor in the as of late raised region—yet part was because of the apparent nuisance of the post, which regulated just a couple of little chapels in a piece of the country with couple of Catholics. There was additionally a noteworthy debate (known as trusteeism) over the privileges of temples' lay trustees that was probably going to confuse the activity of running the see. In Europe, the Church possessed property and legitimately controlled its areas through the ministry. In the United States, in any case, early Catholic houses of worship were normally established by laymen who acquired the property, and raised the congregation structures. Those laypeople as needs be requested some command over the organization of the ward, even after the entry of ministry from Europe who held the conventional perspective on area association. In a bigger sense, the debate spoke to a distinction in understandings of power among Americans and Europeans. 

Conwell touched base in Philadelphia on December 2, 1820. The trusteeism question had just developed all the more severe amid the opportunity that went before Conwell's entry. In no time before Conwell achieved the see, a cleric, William Hogan, moved toward de Barth (at that point managing the see until a minister was delegated) about verifying a task to lecture in Philadelphia. After just a careless examination of his past, de Barth concurred, and Hogan was doled out to St. Mary's Church. Hogan immediately charmed himself with the laymen who made up the leading body of trustees, favoring them in their question with the other ministry. Hogan's other conduct made pressure among him and Conwell. At the point when Conwell arrived, Hogan had effectively moved out of the clerics' living arrangement at Old St. Joseph's Church to a house over the road, asserting that the first lodging were poor; his depreciators said he utilized the private habitation to engage ladies. The circumstance wound up open when Hogan reported from the platform one Sunday that neither Conwell nor any other individual reserved the option to state where he should live. 

Soon thereafter, Conwell assembled a conference of the city's ministers and reported that Hogan was suspended. The St. Mary's trustees agreed with Hogan's stance, while Conwell denounced the trustees as "abhorrent ex-Catholics" and "the most noticeably awful kind of Jacobins". Meanwhile, Conwell reviewed a Dominican minister—William Vincent Harold, whom his antecedent had expelled—to help him. The St. Mary's trustees had fought with Harold before, and his review expanded their question of Conwell. The split proceeded as St. Mary's wouldn't perceive Conwell's power over them or Hogan, expressly barring Conwell from their board and choosing Hogan in his place. Since they had defied the Church order, Conwell proclaimed Hogan expelled in an open proclamation on May 27, 1821. 

In 1822, Conwell demonstrated his help for Harold by selecting him as Vicar General of the bishopric. The Hogan break took on new measurements, in any case, when Hogan was accused of assault and battery. Philadelphia city hall leader Robert Wharton managed the preliminary, which caught the city's consideration. In spite of the fact that the jury discovered him not liable, Hogan's picture was hurt. A letter from the Pope favored Conwell in any case, after at first consenting to leave the bishopric, Hogan turned around himself and remained on. The star Hogan group won at St. Mary's trustee races that year in the midst of wicked revolting between ward individuals. The following year, 1823, some Hogan supporters persuaded a neighborhood lady to bring a paternity suit against Conwell, however the charges were rejected rapidly and the complainant was indicted for prevarication. In a 1824 letter to the "National Gazette," Hogan proposed the formation of an "American Catholic Church" with more autonomy from Rome. 

At this point, Hogan had started to lose the trustees' help. Sooner or later before long, he left the city. In the desire for mending the break, in October 1826 Conwell in part gave in to the trustees, respecting them the privilege of deciding pay rates and of vetoing his arrangements. Consequently, they remembered him as diocesan and chief minister of the congregation. The cleric would from this time forward choose St. Mary's minister, yet the trustees would be allowed to mediate any differences on arrangements before an impartial board. 

The trustees before long revoked the understanding. At the point when expression of the trade off achieved the Holy See, the Vatican likewise protested, censuring Conwell's surrender of episcopal rights. Harold, keeping in touch with Rome, asserted that Conwell had little to do with the trade off, which he accused on Father Michael Hurley and Conwell's Protestant legal counselor, Josiah Randall. Conwell saw Harold's direct as a selling out, and expelled him as Vicar General, designating Hurley in his place. The trustees set aside their previous hostility for Harold and agreed with his position against Conwell, venturing to such an extreme as to request of Rome for Conwell's evacuation as minister. At this point, as Arthur Ennis wrote in 1976, the "old and befuddled" Conwell considered leaving the see whether he could verify another find in Ireland. In 1827, the Vatican's "Purposeful publicity Fide" formally dismissed Conwell's agreement with the trustees, denouncing Hurley's job simultaneously, also. They gathered Conwell to Rome. 

Ambrose Maréchal, who was presently Archbishop of Baltimore, was requested to supervise the see in Conwell's nonappearance, and he delegated a cleric from his see, William Matthews, as missional manager. Conwell cruised for Rome on July 12, 1828. Once there, Conwell was requested to give a report of all that had happened. While taboo to come back to his bishopric, he was guaranteed that after a full clarification, he would be allowed to live anyplace in Europe. He left Rome furtively in 1829, and when his nonappearance was found, the Pope proclaimed he would be suspended from office in the event that he came back to Philadelphia. Conwell returned to Philadelphia, in any case, in October of that year, and made a trip from that point to Baltimore, where the First Provincial Council of Baltimore was in session. 

In Baltimore, Conwell declared his acquiescence to Rome and swore he would readily resign from dynamic administration of his bishopric. The next year, the Vatican designated Francis Kenrick as Conwell's coadjutor cleric with the privilege of progression and named him manager of the ward. Conwell never surrendered his titles or his case to practice expert in the ward, and his association with Kenrick stayed rough. He got consent to continue performing formal capacities with no state in organization, and spent his outstanding years in withdrawal and petition. He lived on for quite a long while, despite the fact that he lost his sight, keeping him from performing the majority of his few residual obligations. 

Conwell kicked the bucket on April 22, 1842, at about the age of 94. Kenrick prevailing to the title of priest of Philadelphia. Conwell's passing prompted one last contention, as the old diocesan's nephews and nieces sued for ownership of the Bishop's Burial Ground, asserting it had been Conwell's private belonging. After the risk of suspension, they pulled back their case. Conwell's remaining parts were covered in St. Mary's churchyard. In 1864 the remaining parts were exchanged to the Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul. 

Books 

Articles 

Exposition 

Site