Agony fitzJohn 

Agony fitzJohn (before 1100– 10 July 1137) was an Anglo-Norman aristocrat and overseer, one of King Henry I of England's "new men", who owed their positions and riches to the ruler. 

Agony's family started in Normandy, yet there is little to propose that he had numerous ties there, and he seems to have burned through the greater part of his profession in England and the Welsh Marches. A child of a minor aristocrat, he ascended through capacity to turn into an essential illustrious authority amid Henry's rule. In 1115, he was compensated with marriage to a beneficiary, in this way dealing with the town of Ludlow and its palace, which he increased with further acquisitions. 

Albeit later medieval conventions depicted Pain as a chamberlain to King Henry, that position isn't safely affirmed in contemporary records. He held different workplaces, notwithstanding, incorporating that of sheriff in two areas close to the fringe among England and Wales. In his ability as an imperial equity, Pain likewise heard lawful cases for the ruler all through quite a bit of western England. 

Subsequent to King Henry's passing in 1135, Pain upheld Henry's nephew, King Stephen, and was with the new lord all through 1136. In July 1137, Pain was trapped by the Welsh and executed while driving a help endeavor to the battalion at Carmarthen. His beneficiaries were his little girls, Cecily and Agnes. Cecily wedded the child of one of Pain's nearby partners, Miles of Gloucester. Torment was liberal in his blessings of land to various ascetic houses. 

Torment was a child, presumably the oldest, of John fitzRichard, an occupant in-boss recorded in "Domesday Book". John may have had two spouses, in this way the personality of Pain's mom is questionable. Based on landholding, it has been guessed that Pain's mom was a little girl of Ralph Mortimer, who held Wigmore in "Domesday Book". Just as being a moneyer, Pain's fatherly granddad, who originated from close Avranches in Normandy, claimed a factory. Torment's sibling, Eustace fitzJohn, turned into an imperial authority who claimed arrives in the north of England. His different kin included William, Alice and Agnes. William was most likely the equivalent William who later held Harptree in Somerset, and in 1130 was an imperial equity in western England. Alice was the abbess of Barking Abbey and Agnes turned into the spouse of Roger de Valognes. 

Agony was brought into the world some time before 1100. His dad may have been in the administration of King Henry in Normandy before Henry moved toward becoming lord. The family arrives in England, which were not broad, were basically in East Anglia, and Pain seems to have acquired the vast majority of them; his installment for danegeld, a duty, in 1130 for his East Anglian properties was 40 shillings, contrasted with just 9 shillings for his sibling Eustace. 

All records concur that Pain wedded in 1115 and that his better half was named Sybil, despite the fact that the personality of Sybil's folks is indistinct. Agony's "Oxford Dictionary of National Biography" passage expresses that he wedded Sybil Talbot, the niece of Hugh de Lacy. The "Total Peerage" expresses that he wedded Sybil, the girl of Geoffrey Talbot and Talbot's better half Agnes, who was herself most likely the little girl of Walter de Lacy. The student of history K. S. B. Keats-Rohan states that Pain wedded Sybil de Lacy, the little girl of Hugh de Lacy, a view shared by individual students of history Judith Green and Paul Dalton. Others, for example, Bruce Coplestone-Crow and David Crouch concur with the "Oxford Dictionary of National Biography"s assignment of Sybil as Hugh's niece, and girl of Geoffrey Talbot and Agnes, the sister of Hugh de Lacy. 

Lord Henry and King Stephen perceived Pain as the genuine holder of the grounds procured through his better half Sybil. Her brother Gilbert de Lacy was the child of Roger de Lacy, who had been expelled from England in 1095 and his English homes appropriated; he had however held his properties in Normandy. Roger's English belongings were given to his sibling Hugh de Lacy, from whom Sybil had acquired them. On Roger's demise Gilbert acquired the grounds in Normandy, and squeezed his case to the family's previous English bequests. Coplestone-Crow theorizes that the vulnerability hanging over the legacy was one motivation behind why Pain tried to verify more terrains around Ludlow. 

Agony is the assumed developer of Pain's Castle in the Welsh district of Radnor. He additionally controlled Caus Castle in Shropshire, and through his significant other Ludlow Castle in a similar district. Despite the fact that he held the title to Weobley Castle, he doesn't seem to have practiced any authority over it, which in the end went to Gilbert de Lacy. Agony was not by any means the only beneficiary of Hugh de Lacy's properties; some went to Jocelin de Dinan and some to Miles of Gloucester. Torment's offer included property in Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, and Worcestershire, and he prevailing with regards to getting extra grounds close Ludlow, adding to the estates he held there through his significant other; his possessions of land were viewed as worth 17 knights expenses. By 1130 he had clearly procured extra properties in Oxfordshire, where he is recorded as being pardoned installment of danegeld that year. 

Agony was too youthful to even think about serving King William Rufus, however as indicated by the later twelfth century compositions of Walter Map he may have been a chamberlain—one of the authorities accountable for the imperial family—for William's sibling, King Henry I (ruled 1100– 1135). There is no contemporary proof for Pain having held that office and nor is it likely, given Map's story, that Pain was included with Henry's money related undertakings; rather it creates the impression that if without a doubt he was a chamberlain, he was a body worker. Guide relates an anecdote about Pain serving the ruler actually during the evening, furnishing Henry with wine if the lord called for it. The story proceeds with that Pain once drank the wine and was gotten out by Henry when the ruler in this manner requested his nightcap. Guide completes the story by saying that the ruler at that point requested that Pain ought to be allowed wine each night while anticipating the lord's pleasure. In spite of the fact that the story is probably not going to be valid in all subtleties, it recommends that Pain's support of the lord was close to home just as legal and administrative. Other proof against Map's case that Pain was a chamberlain is that he never verified an imperial contract in that office. 

The creator of the "Gesta Stephani" portrayed Pain as having been a page at Henry's court, expressing that he owed his situation to being one of the "exceptional and personal companions of King Henry" and that in spite of the fact that Pain had been "taken into [Henry's] administration as [one of his] court pages", it seems likely that the three fitzJohn siblings—Pain, Eustace and William—attempted to propel each other's vocations, as they are as often as possible found seeing, or bearing witness to, similar contracts and other regal reports. 

In 1115, Pain was an observer to a sanction of affirmation that King Henry issued to Geoffrey de Clive, the Bishop of Hereford, issued in the Welsh Marches. At some point somewhere in the range of 1123 and 1127 he was delegated Sheriff of Herefordshire, and in 1127 moved toward becoming Sheriff of Shropshire too. He held the sheriffdoms of Hereford and Shropshire at any rate until 1136, and most likely until his passing. Torment is additionally regularly named the lord's "viceregent" or "justiciar" for those provinces, and he had the guardianship of King Henry's detainee, Waleran of Melun, from September 1126 until late 1126, when Waleran was moved to Wallingford Castle and the authority of Brian fitzCount. 

Agony was one of Henry's "new men", who owed their positions and riches to the lord. The medieval author Orderic Vitalis depicted them as a gathering as "of base stock who had served him [Henry] all around, raised them, so to state, from the residue" and that the ruler "positioned them above lords and popular castellans". In spite of the fact that Orderic expressed that the groups of these men were not viewed as high status, this was presumably an embellishment on the writer's part. Torment's family was good enough, as his dad held various properties straightforwardly from the ruler. It gives the idea that Pain did not generally agree with the lord's position; the student of history C. Warren Hollister has contended that Pain was not among the supporters of Henry's solitary enduring genuine tyke, Matilda, in 1126, when Henry had his respectability swear that they would perceive her as his beneficiary. Hollister feels that the expulsion of Waleran from Pain's authority was an indication that Pain had not upheld Matilda. 

Torment combined quite a bit of his capacity in Shropshire and Herefordshire at Bridgnorth Castle, frequently utilizing that site as a position of business in inclination to Shrewsbury, which had recently been the principle focus of business for his ancestors as sheriff. Just as Waleran, Pain detained a Welsh prisoner there in 1128, Llywelyn abdominal muscle Owain, the nephew of Maredudd ap Bleddyn, leader of the Welsh territory of Powys. Other than Bridgnorth, Pain utilized his ownership of Ludlow Castle to solidify his capacity in the Welsh Marches. Amid Henry's rule, the Welsh fringe was a zone of continuous strikes and struggle between the Anglo-Normans and the Welsh. 

The "Gesta Stephani" demonstrates that Pain, alongside Miles of Gloucester, was a noteworthy landholder in the western piece of England, and the pair figured out how to overwhelm equity in that area. As indicated by the record the two men "raised their capacity to such a pitch, that from the Severn to the ocean, up and down the fringe among England and Wales, they included everybody in prosecution and constrained administrations." The later medieval author Gerald of Wales called Miles and Pain "secretaries and privy councilors of the lord". 

The 1130 Pipe Roll noticed that Pain was a regal equity in Staffordshire, Gloucestershire, and Pembroke. Other than the common court, Pain likewise heard cases identifying with the woods law in those regions. The Pipe Roll does not record Pain as sheriff in Shropshire, however this is likely on the grounds that the Shropshire returns for that year are absent from it. Additionally in 1130, Pain was counseled by the lord about the arrangement to an empty priestly district. The Diocese of Hereford had been empty since the demise of Richard de Capella in August 1127, and the ruler counseled with Pain and the constable of Hereford before tolerating their competitor—Robert de Bethune, the earlier of Llanthony Priory. In 1132 Pain was available, alongside his sibling, at the Christmas court held by King Henry. Accordingly Caus Castle, which was under Pain's control, was singed by the Welsh in 1134. As master of Caus, Pain was associated with endeavors to stifle Welsh striking. In spite of the fact that Pain held Caus, his title to the fortress was indistinct, as it had prior been held by Robert Corbet. 

Before the finish of Henry's rule, Pain had seen more than 60 illustrious contracts for the ruler, traversing a period from around 1115 until 1135. In spite of the fact that Pain saw a substantial number of imperial records, this movement occurred for the most part in England, as few of the archives he saw were drawn up while the lord was in Normandy. As a reward for his administration, Henry gave Pain the lordships of Ewias Lacy and Archenfield, both in Wales. 

Following King Henry's passing in 1135, the progression was questioned between the lord's nephews—Stephen and his senior sibling, Theobald II, Count of Champagne—and Henry's enduring authentic youngster Matilda, typically known as the Empress Matilda in view of her first marriage to the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry V. Ruler Henry's solitary real child, William, had passed on in 1120. After Matilda was bereaved in 1125, she came back to her dad, who wedded her to Geoffrey, Count of Anjou. Every one of the magnates of England and Normandy were required to proclaim fealty to Matilda as Henry's beneficiary, yet when Henry I passed on in 1135, Stephen hurried to England and had himself delegated before either Theobald or Matilda could respond. The Norman noblemen acknowledged Stephen as Duke of Normandy, and Theobald satisfied himself with his assets in France. Matilda, however, was less optimistic, and verified the help of the Scottish ruler, David, who was her maternal uncle, and in 1138 additionally that of her stepbrother, Robert, Earl of Gloucester, an ill-conceived child of Henry I. 

On Henry's passing in December 1135, Pain went to the ruler's memorial service. Agony was an early supporter of King Stephen, despite the fact that he was said at first to have been reluctant to show up at Stephen's court inspired by a paranoid fear of being stood up to by those he had abused. All things considered, Pain was with the new lord by early January 1136, when he saw one of Stephen's reports, dated to around 4 January 1136, at Reading. By Easter, both Pain and his sibling Eustace had formally submitted to the ruler. Agony saw a regal sanction at Oxford in April 1136. The ruler remunerated the siblings by proceeding to choose them to legal capacities, and affirmed stipends made by them to different religious houses. 

After Henry's passing, the Welsh endeavored to drive out the Norman rulers who had been expanding their control into Wales amid Henry's rule. Torment was with King Stephen at the attack of Exeter from June to August 1136, right off the bat in the ruler's rule. Squat contends that Stephen did not around then trust Pain, and kept him at the attack to all the more effectively screen his activities, and to keep him from abandoning to Matilda's motivation. 

In 1119 Pope Callixtus II tended to letters to a gathering of Anglo-Norman landholders in the Welsh Marches, including Pain, blaming them for having appropriated the terrains of the Diocese of Llandaff and requesting their arrival. Torment was among a gathering of nobles comparatively denounced by Pope Honorius II in 1128. Honorius by and by requested the nobles to reestablish to the Church lands they had seized. 

Torment offered terrains to Llanthony Priory, building up the blessing of that ascetic house, despite the fact that it is hard to recognize his endowments from those of Hugh de Lacy, as the priests of Llanthony gathered the blessings of the two men together in their records. Furthermore Pain conceded terrains to Gloucester Abbey, which had profited by the liberality of his dad and sibling, as did his significant other Sybil, together with different awards to her uncle the abbot. She additionally provided for two temples in Hereford: St Peter and St Guthlac. 

On 10 July 1137 Pain was slaughtered by a spear hit to the head amid a trap by the Welsh as he was driving an alleviation undertaking to the army at Carmarthen. He was covered in Gloucester Abbey, following a memorial service directed by Robert de Bethune. Various aristocrats from the Welsh Marches visited, including Miles of Gloucester. Agony's widow kept on holding Ludlow Castle until the center of 1139, when she was compelled to surrender it to King Stephen. Stephen at that point gave Sybil in marriage to Jocelin de Dinan, who therefore procured Ludlow Castle through his new spouse, setting up the foundation to Gilbert Lacy's endeavors to seize Ludlow from Dinan on which the medieval Welsh sentiment work "Fouke le Fitz Waryn" is based. 

Agony's beneficiaries were his two little girls, Cecily and Agnes. His beneficiary male was his sibling, Eustace fitzJohn. The two girls were hitched multiple times altogether; Cecily hitched multiple times however neglected to create any immediate beneficiaries. Her first spouse was Roger, the child of Miles of Gloucester. Torment orchestrated Cecily and Roger's marriage. The marriage contract indicated that Roger would acquire the majority of Pain's properties, however as aftereffect of the last's demise the marriage was not contracted until December 1137, when King Stephen affirmed the terms of the settlement. The lord likewise settled the greater part of the legacy on Cecily, which prompted aggravations and a minor war among frustrated petitioners. Agnes wedded Warin de Munchensy and after his passing Haldenald de Bidun. She kicked the bucket after 1185, by which time she was depicted as a widow. 

The antiquarian W. E. Wightman portrayed Pain as a "below average noble and top of the line government worker".