Santa Clause María de Óvila 

Santa Clause María de Óvila is a previous Cistercian cloister worked in Spain starting in 1181 on the Tagus River close Trillo, Guadalajara, about upper east of Madrid. Amid prosperous occasions throughout the following four centuries, development ventures extended and improved the little cloister. Its fortunes declined fundamentally in the eighteenth century, and in 1835 it was appropriated by the Spanish government and sold to private proprietors who utilized its structures to shield ranch creatures. 

American distributer William Randolph Hearst purchased portions of the cloister in 1931 with the goal of utilizing its stones in the development of an amazing and whimsical palace at Wyntoon, California, however after around 10,000 stones were evacuated and delivered, they were relinquished in San Francisco for quite a long time. These stones are presently in different areas around California: the old church entrance was raised at the University of San Francisco, and the section house was reassembled by Trappist priests at the Abbey of New Clairvaux in Vina, California. Different stones are filling in as basic beautifying components in Golden Gate Park's professional flowerbed. To help the section house venture, a line of Belgian-style lagers was created by Sierra Nevada Brewing Company under the Ovila Abbey brand. 

In Spain, the new legislature of the Second Republic pronounced the cloister a National Monument in June 1931, however not so as to keep the mass evacuation of stones. Today, the remainder structures and dividers remain on private farmland. 

The religious community of Santa María de Óvila was established in 1175 by a give of land from King Alfonso VIII of Castile to the Cistercian priests of Valbuena Abbey in Valbuena de Duero, Valladolid Province, Castile-Leon, Spain. In this undertaking, the ruler was following a general technique of setting up Catholic establishments ashore he had as of late won fighting from the Moors of Iberia. The Cistercian "white priests" (wearing undyed propensities) first picked a site in Murel (presently called Carrascosa de Tajo) on the Tagus, yet following a couple of years, needed to migrate to progressively rich zone a couple of miles closer to Trillo, Guadalajara, where a level ridge by the stream told a humble view. 

The development started in 1181. The religious quarters and the congregation were worked over the accompanying three decades. The focal shelter was verged on the north by the congregation, on the west by a barrel-vaulted incredible nave, on the east by the sacristy, the monastery cell, and the section house, and on the south by the kitchen, the wash room and the refectory (eating lobby). A portion of the structures were given seven-foot-thick (2 m) dividers with cut windows, to fill in as a shelter on the off chance that the Moors came back to the region. The congregation was worked in the state of a Latin cross with a nave isolated into four segments, and a haven with three square apses. Its presbytery had a focal square bested by a pentagon. 

In 1191, the ruler affirmed the cloister and its encompassing fields as having a place with the Cistercian Order. The matured abbot of Santa María de Huerta, priest Martín de Finojosa (later sanctified), blessed the congregation in September 1213 and passed on days after the fact. The encompassing region of Murel and Trillo along the Tagus succeeded, giving tithes and blessings of land to the cloister. The cartulary, "Cartulario de Óvila", is saved at the University of Madrid. 

The main structures were finished in the Gothic style, including the congregation. The refectory (eating lobby) demonstrates a building style experiencing significant change between prior Romanesque and contemporary Gothic. A fine High Gothic section house was worked of best quality hard limestone. The congregation was reconstructed at some point before 1650 out of a late Gothic style with an unmistakable vaulted roof. The order was modified around 1617, and is of a straightforward structure with little decoration encompassing a High Renaissance arcade. The last period of structure occurred around 1650, with another entryway for the congregation, finished in late Renaissance and Plateresque style brimming with detail. On account of its thriving and the various development ventures, Santa María de Óvila showed instances of each Spanish religious engineering style utilized from 1200 to 1600. Be that as it may, even at its stature, Óvila stayed one of the littlest Cistercian religious communities in the locale of Castile. 

From the fifteenth century, changes to the regions encompassing Santa María de Óvila started a moderate decrease. Common wars eradicated the towns of the upper Tagus valley. The religious community's property possessions passed one by one under the control of the new territorial nobility: first the Count of Cifuentes, trailed by Rui Gomes da Silva, Duke of Pastrana, and the Spanish Army. Neighbors plundered more terrains. 

A flame demolished piece of the cloister amid the War of the Spanish Succession. Amid the Peninsular War, French troops plundered the structures and utilized them as sleeping quarters. The priests were compelled to leave in 1820 due to seizures by another liberal government, yet they returned in 1823 in the wake of King Ferdinand VII reestablished preservationist organizations. Notwithstanding, the close-by residents denied backing to the religious community in spite of its assurance by the ruler. The cloister stopped to work in 1835: the Ecclesiastical Confiscations of Mendizábal implemented a law announcing that minor religious property lodging less than 12 inhabitants were to be relinquish to the express; the cloister had just four priests and one lay sibling, who were thrown out. 

After the Confiscations, a significant number of the decorations and creative fortunes of Santa María de Óvila go to the encompassing ward places of worship, particularly Ruguilla, Huet, Sotoca de Tajo and Carrascosa de Tajo. Different assets, for example, books and notable records, were stolen and sold. The rest of the substance were unloaded, including wine-production hardware and an oxcart. The valuable 328-pages cartulary of the religious community () went to a private proprietor yet was given in 1925 to the Monastery of Santa María la Real of Oseira. The thick original copy holds duplicates of imperial benefits allowed to the religious community since its commencement, just as the "Abadologio", a complete and intensive history of the Cistercian abbots and priests who lived in the cloister, which was composed from March 1729 to February 1730 by Father Gerofeo, a Cistercian priest of the religious community of Valparaíso (Zámora). 

The new proprietors of Santa María de Óvila were wealthy ranchers who thought about the structures. For a short time, the previous religious community was utilized as an inn, yet principally, the structures were exposed to hard agrarian use as outbuildings shielding domesticated animals. The section house filled in as an excrement pit. Different structures were utilized as capacity. In the mid twentieth century little trees apparently was developing in the earth stuffed on the religious community rooftops—the defensive rooftop tiles had since a long time ago been brought down and sold. 

In 1928, the Spanish state sold the religious community to Fernando Beloso for somewhat more than 3,100 pesetas, generally $600 to $700 at the time. Beloso, executive of the Spanish Credit Bank in Madrid, was the proprietor of Coto de San Bernardo in Óvila, which included far reaching watered grain fields and woods encompassing the religious community. 

Arthur Byne, a craftsmanship operator living in Madrid, whose greatest customer was American paper head honcho William Randolph Hearst, was working for Hearst to procure an old religious community in 1930. In 1925, Byne had purchased Hearst the religious community of Santa María la Real de Sacramenia which was disassembled, crated and sent to New York where it was put away in a distribution center in the Bronx. (In 1954 it was re-amassed in Florida as a vacation destination, and was hence obtained by the Episcopal Diocese of South Florida and called the St. Bernard de Clairvaux Church.) Byne flagged Beloso to enable him to find one; Beloso welcomed him to see the old Óvila religious community in December 1930, and Byne in this way sent photos and representations to Hearst for endorsement. Byne recorded explicit components, for the most part structural subtleties, to be expelled, for example, vault ribs, entryway outlines, window embrasures, sections and capitals. Some whole dividers of fine confronting stones were prescribed for evacuation. He alluded to the proposition as "Mountolive", perhaps to mislead the Spanish specialists who were responsible for ensuring recorded antiques. 

After Hearst passed on his energy for the undertaking, Beloso sold Byne the stones for $85,000, including the group, the part house, the refectory and the quarters for tenderfoots. With Byne's bonus, Hearst was to pay $97,000, a cost generally comparable to $ starting at 20. Byne began promptly on the task, sorting out men and materials, and starting the expulsion of stones. Hearst's fundamental designer Julia Morgan sent her partner engineer Walter T. Steilberg who touched base on March 9, 1931. Steilberg prescribed that Hearst purchase the old church entryway, which he did, at Byne's cost of $1,500. Under the bearing of Byne and Steilberg, the religious community was deliberately named as it was disassembled stone by stone. Antonio Gomez, the nearby foreman commended by Byne and Steilberg, numbered the squares on engineering illustrations and painted the number in red on the back of each stone. 

To move every one of the stones, Byne and Steilberg had a street worked to the Tagus, and a freight boat connected to a fixed link was relegated to ship stones over. An old World War I channel railroad was gotten to transport stones from the religious community to the ship; its rails could be laid into any of the structures. Men drove the little rail autos along the limited measure tracks; the stones were then lifted into the ship by crane, and another crane lifted them out of the ship into trucks. One of the most serious issues that Byne experienced was that Spain's three excelsior industrial facilities couldn't make enough pressing material to keep the carton pressing team provided. At a certain point, understanding that the stones were probably going to be utilized in California as outer cladding for auxiliary steel dividers, Steilberg recommended the confronting surface of each stone be cut to a "facade" of the thickness of for simpler pressing and sending, however Hearst needed to hold the credibility of the full-sized stones. Byne and Steilberg made a decision about specific dividers and utility structures useless and left them in Spain. Steilberg returned home toward the finish of March. 

Byne surged the task in dread that it may be stopped whenever by the experts—Spanish law disallowed the expulsion of noteworthy curios. In any case, the Spanish government was around then in disorder and did not implement the law. Government authorities "basically looked the other way" as trucks pulled 700-year-old stones through Valencia to the docks. When King Alfonso XIII relinquished in April 1931, leaving the administration in the control of the Second Republic, the new authorities ceased the venture. Byne's attorney influenced the Minister of Labor to enable the work to proceed in light of the fact that the venture utilized in excess of a hundred men and place cash into the seriously discouraged economy. 

Specialist Francisco Layna Serrano of close-by Ruguilla had for quite a long time attempted to spare the cloister yet had neglected to show the administration the costly protection proposition. Understanding this was his last opportunity to archive the spot as its stones were being expelled, he composed a monograph of its history and incorporated a site plan of the design of structures, composed from memory. Because of his endeavors, on June 3, 1931, Santa María de Óvila was recorded as a National Monument of Spain, or "Bien de Interés Cultural" (Cultural Property). Layna Serrano distributed his monograph in 1932. In 1933, the cloister's noteworthy cartulary was conveyed to the University of Madrid and distributed; the first was filed at the University of Oviedo. 

When the disassembling was done on July 1, 1931, somewhere in the range of 10,000 stones gauging an aggregate of were transported on 11 distinct tankers going through the Panama Canal to San Francisco. In 1931 cash, the cloister venture had cost Hearst around one million dollars. 

Today, a couple of structures survive from the first religious community in Spain. These incorporate the winery or bodega, presently the most seasoned enduring structure on the site. This was worked in the thirteenth century amid the rule of Henry I of Castile, with the upper floor worked as a quarters secured by a long barrel-vaulted roof. Outside of the bodega, disintegrating dividers, open yards and part of the Gothic top of the congregation are obvious. The twofold curves in the dividers of the Renaissance-period order are as yet standing, yet the angled rooftop is lost. The establishment of the congregation can be seen. 

Hearst originally purchased the religious community expecting to supplant the family retreat at Wyntoon, on the bank of the McCloud River close Mount Shasta in remote Northern California. The first structure was his mom's Bernard Maybeck-planned dream chalet which torched in 1929. Hearst needed to supplant it with an extraordinary stone structure fitted with towers and turrets—an unusual stronghold habit that should have been bigger than its forerunner. To get ready for the entry of the Spanish stones, Morgan drew up plans with the religious community's part house filling in as the palace's passage lobby, and the huge church encasing a pool. Different stones were assigned as cladding for dividers and rooms on the ground floor. 

At the Port of San Francisco, Steilberg investigated every shipment of stones, a few thousand containers taking all things together. The Haslett distribution center, between Fisherman's Wharf and the Hyde Street Pier, was utilized for capacity. With momentous set for July 1931 and the last vessel conveying stones still in travel, Hearst halted his amazing arrangement for Wyntoon on the grounds that his fortunes were excessively far diminished from the Great Depression. The stones remained in the stockroom, bringing about yearly stockpiling expenses of $15,000 in 1930s dollars. 

In 1940, Hearst chose to give the religious community away. The legislature of Francisco Franco mentioned that it be come back to Spain, yet Hearst can't. In August 1941, Herbert Fleishhacker, executive of the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, persuaded Hearst to give the stones to the City of San Francisco in return for the city's installment of his $25,000 stockpiling obligation. Hearst stipulated the stones be utilized to develop a gathering of exhibition hall structures connecting the de Young Museum in Golden Gate Park. The city moved the boxes from the distribution center to store them outside behind the gallery and the Japanese Tea Garden, designating $5,000 for trucking and for structure unpleasant sheds and defensive spreads. The exhibition hall plan was evaluated to cost $500,000, however that sum was not accessible. Morgan arranged a few designs for the city to affirm, each with an alternate game plan of the structures than in Spain. Nonetheless, in December 1941, the U.S. was drawn into World War II and the gallery plans were retired. Getting the task in 1946, the city paid Morgan to develop a scale model of the complex of structures which was to be the Museum of Medieval Arts, a West Coast adaptation of The Cloisters in New York. 

The city was unfit to fund-raise to construct the gallery, and the stones were harmed in five flames. The first came not long after the boxes were set down in Golden Gate Park. Morgan said that "heaps of consuming boxes were pulled over and somewhere around the Fire Department, many flung over a hundred and fifty feet." Hearst kicked the bucket in 1951, and Morgan passed on in 1957; neither of them saw anything worked with the stones. Two flames in 1959 seemed, by all accounts, to be pyro-crime, and a large number of the flame warmed stones were debilitated or split from unexpected cooling by water. In 1960, Steilberg was procured to review the stones by and by; he utilized a ball-peen mallet to delicately strike each stone and tune in for a strong ringing tone, or a dull crash which showed breaking. He found that somewhat more than a large portion of the stones were sound. 

In 1965, the Museum Society raised $40,000 to mount the amazing entrance of the old church. It was introduced in the de Young Museum, the focal point of Hearst Court, the principle show corridor. The remainder of the stones were surrendered by the historical center in May 1969 with the declaration that there would be no reproduction. After this, stones were sporadically taken by park laborers and used to finish Golden Gate Park. 

In 1989 or 1990, a San Francisco city laborer dumped an unused rock bollard in the midst of the cloister stones; the tall bollard was once utilized as a traffic hindrance. Some so called Hindu park clients driven by execution craftsman Michael Bowen, calling himself Guru Baba Kali Das, started to love the phallus-molded bollard as a lingam; they wrestled a portion of the cloister's stones into a religious circle, calling the circle Shiva Linga. The city sued to recover the region in 1993, yet lost the fight in court. In January 1994 the city organized to move the traffic bollard to Bowen's carport, filling in as his sanctuary. Bowen later offered the stone bollard available to be purchased and conceded that the entire scene was an exhibition piece. 

In 1999, a portion of the stones were utilized to build an open air perusing porch bordering the Helen Crocker Russell Library of Horticulture, some portion of the Strybing Arboretum and Botanical Gardens in Golden Gate Park. Different stones were utilized for different purposes around Golden Gate Park and the Japanese Tea Garden, taken informally by park laborers as they saw fit. A portion of these wound up in the recreation center's AIDS Memorial Grove, others on an aroma based bloom walkway named Garden of Fragrance. 

In 2002, the old church entrance was given by the de Young Museum to the University of San Francisco (a Jesuit college), and in 2008 it was related with the development of Kalmanovitz Hall. It fills in as the background of the outside Ovila Amphitheater (), close to a more established Romanesque entry from Northern Italy. 

The Abbot-Emeritus of the Abbey of New Clairvaux, Fr.Thomas X.Davis, OCSO, first observed the stones and envisioned them reassembled as a religious community on September 15, 1955—his first day in California. He arrived that day in San Francisco to fill in as another priest in Vina, California, at the religious community of Our Lady of New Clairvaux. The religious community had a place with Trappists of the request known as Cistercians of the Strict Observance. The priests cultivated and venerated ashore once utilized by Leland Stanford to develop wine grapes. Davis' prevalent met him at the air terminal and drove him through Golden Gate Park where he halted to demonstrate Davis the stones sitting among the weeds. Every now and then in consequent years, Davis assessed the stones just to discover them in progressively poor condition. 

In 1981, structural antiquarian Margaret Burke started working under an allow from the Hearst Foundation to stock the rest of the stones. She said it was "an unearthing venture" as a result of the weeds, blackberry thorns and tree roots developing over them. Burke distinguished about 60% of the stones having a place with the part house, a rectangular structure initially crossing . She isolated the section house stones, encompassed them with a fence and started making formats for reconstructing the curved doorways. Amid 1980– 1982 the gallery board looked for $45 million for a development venture that included $3 million for revamping the section house. Then, Davis approached an exhibition hall staff part for consent to take a few truckloads of stones to Vina to be utilized for engineering enrichment. Park laborers helped him load the most fancy pieces he could discover, and they were pulled away. Not recounted the course of action, Burke found that Davis had taken a portion of the part house stones, and the exhibition hall board demanded these be returned. Davis was left with 58 stones from other religious community structures. 

In 1983 and 1987, Davis made fruitless solicitations for the majority of the section house stones. After the 1989 Loma Prieta tremor, the de Young exhibition hall was to be revamped, and the eventual fate of the stones was rethought. In September 1993, exhibition hall chief Harry Parker united with Davis to sign an unequivocal lasting advance of the part house stones to New Clairvaux. In 1994, the city endorsed the credit with the stipulation that the structure be reestablished precisely and that it be at times open to people in general. The stones were transported in 20 truckloads to Vina. Inside an old block outbuilding worked by Stanford to make liquor, the stones started to be fitted together, laid level on Burke's compressed wood formats. 

Ground was broken in 2003 on the site of a plantation () beside the fundamental order building. Designer Patrick Cole of Arcademe, administering the modifying venture, said that there were the greater part of the required stones for the section house. Of the missing stones, over 90% were rehashing design stones with accessible layouts to cut substitutions. Stonemasons Oskar Kempf and Frank Helmholz utilized present day water powered lime as mortar as opposed to making their very own as was done in the Middle Ages. Helmholz said of the open door offered by the task that it was "something most stonemasons don't do in the entirety of their profession." 

The quality of the structure is twice what it was in Spain, with the stones supporting their very own load as planned, enlarged by an outside system of steel and cement to hold them together when the California ground shakes. Contractual worker Phil Sunseri said that the structure establishment was seismic tremor safe also; with a three-foot-thick (1 m) tangle of cement and steel underneath, to such an extent that "the whole structure will move as one unit." The reassembled section house is the biggest case of unique Cistercian Gothic design in the Western Hemisphere, and it is the most established structure in America west of the Rocky Mountains. 

Close-by Sierra Nevada Brewing Company joined forces with the priests of New Clairvaux to make a progression of Belgian-style lagers under the Ovila Abbey brand. In late 2010, the lager maker propelled a site to tell about the creation of the brew product offering and the tale of the rebuilding of the stones. Sierra Nevada originator Ken Grossman said he had for some time been keen on making a line of Belgian lagers, and the convent's undertaking gave a decent chance. The principal item, a Dubbel, was discharged in March 2011, followed in July by a Saison and in November by a Quadrupel. Sierra Nevada has devoted a level of the lager deals to help with subsidizing the reconstructing venture.