Twister Rewa 

Extreme Tropical Cyclone Rewa influenced six countries and caused 22 deaths on its 28-day venture over the South Pacific Ocean in December 1993 and January 1994. Tornado Rewa created from a tropical aggravation on 28 December south of Nauru. In the wake of framing, Rewa moved southwest through the Solomon Islands, crossing the 160th meridian east from the South Pacific bowl into the Australian area. The tornado started to reinforce consistently and turned southward, paralleling the eastern Australian coast through 31 December. Rewa achieved its underlying pinnacle force as a Category 4 tropical violent wind on 2 January. It kept up this force for about 12 hours before an expansion in wind shear incited its debilitating by 3 January. The typhoon transformed southeastward and moved once again into the South Pacific bowl on 4 January, before it ignored New Caledonia between 5– 6 January. In the wake of influencing New Caledonia, Rewa debilitated to a tropical despondency and turned northwestward before returning the Australian bowl on 10 January. 

Over the next days, the tornado hinted at restrengthening and executed a stretched cyclonic circle toward the southeast of Papua New Guinea. Rewa in this manner entered a period of speedy strengthening while at the same time continuing southeastward, cresting in power as a Category 5 serious tropical tornado. It recurved toward the southwest while steadily debilitating for a few days. Despite the fact that forecasters had anticipated Rewa to make landfall close Mackay, Queensland, the typhoon started collaborating with an upper-level trough on 18 January, making it occupy toward the southeast and move along the Queensland coast. Rewa progressed into an extratropical twister on 20 January, with its remainders bringing substantial downpour to New Zealand three days after the fact. 

The twister caused the passings of 22 people on its course, influencing portions of the Solomon Islands, Papua New Guinea, Eastern Australia, New Caledonia, Vanuatu and New Zealand. Nine individuals in a banana dinghy in transit to Rossel Island disappeared at the stature of the tempest; they were assumed suffocated after destruction from their watercraft turned up at the island. In Queensland, three individuals passed on in car crashes brought about by the tempest, and another casualty happened when a kid ended up caught in a tempest pipe. One demise occurred in New Caledonia, while flooding caused eight drownings in Papua New Guinea. After this use of the name Rewa, the name was resigned. 

Amid 26 December, the Fiji Meteorological Service (FMS) began to screen a tropical gloom that included created inside the Intertropical Convergence Zone, about 575 km (355 mi) toward the south-east of Nauru. Throughout the following couple of days the discouragement bit by bit created and composed further, as it moved towards the west-southwest affected by a north-easterly directing stream. Amid 28 December, the JTWC ordered the dejection as Tropical Cyclone 05P, before the FMS named it Rewa as it had turned into a class 1 tropical typhoon on the Australian tropical tornado power scale. Throughout the following couple of days, the framework step by step increased affected by great upper-level breezes while it moved towards the south-southwest, going through the Solomon Islands on 29 December and influencing the southeastern islands of Papua New Guinea. As it traveled through the Solomon Islands, Rewa moved out of the South Pacific bowl and into the Australian area, where the Australian Bureau of Meteorology (BOM) took the essential cautioning duty regarding the framework. 

On 30 December, the JTWC detailed that Rewa had turned out to be comparable to a class 1 typhoon on the Saffir-Simpson sea tempest scale ; promptly the following day the BoM announced that the framework had formed into a classification 3 severe tropical twister, and an eye wound up unmistakable on satellite symbolism. The framework at that point suddenly turned and began to move towards the south parallel to the Queensland coast on account of a cooperation with an upper-level trough of low weight. On 2 January both the JTWC and the BoM announced that Rewa had achieved its pinnacle force, with the JTWC detailing that Rewa had crested with 1-minute windspeeds of 230 km/h (145 mph), identical to a class 4 sea tempest on the SSHWS. In the mean time, the BoM revealed that the framework had crested with 10-minute windspeeds of 205 km/h (125 mph) with a focal weight of , which made it a class 5 severe tropical twister on the Australian Scale. Rewa stayed at its pinnacle force for 24 hours before the framework began to debilitate amid 3 January, as fortifying upper dimension north-westerlies expanded vertical breeze shear over the framework. Consistently, the tornado began to move towards the south-east, before it began to take an all the more eastwards track as it moved toward 160°E. 

Amid 4 January, Rewa moved once more into the South Pacific bowl and proceeded with eastbound as a debilitating class 3 severe tropical violent wind, with the FMS evaluating the 10-minute continued windspeeds at 150 km/h (90 mph). Amid the following day, its eye progressed toward becoming darkened after the mountains of New Caledonia influenced Rewa's flow by making a hot and dry Foehn wind. The FMS announced that the framework had debilitated into a classification 2 tropical violent wind, while the JTWC detailed that Rewa had turned into a typhoon. The framework therefore made landfall in the region of Saint Vincent Bay on New Caledonia's south-western coast, before it rose close Thio from the east coast amid 6 January. By 7 January, Rewa's dissemination had moved toward becoming uncovered affected by upper dimension north-westerlies; subsequently both the FMS and JTWC detailed that Rewa had debilitated into a sorrow. Throughout the following 3 days, the remaining low-level course was guided towards the northwest and Papua New Guinea in a southeasterly exchange wind stream produced by an amazing region of high weight situated between New Zealand and Kermadec Islands. Amid 10 January, Rewa's remainders moved out of the South Pacific bowl and again into the Australian locale while beginning to re-strengthen into a tropical tornado, as a mid to upper dimension trough over eastern Australia expanded in size. 

As moved into the Australian district, Rewa started to move in a long curve toward the northwest and after that toward the north, and on 13 January, both the JTWC and the Papua New Guinea National Weather Service announced that the framework had re-heightened into a tropical violent wind around Papua New Guinea's southern islands. Soon thereafter, Rewa executed a sharp clockwise turn close Tagula Island and began to move towards the southeast and the BoM's zone of obligation while steadily heightening further. Amid 15 January, the BoM revealed that the framework had re-increased into a class 3 severe tropical typhoon, while the JTWC announced that Rewa had turned out to be comparable to a classification 1 hurricane once more. Soon thereafter, the framework began to quickly heighten as an upper dimension trough moved toward the framework. Amid the following day the JTWC revealed that the framework had topped with 1-minute supported windspeeds of 230 km/h (145 mph). The BoM at that point announced soon thereafter, that Rewa had crested with 10-minute supported windspeeds of 205 km/h (125 mph), which made it a classification 5 severe tropical typhoon on the Australian tropical violent wind power scale. After it had crested in power the framework recurved towards the south-southwest, and began to steadily debilitate. By 18 January the JTWC detailed that Rewa had debilitated into a hurricane, while during that time the BoM surveyed Rewa as a classification 3 severe tropical tornado. Amid the following day, the BoM revealed that Rewa had debilitated into a classification 2 tropical violent wind as it recurved and moved towards the south-east about 265 km (165 mi) toward the east of Mackay, Queensland. Throughout the following couple of days the framework moved towards the south-southeast along the Queensland coast while keeping up its power. Amid 21 January, the BoM and the JTWC revealed that Rewa had debilitated beneath violent wind quality, as the framework moved once more into the South Pacific bowl for the third and last time. Rewa's leftovers were keep going noted late on 23 January, by New Zealand's Metservice, bringing substantial downpour to New Zealand, while disseminating over water going toward the east of Wellington, New Zealand. 

Twenty-two individuals lost their lives in mishaps brought about by Cyclone Rewa, while it influenced parts off the Solomon Islands, Papua New Guinea, Australia, New Caledonia, Vanuatu and New Zealand. Because of the effect of this tempest, the name Rewa was resigned. 

The Solomon Islands were influenced by the creating tropical typhoon between 28 – 30 December and was the principal Island nation to be affected by Rewa. As it formed into a tropical twister on 28 December, the framework go toward the north of the external lying atolls of Malaita Province in the Solomon Islands. Rewa then ignored the southern tip of Malaita Island, before going toward the south of Guadalcanal Island and the north of Rennell Island amid 29 December. 

Typhoon Rewa began to influence New Caledonia on 5 January, before it ignored Grand Terre Island soon thereafter. Rewa dumped over 300 mm (12 in) of downpour on parts of the archipelago, which made the majority of the real waterways flood and burst their banks. A few avalanches and a passing were recorded inside New Caledonia, while on the Loyalty Island of Mare, waves from Rewa mostly annihilated the harbor divider at Tadine's port. 

The framework had no impact on Vanuatu while it went through the Solomon Islands between 28 – 30 December; anyway the southern islands of Vanuatu were influenced by the twister after it had gone through New Caledonia amid 5 January. As it moved towards the north-west between 6– 8 January, Rewa conveyed high oceans and solid breezes to parts of the island country including the areas of Shefa and Tafea. Some harm was recorded to Port Villa's harbors intertidal zone, as the framework go going toward the southeast of the city. 

Between 19– 24 January, Rewa's leftovers, a moderate moving climate front over Fiordland and a southerly brought across the board precipitation and flooding to New Zealand's South Island. In Westland, Fiordland and the Southern Lakes, avalanches and flooding happened on 21 January, while a few streets and scaffolds were harmed. 

Violent wind Rewa influenced Papua New Guinea on two separate events while it was dynamic, with the twister initially influencing the archipelago somewhere in the range of 28 December and 1 January, before brushing the archipelago between 12-14 January. Before Rewa influenced the nation, tornado cautions and admonitions were issued for Sudest, Rossel and Samarai islands, while experts encouraged individuals not to go to shorelines. As it influenced the archipelago, Rewa brought substantial precipitation, high oceans, and wind whirlwinds to 100 km/h (60 mph) to parts of the archipelago including Sudest, Rossel and Samarai islands. The hardest hit zones were networks close significant waterway frameworks, with the tornado blocking streets, annihilating a congregation, extensions, homes and gardens with indispensable harvests, for example, espresso and copra obliterated. Altogether, Cyclone Rewa left around 3500 people destitute and caused 17 deaths, 8 of which were because of flooding. Nine other individuals disappeared while making a trip to Rossel Island after their watercraft was made up for lost time in high oceans related with Rewa. They were later assumed dead by the National Disaster and Emergency Service, after a nearby inquiry and salvage mission discovered destruction of the vessel. At 00:00 UTC on 30 December, the programmed climate station at Jingo on Rossel island recorded a most extreme supported breeze of 55 km/h (35 mph). 

Amid the opening long stretches of 1994, Rewa moved southwards parallel to the Queensland coast; notwithstanding, in light of the fact that it was situated about 600 km (370 mi) toward the north-east of Mackay, it was excessively far from the coast for there to be any immediate effect on Queensland. The main circuitous effect was higher surf, from which a few people must be protected from before the typhoon began to move towards New Caledonia amid 4 January. As Rewa influenced Queensland for the second time, watches and alerts were issued for different pieces of Queensland by TCWC Brisbane, who anticipated a landfall close Mackay. On 18  January nearby fiasco councils met to consider emptying individuals, while individuals who were in the midst of a furlough in national parks were cautioned about Rewa by a helicopter. A military preparing exercise that was because of happen in Shoalwater Bay must be dropped, with armed force individual cleared to Rockhampton to abstain from being cut off by rising waters. Along the coast, a few ports incorporating Gladstone were closed with substantial vessels advised to make a beeline for ocean and little vessels advised to secure and get ready for the tempest. 

On 19 January Rewa began to influence Queensland with heavy downpour and tempest compel windspeeds which caused some harm along the coast. Anyway it didn't make its anticipated landfall close Mackay, rather it recurved toward the south-southeast and came to inside 100 km (60 mi) of the coast. Two men off Yeppoon's coast were safeguarded from an angling trawler by a military Black Hawk helicopter after high oceans harmed the trawler's propeller and snapped its overwhelming grapple chain, abandoning it floating weakly in the violent wind's way. The most exceedingly terrible influenced island was Lady Elliot as it endured the worst part of the breeze, while on Heron Island, a few uncommon trees and winged creature rookeries were either decimated or seriously harmed. As Rewa communicated with an upper trough of low weight on 19 January, substantial precipitation and rainstorms were seen in parts of Brisbane and the Gold Coast. Brisbane got over 144 mm (5.7 in) in only six hours, which prompted some limited glimmer flooding in parts of the city and four passings. Three of the passings were from individuals smashing their autos, while the other demise happened when an individual went surfing Brisbane's rising water and got caught in a tempest channel. Inside Brisbane, 20 cars were harmed by the rising waters, while a Sheffield Shield cricket coordinate between Western Australia and Queensland was deferred, after the Gabba took after a little lake.