John Balmer 

John Raeburn Balmer, (3 July 1910 – 11 May 1944) was a senior officer and aircraft pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Conceived in Bendigo, Victoria, he examined law before joining the RAAF as an air cadet in 1932. An educator at Point Cook from 1935 to 1937, he accomplished eminence in Air Force circles when he apparently parachuted from a preparation flying machine to propel his student to arrive without any assistance. He additionally ended up referred to the overall population as a crosscountry driver, setting records for trans-Australia and round-Australia trips preceding World War II. 

A flight lieutenant when war broke out, Balmer was elevated to squadron pioneer in June 1940, turning into the debut leader of No. 13 Squadron, which worked Lockheed Hudsons out of Darwin, Northern Territory. He was raised to impermanent wing leader in April 1941, and inside a year had assumed responsibility for the RAAF's first Bristol Beaufort unit, No. 100 Squadron. Selected an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in June 1942, he drove the Beauforts on bombarding and torpedo missions against Japanese focuses in the New Guinea battle. 

Presented on England in June 1943, Balmer took direction of No. 467 Squadron RAAF, flying Avro Lancasters noticeable all around war over Europe. He drove his unit through the Battle of Berlin from November 1943 to March 1944. In April he was granted the Distinguished Flying Cross, and the next month elevated to transitory gathering chief. Days after the fact, the evening of 11/12 May, the last booked activity of his visit as No. 467 Squadron's boss, Balmer neglected to come back from a mission over Belgium. At first posted as missing, his plane was later affirmed to have been shot down, and the majority of the team executed. Balmer was covered outside Brussels. 

The child of legal counselor Sydney Balmer and his significant other Catherine ("Kittie"), John Balmer was conceived in Bendigo, Victoria, on 3 July 1910. He went to Scotch College under the watchful eye of contemplating law at the University of Melbourne, where he was an occupant of Trinity College, and paddled in the Second Eight. In December 1932, he enrolled as an air cadet in the RAAF dynamic hold, known as the Citizen Air Force (CAF). Nicknamed "Sam", Balmer embraced flying guidance on the 1933 "B" (reservists) course led at RAAF Station Point Cook, Victoria, where his colleagues included future gathering commander John Lerew. Balmer qualified as a pilot and was dispatched in April 1933. His first presenting was on No. 1 Squadron, flying Westland Wapitis; he exchanged from the CAF to the Permanent Air Force in November. 

Elevated to flight lieutenant, from July 1935 to November 1937 Balmer was doled out to No. 1 Flying Training School, Point Cook, as a teacher. He picked up a notoriety for being a hard slave driver, and on one event—as indicated by RAAF fables—parachuted from a preparation air ship to give his understudy the correct inspiration to make a performance arrival, however somewhere around one paper at the time revealed that he had in reality dropped out. On 15 August 1938, Balmer was compelled to crash land an Avro Anson close Whitfield, Victoria, after its wings frosted up—one of a progression of mishaps that happened to the sort following first experience with Australian administration. By mid-1939 he was teaching on Hawker Demon biplane contenders with No. 3 Squadron at RAAF Station Richmond, New South Wales. 

Parallel to his Air Force profession, in the years paving the way to the flare-up of World War II Balmer increased national consideration as a long-remove driver. Banded together by an individual officer, he set a crosscountry record of 65 hours and 10 minutes going from Perth, Western Australia, to Melbourne in December 1936. He and another driver lined this up with a record-breaking round-Australia venture in October– November 1938, finishing their keep running in 23½ days, nearly splitting the past best time. 

At the point when Australia pronounced war in September 1939, Flight Lieutenant Balmer was an individual from No. 22 Squadron, which led seaside observation out of Richmond with Ansons and, later, CAC Wirraways. Elevated to squadron pioneer, he was presented on RAAF Station Darwin, Northern Territory, on 1 June 1940, turning into the debut leader of No. 13 Squadron, which had been "tore up" from the base's inhabitant unit, No. 12 Squadron. Holding its Wirraway flight, No. 12 Squadron surrendered its two flights of Ansons to the new development; these were supplanted soon thereafter by increasingly competent Lockheed Hudsons. From August 1940 until February 1941, No. 13 Squadron was in charge of watching the ocean paths off Australia's north coast. Every so often, Balmer identified Japanese luggers that were unlawfully angling in Australian waters and, as per Mark Johnston, overflew them at such a low height, that "his Hudson's slipstream shook the vessels savagely" and the group "shook their clench hands" at him. He was elevated to brief wing administrator in April. The next month, No. 13 Squadron directed acquaintance flights over the Dutch East Indies. Balmer gave over order of the unit in August, and exchanged to a contact post at Headquarters RAAF Station Darwin. 

In January 1942, Balmer quickly assumed responsibility for No. 7 Squadron, flying Hudsons on sea watch and guard escort obligations from RAAF Station Laverton, Victoria. After two months he expected direction of the first RAAF unit to work Australian-manufactured Bristol Beauforts, No. 100 Squadron. It was shaped at Richmond utilizing the quantity of a Royal Air Force (RAF) squadron that had been wrecked in the Malayan Campaign. In tribute to its unique manifestation, Balmer embraced the RAF unit's peak, which highlighted a skull-and-crossbones seal and the maxim "Sarang Tebuan Jangan Dijolok" (Malay for "Don't work up a hornet's home"). No. 100 Squadron moved to Mareeba in Far North Queensland on 22 May, after Balmer chose that a proposed base at Cairns was inadmissible attributable to occasional flooding. While his teams at Mareeba picked up involvement on oceanic watches, he made a trip to Port Moresby, New Guinea, on 26 May to test the Beaufort in operational conditions; as he came in to arrive he was shot upon by US hostile to air ship batteries, whose heavy armament specialists had "never observed a Goddamn flying machine like that previously", yet gotten away harm. 

Balmer was designated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the King's Birthday Honors on 11 June 1942. On 25 June he took five of No. 100 Squadron's Beauforts to Port Moresby, joining two different Beauforts that were at that point positioned there. That night he drove five air ship from his squadron on their first besieging mission, against a Japanese ship detailed in the Huon Gulf close Lae. In spite of discovering his bomb discharge gear flawed, requiring three low-level assault keeps running notwithstanding progressively substantial enemy of air ship fire, Balmer figured out how to score two hits, while his partners additionally effectively besieged the vessel. The ship seemed, by all accounts, to be ablaze and sinking, and the squadron got credit for its annihilation at the time, however later examination couldn't affirm its misfortune. The unit pulled back to Laverton for preparing and watch work amid July and August, before moving to Milne Bay to again participate in the New Guinea crusade. On 7 September 1942, Balmer told a joined power of P-40 Kittyhawks from Nos. 75 and 76 Squadrons, Bristol Beaufighters from No. 30 Squadron, Hudsons from No. 6 Squadron, and his own No. 100 Squadron Beauforts in an attack on Japanese dispatching close Milne Bay. It was the first run through the Beauforts had been outfitted with torpedoes in battle, and they neglected to score any hits. 

Starting in October 1942, Nos. 6 and 100 Squadrons were given what the official history of the RAAF in World War II called the "tremendous errand" of keeping open the ocean paths among Australia and New Guinea, while upsetting as well as can be expected Japanese lines of correspondence and supply. The units kept up a rebuffing timetable of every day long-run surveillance and hostile to submarine watches, as per the official history, "for all intents and purposes without route helps, much of the time through downpour tempests and substantial cloud" be that as it may, "upheld by ground staffs as suffering as themselves, the teams kept up a firmly exclusive expectation and made extensive progress". The evening of 4/5 October, Balmer took ten of his Beauforts from Milne Bay on a far-extending ambush against Japanese ships in the region of the Shortland Islands, close Bougainville. Two air ship vanished en route in tempests and the rest of isolated into two flights that all things considered figured out how to meet close to the objective. Seven of these propelled their torpedoes against the same number of boats and the groups trusted that four were exact, yet were unfit to affirm any hits in view of decreasing perceivability. The mission was viewed as a disappointment however this was put down to issues with the torpedoes and not the aircrew. Consequent reports recommended that three boats had in certainty been harmed. 

Balmer contracted jungle fever in November 1942, and went on three weeks debilitated leave the next month; he came back to tasks on 2 January 1943. In March, amid the Battle of the Bismarck Sea, No. 100 Squadron propelled its last torpedo assault; terrible climate kept everything except two air ship finding their objectives, and no hits were enlisted. Towards the month's end the unit dropped of bombs on Japanese establishments in Salamaua. 

Balmer surrendered direction of No. 100 Squadron in April 1943, and was posted from the South West Pacific to the European auditorium that June. His arranged secondment to the RAF was for a long time. Somewhat with an end goal to reinforce Australian desires to shape an unmistakable RAAF aggregate inside RAF Bomber Command, in August he was delegated boss of No. 467 Squadron, based at RAF Bottesford, Leicestershire. The squadron had been raised under Article XV of the Empire Air Training Scheme, and worked Avro Lancaster substantial aircraft. Balmer drove his unit in an expensive assault on Nuremberg the evening of 27/28 August, before assaulting Hanover in September and October. From its new base at RAF Waddington, Lincolnshire, Balmer then took No. 467 Squadron through the Battle of Berlin that initiated in November 1943 and proceeded until March 1944. The measurable probability of enduring an operational voyage through 30 missions in Bomber Command was never more than 50 percent, and amid the Battle of Berlin, misfortune rates were far higher. No. 467 Squadron was the main Australian unit to participate in every one of the sixteen overwhelming assaults against the German capital amid the fight. In a similar period it additionally attacked Frankfurt, Leipzig, Stettin, Stuttgart, Essen, and Augsburg. 

Following the Battle of Berlin, No. 467 Squadron started to focus on focuses in France and Belgium as the Allied air crusade moved concentration from key besieging to decimating runways and disturbing lines of correspondence before the attack of the landmass. The evening of 10/11 April, Balmer drove his very own unit as well as an aggregate of 148 flying machine of No. 5 Group RAF in an attack on Toulouse, striking at a runway, and airplane and explosives industrial facilities. The besieging was exceedingly exact, and the Australians endured no misfortunes on the attack. 

Considered a "dynamic" pioneer and a "splendid" pilot, Balmer was beautified with the Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC) for "incredible ability and dedication to obligation" amid "a changed voyage through activities"; proclaimed in the "London Gazette" on 18 April, the honor reference additionally portrayed him as "a most proficient squadron authority, whose perception and energy have set a fine precedent". He likewise earned the regard of his teams with showcases of sympathy, for example, the event one of his young pilots, who had flown on 15 missions, would not take off on his next foray. As opposed to make disciplinary move, Balmer permitted the man medicinal forget and looked for break for him in the nation, after which the pilot came back to dynamic obligation and finished his voyage through activities. From early April, No. 467 Squadron started assuming a main job in a progression of assaults against railroads, which proceeded into the next month. 

Balmer was elevated to impermanent gathering chief on 4 May 1944. On 10/11 May, his Lancasters participated in an attack on Lille, losing three of their number. With an end goal to shore up the confidence of his more youthful teams, Balmer chose to by and by lead their next mission the next night, against a military camp at Bourg-Léopold (Leopoldsburg), Belgium. It was intended to be his keep going activity before going on to an increasingly senior position. His airplane neglected to come back from the attack, making extensive stun his unit. The following day, Balmer's place as boss of No. 467 Squadron was taken by Wing Commander William Brill, already an individual from No. 463 Squadron RAAF, which was likewise based at Waddington. 

At first posted as absent, Balmer and his group were later affirmed to have kicked the bucket when their Lancaster smashed close Herenthout in common Antwerp in the wake of being assaulted by a night contender. Balmer was covered in Heverlee War Cemetery, outside Brussels. The "Every day Mail" announced that he had amassed just about 5,000 flying hours, and contrasted his place in the RAAF with that of Leonard Cheshire's in the RAF. Matured 33, Balmer was unmarried at his demise. His DFC was exhibited to his mom Kittie by the Governor-General of Australia not long after the finish of the war. Balmer's name shows up at board 110 of the Commemorative Area at the Australian War Memorial, Canberra.