4 (Beyoncé collection) 

4 is the fourth studio collection by American vocalist Beyoncé. It was discharged on June 24, 2011 by Parkwood Entertainment and Columbia Records. Following a profession break that reignited her inventiveness, Beyoncé was propelled to make a record with a premise in conventional beat and blues that stood separated from contemporary well known music. Her coordinated efforts with musicians and record makers The-Dream, Tricky Stewart and Shea Taylor delivered a mellower tone, creating differing vocal styles and impacts from funk, hip jump, and soul music. 

Separating proficient ties with dad and director Mathew Knowles, Beyoncé shunned the music of her past discharges for a close, individual collection. "4"s verses underscore monogamy, female strengthening and self-reflection, an aftereffect of Beyoncé thinking about a maturer message to fight imaginative believability. In May 2011, Beyoncé submitted seventy-two melodies to Columbia Records for thought, twelve of which showed up on the standard release. 

"4" was advanced in mid-2011 by TV exhibitions and celebration appearances, for example, Beyoncé's featuring Glastonbury Festival set. The collection got commonly positive surveys by music faultfinders; a few distributions included it on their year-end records. It was her fourth continuous collection to make a big appearance at number one on the US "Bulletin" 200, and it likewise achieved number one in Brazil, France, Ireland, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. "4" brought forth the global singles "Run the World (Girls)", "Best Thing I Never Had", "Gathering", "Love on Top" and "Commencement". "Love on Top" won the Grammy Award for Best Traditional R&B Performance at the 55th yearly service. As of December 2015, "4" has sold 1.5 million duplicates in the United States. 

Following the arrival of her third collection "I Am... Sasha Fierce" (2008) and a world visit, Beyoncé took a vocation rest in 2010 "to live [and] to be propelled by things once more". Amid her break, she "executed" Sasha Fierce, the adjust self image utilized in her past studio collection, as she believed she could now consolidate her two identities. She separated proficient ties with dad and director Mathew Knowles, who had guided her profession since the 1990s with Destiny's Child, taking note of that the choice made her vibe helpless. 

In a meeting for "Complex", Beyoncé communicated disappointment with contemporary radio. She proposed "4" to help change that status, remarking, "Making sense of an approach to get R&B back on the radio is challenging ... With "4", I attempted to blend R&B from the '70s and the '90s with shake 'n' roll and a ton of horns to make something new and energizing. I needed melodic changes, spans, vibrata, live instrumentation and great songwriting." On her site she expressed, "The collection is unquestionably a development. It's bolder than the music on my past collections since I'm bolder. The more develop I become and the more beneficial encounters I have, the more I need to discuss. I truly centered around tunes being works of art, melodies that would last, tunes that I could sing when I'm 40 and when I'm 60." Beyoncé additionally tried to make increasingly creative music, as opposed to absolutely financially arranged tunes. 

Albeit quite a bit of "4"s motivation originated from "visiting, voyaging, watching musical crews and going to celebrations", the collection's initial melodic bearing was affected by Nigerian Afrobeat artist Fela Kuti, whose energy for music roused Beyoncé. She worked with the band from "Fela!", the Broadway melodic dependent on Kuti's life. DJ Swivel, one of "4"s specialists, later portrayed how Kuti's utilization of percussion and horns affected the track "End of Time". In 2015, The-Dream uncovered that he and Beyoncé had formed an entire collection dependent on Kuti's music, in spite of the fact that this was rejected for making "4", along these lines clarifying how "End of Time" turned out to be so vigorously affected. 

She likewise discovered extra impacts in Earth, Wind and Fire, The Stylistics, Lauryn Hill, Stevie Wonder, and Michael Jackson. She utilized hip bounce for a "more extensive sound" and hoped to bring soul singing back, expressing, "I utilized a great deal of the brassiness and lumpiness in my voice that individuals hear in my live exhibitions, yet not really on my records." 

Three months into her rest in March 2010, Beyoncé started recording at her better half Jay-Z's Roc the Mic Studios in New York City. One tune—"Gathering"— was recorded on the grounds that she needed to perceive what working relationship would create with architect DJ Swivel. Kanye West helped the generation of "Gathering" after Beyoncé was inspired by his work on "My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy" (2010). André 3000, the main included craftsman on "4", contributed a rap stanza to the tune, which he recorded in Georgia. 

A month and a half later, in May 2010, she requested that Swivel deal with the whole task. Concerning his working association with Beyoncé, he remarked, "There was no 'We're doing "this" today.' It was a sort of open task, where whatever she had a craving for chronicle around then was what we'd take a shot at. It depended on how she felt, her state of mind, and furthermore her tuning in to the demos that essayists would give us." With Swivel, she tried different things with horns, drums, guitars and percussion instruments. For the most part motivated by the "Fela!" sessions, Swivel started to detail beats utilizing their own accounts and those from "Fela!" The undertaking was moved to KMA Studios for a week and a half since Roc the Mic was not sufficiently expansive. There they started recording "I Care", "Best Thing I Never Had" and "Rather Die Young", and finished "Gathering". They recorded the melodies "Schoolin' Life", "1+1" and "Begin Once again" at Jungle City Studios in New York. 

MSR Studios was the last New York City-based studio utilized, and where the vast majority of "4" was recorded—just "Gathering" and "I Was Here" were recorded completely at different studios. At MSR, Beyoncé accentuated the utilization of live instruments on tunes, for example, "I Care" and "End of Time". Subsequently, the vast majority of the instruments, including drums, consoles, guitar and bass work, were recorded there and performed by Jeff Bhasker and Shea Taylor. Beyoncé requested that Frank Ocean compose and record "I Miss You" at MSR, saying to "Complex", "[Jay-Z] had a CD playing in the vehicle one Sunday when we were heading to Brooklyn. I saw his tone, his game plans, and his narrating. I promptly contacted him—actually the following morning. I requested that he fly to New York and work on my record." 

Subsequent to tuning in to every tune, Beyoncé would regularly demand the expansion of explicit instruments, abandoning her generation group to make the sounds strong. Her vocals were recorded through an Avalon Design 737 preamp and compacted in a 1176 Peak Limiter with a 4:1 proportion. In the wake of account the lead vocals for a track, Swivel cut them in various ways and he and Beyoncé picked the best, at that point recording the support vocals. Beyoncé made her very own vocal game plans and harmonies for every tune. Her amplifiers were deliberately put to accomplish a mix of sounds with a reasonable quality. Swivel talked about her hard working attitude in a meeting for "Sound on Sound": 

After the move to MSR, Beyoncé and her creation group started voyaging. In the United Kingdom, they worked at Peter Gabriel's Real World Studios in Wiltshire—especially utilizing Gabriel's multi-instrument room—to make "Love on Top". Before long, Beyoncé joined Jay-Z in a Sydney chateau, as he was chipping away at his coordinated effort collection "Watch the Throne" (2011) with Kanye West. There they made a "crude studio" utilizing a mouthpiece, an apparatus out and Pro Tools programming to record. Sessions were likewise held in Las Vegas, Los Angeles, Atlanta and Honolulu. 

In February 2011, MTV revealed the undertaking was nearing consummation. "4" was blended for the most part at MixStar Studios in Virginia and aced at Sterling Sound in New York City. The sound acing was deferred by seven days following the unforeseen account of "I Was Here". Diane Warren had played the melody to Jay-Z amid a phone discussion, driving him to put Warren and Beyoncé in contact. In May 2011, Beyoncé submitted seventy-two tunes in anticipation of the collection's discharge. As indicated by Swivel, a diverse scope of melodies were recorded, including ditties, "odd ethereal things" and 1990's R&B and Afrobeat-roused tunes. Columbia Records were purportedly overpowered with the "sheer volume of material she introduced to them". 

The finished product of "4" contains twelve tracks on the standard release and eighteen on the exclusive version—three of which are remixes of "Run the World (Girls)". Pundits saw "4" as a noteworthy takeoff from Beyoncé's past index, with an unmistakable mellower sound. The collection comprises for the most part of mid-rhythm R&B melodies, with 1970s funk, 1980s pop and 1990s soul impacts. The second half was progressively mixed, investigating an assortment of kinds including hard shake, reggae and grown-up contemporary. "The Guardian" complimented the collection's disparity from the "layering [of] Euro-synths on pop-advance woomphs" that describe the music of Beyoncé's counterparts. 

The balladry of the main portion of "4" joins differing vocal styles with the utilization of live instrumentation. "1+1" shows Beyoncé's vocal-flexing over "radiant guitar rant" and a delicate sponsorship beat, while "Begin Once again", a mid rhythm R&B melody, utilizes a cutting edge beat with electric components and synthesizers. "I Miss You", with its "layers of environmental consoles", surrounding synthesizers and tinny 808 drums was sung in a half-murmur to show exceptional feeling. "I Was Here", a downplayed pop-R&B anthem with non mainstream shake affectations, essentially concerns self-reflection with emotional vocals. 

On different tunes, Beyoncé investigates womanhood. "Best Thing I Never Had", "4"s fourth track, was depicted as a snapshot of self-acknowledgment and a "female invitation to battle". With vocals that insinuate an "injured winged creature turned versatile lioness", the tune is based on a "winkly piano riff and burly bass drums". "Move for You" passes on an increasingly sexual tone through raspy vocals and blasting electric guitars. It does without her run of the mill strengthening subjects for exotic symbolism and solace with one's accomplice. "Run the World (Girls)", a female strengthening hymn reminiscent of Beyoncé's progressively contemporary work on "I Am... Sasha Fierce", utilizes a fiery example of Major Lazer's "Pon de Floor". The tune fuses "layered melodics", most unmistakably a military walking drumbeat, while Beyoncé's close recited conveyance includes her full vocal range. 

The tracks "Commencement" and "End of Time" were recognized by their melodic and expressive experimentalism. "Commencement" was portrayed as "wherever on the class map", albeit transcendently dancehall-drove with a "bristling metal game plan". Its ensemble portrays a relationship by tallying in reverse from ten, utilizing an example from Boyz II Men's "Uhh Ahh". "End of Time"s throbbing, metal sound—reminiscent of a walking band—was vigorously affected by Afrobeat artist Fela Kuti. Kuti's utilization of horns and percussion instruments was reproduced and joined with components of electronic music and synthesizers. "Lay Up Under Me" is likewise based on retro horns, including playful vocals, a sound Ryan Dombal of "Pitchfork" related with Michael Jackson's 1979 collection "Off the Wall". 

Different tracks were noted for their retro stylization. "Or maybe Die Young" is a return to 1960s doo-wop and Philadelphia soul, with a moderate beat and current drums. "Gathering" accomplishes a vintage stylish through moderate generation, loaded with overwhelming synthesizers and a 1980s smooth-funk groove. The tune is one of a kind for its discussion like structure, in which Beyoncé and visitor vocalist André 3000 sing stanzas that suggest socialization at gatherings. Components of Prince's style was found on "Schoolin' Life" and "I Care". "Schoolin' Life" is an uptempo funk melody, with verses that encourage the audience to live without limitations while advised them about the outcomes of overabundance. The tune of "I Care" was contrasted with "Purple Rain", with topics of misery and hatred, the melody utilizes delicate foundation vocals and thick percussion. "Love on Top" was noted for its lively key changes with an euphoric tone, summoning crafted by Michael and Janet Jackson. Its retro sound is set apart by a merging of horns just as sweet sponsorship harmonies that are most noticeable on its scaffold and theme. 

In a meeting for "Announcement", Beyoncé expressed that regardless of having another idea for the collection, she was at last impacted by her fans to name the collection "4". She portrayed the number four as being "unique" to her, as her and Jay-Z's birthday, a few other family and companions' birthday celebrations, and her wedding commemoration fall on the fourth day of the month. The front of the standard version was uncovered on Beyoncé's site on May 18, 2011. Shot on the housetop of the Hôtel Meurice in Paris, Beyoncé is investigating the separation with her arms raised over her head, wearing smokey eye cosmetics, thick gold sleeves and a fox-hide stole by clique French originator Alexandre Vauthier, decorated with Swarovski precious stones by the Lesage weaving house. The front of the select release was appeared on June 16, where Beyoncé is wearing a tight-fitting blue-purple dress by French originator Maxime Simoens, holding her hands in her hair. For its work of art, she picked garments made by lesser-known fashioners. The limited time and inside bundle pictures for "4" were shot in the meantime. 

On May 18, 2011, "4"s discharge date in the United States was affirmed on to be June 28. On June 7, the collection was spilled onto the Internet in full; Beyoncé's lawful agents issued admonitions to encroaching sites and spilled tracks were before long expelled from such locales. On June 9, Beyoncé reacted to the hole through Facebook, remarking, "My music was spilled and keeping in mind that this isn't the means by which I needed to show my new melodies, I value the positive reaction from my fans. When I record music I generally consider my fans singing each note and moving to each beat. I satisfy music to influence individuals and I to value that everybody has been so on edge to hear my new tunes." Following the break, reports coursed that Columbia Records administrators would have liked to cover their advantages in dread that the collection might be a business disappointment. Bits of gossip had recommended that the mark mentioned from Beyoncé to make changes to the record and rejoin Destiny's Child, claims Columbia denied. In August 2013, "NME" detailed that Sony Music were suing a 47-year-elderly person from Gothenburg for US$233,000 concerning the hole of "4". The select adaptation was discharged all the while with the standard version in a few nations. In the United States, it was accessible solely through Target stores. 

Beyoncé showed up on TV and in live shows to advance "4". She performed "Run the World (Girls)" out of the blue on May 17, 2011, on "Amazement Oprah! A Farewell Spectacular" at the United Center in Chicago. She additionally played out the tune at the 2011 "Bulletin" Music Awards. On May 25, "1+1" was made accessible for download through the iTunes Store in the United States. That day, "1+1" was performed at the "American Idol" last; she presented it as her main tune. In June, she performed at the Palais Nikaia in Nice, Zénith de Lille, and the Galaxie in Amnéville. On June 26, Beyoncé was the end demonstration at the Glastonbury Festival 2011 in the United Kingdom. She was the primary solo female craftsman to feature the Pyramid arrange at the Glastonbury Festival in over twenty years. A pre-taped exhibition of "Best Thing I Never Had" and "End of Time" at the Glastonbury Festival was communicated amid the 2011 BET Awards. The next day, Beyoncé's select hour-long meeting with Piers Morgan in London was communicated on "Docks Morgan Tonight". She likewise showed up on the finale of France's "X Factor" to perform "Run the World" and "Best Thing I Never Had". A MTV TV exceptional, "Beyoncé: Year of 4", debuted on June 30, reporting Beyoncé's life amid "4"s creation. 

On July 1, Beyoncé showed up on "Great Morning America" as a major aspect of its "Mid year Concert Series" in New York City. She likewise anticipated pictures from "4" on some of London's tourist spots, including Madame Tussauds and Battersea Power Station. She at that point made a trip to Scotland to perform at the T in the Park Festival on July 10, 2011. The following day, she performed at the Oxegen Festival in Ireland. On July 28, 2011, Beyoncé performed "1+1" and "Best Thing I Never Had" on "The View;" the last was likewise performed on "Late Night with Jimmy Fallon" that day. From August 16– 19, Beyoncé held the 4 Intimate Nights with Beyoncé shows at the Roseland Ballroom to a standing room just group of onlookers. Thusly, the "" DVD was discharged in November. "Love on Top" was sung at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards on August 28, Beyoncé completed the execution by unfastening her coat and scouring her stomach to affirm her pregnancy. A live exhibition of "Commencement" recorded in July was communicated on "Late Night with Jimmy Fallon" in November. 

"4" was Beyoncé' first collection that yielded no main singles in the United States, as no tune from "4" achieved the best ten on the "Bulletin" Hot 100. "Run the World (Girls)" was discharged globally as the lead single from "4" on April 21, 2011. It achieved number twenty-nine on the "Board" Hot 100 outline and number eleven on the UK Singles Chart. "Best Thing I Never Had" pursued on June 1, 2011. It fared much better on national outlines, achieving number sixteen in the United States, number five in New Zealand and number three in the United Kingdom. 

"Gathering" was discharged as a urban contemporary single in the United States on August 30, 2011; its remix, highlighting J. Cole, was discharged in the United States, Canada and some European nations on October 24, 2011. "Love on Top" was discharged in Australia as a contemporary hit radio single in September 2011; it was discharged in Italy, Belgium and the United States later. It bested the US "Announcement" Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs for seven back to back weeks. "Commencement" was discharged in the United States and parts of Europe, starting October 4, 2011. "I Care" was discharged solely in Italy on March 23, 2012, while "End of Time" was discharged only in the United Kingdom on April 23, 2012. 

"4" got positive surveys from music faultfinders. At Metacritic, which allocates a weighted mean rating out of 100 to surveys from standard pundits, the collection got a normal score of 73, in light of 36 audits. Michael Cragg of "The Observer" considered it Beyoncé's "most practiced collection yet". "Inclination Magazine"s Eric Henderson trusted "4" succeeds vocally as a collection of for the most part personal and moderate rhythm melodies. Mikael Wood of "Turn" magazine extolled its ditties, mid-beat tunes, and summonings recently 1970s and mid 1980s pop-soul. In his audit for "Moving Stone", Jody Rosen composed that Beyoncé shuns contemporary generation styles for a progressively close to home and particular collection. Jon Caramanica of "The New York Times" saw it as a decent grandstand for Beyoncé as a light vocalist, since she convincingly sings about catastrophe and the compelling enthusiastic impact of affection. ""Pitchfork"" pundit Ryan Dombal thought that it was accommodating, retro-educated, and drawing in light of the fact that it indicates "one of the world's greatest stars investigating her ability in manners few could've anticipated". AllMusic's Andy Kellman said that the nature of Beyoncé's singing and the songwriting make up for the varying course of action of the melodies. "Whole" saw it is an outstanding collection regardless of once in a while trite verses. 

In a less energetic audit, Adam Markovitz of "Diversion Weekly" said the primary portion of "4" is defaced by exhausting ditties and the songwriting by and large are not keeping pace with Beyoncé's vocal ability. In his survey for "The Guardian", Alexis Petridis was conflicted towards the collection's 1980s impact and contended that, in spite of elegantly composed melodies, it isn't significant. "Time" magazine's Claire Suddath said the melodies need melodious substance, despite the fact that they are performed well. Greg Kot, writing in the "Chicago Tribune", called "4" conflicting, short, and incomplete. "NME" magazine's Hamish MacBain felt Beyoncé did not advance from her past work and that "even the OK bits here" sounded "deadened". 

"4" was incorporated on different distribution's year-end records. It was positioned as the best collection of the year by "The New Yorker", and came in the sprinter up spot on records created by "Turn" and Amazon. The collection was positioned inside the best 10 by MSN, where it came in at number three, "The Guardian" and "MTV", which set it at number four, and the "Chicago Sun-Times", which put it at number six. The "BBC" positioned it at number seven, while "The New York Times" recorded it as the tenth best collection of the year. The collection had solid showings on different records, where it was put number 13 by "Result of Sound", number 18 by "Stereogum", number 25 by "Moving Stone", number 39 by "Turn", number 10 by "Club Fonograma," number 34 by "Essentially Amazing" and number 27 by "Pitchfork". "4" was incorporated into NPR's Top 50 Favorite Albums of 2011, and was positioned at number 26 in the "Pazz and Jop's" commentators survey. It was recorded at 37 on "Moving Stone"s Women Who Rock: 50 Greatest Albums of All Time. Pitchfork Media positioned the collection at 39 on their rundown of the Top 100 Best Albums of the decade hitherto, Kyle Kramer composed that "4" "dodged the trappings of sheltered, later-vocation offers, rather setting up the ideal stage for Beyoncé as the pop star, a ruler for every one of the general population." The collection was incorporated on Consequence of Sound's rundown of The 10 Best Summer Albums of All Time with Kenneth Partridge composing that "whether she's miserably devastated or insane in adoration, Queen Bey buckles down to make you feel precisely what she's inclination". 

"4" won R&B Album of the Year at the 2012 "Bulletin" Music Awards and got assignments at the 2011 American Music Awards, the 2011 Soul Train Music Awards, the 38th People's Choice Awards, the 43rd NAACP Image Awards and the 2012 Grammis. At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards, "Love on Top" won the Best Traditional R&B Performance Award. 

In the United States, "4" appeared at number one on the "Bulletin" 200, with first-week offers of 310,000 duplicates. This gave Beyoncé her fourth sequential solo collection to make a big appearance at number one on the "Announcement" 200 collection graph, making her the second female craftsman, after Britney Spears, and third craftsman by and large, tied with Spears and DMX to have her initial four studio collections debut on the "Bulletin" 200. "4"s first-week deals turned into Beyoncé's least deals begin with a studio collection to date. Keith Caulfield of "Board" magazine noticed that the collection was not discharged amid the happy season and that Beyoncé was so far coming up short on a hit single, which could help clarify the collection's gentler section. It denotes the third-biggest deals seven day stretch of the year, after the main bows of Lady Gaga's "Brought into the world This Way" and Adele's "21". "4" turned into the ninth numerically titled collection to top the diagram since 1956. In its second week, the collection stayed at number one on the "Board" 200, regardless of a 63% deals decline, selling 115,000 duplicates. It thus turned into the principal collection by Beyoncé to top the "Bulletin" 200 collections diagram for over multi week; an exertion prevailing by her self-titled fifth studio collection (2013) that stayed there for three weeks. On August 1, 2011, the collection was affirmed platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), having dispatched one million duplicates to retail locations. As of December 2015, it has achieved offers of 1.5 million duplicates in the United States. 

On its first day of discharge, "4" sold around 20,000 duplicates in the United Kingdom. As indicated by the Official Charts Company information, this was more than the joined offers of its three closest challengers: Adele's "19" (2008) and "21" (2011) and Lady Gaga's "Brought into the world This Way" (2011). Following seven days of offers, "4" appeared on the UK Albums Chart on July 4, 2011, with first-week offers of 89,211 duplicates, remaining there for a second week with offers of 44,929 duplicates. By May 2013, it had sold 603,548 duplicates in the United Kingdom. "4" opened at number two on the Australian ARIA Charts, giving Beyoncé her most noteworthy graph debut there. "4" appeared at number three on the Canadian Albums Chart, selling 8,700 duplicates in its first week. It appeared at number one in France, selling 12,393 duplicates in its first week. As per the Japanese music graphing site Oricon, the collection appeared at number ten, selling 18,984 duplicates for the week finishing July 11, 2011. 

Notes 

Test credits 

The accompanying individuals are credited on the collection: 

Administrative 

Execution credits 

Visuals and symbolism 

Instruments 

programming 

Specialized and generation