Distinct Raving Dad 

"Distinct Raving Dad" is the primary scene of the third period of the American energized TV arrangement "The Simpsons". It originally circulated on the Fox arrange in the United States on September 19, 1991. In the scene, Homer Simpson is confused with a revolutionary and sent to a psychological organization, where he imparts a space to a man who professes to be pop star Michael Jackson. In the interim, Bart guarantees his sister Lisa that he will get her the best birthday present ever. 

The scene was composed by Al Jean and Mike Reiss, and coordinated by Rich Moore. Michael Jackson visitor featured as Leon Kompowsky, yet went uncredited for authoritative reasons; his job was not affirmed until some other time. Jackson was a devotee of the show and called maker Matt Groening one night offering to complete a visitor spot. Jackson pitched a few story thoughts for the scene and composed the melody "Upbeat Birthday Lisa" for the scene. The character's performing voice would be performed by a soundalike, Kipp Lennon, because of authoritative commitments Jackson had with his record organization at the time. The scene contains references to Jackson's vocation, with Kompowsky singing segments of the tunes "Billie Jean" and "Ben". 

"Obvious Raving Dad" got commonly positive surveys, especially for its composition and Jackson's execution. A spin-off in which Kompowsky would be voiced by Prince was dropped after Prince denied the content. A 1992 rerun highlighted a substitute opening in light of a discourse by President George H. W. Shrubbery, in which he said Americans should have been "significantly progressively like the Waltons and much less like the Simpsons". Following the arrival of the 2019 narrative "Leaving Neverland", which pursues claims of kid rape against Jackson, the scene was pulled from flow. 

Lisa reminds Bart that he overlooks her birthday consistently, so Bart guarantees to get her a present this year. In the interim, Homer finds that the majority of his white shirts have colored pink since Bart put his red cap in with the clothing. Homer must choose the option to wear a pink shirt to work and accordingly, his collaborators make jokes about him. Mr. Consumes associates him with being a "free-thinking revolutionary". Homer is sent home with a 20-question mental test that he needs to fill in so that Dr. Marvin Monroe can evaluate his mental stability. Homer is too lethargic to even think about finishing the test individually and gives Bart a chance to fill it in. Whenever Dr. Monroe sees the outcomes, he establishes that Homer is crazy. Homer is sent to a psychological establishment, and is placed in a cell with a huge white man who appears to trust he is Michael Jackson, and who presents himself all things considered. Being new to the genuine Michael Jackson, Homer accepts and rapidly becomes a close acquaintence with him. 

Marge, after hearing what has occurred, goes to the organization and can persuade Homer's specialists that he isn't crazy. Homer says goodbye to Michael, who uncovers that he is in the psychological establishment intentionally. Homer chooses to give him a chance to remain in the family home. He calls and discloses to Bart that he is conveying Michael to remain for a couple of days. Against Homer and Michael's desires, Bart tells his companion Milhouse and soon all of Springfield turns up outside of the Simpson family's home to see Michael. The dimension of fervor is emptied when Homer presents Michael and they understand he is an impostor. The townspeople become irate at Bart and leave. In the meantime, Lisa leaves the house and is angry with Bart since he has once more neglected to recognize her birthday, due to his energy over Michael Jackson's landing. 

Subsequent to catching Lisa write in a letter that she is repudiating Bart as a sibling, the fake Michael persuades Bart to give him a chance to help. Together they compose and play out a tune for Lisa's birthday called "Upbeat Birthday Lisa". Lisa is excited and embraces her sibling, saying that he has given her the best present ever. A while later, Michael uncovers that his genuine name is Leon Kompowsky, a bricklayer from Paterson, New Jersey. He clarifies that he had been irate for an amazing majority, yet discovered some harmony in talking in Jackson's voice since it satisfied everybody around him. Leon says goodbye to the Simpsons and strolls off not far off, singing Lisa's birthday melody to himself in his ordinary voice. 

"Distinct Raving Dad" was composed explicitly for Michael Jackson, a fanatic of the show, who had called Groening one night and offered to complete a visitor spot. The offer was acknowledged and a content was composed by Al Jean and Mike Reiss, in view of a thought pitched by James L. Creeks. Maker Matt Groening and co-official maker Sam Simon additionally contributed altogether to the composition. In an early form of the content, Homer chose to take his alcoholic companion Barney Gumble in for recovery, however while there Homer started acting madly so the specialists expected he was the one to be submitted. It was later changed to Homer being hospitalized for wearing a pink shirt, a thought pitched by Brooks. Jackson pitched a few story thoughts, for example, Bart telling everybody around the local area that Jackson was going to his home. He additionally mentioned a scene in which he and Bart compose a melody together and got some information about Prince be changed to one about Elvis Presley. 

As indicated by Jean, Jackson would not focus on the scene until after a read-through of the content. The read was held at Jackson's director Sandy Gallin's home, and Dan Castellaneta (who gives the voice to Homer) was 30 minutes late. Jean reviews that "nobody said a word, we just sat there pausing". Following the read, Jackson stipulated his conditions: he would go uncredited, and his performing voice would be performed by a soundalike. Leon Kompowsky's singing parts were performed by Kipp Lennon, since Jackson needed to play a joke on his siblings and trick them into intuition the impersonator was him. 

Lennon recorded his lines in the meantime as Jackson, who found the pantomimes amusing. Jackson went to the account session alone and did not utilize the unique trailer set up for him. As indicated by Jean, Jackson recorded variants of the singing parts, yet "Simpsons" music proofreader Chris Ledesma said they were not utilized. Kompowsky's ordinary talking voice, heard toward the finish of the scene, was recorded by cast part Hank Azaria. The scene initially should finish with Kompowsky singing a segment of Jackson's tune "Man in the Mirror", yet it was changed to "Glad Birthday Lisa". 

"Obvious Raving Dad" was the last scene in the season two generation run, however disclosed as the debut of season three, over a year after it was finished. Michael Jackson was credited with pen name Jay Smith in the end credits. At the time, the makers of the show were lawfully kept from affirming that Jackson visitor featured, albeit numerous media sources expected it was truly him. Essentially, in season two, on-screen character Dustin Hoffman had visitor featured in the scene "Lisa's Substitute" under the name "Sam Etic". After "Distinct Raving Dad", the makers chose that visitor stars would need to consent to be credited. 

Jackson was an enthusiast of Bart, and needed to give Bart a main single. He co-composed the tune "Do the Bartman", which was discharged as a solitary around a similar time that the scene was created. Jackson couldn't assume praise for his work on the melody because of authoritative reasons. Jackson additionally composed the melody "Glad Birthday Lisa", which was later incorporated into the collection "Tunes in the Key of Springfield". A rendition of the melody was supposedly to be incorporated on a reward circle in the 2001 uncommon version of Jackson's 1991 collection "Unsafe", however the reward plate was dropped. 

"Distinct Raving Dad" is the main "Simpsons" scene initially delivered and communicate in Dolby Surround. To stamp the change, the makers dispatched the show's in-house music arranger Alf Clausen, who was initially enlisted in the wake of giving all the music to the main yearly "Treehouse of Horror", to orchestrate a re-recorded adaptation of the signature melody for the opening succession. This form of the topic has stayed in the opening grouping since. 

The January 30, 1992 rerun of the scene included a concise exchange opening, which was written in light of a remark made by the then President of the United States George H. W. Hedge three days sooner. The show had recently had a "fight" with the President's better half Barbara Bush when, in the October 1, 1990 version of "Individuals", she called "The Simpsons" "the most moronic thing [she] had ever observed". The authors chose to react by secretly sending a considerate letter to Bush in which they acted like Marge Simpson. Shrub promptly sent an answer in which she was sorry. Afterward, on January 27, 1992, George Bush gave a discourse amid his re-appointment crusade which incorporated the announcement "we are going to continue endeavoring to reinforce the American family, to make American families much progressively like the Waltons and significantly less like the Simpsons." 

The essayists concluded that they needed to react rapidly like Barbara Bush needed to them. Every scene of "The Simpsons" takes over a half year to deliver, so it is troublesome for the show to remark on recent developments. The scholars in this way chose to add a concise reaction to the following communicate of "The Simpsons", which was a rerun of "Obvious Raving Dad" on January 30. Nancy Cartwright, the voice of Bart, was immediately brought in so she could record a line. 

The communicate incorporated another facetious opening. The scene, from the scene "Simpson and Delilah", starts in the Simpsons' front room where the family is watching Bush's discourse. At the point when Bush says "to make American families much progressively like the Waltons and significantly less like the Simpsons", Bart answers, "Hello, we're much the same as the Waltons. We're appealing to God for a conclusion to the Depression, as well." The opening is highlighted on the season four DVD box set. 

A year after "Unmistakable Raving Dad" circulated, the essayists arranged a spin-off in which Kompowsky restores, this time professing to be the pop star Prince. The content was composed by consultants and cleaned by Conan O'Brien. As indicated by Reiss, it saw Kompowsky urge the Springfield inhabitants to "slacken up, become progressively showy and become all the more explicitly open". 

Sovereign consented to voice Kompowsky and sent notes about what his character would wear, however the essayists found that Prince was alluding to a content that had been composed by his escort. Ruler detested their content and requested the other one be utilized, however the essayists cannot. The content wound up one of only a handful few unproduced "Simpsons" contents. 

Like all scenes of "The Simpsons", "Distinct Raving Dad" includes an assortment of references to mainstream culture. As Bart rounds out the 20-question psychiatry test, Homer watches "America's Funniest Home Videos" where the three named cuts are altogether rough. Huge numbers of the scenes in the psychological organization are references to the film "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest". A few of the characters at the establishment depend on those in the film, for example, Chief. Floyd from the film "Downpour Man" shows up at the psychological home just as Hannibal Lecter from the film "The Silence of the Lambs". At the point when Marge calls the organization, a muzak variant of "Insane", sung by Patsy Cline, can be heard via telephone. In the shot of the group that anticipates Michael Jackson's entry outside of the Simpson family's home, a man is holding a "" sign in reference to Rollen Stewart, who was popular for holding a comparable sign at games. 

Numerous parts of Jackson's profession are referenced in the scene. Kompowsky specifies a few things which made Jackson renowned, including "", "Beat It", and "Spine chiller". He additionally sings parts of the melodies "Billie Jean" and "Ben" and plays out the moonwalk. At the point when Homer begins murmuring in his rest, Kompowsky tells his squishy toy: "Air pockets, it will be a difficult night." Bubbles is the name of Jackson's chimpanzee. Kompowsky likewise says he was disturbed when "his" 1979 collection "Off the Wall" just gotten one Grammy Award designation; the scholars had perused that the genuine Jackson was truly vexed. 

In its unique airing on the Fox organize, "Distinct Raving Dad" procured a 13.9 Nielsen rating and 23 percent offer of the group of onlookers. It was seen in around 12.8 million homes, completing the week positioned 33rd. The scene completed second in its schedule opening behind the season debut of "The Cosby Show", which positioned eighth for the week with a 19.7 rating and 31 percent offer. "The Simpsons" was the second most elevated appraised appear on Fox the week it circulated, behind "Wedded... with Children". 

The scene has been commonly generally welcomed, being applauded by numerous commentators for its composition. In a 2009 audit for "Slate", Josh Levin composed that "The enormity of 'Unmistakable Raving Dad' has significantly more to do with "The Simpsons" composing staff than with Jackson's voice-over gifts. The show's scripters concocted a plot gadget undeniably more astute than just dropping the vocalist into Springfield." Monica Collins of the "Boston Herald" likewise appreciated the scene. On the day it previously circulated, she composed that "This scene is vintage "Simpsons", packed with supernaturally disgusting visual peculiarities. Furthermore, Michael Jackson, obviously, is simply so abnormal at any rate that he fits directly in." Mark Lorando of "The Times-Picayune" remarked that "disposable lines on "The Simpsons" are more clever than the enormous punchlines on most supposed satire arrangement; [this episode] has layers of cleverness, humorous contacts that enhance the story lines," singling out jokes like the "America's Funniest Home Video" spoof. "The snickers are actually relentless, and Jackson's indisputable vocal nearness [...] includes a thousand watts of star control." In 2011, Television Blend's Eric Eisenberg named "Distinct Raving Dad" the best scene of the whole arrangement. He commended it for being heartful and expressed that what "keeps the scene from appearing to be fake or manipulative is that the writing in the scene gains the sincere minutes", and further explains that while "compelling feelings may be the sign of 'Distinct Raving Dad,' it would be a true mix-up to overlook how clever it is." He inferred that the scene "is splendidly built, is loaded up with both profound stomach snickers and tears, and is basically the best scene of The Simpsons" In 1998, "television Guide" recorded it in its rundown of top twelve "Simpsons" scenes. 

In a DVD sound critique, author Mike Reiss said he felt that Michael Jackson is "not a spectacular on-screen character [...] but rather he did fine. He was extremely pleasant, he was an extraordinary game." In 2006, Jackson was named the fifth-best "Simpsons" visitor star by IGN. Tom Ganjamie of "Greatest Week Ever" considered Jackson's visitor appearance the "cleverest [...] ever on "The Simpsons"". Composing for IGN, Robert Canning said in a 2009 audit that "Obvious Raving Dad" is a "strong, clever and contacting scene" and portrayed Jackson's execution as "ardent yet self-caricaturing". In a 2011 article, Andrew Martin of Prefix Mag named Michael Jackson his second most loved melodic visitor on "The Simpsons" out of a rundown of ten. 

In 2003, DVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson remarked that the scene was a decent begin to season three, yet it "gets sappy on in excess of a couple of events, and it comes up short on the acidic nibble of the arrangement's best shows. In any case, it hurls out some great snickers, and the visitor appearance by Jackson—under an alias—well; Michael demonstrates a capacity to ridicule himself that still astonishments me." In a 2004 audit for Digitally Obsessed, Nate Meyers composed that "there are numerous amusing stiflers in this scene, particularly in the primary demonstration when Homer gets a voyage through the [mental] emergency clinic. Some smart references are made to "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", yet the second 50% of the scene isn't particularly amusing. The jokes appear to be constrained and there is a lot of a push to sentimentalize the connection among Bart and Lisa, making the show lose its story drive." In 2007, Ben Rayner of the "Toronto Star" recorded "Unmistakable Raving Dad" as one of the three most exceedingly awful scenes of "The Simpsons". 

In a 2009 article for TV Squad, Mike Moody said the scene's "best minute" is toward the end when Kompowsky and Bart play out the birthday tune for Lisa. Moreover, author Al Jean recorded that scene as one of his five most loved minutes from "The Simpsons" in 2003. The response to the melody "Upbeat Birthday Lisa" was blended. Ben Rayner considered it a "poop tune", and Chris Selley of "Maclean's" magazine composed that "Obvious Raving Dad" is "an agonizingly sappy scene, and that birthday melody for Lisa is simply... terrible." Dave Walker of "The Times-Picayune" recorded the scene as one of Jackson's "numerous essential TV minutes" and called the tune "extraordinary". 

After Jackson's passing on June 25, 2009, the Fox arrange reran the scene on July 5 in tribute. The makers had planned to air the scene on June 28, 2009, three days after Jackson's demise, yet couldn't resolve issues with syndication rights, thus the "Do the Bartman" music video was circulated. The makers screened the scene first, and the main change made, which was disconnected to Jackson, was the obscuring of a telephone number. 

Following the arrival of the 2019 narrative "Leaving Neverland", which pursues charges of kid rape against Jackson, Brooks reported that "Distinct Raving Dad" would be pulled from dissemination. He told "The Wall Street Journal": "This was a loved scene. There are a ton of extraordinary recollections we have enveloped with that one, and this positively doesn't enable them to remain. I'm against book-consuming of any sort. Be that as it may, this is our book, and we're permitted to take out a part." Jean said he trusted Jackson had utilized the scene to prep young men for sexual maltreatment. 

Commentaries 

Book index