Task Kita 

Before withdrawing Singapore, the Japanese boats, which were assigned the Completion Force, were stacked with provisions of oil and other imperative crude materials. This framed piece of a push to run expanded amounts of provisions through the Allied bar of Japan before the nation was cut off from its realm. The Allies had educated of the Completion Force's piece and objectives through insight picked up from decoding Japanese radio flags, and plans were created for composed assaults on it by submarines and United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) airplane. As a major aspect of these arrangements, 26 submarines were in the long run situated along the boats' normal course. 

The Completion Force cruised on 10 February 1945 and was located leaving port by a Royal Navy submarine. Nonetheless, endeavors by it and a few United States Navy submarines to assault somewhere in the range of 11 and 14 February were ineffective. More than 88 USAAF flying machine endeavored to bomb the Completion Force on 13 and 14 February, yet were unfit to do as such on account of terrible climate. A further submarine assault on 16 February did not harm any of the Japanese boats. Subsequently, the Completion Force achieved its goal of Kure in Japan on 20 February without having endured any setbacks. Regardless of this achievement, the Japanese Government was compelled to stop its endeavors to transport oil from Southeast Asia to Japan in March because of the overwhelming misfortunes Allied submarines were exacting on oil tankers, and every one of the boats of the Completion Force were soaked in or close Japanese home waters before the finish of the war. 

Amid 1944, Allied submarine assaults successfully removed the supply of oil from Southeast Asia to Japan and significantly decreased Japanese imports of different items. By this phase of the war, the oil holds in Japan had been to a great extent drained. U.S. Navy submarines sank numerous Japanese warships amid 1944, including the warship , seven plane carrying warships, two substantial and seven light cruisers. In mid 1945, the Japanese Government evaluated that all escort courses from the south would inevitably be cut, and endeavored to enhance the provisions of oil acquired by tankers by stacking drums of oil on vessels. A few IJN plane carrying warships were likewise used to transport drums of oil from Singapore to Japan. 

On 11 November 1944, the two "Ise"- class half breed warship plane carrying warships—and , which were assembled as Carrier Division 4 and under the order of Rear Admiral Matsuda Chiaki—cruised from the Japanese home islands to join the primary body of the IJN in the Southwest Pacific. This arrangement was made to both strengthen the rest of the components of the IJN in the territory and spot the boats close to a wellspring of fuel. Amid their voyage from Japan, every one of the war vessel bearers was stacked with about of weapons for the units protecting Manila in the Philippines. Because of substantial Allied air assaults on Manila, the two warships dumped their provisions in the Spratly Islands from 14 November. They cruised for Lingga Roads close Singapore on the twentieth of the month and landed there two days after the fact. The Allies gained from insight picked up by unscrambling Japanese radio flags that the ship bearers had cruised. United submarines were requested to keep watch for the boats, yet did not capture "Ise" or "Hyūga" amid their voyage to Singapore. The two ship transporters were conveyed to Cam Ranh Bay in Indochina amid December and came back to Singapore on 11 January 1945. The U.S. Third Fleet attacked the South China Sea somewhere in the range of 10 and 20 January looking for the Japanese armada, however did not find "Ise" or "Hyūga". 

Toward the beginning of February 1945, "Ise", "Hyūga" and an escort of littler warships got requests to sail to Japan in what was assigned Operation "Kita". The objective of this task was to restore a portion of the IJN warships in the Southwest Pacific to Japan stacked with vital supplies. The boats chose to go with the warship transporters were the light cruiser (which turned out to be a piece of Carrier Division 4 from 10 February) and destroyers , and . Transporter Division 4 and its escorts was assigned the Completion Force. 

The boats of the Completion Force withdrew the Lingga Roads on 6 February and started stacking their cargoes in Singapore the following day. In the blink of an eye before docking, "Ise" continued a little measure of harm when she struck a mine which had been dropped by Allied flying machine. Amid the Completion Force's period at Singapore every one of the six boats were stacked with provisions and "Ise" got transitory fixes. "Hyūga" set out 4,944 drums of avionics gas just as 326 drums of standard gas and 440 oil field specialists. "Ise" was stacked with 5,200 drums of aeronautics fuel and 551 oil laborers; every one of the ship bearers likewise left of elastic, 1,750 short huge amounts of tin and of different metals. "Ōyodo" was stacked with of tin, of tungsten, 70 tons of flight gas, of elastic, of zinc and of mercury. A further of elastic and tin was part among the three destroyers. 

Through code breaking, Allied insight knew about the Completion Force's structure and targets. Unified signs knowledge units painstakingly observed radio transmissions in the Singapore locale, and the subsequent "Ultra" insight gave subtleties of the two warship transporters' developments to Singapore, arrangements to come back to Japan and arranged course. The officer of Allied submarines in the South-West Pacific Area (Task Force 71), Rear Admiral James Fife, Jr., put a high need on ceasing "Ise" and "Hyūga" from achieving Japan, and positioned 15 submarines along their normal course. An arrangement for facilitated assaults on the boats by the U.S. Navy and USAAF was created. At the time, the U.S. Seventh Fleet was appointed four war vessels in Filipino waters to monitor the Allied foothold at Lingayen Gulf in Luzon against assaults by the Japanese powers based at Lingga Roads and the Inland Sea until the USAAF powers in the area were sufficiently able to accept this accountability. Starting at early February, the USAAF units in the Philippines were centered around supporting the United States Army– drove Philippines Campaign and assaulting Japanese offices in Formosa. An escalated crusade against Japanese dispatching in the South China Sea had been arranged, yet was yet to start. 

The Completion Force cruised from Singapore on the night of 10 February. The planning of its flight was set by a long haul conjecture of awful climate for the voyage to Japan. The British submarine watched the boats departing port and endeavored to assault them on 11 February, however was driven off by a Japanese air ship. Following this activity, "Tantalus" radioed a contact report to Fife's central command. The four U.S. Navy war vessels at Lingayen Gulf cruised on 10 February headed for U.S. bases in the Pacific where they were to get fixes and attempt arrangements in front of their job supporting the attack of Okinawa. The boats left the Philippines region on 14 February without having had any impact in endeavors to catch the Completion Force. 

U.S. Navy submarines ineffectively endeavored to assault the Japanese ships on 12 February. At about 1:45 pm, identified the Completion Force at a separation of utilizing her radar and transmitted a contact report. After an hour, reached the Japanese boats at a scope of . Throughout the following 14 hours the submarines "Blackfin", "Charr", , and endeavored to achieve a position where they could assault the Japanese boats, however were unfit to do as such. A gathering of submarines toward the north—including , and — was unfit to achieve a position where they could assault the Completion Force. 

USAAF watches reached the Completion Force on 12 February; after this, it was followed persistently by radar-prepared Army Air Forces and U.S. Navy air ship. On the morning of 13 February, a power of B-24 Liberator overwhelming planes and 40 B-25 Mitchell medium aircraft escorted by 48 P-51 Mustang contenders was dispatched from a few bases on the islands of Leyte and Mindoro to assault the Japanese boats. While the flying machine effectively rendezvoused close to the Completion Force, substantial overcast spread shielded them from detecting any of the boats. As radar-coordinated visually impaired shelling was precluded to stay away from incidental assaults on the Allied submarines in the territory, the strike drive came back to its bases without assaulting. Around the same time, the Australian destroyers and withdrew Lingayen Gulf and continued to a situation about west of Manila where they were held in availability to safeguard the groups of any air ship brought down while assaulting the Completion Force. 

More submarines endeavored to assault the Japanese power on 13 February. A gathering of three water crafts—containing , and — was sent along its course, and "Bergall" located the Japanese boats at 12:30 pm. The submarine was submerged at the time and endeavored to move into a terminating position, yet couldn't get any nearer to the boats than . In any case, it terminated six torpedoes at the Japanese power, all of which missed. "Blower" endeavored a submerged assault, yet the five torpedoes it terminated at one of the warship transporters and "Ōyodo" missed. also, , the northernmost submarines that Rear Admiral Fife had conveyed, experienced the Completion Force amid the evening of 13 February. "Bashaw" located the Japanese ships as they rose up out of a downpour squall at 3:15 pm, however one of the warship bearers recognized the submarine and propelled an air ship to assault it. "Bashaw" was compelled to plunge when the war vessel transporter started shelling it with her fundamental battery, and neither it nor "Flasher" had the capacity to capture the Completion Force. Amid this period different submarines in the territory kept on pursuing the Japanese ships however did not recover contact with them. 

An air assault was endeavored against the Completion Force on 14 February. The quantity of B-24s, B-25s and escorting P-51s dispatched on this day was littler than the power which had been utilized on 13 February, as the Japanese boats were presently past the scope of airplane based at Leyte. By and by, overcast spread over the Completion Force kept the Allied airplane from locating the Japanese boats, and they were unfit to assault because of the denial on radar-pointed bombarding. This was the USAAF's last endeavor to bomb the Japanese power. Therefore, the main victories picked up by the USAAF air ship engaged with the activity were to shoot down a Mitsubishi Ki-57 "Topsy" transport plane close to the Completion Force on 13 February just as a few warriors in the zone of the boats between the twelfth and fourteenth of the month. The two Australian destroyers were discharged for different obligations on 15 February. 

Bad habit Admiral Charles A. Lockwood—the officer of the U.S. Pacific Fleet's submarine power—pursued the fruitless endeavors to catch the Completion Force in the South China Sea, and positioned a further eleven submarines along its anticipated course between the Luzon Strait and Japan. The Completion Force achieved the Matsu Islands at the northern end of the Formosa Strait at night of 15 February, and tied down there for five hours. The Japanese boats continued their voyage to Kure by means of Korea and the Shimonoseki Strait at midnight, and the destroyers and were appended to the power for part of the day. At 5:07 am on 16 February, caught the Completion Force south of the Chinese city of Wenchow and terminated six torpedoes at one of the escorts, however all missed. As of now the Japanese boats were cruising at a speed of . None of the other American submarines reached the Japanese power as it cruised toward the east of where they had been situated by Lockwood. 

The Completion Force completed its whole voyage in around 10 days; in the wake of slipping the Allied watches it moored off Chusan Island close Shanghai from 9:06 pm on 16 February until 7:00 am on 18 February, when it cruised for Sanzenpo Harbor close Sacheon on the southern shoreline of Korea. It landed there at 4:00 pm that day, and tied down medium-term. The Completion Force left Sanzenpo Harbor at 7:00 am on 19 February and achieved the Japanese island of Mutsurejima at 4:00 pm that day. Subsequent to securing medium-term, the Completion Force docked at Kure at 10:00 am on 20 February. The boats of the Completion Force were among the last Japanese warships to achieve the home islands from the Southwest Pacific. 

The Allied maritime authorities were baffled by the disappointment of the 26 submarines guided against the Completion Force to incur any harm on the boats. Fife presumed this was because of the Completion Force's fast, the poor climate conditions at the season of the activity and the Japanese boats being fitted with hardware that empowered them to recognize submarines' radar signals. In a letter to Lockwood, he composed that the disappointment of the submarines under his order "was a harsh pill to take and I make no justification". Lockwood credited the choice to send his submarines excessively far toward the west on broken knowledge, and revealed to Fife that "our simpleton positively turned sour finally. Maybe I depended a lot on it". 

The utilization of vessels and warships to convey oil was effective in expanding Japanese oil imports, and the absolute dimension nature of oil which achieved the nation amid the primary quarter of 1945 was more prominent than the sums accomplished in late 1944. By the by, Allied submarines sank most of the vendor tankers that endeavored to cruise from Southeast Asia to Japan amid February, and in March the Japanese stopped endeavoring to import oil from this source. Following the flight of the Completion Force, the main major fit for sailing Japanese warships staying in the Southwest Pacific were the substantial cruisers and just as the light cruiser . These three cruisers did not endeavor to come back to Japan, and all were sunk by Allied submarines and destroyers among April and June. 

In the wake of achieving Japan, "Ise" and "Hyūga" were allocated to reinforce the counter flying machine protections of the city of Kure and its maritime base. Because of deficiencies of fuel and flying machine, the boats did not put to ocean once more, and both were sunk amid the U.S. Navy's assaults on Kure somewhere in the range of 24 and 28 July 1945. "Ōyodo" turned out to be a piece of the Kure Training Force and stayed in port until she was sunk on 28 July. The three destroyers additionally neglected to endure the war; "Asashimo" and "Kasumi" succumbed to American bearer flying machine while escorting the warship amid Operation "Ten-Go" on 6 April, and "Hatsushimo" sank in the wake of striking a mine close Maizuru on 30 July.