Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes 

Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes, distributed in 1986, is the fifth book in African-American essayist and artist Maya Angelou's seven-volume self-portrayal arrangement. Set somewhere in the range of 1962 and 1965, the book starts when Angelou is 33 years of age, and describes the years she lived in Accra, Ghana. The book, getting its title from a Negro profound, starts where Angelou's past journal, "The Heart of a Woman", closes — with the horrendous auto collision including her child Guy — and closes with Angelou coming back to America. 

As she had done in her first life account, "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings", and proceeded all through her arrangement, Angelou maintains the long custom of African-American self-portrayal. In the meantime she makes an intentional endeavor to challenge the standard structure of the self-portrayal by investigating, changing, and growing the class. Angelou had developed as an essayist when she expressed "Voyaging Shoes", to the indicate that she was capable play with the structure and structure of the work. As in her past books, it comprises of a progression of tales associated by subject. She delineates her battle with being the mother of a developed child, and with her place in her new home. 

Angelou looks at a considerable lot of similar subjects and topics that her past life accounts secured. In spite of the fact that parenthood is an essential subject in this book, it doesn't overpower the content as it does in a portion of her different works. Toward the finish of the book, she ties up the mother/child plot when she abandons her child in Ghana and comes back to America. As per researcher Mary Jane Lupton, "Angelou's investigation of her African and African-American characters" is an essential subject in "Voyaging Shoes". Before the finish of the book, Angelou comes to term with what researcher Dolly McPherson calls her "twofold awareness", the parallels and associations between the African and American pieces of her history and character. Prejudice keeps on being an essential subject as she becomes familiar with it and about herself. Voyage and a feeling of home is another critical topic in this book; Angelou maintains the African-American convention of the slave story and of her own arrangement of personal histories. This time she centers around "attempting to return home", or on getting to be absorbed in African culture, which she finds unattainable. 

"Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes" got a blended gathering from pundits, however the vast majority of their audits were sure. 

"Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes", distributed in 1986, is the fifth portion of Maya Angelou's arrangement of seven life accounts. The achievement of Angelou's past collections of memoirs and the distribution of four volumes of verse had presented to Angelou a lot of acclaim by 1986. "What's more, Still I Rise", distributed in 1978, fortified Angelou's prosperity as an author. Her first volume of verse, "Simply Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'fore I Diiie" (1971) was assigned for a Pulitzer Prize. 

As author Hilton Als states, Angelou was one of the main African-American female journalists to openly talk about her own life, and one of the first to utilize herself as a focal character in her books, something she proceeds in "Voyaging Shoes". Essayist Julian Mayfield, who calls her first life account "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" "a show-stopper that evades portrayal", expresses that Angelou's work sets a point of reference for other Black ladies scholars, however for the class of life account overall. 

Als called Angelou one of the "pioneers of self-introduction", willing to concentrate genuinely on the more antagonistic parts of her identity and decisions. For instance, while Angelou was forming her second personal history, "Assemble in My Name", she was worried about how her perusers would respond to her divulgence that she had been a whore. Her better half Paul Du Feu convinced her to distribute the book by urging her to "come clean as an author" and "speak the truth about it". Through the composition of her biographies Angelou has turned out to be perceived and exceptionally regarded as a representative for Blacks and ladies. It made her, as researcher Joanne Braxton has expressed, "point of fact, ... America's most obvious dark lady autobiographer". 

As per McPherson, "Voyaging Shoes" is "a blend of Maya Angelou's own memory and a recorded archive of the time in which it is set", the mid 1960s. This was the first occasion when that many Black Americans, because of the freedom of Ghana and other African states, just as the development of African pioneers, for example, Kwame Nkrumah, had the capacity to see Africa emphatically. Ghana was "the focal point of an African social renaissance" and of Pan-Africanism amid this time. 

As indicated by Angelou, the title of "Voyaging Shoes" originates from an otherworldly. African-American researcher Lyman B. Hagen reports that the title originates from the profound "All God's Chillun Got Wings", Angelou's "astute reference" to her progressing scan for a home time monitoring "our definitive home". The title exhibits Angelou's affection for African-American spirituals and profound feeling of religion that shows up in every last bit of her works. Pundit Mary Jane Lupton finds the presence of "voyaging" deliberate, since it stresses the adventure subject, a standout amongst Angelou's most essential topics of the book. Like Angelou's past volumes in her arrangement, the title adds to its plot and topical effect. 

"Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes" starts as Angelou's past book, "The Heart of a Woman", closes: with her delineation of a genuine car crash including her child Guy. In the wake of going through two years in Cairo, they come to Accra to enlist Guy in the University of Ghana, and the mishap happens three days after they arrive. Following Guy's long strengthening, they stay in Ghana, Angelou for a long time, from 1962 to 1965. Angelou depicts Guy's recuperation, including her profound wretchedness. She is gone up against by her companion Julian Mayfield, who acquaints her with author and on-screen character Efua Sutherland, the Director of the National Theater of Ghana. Sutherland turns into Angelou's "sister-companion" and enables her to shout out the entirety of her torment and sharpness. 

Angelou gets a new line of work at the University of Ghana and "becomes hopelessly enamored with" the nation and with its kin, who help her to remember African Americans she knew in Arkansas and California. As the parent of a grown-up, she encounters new opportunities, regards Guy's decisions, and deliberately quits making her child the focal point of her life. She makes new fellowships with her flat mates and local Africans, both male and female. She turns out to be a piece of a gathering of American exiles whom she calls the "Revolutionist Returnees", individuals, for example, Mayfield and his better half Ana Livia, who share her battles. 

Angelou fortifies her ties with Africa while going through eastern Ghanaian towns, and through her associations with a few Africans. She depicts a couple of sentimental prospects, one of which is with a man who recommends that she become his "second spouse" and acknowledge West African traditions. She likewise turns into a supporter of Ghana president Kwame Nkrumah and dear companions with ancestral pioneer Nana Nketsia and writer Kwesi Brew. Amid one of her movements through West Africa, a lady distinguishes her as an individual from the Bambara clan dependent on upon her appearance and conduct, which helps Angelou find the likenesses between her American customs and those of her West African predecessors. 

Despite the fact that Angelou is frustrated with the peaceful procedures of Martin Luther King, Jr., she and her companions remember his 1963 walk on Washington by sorting out a parallel exhibit in Ghana. The exhibit turns into a tribute to African-American W.E.B. Du Bois, who has kicked the bucket the past night. A couple of pages later, she aligns herself with Malcolm X, who visits Ghana in 1964 to evoke the help of Black world pioneers. He urges Angelou to come back to America to enable him to organize his endeavors, as she had accomplished for King in "The Heart of a Woman". While driving Malcolm X to the air terminal, he berates her for her harshness about Du Bois' better half Shirley Graham's absence of help for the social equality development. 

Angelou and her flat mates reluctantly employ a town kid named Kojo to do housework for them. He helps her to remember her sibling Bailey, and he fills in as a substitute for her child Guy. She acknowledges a maternal job with Kojo, helping him with his schoolwork and respecting the thanks of his family. "Voyaging Shoes", like Angelou's past life accounts, is loaded with clashes with Guy, particularly encompassing his autonomy, his partition from his mom, and his decisions. When she discovers that he is dating a lady more established than her, she responds with displeasure and takes steps to strike him, however he belittles her, calls her his "little mother", and demands his self-governance from her. 

The African account in "Voyaging Shoes" is hindered by "an adventure inside a voyage" when she chooses to join a dramatic organization in a recovery of "The Blacks", a play by French author Jean Genet. As she had done in New York City and depicted in her past collection of memoirs "The Heart of a Woman", she plays the White Queen and visits Berlin and Venice with the organization, which incorporate Cicely Tyson, James Earl Jones, Lou Gossett, Jr. also, Roscoe Lee Brown. While in Berlin, she acknowledges a morning meal welcome with a bigot, affluent German family. 

The book closes with Angelou's choice to come back to America. At the airplane terminal, a gathering of her companions and partners, including Guy, are available to wish her goodbye as she leaves. She figuratively associates her takeoff from the African landmass with the constrained oppression of her precursors and her takeoff from Guy. 

Each of the seven of Angelou's portions of her biography proceed with the long convention of African-American personal history. Beginning with "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings", Angelou made an intentional endeavor while keeping in touch with her books to challenge the standard structure of the self-portrayal by investigating, changing, and extending the class. Her utilization of fiction-composing methods, for example, discourse, portrayal, and topical advancement has regularly driven analysts to arrange her books as personal fiction. Angelou communicated in a 1989 meeting her sentiment that she was the main "genuine" essayist to pick the class to convey what needs be. Angelou reports not one individual's story, yet the collective's. She speaks to the tradition in African-American collection of memoirs, which fills in as an open signal that represents a whole gathering of individuals. As Angelou had done in her past life accounts, she utilizes components of the African-American slave story, including as Lupton puts it, "the adventure, the mission for opportunity; [and] sympathy for the detestations endured by slaves". 

The majority of Angelou's personal histories fit in with the class' standard structure: they are composed by a solitary creator, they are sequential, and they contain components of character, procedure, and subject. Despite the fact that Angelou alluded to her books as collections of memoirs in 1983 meeting with African-American writing pundit Claudia Tate, she recognized that there are anecdotal viewpoints to every one of her books, with the propensity to "wander from the regular idea of life account as truth". When discussing her novel utilization of the class, Angelou recognizes that she pursues the slave story convention of "talking in the primary individual solitary discussing the main individual plural, continually saying I signifying 'we'". McPherson expresses that Angelou is an ace of this self-portraying structure, particularly the "showdown of the Black self inside a general public that takes steps to devastate it", however leaves from it in "Voyaging Shoes" by making the move to Africa. Lupton, alluding to the adventure theme in the book, demands that its story perspective is "again continued through the primary individual autobiographer in movement". 

Angelou perceives that there are anecdotal viewpoints to every one of her books, in spite of the fact that there is less fictionalization in "Voyaging Shoes" than in her past life accounts. Her methodology parallels the traditions of numerous African-American life accounts composed amid the abolitionist time frame in the US, when truth was regularly controlled for reasons for self-insurance. Hagen places Angelou in the long convention of African-American personal history, however demands that Angelou has made an interesting translation of the self-portraying structure. Writer George Plimpton asked her in a 1998 meeting in the event that she changed reality to improve her story; she expressed, "Here and there I make a width from a composite of three or four individuals, in light of the fact that the quintessence in just a single individual isn't adequately solid to be expounded on". Despite the fact that Angelou has never confessed to changing the certainties in her accounts, she fictionalizes them to have an effect and to upgrade her perusers' advantage. Angelou's long-term manager, Robert Loomis expressed that she could have modified any of her books by changing the request of her actualities to have an alternate effect on the peruser. 

For the sole time in Angelou's arrangement, she rehashes a similar scene in detail—her child's car crash—toward the finish of her fourth collection of memoirs "The Heart of a Woman" and the start of this one, a method that both brings together every portion and associates each book in the arrangement with one another. Also, every volume "closes with unexpected tension". It likewise makes a solid and enthusiastic connection between the two self-portrayals. Angelou has said that she utilized this procedure with the goal that each book would remain solitary and to build up the setting in "Voyaging Shoes"— "her identity and what she was doing in Africa". 

In "Voyaging Shoes", Angelou has developed as an essayist to the point that she can try different things with structure. Out of the blue, rather than utilizing conventional numbered sections, the book comprises of accounts isolated with a couple of creeps of void area. Lupton calls these fragments "short stories or vignettes", a procedure that Angelou had utilized previously, to depict dynamic characters, for example, Malcolm X. Angelou's accounts are told inside the setting of as long as she can remember story, yet every vignette can be perused or examined exclusively, without hurting the content's consistency. The majority of Angelou's stories never again center around the acclaimed or her family, yet on Ghanaians; for instance, as per Lupton, her depiction of her houseboy Kojo is her most magnificent character sketch in the book. 

In "Voyaging Shoes", Angelou keeps on exhibiting her qualities as an autobiographer, particularly her capacity to interface candidly with her group of onlookers, which Lupton calls her "great utilization of language in account snapshots of passionate force". As in her past books, Angelou utilizes imaginative illustrations and embodiments of theoretical articles and ideas. Indeed, even her portrayals show the style, created following quite a while of development as an author, of "showing distinctive and enthralling sentences and expressions". Angelou's self-representation of a Black lady and her capacity to convey her incidents decimates generalizations and illustrates "the preliminaries, dismissals, and strengths which such a large number of Black ladies share". Hagen calls this book "intelligent" and its author "thoughtful and profoundly moved". 

Despite the fact that "Voyaging Shoes" can be perused alone, Angelou interfaces the occasions in this book with her past volumes, as she had done all through her arrangement. As McPherson states, "Regular encounters fill in as connections to Angelou's past and accordingly encapsulate incredible implications". Occasions that happen in this book and Angelou's reactions to them inspire prior minutes in her past books; for instance, Angelou reacts to her child's mishap with muteness, as she had reacted to her assault in "Confined Bird". As is standard in life account when all is said in done, she utilizes the scholarly tradition of flashbacks so as to attach this book to its ancestors. She utilizes humor, another tradition she has utilized previously, both to condemn bigotry and to adjust her profound bits of knowledge. She additionally utilizes cites from artistic sources, particularly the Bible, which exhibits that she has not lost contact with her family pulls as she looks for a home and for her personality. 

"Voyaging Shoes" is "all the more firmly controlled" than Angelou's past books, in all probability because of the predominance of the movement theme. Setting, dependably a vital component for Angelou, turns out to be considerably increasingly critical in this book. In contrast to her past books, the greater part of this present book's activity happens in one setting, Accra, which adds to and is firmly associated with her self-awareness. Angelou's sentiments towards living in Ghana are irresolute, which gives "Voyaging Shoes" with extravagance and profundity. Many feel that Angelou's consideration of her visit with "The Blacks" to Berlin and Venice as a deviation that takes away from the African setting, however Lupton considers it to be a commitment to her character advancement and furnishes the book with an "all inclusive quality" as Angelou comes to past the bounds of her own life and experiences bigotry in Germany. Amid this excursion, she comes to see her kindred African-Americans in an unexpected way, as more lively than the Africans she has met in Ghana. 

A noteworthy topic in "Voyaging Shoes", one that numerous commentators ignore, is Angelou's adoration for her child. The subject of parenthood is a standout amongst Angelou's most reliable topics all through her arrangement of personal histories, despite the fact that it doesn't overpower this book as it does in "Assemble in My Name" and "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas". Parenthood is available in a considerable lot of the book's subthemes—her association with her houseboy Kojo, her savor the experience of being classified "Aunt" by numerous African kids, and her sentiments toward "Mother Africa". "Voyaging Shoes" starts with Guy's mishap, his long recuperation, and his mom's response to it, subsequently universalizing the dread of each parent—the demise of a youngster. The fundamental character is a mother of a developed child, so freedom from the day by day duties of parenthood is stressed, yet it is entangled by the acknowledgment that piece of parenthood is giving up, something Angelou battles with. Encounters among Angelou and Guy are insignificant, comprising of their contention over his decision of dating an a lot more seasoned lady and of his requests for independence after she comes back from the Genet visit. Angelou appears to sway between needing to administer him and needing to give up all through this book. Along these lines, as Lupton says, the parenthood subject, similar to the character topic, is "double in nature". 

In the same way as other of her past books, Angelou is clashed about her emotions towards Guy, and is talented at communicating it in this book. One way she communicates her contention is through her hesitant association with Kojo. She contrasts her affections for Kojo and the agony of labor, and he fills in as substitute for Guy. Toward the finish of the book Angelou leaves Guy in Africa to proceed with his instruction, recommending, as Lupton puts it, the "evident end of the mother/child plot". Lupton additionally reports that a few commentators have condemned Angelou for "the stubborn cutting of the maternal ties that she set up all through the arrangement", however Angelou infers in "Voyaging Shoes" that parenthood is never finished. 

Angelou's investigation of her African and African-American personalities is an imperative topic in "Voyaging Shoes". The unions and associations with those she meets in Ghana add to Angelou's personality and development. Her encounters in Ghana helped her deal with her own and recorded past, and before the finish of the book she is prepared to come back to America with a more profound comprehension of both the African and American pieces of her character. McPherson calls Angelou's parallels and associations among Africa and America her "twofold awareness", which add to her comprehension of herself. 

Angelou can perceive similitudes among African and African-American culture; as Lupton puts it, the "blue tunes, yells, and accounts" she has grown up with in America "reverberation the rhythms of West Africa". She perceives the associations among African and American Black societies, including the kids' diversions, the old stories, the spoken and non-verbal dialects, the nourishment, sensibilities, and conduct. She associates the conduct of numerous African mother figures, particularly their liberality, with her grandma's practices. In a standout amongst the most critical areas of "Voyaging Shoes", Angelou describes an experience with a West African lady who perceives her, based on her appearance, as an individual from the Bambara gathering of West Africa. As Lupton states, these and different encounters in Ghana show her development, as a mother who can relinquish her grown-up child, as a lady who is never again subordinate upon a man, and as an American who can "see the underlying foundations of her character" and how they influence her identity. 

Angelou grapples with her troublesome past, both as a relative of Africans taken coercively to America as slaves and as an African-American who has encountered prejudice. As she tells questioner Connie Martinson, she conveyed her child to Ghana to shield him from the negative impacts of bigotry since she didn't think he had the apparatuses to withstand them. She stays in Accra after his mishap since it was horrendous for her also—so awful it lessens her to quietness, like her muteness after she was assaulted as a tyke in "Confined Bird". Her companion Julian Mayfield acquaints her with Efua Sutherland, who turns into Angelou's "Sister companion" and enables her to shout out her agony, distress, and dread, something Angelou later conceded conflicted with her American childhood of passionate limitation. 

Prejudice, a critical topic in the majority of Angelou's personal histories, keeps on being imperative in this book, yet she has developed in the manner in which she manages it in "Voyaging Shoes". Without precedent for Angelou's life, she "doesn't feel compromised by racial despise" in Ghana. She finds a solid emotionally supportive network there, and as Hagen states, she "has made significant progress from the quiet, bashful young lady of Stamps, Arkansas". As Hagen states, Angelou "isn't yet prepared to hurl off the stings of preference, however resilience and even a specific comprehension can be seen". This is exhibited in Angelou's treatment of the "destructive contribution of Africans in slave-exchanging", something that is frequently disregarded or distorted by other Black scholars. Angelou is shown an essential exercise fighting bigotry by Malcolm X, who looks at it to a mountain in which everybody's endeavors, even the endeavors of Shirley Graham DuBois, whom Angelou hates, is required. 

Angelou learns exercises about herself and about prejudice all through "Voyaging Shoes", notwithstanding amid her short voyage through Venice and Berlin for "The Blacks" recovery. She resuscitates her energy for African-American culture as she connects with other African-Americans out of the blue since moving to Ghana. She contrasts her encounters of American bigotry and Germany's history of racial bias and military animosity. The verbal brutality of the people stories shared amid her lunch meeting with her German hosts and Israeli companion is as noteworthy to Angelou as physical viciousness, to the point that she turns out to be sick. Angelou's direct involvement with extremism, just as the bigot sensibilities of the German family she visits, "help shape and expand her continually evolving vision" in regards to racial partiality. 

I never concurred, even as a youngster, with the Thomas Wolfe title "You Can't Go Home Again". Instinctually I didn't. Be that as it may, truly, you can never leave home. You take it with you; it's under your fingernails; it's in the hair follicles; it's in the manner in which you grin; it's in the ride of your hips, in the section of your bosoms; it's everything there, regardless of where you go. You can take on the affectations and the stances of different places and even figure out how to talk their ways. However, in all actuality, home is between your teeth. 

- Maya Angelou, 1990 

The adventure, or travel, is a typical subject in American life account all in all; as McPherson states, it is something of a national legend to Americans as a people. This is likewise the situation for African-American collection of memoirs, which has its foundations in the slave story. Like those stories that attention on the essayists' scan for opportunity from subjugation, current African-American autobiographers, for example, Angelou look to build up "a bona fide self" and the opportunity to discover it in their locale. McPherson expresses, "The adventure to a removed objective, the arrival home, and the journey which includes the voyage out, accomplishment, and return are run of the mill designs in Black collection of memoirs". 

The movement theme is seen all through Angelou's arrangement of self-portrayals, underscoring what Lupton depicts as Angelou's "proceeding with voyage of oneself". Angelou proceeds with the movement theme in "Voyaging Shoes", as confirm in the book's title, yet her essential inspiration in living in Africa, as she told questioner George Plimpton, was "endeavoring to return home". Angelou not just relates her very own voyage of an African-American lady looking for a home, however the adventures of other Black exiles at the time, whom McPherson analyzes to the portrayals of white ostracizes in Europe during the 1920s by Ernest Hemingway and Henry James. 

Angelou was one of more than two hundred Black American ostracizes living in Accra at the time. She had the capacity to locate a little gathering of exiles, entertainingly named "the Revolutionary Returnees", who turned into her primary wellspring of help as she battled with her place in African culture—"the clashing sentiments of being 'home' yet at the same time being 'destitute,' cut off from America without unmistakable roots in their embraced dark country". For some Black Americans, it was the first occasion when they had the capacity to decidedly relate to Africa. Angelou portrays the gathering of Black American exiles as "a little gathering of Black people, searching for a home". Commentator Jackie Gropman has expressed that Angelou presents her perusers with "an abundance of data and infiltrating impressions of the pleased, idealistic new nation of Ghana". Angelou additionally exhibits a "romanticized" perspective on Africa. She "goes gaga for" Ghana and wishes to sink into her new home "as a child cuddles in a mother's arms". 

Angelou before long finds that her individual Black exiles "share comparable dreams" and that their sentiments towards Ghana and its kin are not responded. Lupton states, "Angelou's union with the African-American people group frequently centers around their outrage over the Ghanaians' refusal to completely invite them". Angelou utilizes the parallel showing to King's 1963 March on Washington to exhibit both her and her individual exiles' questionable association with Africa and her craving for full citizenship and osmosis, an "unattainable objective that falls outside of her longing for digestion" and something she can never get in Ghana. Not exclusively is Angelou a Black American, in any case, "she is a Black American estranged abroad". Houston A. Cook, Jr., in his audit of "Voyaging Shoes", expresses that Angelou is unfit to encounter an association with what Angelou calls the "spirit" of Africa, and that Angelou conjectures that just the American Black, coercively dislodged and taken from the home of her progenitors, can genuinely comprehend "that house is where one is made". 

Angelou's issues are settled toward the finish of "Voyaging Shoes" when she chooses to leave Guy to proceed with his training in Accra and come back to America. The last scene of the book is at the Accra airplane terminal, with Angelou encompassed by Guy and her companions as they wish her goodbye. Despite the fact that she "spurns her new grasped union with Mother Africa," she asserts she is "not tragic" to leave. She considers her flight a "second leave-taking", and analyzes it to the last time she left her child, with his grandma in "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas" when he was a kid, and to the constrained takeoff from Africa by her progenitors. As Lupton states, "Angelou's adventure from Africa back to America is in sure ways a repetition of the authentic stage known as mid-entry, when slaves were ruthlessly transported in boats from West Africa to the supposed New World". 

"Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes" was welcomed with both recognition and frustration, in spite of the fact that surveys of the book were commonly positive. As indicated by the Poetry Foundation, "Most pundits have made a decision about Angelou's ensuing collections of memoirs in light of her first, and "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" remains the most exceedingly commended". Hagen states that "Voyaging Shoes", as in her past books, exhibited Angelou's "wide intrigue" to both her perusers and her faultfinders. The book's precision was checked by her dear companion and individual exile Julian Mayfield. 

Despite the fact that "Voyaging Shoes" is Angelou's fifth book in her arrangement of life accounts, it can remain alone. Houston A. Pastry specialist, Jr., in his audit of the book, called Angelou "one of the prodigies of Afro-American sequential collection of memoirs". Questioner Connie Martinson told Angelou, "You make me, the reader...live through it with you". Researcher Eugenia Collier, composing when the likelihood of the distribution of subsequent life accounts in Angelou's arrangement was dubious, considered "Voyaging Shoes" "the zenith toward which different collections of memoirs have pointed". Hagen considered "Voyaging Shoes" "another expert, rich, full, understudy content", and saw a higher-nature of composing, particularly her "regularly expressive and taking off" composition, than in her past books. Different analysts concur. Analyst Janet A. Blundell found the book "engrossing perusing", and commentator Jackie Gropman expressed that the "writing sings". 

A few pundits were less positive in their perspectives on "Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes". Despite the fact that the book left questioner Russell Harris with "an unpleasant inclination", he found the book increasingly "punctilious" than her past books, and suspected that it contained less anecdotal perspectives contrasted with Angelou's different life accounts. Researcher John C. Gruesser found the contentions in the book uncertain and the consummation "excessively effectively made at last to determine the issue of the book". Commentator Deborah E. McDowell concurred, and found the goals of the plot to be "stereotyped and unauthentic".