Adam Eckfeldt 

John Adam Eckfeldt (June 15, 1769 – February 6, 1852; for the most part Adam Eckfeldt) was a laborer and authority in the beginning of the United States Mint. A long lasting Philadelphian, Eckfeldt filled in as the second boss coiner of the Mint, from 1814 until 1839. 

Eckfeldt's dad possessed a vast smithy and included himself in early endeavors at American coinage. Adam Eckfeldt fabricated early presses for the Mint, engraved a portion of its initial kicks the bucket, and was in charge of the plans of early American copper coinage, just as the 1792 half disme which a few specialists consider the primary United States coin. He was selected associate coiner of the Mint in 1796, and ended up boss coiner on his forerunner's demise in 1814. 

Eckfeldt served 25 years as boss coiner, amid which time the Philadelphia Mint moved to new premises. As he put aside unordinary currencies got as bullion, he began the's mint piece bureau, which advanced into the National Numismatic Collection. Indeed, even after his 1839 retirement, Eckfeldt kept on playing out the obligations of boss coiner; his demise in 1852 caused his substitution, Franklin Peale, to look for an associate. 

John Adam Eckfeldt was conceived in Philadelphia on June 15, 1769, the child of John Jacob Eckfeldt, a vast scale maker of edge-instruments and executes. At the time, it was normal for those of German plunge to hold up under the name "John" yet be alluded to by center name. The senior Eckfeldt and his better half Maria Magdalena had moved from Nuremberg, Bavaria, around 1764. John Jacob Eckfeldt, in his extensive smithy, made bites the dust for the 1783 coinage under the Articles of Confederation approved by Philadelphia lender Robert Morris. Adam was his dad's understudy, and was gifted in iron work and apparatus. 

Amid Eckfeldt's youth, the thirteen British provinces along the Atlantic bank of what is currently the United States revolted, thus the United States of America verified its freedom. After the United States Constitution was confirmed, Congress and numerous administration workplaces came to be housed in Philadelphia, including the infant Mint of the United States. Adam Eckfeldt assembled the primary screw press for the new office in 1792, that year that the Mint Act of 1792 was passed by Congress approving a mint, and cut the front kick the bucket for the test Birch penny of that year. He additionally manufactured other hardware for the Mint, and superintended the early authoring. 

In 1792, the Mint procured three adjusts from Eckfeldt, who additionally loaned the Mint his machine (utilized for turning kicks the bucket). Eckfeldt is accepted to have made the bite the dust from which the 1792 half disme, considered by some the main authority U.S. coin, was struck—in 1829, a guest to the Mint met Eckfeldt and later depicted him as "an artist <nowiki>[who]</nowiki> made the primary kick the bucket utilized in it". Other later records report Eckfeldt's job in this striking: a 1863 sale sold a half disme as far as anyone knows given by Eckfeldt to exhibit his work. Eckfeldt is given as the hotspot for the convention that the half dismes were struck in line with President George Washington to be utilized as presents. Eckfeldt worked his screw press to strike these about 1,500 pieces on July 13, 1792. Since the primary Philadelphia Mint was still under development at the time, these coins were delivered in the basement of John Harper, saw creator, at Sixth and Cherry Streets in Philadelphia. In his yearly message to Congress late that year, Washington noticed the continuous development of a mint structure and expressed: "There has likewise been a little start in the coinage of half dismes, the need of little coins available for use pointing out the principal them." 

Eckfeldt additionally delivered an example disme, of which just a couple were struck. At the point when the Mint's first pennies (created in 1793) were observed to be unreasonably rough and pulled in open criticism, Eckfeldt was called upon to structure substitutions. He set a wreath on the back of the penny rather than the first chain, and set a trefoil under Liberty's head on the front-side. He additionally engraved the main half penny kicks the bucket later that year. 

Eckfeldt kept on working irregularly for the Philadelphia Mint; in 1793, he constructed a gadget for consequently sustaining planchets into the pass on neckline and shooting the struck coins, and the mint's records uncover that he did piecework there in July 1795. By October 1795 he was on the mint's finance, as a bite the dust falsifier and turner, at a pay of $500 every year. On January 1, 1796, Mint Director Elias Boudinot delegated him as collaborator coiner, with the assent of President Washington. His obligations in that limit were expansive. 

In 1805, at Boudinot's solicitation, Eckfeldt disposed of a security issue for the Mint by leasing two houses neighboring its tasks, enabling it to close an interior back road to community. The next year, new Mint Director Robert Patterson mentioned a boost in compensation of $200 for Eckfeldt, keeping in touch with President Thomas Jefferson that Eckfeldt had "the administration of the entire authoring division". At the point when the bites the dust utilized demonstrated excessively weak and split effectively, Eckfeldt thought of showering water on the substance of the bite the dust so the steel would temper equitably. 

As a kid, innovator George Escol Sellers knew Eckfeldt; as Sellers' dad was accomplice in a firm which sold hardware to the Mint Bureau, Eckfeldt frequently feasted at his home. In the last years both of the nineteenth century and of Sellers' life, he distributed his journals, including recollections of the primary Philadelphia Mint. He reviewed in 1812 peering through a window to see pennies begat, and Eckfeldt coming into the space to stop the work toward the day's end. Seeing the youthful Sellers, he had the kid come in, had him place a penny planchet on the press, and struck it for him. Venders about dropped it since it was so hot, and Eckfeldt reminded him it had been cold when put in the press. Eckfeldt bade him keep the coin until he realized why the penny had turned out to be hot, and after that he could spend it on sweet. 

On the demise of the principal boss coiner, Henry Voigt, in mid 1814, Eckfeldt was designated by President James Madison as successor. He served in that limit with regards to 25 years. Amid his residency, he kept on improving the hardware at the Philadelphia Mint. 

Eckfeldt put aside "ace coins"— coins hit with additional consideration utilizing new passes on and cleaned planchets. He additionally set aside intriguing remote coins sent to the mint as bullion. These pieces turned into the Mint's Cabinet, or currency accumulation. To fill holes in this gathering, he utilized old passes on to strike postdated coins. Masters have found that a few bites the dust he decided for this reason had not been utilized together to strike coins for business, subsequently making remarkable examples. Among the pieces procured for the Mint was a Brasher doubloon, of which just six are known today. Eckfeldt frequently spent from his very own assets to secure the coins for the Mint. The gathering inevitably developed into the Smithsonian Institution's National Numismatic Collection. 

In 1828, Eckfeldt again wound up engaged with the land exchanges to grow tasks at the Philadelphia Mint. For $1,000, he bought one of the parts he had leased in 1805. After the mint moved to new premises during the 1830s, Eckfeldt found that the parcel he had acquired had a cloud, or abnormality, on its title; he had the capacity to clear it and sold it in 1837 for a similar whole for which he had gotten it. The new mint structure was at Juniper and Chestnut Streets, just six squares from Eckfeldt's home at Juniper and Vine. 

Merchants, in his diaries, depicted Eckfeldt as "a man of staunch honesty, a wary, cautious, efficient and meticulous man; he was not one of the dashing, pushing, creative mechanics, however under his consideration numerous obviously slight upgrades were steadily embraced that in the total added up to a lot in the economy of working. He was in no way, shape or form insufficient in imaginative capacity." Nevertheless, as Eckfeldt matured in the administration of the Mint in the late 1820s and into the 1830s, he was hesitant to embrace the advancements being proposed by his individual Mint officer, Melter and Refiner Franklin Peale. Peale, as Eckfeldt of a mechanical bowed, had numerous proposals for enhancements to the coinage hardware, some of which Eckfeldt embraced. Eckfeldt expressed to Sellers, "If Mr. Peale had full swing he would flip around everything". As indicated by Sellers, "the surrendering of nearly long lasting pets that had been Mr. Eckfeldt's consistent consideration would normally go hard, and still more diligently originating from another division, however as upgrades bit by bit sneaked in and demonstrated their proficiency Mr. Eckfeldt gave full credit where it had a place, and I recollect him ending up very energetic over the work sparing [in the utilization of the Contamin representation lathe] in copying working kicks the bucket". 

In 1833, Peale was sent on a voyage through European mints and got back home with thoughts for new machines and advancements, including the presentation of steam control, utilized at Britain's Royal Mint since 1810 on gear obtained from the firm of Boulton and Watt. Despite the fact that Eckfeldt would have liked to apply steam to the current coin presses, another one was worked for steam power, and dedicatory awards were the primary pieces struck by steam at the Philadelphia Mint, in mid 1836. 

In 1839, Eckfeldt resigned following 25 years as boss coiner and more than forty as a Mint representative. His individual officers at the Mint gave him a gold decoration, with silver and bronze copies likewise struck. The front was planned by Philadelphia etcher Moritz Fuerst, who at times worked for the Mint; the switch might be by Fuerst or by Peale. Eckfeldt prescribed Peale as his successor, and Peale was delegated. By the by, Eckfeldt kept on playing out the elements of boss coiner without pay until a couple of days before his demise on February 6, 1852. After Eckfeldt's demise, Peale, composed what Taxay terms a "wild eyed letter" to Mint Director George N. Eckert, looking for the arrangement of an aide. Peale had invested the opened up energy structuring and selling awards for private increase. 

Eckfeldt wedded twice. No kids were conceived of his short first marriage in 1792 to Maria Hahn, which finished with her demise; his second marriage to Margaretta Bausch created six kids. Among them were his girl Susanna, who wedded William Ewing DuBois, first custodian of the Mint's currency gathering. Jacob Reese Eckfeldt, one of Adam's children, was for a long time (1832– 1872) Assayer of the United States Mint. Jacob's child Jacob Branch Eckfeldt surpassed the two progenitors in time of administration, working at the Mint for a long time, from 1865 to 1929. 

Adam Eckfeldt had a desire for agriculture and claimed rustic property in Upper Darby, Pennsylvania, which was acquired by his two children after his passing. He was the principal leader of the Good Will Fire Company, holding that office for almost the majority of his grown-up life, and planned an arrangement of switches for use in flame motors. An individual from Concordia Lodge No. 67 of the Masonic Order from 1795 to 1806, he filled in as cabin ace in 1803; a Chinese fare porcelain punch bowl with his name and Masonic images makes due in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. A historical sketch of Eckfeldt, distributed in 1897, portrays him: