Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe 

Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe (née Clemm; August 15, 1822 – January 30, 1847) was the spouse of American essayist Edgar Allan Poe. The couple were first cousins and openly hitched when Virginia Clemm was 14 and Poe was 27. Biographers differ with regards to the idea of the couple's relationship. In spite of the fact that their marriage was adoring, a few biographers recommend they saw each other progressively like a sibling and sister. In January 1842 she contracted tuberculosis, deteriorating for a long time until she passed on of the illness at 24 years old in the family's house, around then outside New York City. 

Alongside other relatives, Virginia Clemm and Edgar Allan Poe lived respectively now and again for quite a long while before their marriage. The couple frequently moved to suit Poe's work, living irregularly in Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York. A couple of years after their wedding, Poe was associated with a generous embarrassment including Frances Sargent Osgood and Elizabeth F. Ellet. Gossipy tidbits about passionate mistakes on her better half's part influenced Virginia Poe such a great amount of that on her deathbed she guaranteed that Ellet had killed her. After her passing, her body was in the long run set under a similar remembrance marker as her significant other's in Westminster Hall and Burying Ground in Baltimore, Maryland. Just a single picture of Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe has been validated: a watercolor representation painted a few hours after her demise. 

The illness and inevitable demise of his significant other substantially affected Edgar Allan Poe, who wound up sorrowful and swung to liquor to adapt. Her battles with disease and passing are accepted to have influenced his verse and writing, where biting the dust young ladies show up as an incessant theme, as in "Annabel Lee", "The Raven", and "Ligeia". 

Virginia Eliza Clemm was conceived in 1822 and named after a more seasoned sister who had kicked the bucket at age two just ten days sooner. Her dad William Clemm, Jr. was an equipment vendor in Baltimore. He had hitched Maria Poe, Virginia's mom, on July 12, 1817, after the demise of his first spouse, Maria's first cousin Harriet. Clemm had five youngsters from his past marriage and proceeded to have three more with Maria. After his passing in 1826, he left almost no to the family and relatives offered no monetary help since they had restricted the marriage. Maria upheld the family by sewing and taking in visitors, supported with a yearly $240 benefits allowed to her mom Elizabeth Cairnes, who was incapacitated and out of commission. Elizabeth got this annuity for her late spouse, "General" David Poe, a previous officer in Maryland who had advanced cash to the state. 

Edgar Poe initially met his cousin Virginia in August 1829, four months after his release from the Army. She was seven at the time. In 1832, the family – made up of Elizabeth, Maria, Virginia, and Virginia's sibling Henry – had the capacity to utilize Elizabeth's benefits to lease a home at what was then 3 North Amity Street in Baltimore. Poe's more seasoned sibling William Henry Leonard Poe, who had been living with the family, had as of late kicked the bucket on August 1, 1831. Poe joined the family unit in 1833 and was soon stricken by a neighbor named Mary Devereaux. The youthful Virginia filled in as a delegate between the two, at one point recovering a lock of Devereaux's hair to provide for Poe. Elizabeth Cairnes Poe kicked the bucket on July 7, 1835, successfully finishing the family's pay and making their monetary circumstance considerably progressively troublesome. Henry kicked the bucket around this time, at some point before 1836, leaving Virginia as Maria Clemm's solitary enduring tyke. 

In August 1835, Poe deserted the desperate family and moved to Richmond, Virginia to take a vocation at the "Southern Literary Messenger". While Poe was from Baltimore, another cousin, Neilson Poe, the spouse of Virginia's relative Josephine Clemm, heard that Edgar was thinking about wedding Virginia. Neilson offered to take her in and have her informed trying to keep the young lady's marriage to Edgar at such a youthful age, however proposing that the alternative could be reexamined later. Edgar called Neilson, the proprietor of a paper in Baltimore, Maryland, his "bitterest adversary" and translated his cousin's activities as an endeavor at breaking his association with Virginia. On August 29, 1835, Edgar composed an enthusiastic letter to Maria, announcing that he was "blinded with tears while composing", and arguing that she enable Virginia to settle on her own choice. Empowered by his work at the "Southern Literary Messenger", Poe offered to give monetarily to Maria, Virginia and Henry on the off chance that they moved to Richmond. 

Marriage plans were affirmed and Poe came back to Baltimore to petition for a marriage permit on September 22, 1835. The couple may have been unobtrusively hitched too, however accounts are indistinct. Their solitary open function was in Richmond on May 16, 1836, when they were hitched by a Presbyterian serve named Rev. Amasa Converse. Poe was 27 and Virginia was 13, however her age was recorded as 21. This marriage bond was documented in Richmond and incorporated an oath from Thomas W. Cleland affirming the lady of the hour's supposed age. The service was held at night at the home of a Mrs. James Yarrington, the proprietor of the motel in which Poe, Virginia, and Virginia's mom Maria Clemm were remaining. Yarrington helped Maria Clemm heat the wedding cake and arranged a wedding feast. The couple at that point had a short special first night in Petersburg, Virginia. 

Discussion has seethed with respect to how unordinary this blending depended on the couple's age and blood relationship. Noted Poe biographer Arthur Hobson Quinn contends it was not especially uncommon, nor was Poe's nicknaming his better half "Sissy" or "Sister". Another Poe biographer, Kenneth Silverman, fights that however their first-cousin marriage was not strange, her young age was. It has been recommended that Clemm and Poe had a relationship more like that among sibling and sister than among a couple. Biographer Arthur Hobson Quinn couldn't help contradicting this view, refering to an intense love letter to contend that Poe "adored his little cousin with the love of a sibling, yet additionally with the enthusiastic commitment of a sweetheart and forthcoming spouse." Some researchers, including Marie Bonaparte, have perused a considerable lot of Poe's functions as self-portraying and have inferred that Virginia kicked the bucket a virgin. It has been guessed that she and her significant other never culminated their marriage, albeit no proof is given. This understanding regularly accept that Virginia is spoken to by the title character in the ballad "Annabel Lee": a "lady... by the name of Annabel Lee". Poe biographer Joseph Wood Krutch proposes that Poe did not require ladies "in the manner in which that ordinary men need them", yet just as a wellspring of motivation and care, and that Poe was never intrigued by ladies explicitly. Companions of Poe proposed that the couple did not share a bed for in any event the initial two years of their marriage yet that, from the time she turned 16, they had a "typical" wedded life until the beginning of her sickness. 

Virginia and Poe were apparently a cheerful and dedicated couple. Poe's one-time manager George Rex Graham composed of their relationship: "His adoration for his better half was a kind of blissful love of the soul of magnificence." Poe once kept in touch with a companion, "I see nobody among the living as delightful as my little spouse." She, thus, by numerous contemporary records, almost worshiped her significant other. She frequently sat near him while he composed, maintained his pens in control, and collapsed and tended to his original copies. She demonstrated her adoration for Poe in an acrostic sonnet she made when she was 23, dated February 14, 1846: 

The "squealing of numerous tongues" in Virginia's Valentine lyric was a reference to real occurrences. In 1845, Poe had started a tease with Frances Sargent Osgood, a wedded 34-year-old artist. Virginia knew about the fellowship and may even have energized it. She frequently welcomed Osgood to visit them at home, trusting that the more established lady had a "controlling" impact on Poe, who had made a guarantee to "surrender the utilization of stimulants" and was never tanked in Osgood's quality. 

In the meantime, another writer, Elizabeth F. Ellet, wound up enchanted of Poe and desirous of Osgood. However, in a letter to Sarah Helen Whitman, Poe called her affection for him "terrible" and composed that he "could do only repulse [it] with contempt", he printed huge numbers of her lyrics to him in the "Broadway Journal" while he was its supervisor. Ellet was known for being nosy and malignant and, while visiting the Poe family unit in late January 1846, she saw one of Osgood's own letters to Poe. As per Ellet, Virginia called attention to "frightful sections" in Osgood's letter. Ellet reached Osgood and proposed she ought to be careful with her thoughtless activities and requested that Poe return her letters, spurred either by envy or by a longing to cause outrage. Osgood then sent Margaret Fuller and Anne Lynch Botta to ask Poe for her sake to restore the letters. Maddened by their impedance, Poe called them "Rubbernecks" and said that Ellet would be advised to "care for her "own" letters", recommending rashness on her part. He at that point got together these letters from Ellet and left them at her home. 

Despite the fact that these letters had just been come back to her, Ellet asked her sibling "to "request of me the letters"". Her sibling, Colonel William Lummis, did not trust that Poe had just returned them and taken steps to murder him. So as to safeguard himself, Poe mentioned a gun from Thomas Dunn English. English, Poe's companion and a minor author who was additionally a prepared specialist and legal counselor, similarly did not trust that Poe had just restored the letters and even scrutinized their reality. The most straightforward way out of the issue, he stated, "was a withdrawal of unwarranted charges". Enraged at being known as a liar, Poe pushed English into a fistfight. Poe later guaranteed he was triumphant in the battle, however English asserted something else, and Poe's face was gravely cut by one of English's rings. In Poe's variant, he stated, "I gave E. a whipping which he will recollect to the day of his demise." Either way, the battle additionally started tattle over the Osgood issue. 

Osgood's better half ventured in and took steps to sue Ellet except if she formally apologized for her implications. She withdrew her announcements in a letter to Osgood saying, "The letter appeared by Mrs Poe "probably been a phony"" made by Poe himself. She put all the fault on Poe, recommending the occurrence was on the grounds that Poe was "inordinate and subject to demonstrations of lunacy". Ellet spread the gossip of Poe's madness, which was taken up by different foes of Poe and announced in papers. The St. Louis "Reveille" revealed: "talk is available for use in New York, such that Mr. Edgar A. Poe, the artist and creator, has been unsettled, and his companions are going to put him under the charge of Dr. Brigham of the Insane Retreat at Utica." The embarrassment inevitably faded away just when Osgood rejoined with her better half. Virginia, nonetheless, had been influenced by the entire undertaking. She had gotten mysterious letters about her significant other's supposed careless activities as ahead of schedule as July 1845. It is assumed that Ellet was included with these letters, and they so aggravated Virginia that she supposedly proclaimed on her deathbed that "Mrs. E. had been her killer." 

At this point, Virginia had created utilization, first observed at some point amidst January 1842. While singing and playing the piano, Virginia started to seep from the mouth, however Poe said she only "cracked a vein". Her wellbeing declined and she turned into an invalid, which drove Poe into a profound sorrow, particularly as she once in a while hinted at progress. In a letter to a companion, Poe depicted his subsequent mental express: "Each time I felt every one of the miseries of her demise—and at each promotion of the turmoil I adored her all the more beyond all doubt and clung to her existence with progressively urgent pertinacity. Yet, I am naturally touchy—anxious in a surprising degree. I ended up crazy, with long interims of ghastly rational soundness." 

Virginia's condition may have been what incited the Poe family to move, with expectations of finding a more advantageous condition for her. They moved a few times inside Philadelphia in the mid 1840s and their last home in that city is currently safeguarded as the Edgar Allan Poe National Historic Site in Spring Garden. In this home, Virginia was all around ok to tend the blossom garden and engage guests by playing the harp or the piano and singing. The family at that point moved to New York at some point toward the beginning of April 1844, going via train and steamboat. Virginia looked out for board the ship while her significant other verified space at a lodging on Greenwich Street. By mid 1846, family companion Elizabeth Oakes Smith said that Virginia conceded, "I realize I will kick the bucket soon; I realize I can't recover; yet I need to be as cheerful as could reasonably be expected, and fulfill Edgar." She guaranteed her better half that after her demise she would be his watchman holy messenger. 

In May 1846, the family (Poe, Virginia, and her mom, Maria) moved to a little house in Fordham, around fourteen miles outside the city, a home which is as yet standing today. In what is the main enduring letter from Poe to Virginia, dated June 12, 1846, he encouraged her to stay idealistic: "Keep up your heart in all misery, and trust yet somewhat more." Of his ongoing loss of the "Broadway Journal", the main magazine Poe claimed, he stated, "I ought to have lost my bravery "yet for you"— my dear little spouse you are my "most noteworthy" and "just" improvement currently to fight with this uncongenial, unsuitable and careless life." But by November of that year, Virginia's condition was sad. Her side effects included unpredictable hunger, flushed cheeks, temperamental heartbeat, night sweats, high fever, abrupt chills, shortness of breath, chest torments, hacking and spitting up blood. 

Nathaniel Parker Willis, a companion of Poe's and a compelling proofreader, distributed a declaration on December 30, 1846, mentioning help for the family, however his certainties were not by any means right: 

Willis, who had not compared with Poe for a long time and had since lost his own significant other, was one of his most prominent supporters in this period. He sent Poe and his significant other an uplifting Christmas book, "The Marriage Ring; or How to Make a Home Happy". 

The declaration was like one made for Poe's mom, Eliza Poe, amid her last phases of tuberculosis. Different papers grabbed on the story: "Extraordinary God!", said one, "is it conceivable, that the scholarly individuals of the Union, will give poor Poe a chance to die by starvation and lean confronted beggary in New York? For so we are persuaded, from incessant notification in the papers, expressing that Poe and his better half are both downward on a bed of hopelessness, demise, and infection, with not a ducat on the planet." The "Saturday Evening Post" attested that Virginia was in a miserable condition and that Poe was dispossessed: "It is said that Edgar A. Poe is lying perilously with cerebrum fever, and that his better half is in the last phases of utilization—they are without cash and without companions." Even editorial manager Hiram Fuller, whom Poe had already sued for criticism, endeavored in the "New York Mirror" to accumulate support for Poe and his significant other: "We, whom he has fought with, will lead the pack", he composed. 

Virginia was portrayed as having dull hair and violet eyes, with skin so pale it was classified "unadulterated white", causing an "awful appearance that ruined her looks". One guest to the Poe family noticed that "the rose-tint upon her cheek was excessively brilliant", potentially a manifestation of her sickness. Another guest in Fordham stated, "Mrs. Poe looked youthful; she had substantial bruised eyes, and a silvery whiteness of composition, which was an ideal paleness. Her pale face, her splendid eyes, and her raven hair gave her a ridiculous look." That absurd look was referenced by other people who recommended it made her look not exactly human. William Gowans, who once held up with the family, portrayed Virginia as a lady of "supreme excellence and flawlessness, her eye could coordinate that of any houri, and her face challenge the virtuoso of a Canova to copy". She may have been somewhat stout. Numerous contemporary records just as present day biographers comment on her honest appearance even in the most recent long periods of her life. 

While passing on, Virginia asked her mom: "Dear... will you comfort and deal with my poor Eddy—you will "never" abandon him?" Her mom remained with Poe until his own demise in 1849. As Virginia was kicking the bucket, the family gotten numerous guests, including an old companion named Mary Starr. At a certain point Virginia put Starr's turn in Poe's and approached her to "be a companion to Eddy, and don't neglect him". Virginia was tended to by 25-year-old Marie Louise Shew. Shew, who filled in as an attendant, knew therapeutic consideration from her dad and her better half, the two specialists. She furnished Virginia with a sofa-bed as her solitary other spread was Poe's old military shroud, just as containers of wine, which the invalid drank "grinning, notwithstanding when hard to get it down". Virginia additionally demonstrated Poe a letter from Louisa Patterson, second spouse of Poe's non-permanent dad John Allan, which she had kept for a considerable length of time and which proposed that Patterson had deliberately caused the break among Allan and Poe. 

On January 29, 1847, Poe wrote to Marie Louise Shew: "My poor Virginia still lives, albeit flopping quick and now enduring much agony." 

Virginia kicked the bucket the next day, January 30, following five years of sickness. Shew helped in arranging her memorial service, notwithstanding obtaining the pine box. Demise sees showed up in a few papers. On February 1, The New York "Day by day Tribune" and the "Envoy" conveyed the basic eulogy: "On Saturday, the 30th ult., of aspiratory utilization, in the 25th year of her age, VIRGINIA ELIZA, spouse of EDGAR A. POE." The burial service was February 2, 1847. Participants included Nathaniel Parker Willis, Ann S. Stephens, and distributer George Pope Morris. Poe would not take a gander at his dead spouse's face, saying he wanted to recollect her living. Despite the fact that currently covered at Westminster Hall and Burying Ground, Virginia was initially covered in a vault claimed by the Valentine family, from whom the Poes leased their Fordham bungalow. 

Just a single picture of Virginia is known to exist, for which the painter needed to accept her cadaver as model. A couple of hours after her demise, Poe acknowledged he had no picture of Virginia thus charged a representation in watercolor. She is appeared "delightful material" that Shew said she had dressed her in; Shew may have been the picture's craftsman, however this is dubious. The picture portrays her with a slight twofold jawline and with hazel eyes. The picture was passed down to the group of Virginia's stepsister Josephine, spouse of Neilson Poe. 

In 1875, that year in which her better half's body was reburied, the graveyard in which she lay was obliterated and her remaining parts were nearly overlooked. An early Poe biographer, William Gill, accumulated the bones and put away them in a case he covered up under his bed. Gill's story was accounted for in the "Boston Herald" twenty-seven years after the occasion: he says that he had visited the Fordham graveyard in 1883 at precisely the minute that the sexton Dennis Valentine held Virginia's bones in his scoop, prepared to discard them as unclaimed. Poe himself had passed on in 1849, thus Gill took Virginia's remaining parts and, in the wake of relating with Neilson Poe and John Prentiss Poe in Baltimore, organized to bring the crate down to be laid on Poe's left side in a little bronze coffin. Virginia's remaining parts were at last covered with her better half's on January 19, 1885—the seventy-6th commemoration of her significant other's introduction to the world and almost ten years after his present landmark was raised. A similar man who filled in as sexton amid Poe's unique internment and his exhumations and reburials was additionally present at the ceremonies which conveyed his body to rest with Virginia and Virginia's mom Maria Clemm. 

Virginia's passing significantly affected Poe. After her demise, Poe was profoundly disheartened for a while. A companion said of him, "the loss of his better half was a tragic hit to him. He didn't appear to mind, after she was gone, regardless of whether he experienced 60 minutes, multi day, a week or a year; she was his every one of the." A year after her passing, he kept in touch with a companion that he had encountered the best malicious a man can endure when, he stated, "a spouse, whom I cherished as no man at any point adored previously", had become sick. While Virginia was all the while attempting to recoup, Poe swung to liquor in the wake of avoiding for a long while. How regularly and the amount he drank is a dubious issue, bantered in Poe's lifetime and furthermore by present day biographers. Poe alluded to his passionate reaction to his significant other's infection as his own disease, and that he found the fix to it "in the "demise" of my better half. This I can and do suffer as turns into a man—it was the awful endless wavering between expectation and depression which I could "not" longer have suffered without the complete loss of reason". 

Poe routinely visited Virginia's grave. As his companion Charles Chauncey Burr expressed, "Commonly, after the demise of his cherished spouse, was he found at the dead hour of a winter night, sitting next to her tomb nearly solidified in the snow". Not long after Virginia's passing, Poe sought a few other ladies, including Nancy Richmond of Lowell, Massachusetts, Sarah Helen Whitman of Providence, Rhode Island, and youth sweetheart Sarah Elmira Royster in Richmond. All things being equal, Frances Sargent Osgood, whom Poe likewise endeavored to charm, trusted "that [Virginia] was the main lady whom he cherished". 

A considerable lot of Poe's works are translated personally, with quite a bit of his work accepted to mirror Virginia's long battle with tuberculosis and her inevitable demise. The most talked about model is "Annabel Lee". This lyric, which delineates a dead youthful lady and her grieving darling, is frequently expected to have been propelled by Virginia, however other ladies throughout Poe's life are potential applicants including Frances Sargent Osgood and Sarah Helen Whitman. A comparative lyric, "Ulalume", is likewise accepted to be a dedication tribute to Virginia, as seems to be "Lenore", whose title character is depicted as "the most exquisite dead that ever kicked the bucket so youthful!" After Poe's passing, George Gilfillan of the London-based "Faultfinder" said Poe was in charge of his better half's demise, "rushing her to an untimely grave, that he may compose 'Annabel Lee' and 'The Raven'". The previously mentioned commentator was either unconcerned with, or uninformed of, the way that "The Raven" was composed and distributed two years before Virginia's demise. 

Virginia is likewise found in Poe's writing. The short story "Eleonora" (1842)— which includes a storyteller getting ready to wed his cousin, with whom he lives nearby her mom—may likewise allude to Virginia's disease. At the point when Poe composed it, his significant other had quite recently started to hint at her disease. It was presently that the couple moved to New York City by watercraft and Poe distributed "The Oblong Box" (1844). This story, which demonstrates a man grieving his young spouse while transporting her cadaver by vessel, appears to recommend Poe's emotions about Virginia's looming demise. As the ship sinks, the spouse would prefer to bite the dust than be isolated from his significant other's body. The short story "Ligeia", whose title character endures a moderate and waiting demise, may likewise be propelled by Virginia. After his better half's passing, Poe altered his initially distributed story, "Metzengerstein", to expel the storyteller's line, "I would wish all I want to die of that delicate malady", a reference to tuberculosis. 

In track 9 of their 2008 presentation collection "Le Pop", Norwegian band Katzenjammer played out a tune entitled "Virginia Clemm". Set to the tune of a melodic clock, the tune's verses allude to Virginia's initial marriage at 13 years old ("He was a tyke I was a tyke/Sentimental and wild"), to her significant other's supposed undertakings ("The other lady to clarify/Her letters I despise"), to her less than ideal passing ("For twelve brief years/We lived out of wellbeing"), to the band's apparent fixations of Poe's ensuing fixation on his better half's demise ("Heir of my ailment/Writer of the considerable number of stories and the words/That I'm frequenting/That I'm frequenting") just as insinuating, in the last section ("And I'll abandon you nevermore"), to the sonnet "The Raven".