S. O. Davies 

Stephen Owen Davies (before 1889 – 25 February 1972), by and large known as S. O. Davies, was a Welsh digger, worker's organization authority and Labor Party government official, who filled in as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Merthyr Tydfil from 1950 to 1972, and already Merthyr from 1934 to 1950. In 1970, when well past 80, he was deselected as parliamentary hopeful by his nearby gathering relationship because of his age. He battled the supporters in the 1970 general race as an Independent and won easily, an uncommon precedent in British legislative issues of an autonomous hopeful overcoming a noteworthy gathering's association. 

Most official records demonstrate Davies' introduction to the world date as November 1886, however he is generally thought to have been conceived somewhere around four years sooner. In the wake of leaving school matured 12 and working for certain years in nearby pits, Davies examined mining designing and later took an Arts degree at University College, Cardiff. He came back to the coalfields in 1913, and set up a notoriety for militancy. In 1918 he was chosen diggers' operator for the Dowlais area of the South Wales Miners' Federation (SWMF), and in 1924 was selected SWMF's central coordinator, legitimate counselor, and VP. After a visit to Moscow in 1922 he turned into a firm supporter of the Soviet Union, a position he kept up for an incredible remainder. 

After his decision to parliament in 1934, Davies was a reliable supporter for the interests of Merthyr Tydfil and the Welsh mining network. To a great extent apathetic regarding party discipline, he resisted official Labor approach by advocating such causes as demobilization and Welsh patriotism. His constancy in doing as such presented to him a few suspensions from the gathering, and he was never offered clerical office. A tremendously prominent figure locally, he was normally returned at general races with vast greater parts. In 1966, after a precarious colliery ruin tip crumbled on the town of Aberfan with the loss of 144 lives, Davies questionably expressed that he had long suspected that the tip was perilous. He had not announced his doubts, for dread that a request would cause the terminations of nearby pits. Not long after his surprising 1970 appointive triumph, Davies passed on from the get-go in 1972 matured something like 85 and conceivably at least 90. 

There is vulnerability about Davies' date of birth. Most records state November 1886, however for the most part with the admonition that he may have been brought into the world quite a long while prior. His origin was 39 John Street, Abercwmboi (at that point known as Cap Coch) in the South Wales coalfields, the fourth offspring of Thomas Davies and his better half Esther. Thomas was an excavator and worker's guild dissident, who under the nom de plume "Llwynog" ("the Fox") composed a section for the Welsh language paper "Tarian y Gweithiwr" ("The Worker's Shield"), in which he chided pit the board and security rehearses. His general militancy prompted his boycotting by pit proprietors, and after spells of joblessness he in the long run looked for some kind of employment as a protection specialist. 

Davies went to the nearby Cap Coch school, leaving at 12 years old, as was normal around then, to start work in the Cwmpennar coal mineshaft. He stayed there until the mine was depleted in 1905, when he moved to Mountain Ash to work at Nixon's Navigation Colliery. His desire and knowledge were immediately perceived by his bosses, and he was urged to examine mining designing, at first locally in Aberdare and, in 1907, at the Royal College of Science in London. In 1908, with sponsorship from the Brecon Memorial College, he passed his registration and started concentrating for a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree at University College, Cardiff, with a view from that point to entering the maverick service. Be that as it may, Davies' religious convictions were impacted by R. J. Campbell, a prominent evangelist who dismissed much conventional Christian educating and attested that communism was the down to earth articulation of Christianity. Davies' relationship with such guessed blasphemies was unsatisfactory to the Brecon school, which pulled back its budgetary help. 

In spite of this loss of sponsorship, Davies finished his investigations and graduated in 1913. His arrangements to enter the service were relinquished; he was a functioning individual from the Independent Labor Party (ILP), and his religious business had been supplanted by a promise to regular workers legislative issues. In 1913, while still an understudy, he represented race to Cardiff's Board of Guardians, as the ILP hopeful in the Grangetown ward. This first invasion into discretionary legislative issues finished in a thin thrashing, by 47 cast a ballot. 

After graduation, Davies came back to work in the mines, at first at Tumble in the Gwendraeth Valley. In December 1913 he fruitlessly looked for race as excavators' sub-operator for the Anthracite Miners' region of the SWMF. At the point when the First World War started in August 1914 he contradicted it as entrepreneur militarism: "History trains that war constantly acquires its wake a lower standard of profound quality, a confinement of the freedom of the majority, and a debasement of their social conditions". In 1917 Davies established and was first administrator of the Burry Port and Gwendraeth Valley Trades and Labor Council. He was at first chosen as the Labor contender for the Llanelli body electorate in the 1918 general decision, yet remained down when the SWMF sponsored his opponent, J. H. Williams. 

In 1918 Davies looked for the situation of excavators' operator for the Dowlais region of the SWMF. Against solid challenge—his primary rival was William Mainwaring, later a long-serving Labor MP for Rhondda East—Davies was triumphant by 100 votes. The principle job of the specialist was to speak to diggers in debate with their bosses; regularly these would include issues of pay, repetition, working hours, and pay for wounds. Davies' enduring day books uncover the degree to which he was worried about situations where the digging organizations denied risk for underground wounds. 

In 1919 Davies wedded Margaret ("Madge") Eley from Cardiff; three little girls were in this manner conceived. The years following the First World War saw financial decay and hardship in the South Wales coalfields, conditions which extended Davies' extreme impulses, and he started to gain a notoriety for militancy. As opposed to standard Labor Party strategy, Davies upheld specialists' control instead of the nationalization of the mining business. In 1921 he ineffectively upheld association of the Miners' Federation of Great Britain (MFGB, forerunner of the National Union of Mineworkers or NUM) with the Red International of Labor Unions (RILU). The next year he was an agent from the SWMF to the Second World Congress of the RILU in Moscow, and procured a warm compassion towards the Soviet framework. He didn't, be that as it may, join the as of late framed Communist Party of Great Britain, and stayed inside the Labor Party. 

In 1924 Davies was designated SWMF's central coordinator and lawful guide, and was chosen its VP. He likewise filled in as the South Wales agent on the official board of trustees of the MFGB from 1924 to 1934. Amid the May 1926 general strike, the South Wales diggers were among the most intense in help of the activity. At the point when the national strike fallen following nine days, Davies drove the proceeded with opposition from the Welsh coalfields through long periods of lockout, before capitulation on cruel terms in December. Dowlais was the last locale to come back to work. The period following 1926 was set apart by much in-battling among socialist and non-socialist groups in the coalfields. Davies and other non-socialists wound up blamed for coordinated effort with "social dictatorship"; a handout issued by the socialist drove National Minority Movement named him "the hoax activist". By and by, he kept on working for participation between all groups on the left. After Hitler came to control in Germany in 1933, Davies contended for solidarity around the Labor Party, trusting that the ILP's undeniably left-wing position, and the Communist Party's promise to brutal unrest, may make the conditions for extremism. In 1931 Davies was chosen to Merthyr Tydfil Borough Council. 

At the point when Richard Wallhead, the Labor MP for Merthyr, kicked the bucket on 27 April 1934, Davies was chosen as the gathering's contender for the June by-race, with the help of the MFGB. Wallhead had held the seat since 1922, with vast dominant parts; in the 1931 general decision he had crushed a solitary rival, an applicant from Oswald Mosley's New Party who had gotten inferred support from the Conservative Party. Davies confronted resistance from the Liberal Party, the Communist Party and the ILP. With no hopeful from the decision National Government in the field, Davies was denied a conspicuous focus for assault; as the "Manchester Guardian" expressed in its pre-survey examination, he was put on edge: "His is the discouraging errand of endeavoring to lose as few votes as could be expected under the circumstances". The paper anticipated a nearby outcome. 

Utilizing the trademark "Harmony, Prosperity, Security, Freedom", Davies supported the augmentation of open possession, nullification of the methods test, expanded joblessness advantage, better instruction, and universal co-task particularly with Russia. He expelled the ILP as having no capacity past the part of the Labor vote. With solid help from the nearby worker's guilds and aided by an efficient crusade, Davies cleared to a simple triumph on 5 June. His 18,645 votes gave him a lion's share of 8,269 over his Liberal adversary, with his ILP and Communist challengers falling a long ways behind. 

Davies gave his lady discourse in the House of Commons on 21 June 1934. Breaking with the convention that such talks ought to be non-fanatic, he conveyed a savage assault on the administration's arrangement towards the mining business. He had come, he stated, from a coalfield that "has had next to no assistance from the present government ... we see networks with an extraordinary mechanical history dissolving and crumbling". A firm methodology on any inquiries influencing Merthyr Tydfil, or the mining business by and large, turned into Davies' parliamentary trademark. In December 1934 he reproached the veteran Conservative MP Nancy Astor when she alluded to Merthyr as having "no social cognizance or activity to do anything". Davies answered: "I article to untrustworthy and merciless charges originating from individuals whose learning is gotten from the satisfaction in tremendous riches, particularly when I am not sure that they have made their commitment towards delivering that riches". 

In 1934, two years after his significant other Margaret's passing from malignant growth, Davies wedded Sephora Davies, a teacher from Gwaun-Cae-Gurwen in Carmarthenshire who shared Davies' political viewpoint. The couple inhabited Gwynfryn Park Terrace in Merthyr Tydfil, and had two children. In November 1936, having been returned in the 1935 general decision with an expanded greater part, Davies derided the PM, Stanley Baldwin, for his refusal to meet an assignment from the National Unemployed Workers' Movement's 1936 Hunger March, which incorporated a huge unforeseen from South Wales: "A greater man would meet these individuals who have tramped the streets of this nation and would demonstrate that he had compassion for them". In 1938, having changed his prior position, Davies upheld a bill presented by the Labor restriction for the nationalization of the coal business. Diggers worked, he stated, in unbearable conditions to guarantee that shoddy crude material was accessible to industry. Sensible wages and working conditions could never be allowed by private coal-proprietors. The bill was crushed. 

As Europe moved towards war in the late 1930s, Davies contradicted the submission strategies of the Chamberlain government. He questioned the desire of the British decision classes to wage a decided war against extremism, and required a specialists' "Prevalent Front" of protection from the despots. After the flare-up of war in September 1939 Davies requested from the British government "an increasingly explicit and definite explanation" of war points, to relieve "suspicions ... with regards to the genuine and conceivably up 'til now implicit war points of this nation and of France". He censured Labor's choice in May 1940 to join Churchill's wartime alliance government, and from there on contradicted a considerable lot of the alliance's residential strategies, for example, aimless internment of outsiders, limitations on modern activity, and the concealment of the socialist paper the "Every day Worker". The sharpness of Davies' own assault on Herbert Morrison, the Home Secretary who had approved the paper's conclusion, stunned even the British Communist Party's general secretary, Harry Pollitt, who forewarned Davies that "individual maltreatment has been our stock-in-exchange for a long time and has accomplished nothing for us". 

In contrast to the British socialists, Davies did not change his position when the Soviet Union entered the war in June 1941. He kept on restricting all co-activity with the Conservatives, trusting that just through communism could a fair and enduring harmony be accomplished. Triumph in 1945, and the ensuing race of a Labor government, did little to influence Davies' independence. In the Labor years 1945– 51 he restricted government arrangements on induction, NATO, the improvement of atomic weapons, and mediation in the Korean War. As indicated by his biographer Robert Griffiths, it was disdain of entrepreneur militarism, as opposed to a desire to help the Soviet Union, that underlay Davies' positions. His prevalence in South Wales was unaffected: he was come back to parliament in each after war race with vast greater parts. In 1945– 46 he filled in as Merthyr Tydfil's civic chairman, staying on the nearby gathering until 1949. 

In surveying Davies' political profession the history specialist Alun Morgan takes note of specific irregularities: while calling for solidarity among radical groups, Davies every now and again opposed concurred Labor Party strategies. He advocated vote based system, singular freedom and the privileges of little countries, yet gave the Soviet Union his unvarying and uncritical help. In any case, he was steady in certain center territories, regularly in insubordination of authority Labor strategy: unremitting antagonistic vibe toward US outside arrangement, resistance to the gathering's post-war protection strategies (explicitly on issues concerning American bases in Britain, rearmament in West Germany, and advancement of the Polaris submarine program), or more all responsibility to the requirements and interests of his Merthyr constituents. His devotion to his own plan carried him into continuous clash with gathering directors, and prompted withdrawals of the gathering whip all through the 1960s. Expressing his situation in a 1948 letter to the Labor Party general secretary Morgan Phillips, he stated: "Our development grasps a large number of people, and not only a couple of hundred MPs and a couple of dozen ... individuals from the National Executive. I am routinely disposed to give our millions my first contemplations and thought." Davies' ubiquity with the voters of Merthyr Tydfil stayed steady; he verified 75 percent or a greater amount of the vote in every one of the general races of 1955, 1959, 1964 and 1966. 

In December 1951 Sephora Davies was ousted from the Labor Party in light of her nearby relationship with a prohibited association, the British Soviet Friendship Society. Davies' profound roots in the Labor development, and his expansive base of neighborhood support, spared him from a comparative destiny. In June 1953 he was assaulted by Will Lawther, the NUM president, for resisting the Labor Party's position and supporting the Soviet case that a specialists' ascending in East Germany had been coordinated by "a CIA-supported West-German expert extremist association". Lawther requested that the neighborhood Merthyr Tydfil party deselect Davies as their parliamentary applicant, however they stood firm. 

Davies got himself again inconsistent with his gathering, over the issue of Welsh self-government. He had advocated this reason for a long time, to the inconvenience of Labor's Welsh Regional Council. In May 1954 he offered proposition for a Welsh parliament that were dismissed by the Regional Council and by the South Wales Area meeting of the NUM. Davies continued on, and on 4 March 1955 presented in the House of Commons a private part's bill proposing self-government for Wales based on the prematurely ended 1914 act that would have conceded home standard to Ireland. Davies professed to have gotten a huge number of messages of help for his measure, from all pieces of Wales, however in the House he could just assemble 14 cast a ballot in support. Determined, he told MPs: "There is a development in Wales, an uprising, in a manner of speaking, that won't just help the bill however will keep on demanding it until Wales is spoken to in the United Kingdom as something in excess of a minor locale." 

As per Griffiths, when Soviet troops smothered the Hungarian uprising in October 1956, Davies was grieved, however would not participate in the general reproach in case this offer solace to the adversaries of communism. He was to be similarly quiet amid and after the occasions of the Prague Spring of 1968—in sharp differentiation to his judgment of the "criminally risky and untrustworthy heroics" of the United States amid the Cuban Missile Crisis of October 1962. In 1961, in line with the Labor Party administration, Davies was one of 25 Labor MPs and gathering individuals examined by the British security benefits as a conceivable Communist Party part. The MI5 report expressed that there was proof to demonstrate that Davies, "if not of the Party ... is at any rate near it without a doubt". 

Davies' Merthyr voting public incorporated the mining town of Aberfan, arranged a couple of miles south of Merthyr Tydfil. On the mountainsides over the town, colliery squander had been dumped throughout the years to shape extensive ruin tips. Soon after 9:00 am on Friday 21 October 1966 one of these tips fallen, sending a large number of huge amounts of semi-fluid waste plunging towards Aberfan. The purpose of effect was Pantglas Junior School, where morning exercises were starting. The school was half covered; inside, 109 kids and 5 instructors were executed. A further 7 kids and 23 grown-ups lost their lives outside the school, in the lanes or bordering houses. In the quick result, Davies visited and supported the deprived families in Aberfan, and the next day he drove a gathering which incorporated the Duke of Edinburgh on a voyage through the debacle site. 

On 24 October, the National Coal Board administrator Lord Robens expressed that the reason for the landslip was a formerly obscure spring, which had been emptying water into the focal point of the tip, making a "water bomb". Neighborhood diggers dissented; they said that the spring's presence had been realized while tipping started 20 years sooner. A court was set up under Lord Justice Edmund Davies, to research the debacle. 

Offering proof to the court, S. O. Davies said he had since a long time ago presumed that the Aberfan tips were unsteady, yet had stayed silent for dread that if tipping was ceased on the mountainside the Coal Board would close the colliery. Davies included: "Yet on the off chance that I had been approached to do as such, I would have done it". His declaration was firmly tested by the NUM, whose counsel Brian Gibbens QC said that "[i]f Mr Davies is to be acknowledged as honest and precise in his recollection ... at that point he bears what must be one of the biggest individual weights of obligation regarding the debacle". Be that as it may, Gibbens thought that it was mind blowing that a man in Davies' one of a kind neighborhood position of power and impact would not have referenced his feelings of dread to any of the formal bodies—district chamber, Coal Board, association or nearby Labor Party: "On the off chance that anybody could have practiced impact to defeat a willful or oblivious stone monument like the Coal Board, [Davies] was all around set to do as such." Gibbens presented that Davies' declaration ought to be rejected, in light of the fact that he "never refreshing what in reality was the import of his words". The council agreed, tolerating that Davies had not completely comprehended the gravity of his confirmation, and including that had they been persuaded else, he couldn't have gotten away reproach. The council's discoveries, distributed in July 1967, put duty regarding the fiasco solidly on the National Coal Board, explicitly on the nonappearance of any tipping strategy. 

In December 1966 Davies acquainted a bill with the House of Commons, to give increasingly liberal pay to diggers experiencing dust-related infections. The bill was acknowledged by Harold Wilson's Labor government, and moved toward becoming law in 1967. This was one of only a handful couple of examples amid this period in which Davies and the Labor government cooperated. Following the Coal Board's refusal to meet the full expense of evacuating the remaining Aberfan tips, Wilson recommended that piece of the required £750,000 be met by the fiasco support set up to help the general population of Aberfan reconstruct their locale. Davies was shocked; he told Wilson: "I have never realized a PM to carry on so dishonorably in the entirety of my 34 years in the House of Commons". In this manner, Davies contradicted the 1969 choice of Merthyr Tydfil Council to grant Wilson the opportunity of the district, expressing that he would blacklist the function. 

While numerous constituents bolstered Davies in his successive assaults on government approaches, the nearby Labor Party turned out to be progressively worried by his exercises. By the late 1960s a considerable lot of them were from a more youthful age, with no experience of the common hardships of the 1930s, and with a less parochial mentality. They were enraged by what they saw as Davies' traitorousness to the Wilson government, chose in 1964 following thirteen years of restriction, and his affinity for following his very own motivation. There was additionally the topic of his age; in 1970 he was apparently 83, yet bits of gossip that he was more seasoned were across the board. By March 1970 the neighborhood party talked about supplanting Davies as their competitor at the following general decision, refering to his age as opposed to approach differences. The National Executive of the gathering endorsed this activity, and at an uncommon gathering on 10 May, which Davies declined to visit, he was formally deselected. 

Davies responded to his deselection by declaring that the general population of Merthyr, not the nearby Labor Party, would choose his future. In the event that physically fit he would challenge the following decision as an Independent Socialist. Companions prompted him not to chance embarrassment; no deselected hopeful as of late had won decision against the gathering machine, and Davies would, they anticipated, get close to 1,000 votes. Inside a couple of days of the deselection meeting Wilson called a snap general race, which gave the Merthyr party brief period to locate their new competitor. They picked Tal Lloyd, an Amalgamated Engineering Union (AEU) official, a long-serving councilor and a previous civic chairman, on the moderate wing of the Labor Party, and a solid supporter of Wilson. 

With no gathering association and just his very own money related assets, Davies' battle was at first relaxed. His decision writing was a solitary sheet with the message "You Know Me, I've Never Let You Down". As surveying day drew closer, notwithstanding, unmistakably he was gathering support, especially among the youthful—an extraordinary incongruity, Alun Morgan watches, for a man sacked on the grounds of his age. In the last week before surveying day on 18 June Davies' energetic supporters visited the voting public with tunes, mottos and team promoters in what Griffiths portrays as "the most bright decision bandwaggon seen in Merthyr for a long time". The official Labor battle slowed down, as Lloyd wound up involved in succession over his job in the disappointment of the AEU to help an informal strike at the nearby Hoover processing plant. On surveying day, in the midst of scenes of celebration, Davies was come back with a greater part of 7,467 over Lloyd. Davies reacted to his triumph by expressing gratitude toward the voters whom, he stated, he had never thought for a minute would disappoint him. After two weeks Davies and his main battle specialists were ousted from the Labor Party for restricting its official competitor. The national authority rejected his solicitation for an official investigation into the activities of the Merthyr party, in the choice procedure and amid the decision itself. 

In spite of his removal, in July 1970 the Labor-controlled Merthyr board offered Davies the opportunity of the ward, a respect which he courteously declined; the certainty of the general population as of late indicated him was, he stated, enough. He continued his place in parliament, on the resistance seats as Labor had out of the blue lost the decision to Edward Heath's Conservatives. In spite of some evil inclination, Davies was not shunned by his past associates, and was informally advised by the gathering. He constrained his Commons appearances and once in a while talked in discussions, for the most part wanting to serve his constituents from home. On the real national issue of the 1970– 74 parliament—Heath's reestablished offer for Britain's enrollment of the European Economic Community (EEC)— Davies voiced firm restriction. In a letter toward the "South Wales Echo" on 9 August 1971 he tested the administration's case that "our security has been bound up with our European neighbors for over a thousand years", calling attention to Britain's contribution in various European wars, "counting the Hitler war when British security implied co-task with Russia". 

On 22 February 1972 Davies went to parliament to cast a ballot against the legislature on an EEC-related movement. He came back to Merthyr experiencing a chest contamination, took to his bed on 24th, and on 25th was exchanged to Merthyr General Hospital where he kicked the bucket soon thereafter. His memorial service was held at Soar-Ynysgau sanctuary, Merthyr on 29 February, trailed by entombment at the Maes-Yr-Arian Cemetery at adjacent Mountain Ash. Griffiths records: "It was demonstrative of [Davies's] expansiveness of vision that the function pulled in communists, socialists, Welsh patriots, republicans, and a considerable lot of no political belief by any stretch of the imagination". In the April by-decision to fill the opening brought about by Davies' demise the Labor competitor, Ted Rowlands, won the seat with a limited lion's share over Plaid Cymru. 

As per a BBC journalist Davies "looked as though he had a place with an alternate age, in his parliamentary 'uniform' of Homburg cap, silk scarf, dark coat and stick striped pants". Two close Merthyr companions who had tailed him out of the Labor Party depicted him as "[a] tall man who strolled tall and never bowed to anybody, yet treated everybody alike." His obituarist in "The Times" alluded to his misleadingly gentle outward attitude, "yet underneath, flames were everlastingly seething". 

A large number of the tributes paid to Davies after his passing recognized his responsibility to Merthyr and the mining networks of the Welsh valleys, for which he was an unfailing supporter. The city hall leader of Merthyr commented that he was "a nonconformist who pursued the educating of 'Adoration thy neighbor as thyself'. He was very regarded by all, even by the individuals who didn't concur with him". His parliamentary partner and individual digger Jim Griffiths, who had imparted to Davies the authority of the South Wales excavators after the 1926 general strike, suspected that had Davies developed a capacity for trade off, he would have accomplished clerical office. Be that as it may, "he generally was a solitary figure ... also, appeared to like being in segregation." In April 2013 a legacy plaque in Davies' respect was divulged at Penydarren Park, Merthyr Tydfil. On 5 August 2015, as a feature of the De Montfort Project praising the 750th commemoration of Simon de Montfort's parliament, Davies' parliamentary work was perceived in exceptional occasions at Cardiff and Merthyr Tydfil. 

The Revd Islwyn Jones, who led Davies' burial service, stated: "He had an incredible love for man, he accepted with the Psalmist that 'The earth is the Lord's and the fulness thereof', and it was these words, sinking profound into his heart, which made him 'take up the clubs for the normal man' ".