Cash in the Bank (2011) 

Cash in the Bank (2011) was the seventh of thirteen expert wrestling pay-per-see occasions held by WWE that year, and the second portion in the yearly Money in the Bank arrangement of occasions. It occurred on July 17, 2011, at the Allstate Arena in the Chicago suburb of Rosemont, Illinois. 

The occasion highlighted six matches, incorporating two Money in the Bank stepping stool matches. Alberto Del Rio won the counterpart for wrestlers from the Raw brand to acquire a WWE Championship coordinate during a period based on his personal preference inside the following year, while Daniel Bryan won the counterpart for wrestlers from the SmackDown brand for a similar open door for the World Heavyweight Championship. In the World Heavyweight Championship coordinate likewise held at the occasion, Christian crushed Randy Orton by preclusion and turned into the new victor according to the match stipulation. The headliner included CM Punk vanquishing John Cena to turn into the new WWE Champion. 

Cash in the Bank was communicated all around and got for the most part positive surveys from faultfinders, with the headliner getting the most recognition. For pay-per-see purchases, 195,000 clients paid to watch the occasion contrasted and 165,000 for the earlier year. 

WWE's Money in the Bank pay-per-see occasions highlight their own variation of stepping stool matches, where various wrestlers use stepping stools to recover a portfolio hanging over the ring. Two portfolios were challenged at the 2011 occasion, one each for individuals from the Raw and SmackDown brands. The separate victors were ensured a counterpart for the WWE and World Heavyweight Championships during a period based on their personal preference inside the following year. The 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2014 Money in the Bank occasions included a headliner including John Cena, yet in various storylines. 

By November 2010, WWE had reported that the 2011 Money in the Bank occasion would happen on July 17, 2011, at the Allstate Arena in Rosemont, Illinois. Tickets went marked down in May 2011 through Ticketmaster with costs extending from $25 to $300. The occasion, supported by candy store brand Skittles, was the second yearly Money in the Bank pay-per-see (PPV) occasion and the seventh of thirteen in the 2011 WWE PPV plan. The signature melody, "Cash in the Bank", was formed by Jim Johnston. 

The expert wrestling matches at Money in the Bank included proficient wrestlers executing as characters in scripted occasions pre-controlled by the facilitating advancement, WWE. Storylines between the characters were created on WWE's week by week network shows "Crude" and "SmackDown" with the Raw and SmackDown brands—storyline divisions in which WWE doled out its representatives to various projects. These storylines gave the foundation to the 2011 occasion, which proceeded with the storylines from the past occasion in WWE's 2011 pay-per-see plan, Capitol Punishment. 

The headliner included John Cena safeguarding the WWE Championship against CM Punk. Punk stuck Cena in a non-title coordinate on the June 13, 2011 scene of "Crude", and after that turned into the main contender by winning a triple danger falls count anyplace coordinate as a detriment to Alberto Del Rio and Rey Mysterio on the June 20 scene of "Crude". After the match, Punk uncovered that his WWE contract would terminate at midnight on July 17, following the Money in the Bank PPV finished; Punk promised to win the title and leave the organization with it. On the following scene of "Crude", Punk expense Cena a tables coordinate against R-Truth, at that point conveyed a worked shoot promotion saying that he, instead of Cena, was "the best on the planet"; he likewise chided WWE for not advancing him appropriately. Punk called Cena an "ass-kisser" and offended WWE the board—including director Vince McMahon and official John Laurinaitis. Notwithstanding saying that he was breaking the fourth divider by conversing with the camera, Punk suggested that he could guard the WWE Championship by wrestling in different organizations, for example, Ring of Honor and New Japan Pro Wrestling in the wake of leaving the organization with the title. Therefore, Punk was given a storyline suspension and deprived of his title coordinate. Cena defied McMahon and took steps to leave him and return the WWE Championship if Punk were not restored. McMahon yielded relying on the prerequisite that if Cena lost the title, he would be terminated. On the accompanying scene of "Crude", McMahon endeavored to sign Punk to another agreement to guarantee the WWE Championship would remain in WWE; McMahon consented to Punk's requests and apologized to Punk before Cena intruded on the procedures. The section brought about Cena punching Punk, so Punk destroyed the concurred contract. 

The fundamental quarrel from SmackDown was Randy Orton guarding the World Heavyweight Championship against Christian. The storyline began the May 6 scene of "SmackDown", when Orton vanquished Christian to turn into the hero not exactly seven days after Christian had won the title. Christian would then conjure his rematch proviso against Orton at Over the Limit, in which he lost. At Capitol Punishment on June 19, Orton vanquished Christian to hold the title again by sticking him, after the arbitrator neglected to see his foot under the base rope. On the June 24 scene of "SmackDown", Christian requested another endeavor at the title from SmackDown General Manager Theodore Long; his interest was allowed with the stipulation that he could vanquish Kane. Christian lost the match against Kane by exclusion after impedance from Mark Henry. Long at that point made a label group coordinate for later that equivalent scene, setting the group of Christian and Henry against Kane and Orton with a comparable stipulation; Henry stuck Orton in the session. A while later, Long offered Henry an endeavor at the title if Henry could vanquish Orton once more. Henry lost the match by countout after Christian built a diversion. This set up a match among Orton and Christian for the title at Money in the Bank. On the July 8 scene of "SmackDown", Christian's legal counselors in the storyline added a stipulation to the match that if Orton was precluded or there was "poor directing", he would lose the title to Christian. 

The Raw Money in the Bank contenders were reported on the June 27 scene of "Crude" with no passing matches; these were Alberto Del Rio, Alex Riley, Evan Bourne, Jack Swagger, Kofi Kingston, Rey Mysterio, R-Truth, and The Miz. The SmackDown Money in the Bank contenders were reported on the July 1 "SmackDown" as Cody Rhodes, Daniel Bryan, Heath Slater, Justin Gabriel, Kane, Sheamus, Sin Cara, and Wade Barrett. 

The fight between Big Show and Mark Henry began the June 17 scene of "SmackDown", when Big Show was compelled to confront Henry in a match. Enormous Show thumped out Henry before the session started, making a competition between the two. Henry meddled in Big Show's match with Alberto Del Rio at Capitol Punishment and on the June 27 scene of "Crude" in a confine coordinate. Henry versus Big Show was later reported for Money in the Bank. 

At the point when Brie Bella lost her Divas Championship to Kelly on the June 20 scene of "Crude", a title rematch was reported for Money in the Bank. Kelly had been quarreling with the Bella Twins since May 2011. 

The occasion, including editorial by Michael Cole, Jerry Lawler and Booker T, started with the SmackDown Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate. Amid the session, Sheamus pummeled Sin Cara through a stepping stool propped between the ring cook's garment and the broadcasters' table with a powerbomb. The stepping stool was bowed down the middle and Cara was stretchered far from ringside. Close to the finish of the match, Barrett, Rhodes and Bryan were the main three in the ring. Bryan place Rhodes in a guillotine stifle accommodation hang over the stepping stool amidst the ring while Barrett sneaked up the opposite side of the stepping stool. After Bryan thumped Rhodes off the stepping stool, Barrett got Bryan onto his shoulders and attempted to distract him. Bryan countered with rehashed elbow strikes to Barrett's head. Bryan at that point kicked Barrett in the head and unfastened the folder case to win the challenge. 

In the show's second match, Kelly vanquished Brie Bella to hold the Divas Championship. Kelly won the session in the wake of playing out her K2 move on Brie. 

In the show's third match, Mark Henry vanquished Big Show. Henry picked up a two-tally after a World's Strongest Slam on Big Show. Henry at that point played out the move again and two running sprinkles for the pinfall triumph. After the match, Henry folded a seat over Big Show's lower leg and hopped on it, making damage Big Show. 

The following match was the Raw Money in the Bank coordinate, where every one of the wrestlers brought stepping stools. Amid the match, Evan Bourne played out his mark Air Bourne airborne move, jumping from a stepping stool and arriving on different wrestlers at ringside. Bourne and Miz went for the folder case however Del Rio toppled their stepping stool, and Miz was taken behind the stage with knee damage. The seven residual wrestlers all the while climbed four stepping stools in the ring, however tumbled off one by one. With no one remaining in the ring, Miz jumped down to the ring and climbed the stepping stool with one leg, however Mysterio halted him by hammering him off the stepping stool with a nightfall flip powerbomb. As Mysterio and Del Rio struggled over the stepping stools for the satchel, Del Rio diverted Mysterio by exposing him and afterward pushing him onto another stepping stool, which spilled and sent the two wrestlers to the tangle. Del Rio regrouped and unfastened the attaché to win the match. 

In the show's fifth match, Randy Orton shielded his World Heavyweight Championship against Christian, with the condition that Christian would win the title if Orton were excluded or if there was poor directing. Christian opened the session by bringing a steel seat into the ring and attempting to prod Orton into getting excluded. Orton shied away and tossed the seat to the floor. Christian played out his mark Killswitch, yet Orton kicked out of the stick at the two check. As Orton was set up to play out his mark RKO move, Christian spat in his face. A maddened Orton kicked Christian in the crotch and was precluded, so Christian turned into the new hero. A while later, Orton violently assaulted Christian and gave him two RKOs onto the broadcasters' table. 

The last match was for the WWE Championship between Champion John Cena and CM Punk. WWE Chairman Vince McMahon had taken steps to have Cena terminated if Punk won. Amid the match, two separate mark Attitude Adjustment moves by Cena neglected to score the triumph. Over 30 minutes into the match, Punk played out his Go to Sleep move, striking Cena's ribs and causing Cena to drop out of the ring. As Punk folded Cena once more into the ring, McMahon and John Laurinaitis rose up out of behind the stage and diverted Punk, bringing about Cena setting Punk in the STF accommodation hold. Punk did not submit, yet McMahon flagged the official to grant Cena the match and sent Laurinaitis to ring the chime. This was reminiscent of the Montreal Screwjob in 1997, where a connivance coordinated by McMahon prompted Bret Hart losing his WWF Championship to Shawn Michaels by accommodation in spite of Hart never submitting. 

Not needing a corrupted triumph, Cena broke the hold and assaulted Laurinaitis. As Cena came back to the ring, Punk played out a Go to Sleep on Cena and stuck him to win the WWE Championship. McMahon requested the victor of the Raw Money in the Bank coordinate, Alberto Del Rio, to trade out his agreement on Punk. At the point when Del Rio ran out and attempted to trade out his agreement for a quick WWE Championship coordinate, Punk played out a roundhouse kick on Del Rio before he could do as such. In the wake of making a gesture of blowing a kiss to an upset McMahon, Punk fled the field and left as WWE Champion. 

Amid the occasion, WWE reported that its participation was 14,815. It was later detailed that 12,000 participants had paid, winning WWE $750,000. The occasion drew 195,000 pay-per-see buys, which was an expansion of 18.2% from the 165,000 of the earlier year's occasion. This added to WWE's PPV income of $15.8 million for the second from last quarter of 2011 contrasted and $13.6 million for the second from last quarter of 2010. The 2012 Money in the Bank occasion got 188,000 buys, a drop of 3.6%. 

Cash in the Bank got generally positive surveys from commentators. Dave Meltzer of the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter" granted the Cena– Punk headliner five stars out of five, the first WWE match to get such a rating. The "Wrestling Observer Newsletter" later granted the occasion the Best Major Show of 2011, over other expert wrestling occasions by organizations including Pro Wrestling Guerrilla and New Japan Pro Wrestling, just as over a kickboxing occasion by K-1 and blended hand to hand fighting occasions by Ultimate Fighting Championship. The headliner won the Observer grant for Match of the Year. 

Alex Roberts of the "Star Wrestling Torch Newsletter" went to the occasion. He condemned the stepping stool coordinates as "risky exhibitions" where numerous wrestlers "took a lot of excruciating looking knocks" yet regularly neglected to score "a relating swarm response". He additionally expressed that the evident wounds endured by Sin Cara and the Miz in those matches had panicked the crowd. Interestingly, Roberts felt that the two world title matches, which concentrated on "in-ring brain science and narrating", were significantly more "important" or even "unbelievable". With respect to headliner, Roberts stated, "even a match-finishing run-in skirted the normal tangled ruses and played flawlessly to the current story". Toward the finish of 2011, Nathan Kyght of the "Professional Wrestling Torch Newsletter" positioned Money in the Bank the best of 34 pay-per-sees in 2011, including those from WWE, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, Ring of Honor, and Dragon Gate USA. 

Swim Keller, likewise from the "Ace Wrestling Torch Newsletter", granted the Cena– Punk session five stars out of five, and said the "physicality wasn't at the A+ level, however everything else that measures up to enchantment in master wrestling occurred over the most recent 40 minutes". Keller granted the SmackDown Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate four stars and said there were "heaps of good specialists taking a great deal of huge knocks, yet in addition offering them, over the span of the match". For the Orton– Christian match, Keller said that it was "paced very much, executed well, and the completion played into the identities and storyline of this fight". Concerning result of the Henry– Big Show coordinate, Keller remarked that it was "intriguing to see WWE actually really get behind Henry out of the blue after the majority of this time". 

Dave Hillhouse at the Canadian Online Explorer's said Money in the Bank included "precisely what a headliner should be. A match that eclipses each other session on the card, that has you, regardless of how great each other challenge is, anticipating a completion just to be one bit nearer to the last challenge." Hillhouse evaluated the headliner eight out of ten and the general occasion six out of ten. At the point when the Canadian Online Explorer surveyed its perusers on the occasion, 26% did not watch the occasion, 5% thought it was frustrating, 6% thought it was alright and 63% idea it was extraordinary. 

Loot McNichol at the United Kingdom's "The Sun" appraised the occasion nine and a half out of ten, portraying it as a "perfect exercise in the booking, advancement and execution of a wrestling show ... brimming with fervor, feeling and incredible wrestling". McNichol portrayed Bryan's success in the "extremely great" opener as noteworthy and "an incredible method to rouse the group, who might turn out to be so essential amid the night". He said of the Orton– Christian match, "Christian's character improvement was phenomenal" and that while the gathering of people were at first "genius Christian, who should play the heel" (a contemptible character), they inevitably cheered Orton's post-coordinate beatdown of Christian. McNichol portrayed the headliner as "proficient wrestling at [its] best" and "presumably the most holding edge in wrestling this century". He said the group of onlookers' "bewildering" gathering to the headliner was comparable to "any real match you have ever observed or thought about ever", and the match itself "was systematic, played to the two wrestlers' qualities, and was delightfully paced". 

In 2013, WWE discharged a rundown of their "15 best pay-per-sees ever", with 2011's Money in the Bank positioned the second best. WWE likewise discharged "the 50 biggest WWE Championship Matches ever" in 2013, with the Cena– Punk match from the occasion positioned fourth. 

Cash in the Bank 2011 was discharged on DVD by WWE Home Video on August 16, 2011; it included Matt Striker talking with Daniel Bryan as additional substance. Eric Cohen of About.com granted the DVD five stars out of five, and said the occasion was one of the best PPV occasions ever and justified his most noteworthy conceivable proposal. "DVD Talk" gave a "Very Recommended" rating to the DVD, notwithstanding "a normal specialized introduction (no Blu-beam alternative, either) and no genuine extra highlights". 

After CM Punk left the Allstate Arena with the WWE Championship belt, big name site TMZ envisioned him flaunting his recently won title belt in the city of Chicago with Colt Cabana and Ace Steel. 

To crown another WWE Champion, WWE Chairman Vince McMahon began an eight-man competition on the July 18 scene of "Crude", which incorporated every one of the members of the Raw Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate with the exception of Evan Bourne, whose place was filled by Dolph Ziggler. The Miz and Rey Mysterio made it to the competition finals, which McMahon deferred so he could fire John Cena because of the conditions forced on the Money in the Bank coordinate. Triple H hindered and declared that the WWE Board of Directors had expelled McMahon from power in a demonstration of majority disapproval, and that Triple H was to assume control throughout the everyday tasks of WWE. Triple H would not fire Cena. 

On July 21, Punk gatecrashed the joint WWE– Mattel board at the San Diego Comic-Con International with title belt close by. He stood up to Triple H and protested WWE endeavoring to crown another WWE Champion. After two days, Punk showed up at a show facilitated by the All American Wrestling organization without his title belt to underwrite Gregory Iron, a wrestler with cerebral paralysis, as a motivation for conquering his obstacle. 

On the July 25 scene of "Crude", Mysterio won the competition to turn into the new WWE Champion, and quickly needed to fight off Alberto Del Rio to keep him from trading in for spendable dough his Money in the Bank. Triple H, presently Chief Operating Officer, declared that Mysterio was to confront ex-champion Cena soon thereafter for the title; Cena won and again moved toward becoming WWE Champion. After the match, Punk made an unannounced come back to WWE with the old WWE Championship belt to go up against Cena. Cena and Punk later battled in a match at SummerSlam on August 14 to crown the undisputed WWE Champion, which Punk won disputably as Triple H didn't see Cena's leg was on the rope and it was really a rope break. As Punk observed, Kevin Nash made his WWE return and attacked him. Del Rio at that point traded out his Money in the Bank contract and stuck Punk to turn into the new boss in the wake of kicking Punk in the head. Punk recaptured the WWE Championship from Del Rio at Survivor Series in November 2011; beginning a 434-day rule until The Rock beat him at the 2013 Royal Rumble occasion. 

Subsequent to losing the World Heavyweight Championship to Christian, Randy Orton was allowed a rematch at SummerSlam, where he won a No Holds Barred match to win the title. In the interim, in the storyline, Mark Henry proceeded to pound Kane and Vladimir Kozlov's lower legs with steel seats. He crushed Orton at Night of Champions in September to wind up World Heavyweight Champion out of the blue. Enormous Show came back from damage in October 2011 to quarrel with Henry over his title. Daniel Bryan at first announced that he would just trade out his Money in the Bank contract for a World Heavyweight Championship coordinate at WrestleMania XXVIII. Nonetheless, on the November 25 scene of "SmackDown", Bryan traded out the folder case after Henry had been thumped out by Big Show to turn into the World Heavyweight Champion. The match was voided by General Manager Theodore Long as Henry was not medicinally cleared to contend, and the folder case was come back to Bryan. At WWE's PPV in December 2011, Henry lost the World Heavyweight Championship to Big Show. After the match, Henry attacked Big Show which enabled Bryan to trade out his agreement and stick Big Show to win the title. Bryan clutched his title sufficiently long to have a World Heavyweight Championship coordinate at WrestleMania XXVIII in April 2012, where he lost his title to Sheamus. 

Kelly's next contender for the Divas Championship was Beth Phoenix; Kelly vanquished Phoenix to hold her title at SummerSlam, and Night of Champions, yet Phoenix at last beat Kelly for the title at Hell in a Cell in October 2011. 

John Laurinaitis kept on showing up on TV after Money in the Bank. In October 2011, he was selected Raw General Manager, supplanting Triple H as the on-screen expert figure. Amid Laurinaitis' standard, he fought with CM Punk and later with John Cena, until he was terminated in the storyline at No Way Out in June 2012. 

In later Money in the Bank occasions, John Cena, Randy Orton and Sheamus won Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinates in 2012, 2013 and 2015 separately. Cena took advantage of CM Punk and won by means of exclusion; in this manner Punk held the WWE Championship. Orton took advantage of Daniel Bryan and caught the WWE Championship. Sheamus took advantage of Roman Reigns and caught the WWE World Heavyweight Championship. 

In WWE's narrative "CM Punk: Best in the World" discharged in 2012, it was archived from the out-of-universe point of view that a disenthralled Punk rejected marking another agreement with WWE for over a year paving the way to Money in the Bank. In the wake of being influenced by Joey Mercury and Lars Frederiksen that he could just help wrestlers overlooked by WWE (such as himself) in the event that he stayed, Punk marked another agreement with WWE around an hour prior catching the WWE Championship from Cena, while the compensation per-see occasion was continuous.