William F. Raynolds 

William Franklin Raynolds (March 17, 1820 – October 18, 1894) was an adventurer, specialist and U.S. armed force officer who served in the Mexican– American War and American Civil War. He is best known for driving the 1859– 60 Raynolds Expedition while filling in as an individual from the U.S. Armed force Corps of Topographical Engineers. 

Amid the 1850s and again after his support in the American Civil War, Raynolds was the head engineer on various beacon development ventures. He supervised riverway and harbor digging ventures planned to improve availability and route for delivery. As a cartographer, Raynolds studied and mapped the islands and shorelines on the Great Lakes and different districts. Somewhere around six beacons whose development he directed are as yet standing. Some are still being used and of these, few are recorded on the National Register of Historic Places. 

In 1848, amid the American control of Mexico after the Mexican– American War, Raynolds and different U.S. Armed force work force were the primary affirmed to have achieved the summit Pico de Orizaba, the tallest mountain in Mexico, and incidentally set what may have been a 50-year American snow capped height record. In 1859, Raynolds was put accountable for the primary government-supported endeavor to wander into the upper Yellowstone district that was later to progress toward becoming Yellowstone National Park. Overwhelming winter snowpack in the Absaroka Range of Wyoming kept the endeavor from achieving the Yellowstone Plateau, driving them to occupy toward the south and cross Union Pass at the northern end of the Wind River Range. In the wake of arranging the pass the undertaking entered Jackson Hole and reviewed the Teton Range, presently inside Grand Teton National Park. 

Amid the American Civil War, Raynolds took part in the Battle of Cross Keys amid the Valley Campaign of 1862 and after a year was responsible for fortresses in the protection of the military stockpile at Harpers Ferry, West Virginia. On March 13, 1865 Raynolds was brevetted brigadier general for exemplary administration amid the Civil War. Raynolds resigned from the military on March 17, 1884 with the changeless position of colonel following a 40-year military vocation. 

William Franklin Raynolds was conceived on March 17, 1820 in Canton, Ohio, the fourth of six kids to William Raynolds (November 2, 1789 – September 20, 1829) and Elizabeth Seabury (née Fisk 1796 – April 13, 1853). William F. Raynolds' granddad was additionally named William Raynolds (1764– 1814) and had been a veteran of the War of 1812, filling in as an organization chief from April 12, 1812 until April 13, 1813. Amid the War of 1812, the granddad Raynolds rose to the position of major while serving under Lewis Cass. 

William F. Raynolds entered the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, on July 1, 1839 subsequent to being selected from Ohio. He graduated fifth out of 39 schoolmates in his class of 1843, which included William B. Franklin, Raynolds' companion Joseph J. Reynolds and future president Ulysses S. Allow. Raynolds wedded at a youthful age; he and his better half had no kids. 

At first selected a brevet second lieutenant in the fifth U.S. Infantry, inside half a month Raynolds was exchanged to the U.S. Armed force Corps of Topographical Engineers. The Topographical Engineers performed studies and created maps for armed force use until their merger with the Corps of Engineers in 1863. Raynolds' first assignments from 1843 to 1844 were as a right hand geographical designer engaged with improving route on the Ohio River and looking over the northeastern limit of the U.S. somewhere in the range of 1844 and 1847. 

At the point when war with Mexico appeared to be up and coming, topographic designers were sent to the fringe to help with the military's arrangements. Raynolds served in Winfield Scott's Mexican– American War crusade which walked overland to Mexico City from the Gulf of Mexico seaport at Veracruz. After the war, the American armed force involved Mexico City and the encompassing district. Amid the occupation, Raynolds and others set out to delineate investigate close-by mountains. Raynolds' gathering is attributed with being the primary affirmed to move to the summit of Pico de Orizaba () which at is the tallest mountain in Mexico and third tallest in North America. Over a time of a while, Raynolds and different officers from both the military and naval force mapped the best methodology course to Pico de Orizaba. To help them in their trip, the gathering anticipated taking grapnels appended to long ropes and crude crampons as shoes with anticipating focuses to help guarantee they could securely scale precipices and crosswise over icy masses. Told by nearby residents that any endeavor to achieve the summit would be pointless in light of the fact that nobody had ever done it previously, the Americans turned out to be considerably increasingly resolved to demonstrate the Mexicans it could be climbed. 

As the undertaking left to climb the mountain, a long pack train of about fifty officers, troopers and local aides withdrew from the town of Orizaba toward the beginning of May 1848. Following a few days of climbing through thick wilderness, the undertaking gradually picked up height and built up a base camp at . Beginning from base camp in the early morning of May 10 about two dozen climbers made the last push to the highest point of the mountain, yet just Raynolds and a couple of others achieved the summit. As per mountain climber and creator Leigh N. Ortenburger, this accomplishment may have accidentally set the American mountaineering height record for the following 50 years. Raynolds evaluated the summit of Pico de Orizaba to be above ocean level, which was somewhat more prominent than past appraisals however beneath the cutting edge known height. As no higher pinnacles were known in North America around then, Raynolds trusted Pico de Orizaba was the tallest mountain on the landmass. The summit cavity was canvassed in snow yet evaluated to be between in width and profound. The American accomplishment was questioned by the Mexicans until a 1851 French undertaking found an American banner on the summit with the year 1848 cut in the flagpole. 

Subsequent to coming back from Mexico, Raynolds continued mapping the U.S.– Canada outskirt which he had been looking over before the war, at that point set out on a venture to create water assets for the country's developing capital of Washington, D.C. Raynolds ventured to every part of the Great Lakes for quite a while studying and mapping shorelines while recognizing potential beacon areas. After advancement to first lieutenant and afterward commander, in 1857 he was doled out to plan and direct the development of beacons along the Jersey Shore and the Delmarva Peninsula areas. in the late 1850s Raynolds administered development of the Fenwick Island Light in Delaware and the Cape May Light in New Jersey. In 1859, he made modifications to the Jupiter Inlet Light in Jupiter, Florida. 

In mid 1859, Raynolds was accused of driving an undertaking into the Yellowstone area of Montana and Wyoming to decide, "similar to practicable, everything relating to ... the Indians of the nation, its horticultural and mineralogical resources ... the safety of its streams, its geological highlights, and the offices or impediments which the last present to the development of rail or normal roads ...". The endeavor was done by a bunch of experts, including picture taker and topographer James D. Hutton, craftsman and mapmaker Anton Schönborn, and geologist and naturalist Ferdinand V. Hayden, who drove a few later campaigns to the Yellowstone area. Raynolds' second-in-direction was lieutenant Henry E. Maynadier. The endeavor was bolstered by a little infantry separation of 30 and was governmentally subsidized with $60,000. Experienced mountain man Jim Bridger was procured to control the undertaking. 

The campaign began in late May 1859 at St. Louis, Missouri, at that point was transported by two steamboats up the Missouri River to New Fort Pierre, South Dakota. In late June the campaign left New Fort Pierre and made a beeline for Fort Sarpy where they experienced the Crow Indians. Raynolds expressed that the Crow were a "little band contrasted with their neighbors, however are well known warriors, and, as per normal report, only sometimes neglect to stand their ground with any of the clans except if extraordinarily dwarfed." Raynolds was awed with the Crow boss Red Bear, and in the wake of guaranteeing him that the campaign implied just to go through Crow An indian area and not wait, exchanged with the Crows for seven steeds. 

Raynolds isolated his campaign, sending a littler separation under Maynadier to investigate the Tongue River, a noteworthy tributary of the Yellowstone River. Two of Maynadier's gathering, James D. Hutton and Zephyr Recontre, the undertaking's Sioux mediator, agreed with a particular position outing to find and explore a separated shake arrangement that had been seen from incredible separation by a past endeavor in 1857. Hutton was the primary individual of European drop to achieve this stone arrangement in northeastern Wyoming, later known as Devils Tower; Raynolds never explained on this occasion, referencing it just in passing. By September 2, 1859, Raynolds' separation had pursued the Yellowstone River to the juncture with the Bighorn River in south-focal Montana. The two gatherings under Raynolds and Maynadier rejoined on October 12, 1859 and wintered at Deer Creek Station, on the Platte River in focal Wyoming. 

The endeavor recommenced its investigations in May 1860. Raynolds drove a gathering north and west up the upstream bit of the Bighorn River, which is today called the Wind River, planning to cross the mountains at Togwotee Pass in the Absaroka Range, a mountain pass known to undertaking guide Jim Bridger. In the mean time, Maynadier drove his gathering back north to the Bighorn River to investigate it and its related tributary streams all the more completely. The arrangement was for the two gatherings to rejoin on June 30, 1860 at Three Forks, Montana, so they could mention objective facts of a complete sun based obscuration figure for July 18, 1860. Hampered by transcending basaltic bluffs and profound snows, Raynolds endeavored for over seven days to inspect to the highest point of Togwotee Pass, however was constrained south because of the June 30 due date for achieving Three Forks. Bridger then drove the gathering south over another go in the northern Wind River Range that Raynolds named Union Pass, toward the west of which lay Jackson Hole and the Teton Range. From that point the campaign went southwest, crossing the southern Teton Range at Teton Pass and entering Pierre's Hole in present-day Idaho. Despite the fact that Raynolds and his gathering figured out how to get to Three Forks by the booked date, Maynadier's gathering was a few days late, which kept a separation traveling north to watch the sunlight based overshadowing. The rejoined undertaking at that point headed home, going from Fort Benton, Montana, to Fort Union close to the Montana-North Dakota fringe through steamboat. It at that point ventured overland to Omaha, Nebraska, where the undertaking individuals were disbanded in October 1860. 

In spite of the fact that the Raynolds Expedition was ineffective in investigating the area that later moved toward becoming Yellowstone National Park, it was the principal governmentally supported gathering to enter Jackson Hole and watch the Teton Range. The endeavor secured over and investigated a territory of almost . In a starter report sent east in 1859, Raynolds expressed that the once-copious buffalo were being slaughtered for their covers up at such a disturbing rate, that they may before long turned out to be wiped out. Raynolds' quick investment in the American Civil War, trailed by an extreme disease, deferred him from introducing his report on the undertaking until 1868. Research information and plant examples, just as fossils and topographical things that had been gathered amid the campaign, were sent to the Smithsonian Institution, however were not considered in detail until after the war. A significant part of the craftsmanship made by Hutton and particularly Schönborn was lost, however a few of Schönborn's chromolithographs showed up in Ferdinand V. Hayden's 1883 report that was submitted after later campaigns. 

Raynolds came back to Washington at the flare-up of the war, and was made boss topographic architect of the Department of Virginia in July 1861. The military needed sufficient maps for military use, so Raynolds and his group of specialists started to overview and draw up maps of Virginia and the locale of the western part of that express that had stayed faithful to the Union and would turn into the new province of West Virginia. In 1862, Raynolds was locked in with John C. Frémont's Mountain Department in pursuing Stonewall Jackson up the Shenandoah Valley and took an interest in the Battle of Cross Keys. 

Raynolds went through two months recuperating from disease after the Valley Campaign, at that point was doled out as boss designer of Middle Department and VIII Corps in January 1863. Elevated to study the Corps of Engineers, he ended up responsible for the protections of essential Harpers Ferry, West Virginia in March 1863 amid Robert E. Lee's second Confederate intrusion of the north amid the Gettysburg Campaign. On March 31, 1863, the Corps of Topographical Engineers stopped to be a free part of the military and was converged into the Corps of Engineers and Raynolds served in that part of the military for the rest of his profession. Officers from the two corps kept up their positions dependent on the time at which they got their advancement. 

As the finish of war drew nearer and threats with the Sioux Indians lingered, Raynolds' learning of and encounters in the Great Lakes area turned out to be more critical to the military than his order of the strongholds of Harpers Ferry. Therefore, he came back to the Great Lakes as superintending architect of overviews and beacons in April 1864, and saw no further battle for the remainder of his vocation. Before the war was finished, on March 13, 1865 Raynolds was brevetted to brigadier general for exemplary administration. 

After the Civil War, the Corps of Engineers embraced a program of waterway and harbor upgrades. Raynolds directed the digging and improvement of route on the Arkansas, Mississippi and Missouri Rivers. He likewise managed a few harbor digging and development ventures, including the harbor in Buffalo, New York, the Harbor of Refuge in New Buffalo, Michigan, Erie Harbor in Erie, Pennsylvania, and the stream harbors of St. Louis, Missouri and Alton, Illinois. Raynolds sited and directed the establishment of many beacons in the Great Lakes region, where he filled in as the superintending engineer from 1864 to 1870. Raynolds was elevated to lasting position of lieutenant colonel in the Corps of Engineers on March 7, 1867. He at that point administered beacon development along the Gulf Coast and in New Jersey where he dealt with the development of the Hereford Inlet Lighthouse in 1874. From May 5 to October 7, 1877, Reynolds drove a parade of American designers to a building gathering in Europe. 

Elevated to the changeless position of colonel on January 2, 1881, Raynolds kept presenting with the Corps of Engineers supporting an assortment of harbor and stream navigational upgrades until his retirement in 1884, after a military profession that crossed 40 years. As he moved toward retirement, Raynolds was chosen a trustee of the Presbyterian Church. As indicated by West Point colleague Joseph Reynolds, who saw him at the West Point graduates gathering in 1893, Raynolds kept up a lively and sound appearance long after his retirement, his dark colored hair, "at that point yet somewhat sprinkled with dim". Raynolds passed on October 18, 1894 in Detroit, Michigan, leaving his widow a significant bequest for the time, assessed at between US $50,000 ($ today) and $100,000 ($ today). Subsequent to accommodating his widow, his will coordinated that after her passing, the whole home would be given to the Presbyterian Church. Raynolds was buried in West Lawn Cemetery in Canton, Ohio. 

Raynolds' 1848 undertaking to the summit of Pico de Orizaba in Mexico originated before what is known as the Golden period of alpinism (1854– 65), when many real mountain tops in the Alps were first ascended. The push to summit the mountain was one of the soonest conscious endeavors to ascend a noteworthy mountain top, and included coordinations, arranging and utilization of simple ascending gear, "making it one of the more genuine mountaineering campaigns embraced to that point ever." Though unfit to enter into the core of what later moved toward becoming Yellowstone National Park, the Raynolds Expedition created maps that were utilized by resulting wayfarers to the more prominent Yellowstone district. Raynolds additionally found reasonable wagon courses in the Bighorn Basin and had the capacity to help restricted down the most fitting courses for a future cross-country railroad. The Raynolds Expedition further discovered that hardly any streams in the district would be reasonable for steamboats because of various rapids and soak slopes. A few beacons whose development was planned or managed by Raynolds are still being used and a few are recorded on the National Register of Historic Places. 

Somewhere around two topographical areas are named for William Raynolds. The mountain hole where the Raynolds Expedition crossed the Continental Divide between southwest Montana and upper east Idaho is named Raynolds Pass () and Raynolds Peak () is a confined top in the Teton Range that was named after him in 1938. The fossil survives from the terminated gastropod "Viviparus raynoldsanus" was named by Ferdinand V. Hayden out of appreciation for Raynolds after the example was gathered in the Powder River Basin amid the endeavor.