Here We Go Again (Ray Charles melody) 

"Here We Go Again" is a blue grass music standard composed by Don Lanier and Red Steagall that originally ended up striking as a mood and blues single by Ray Charles from his 1967 collection "Beam Charles Invites You to Listen". It was created by Joe Adams for ABC Records/Tangerine Records. To date, this rendition of the tune has been the greatest business achievement, burning through twelve back to back a long time on the US "Announcement" Hot 100 outline, topping at number 15. 

The most outstanding spread variant is a two part harmony by Charles and Norah Jones, which showed up on the 2004 collection "Virtuoso Loves Company". This rendition has been the greatest basic achievement. After "Virtuoso Loves Company" was discharged, "Here We Go Again" earned Grammy Awards for Record of the Year and Best Pop Collaboration at the 47th Grammy Awards in February 2005, post mortem for Charles, who kicked the bucket before the collection's discharge. Another striking rendition by Nancy Sinatra graphed for five weeks in 1969. Johnny Duncan graphed the melody on "Board" Hot Country Songs outline for five weeks in 1972, while Roy Clark did as such for seven weeks in 1982. 

The tune has been shrouded in a wide assortment of melodic sorts. Altogether, five distinct adaptations have been recorded on the music diagrams. In spite of the fact that its two best forms have been cadence and blues chronicles, a significant number of its other striking spreads were included on down home music collections. "Here We Go Again" was first canvassed in an instrumental jazz configuration, and a considerable lot of the later covers have been sung as two part harmonies, for example, one with Willie Nelson and Norah Jones with Wynton Marsalis going with. The tune was discharged on their 2011 tribute collection "". The tune loaned its name to Red Steagall's 2007 collection too. Spread forms have showed up on gathering collections by various craftsmen, even some who did not discharge "Here We Go Again" as a solitary. 

In November 1959, following twelve years as an expert performer, Ray Charles marked with ABC Records, following the lapse of his Atlantic Records contract. As indicated by Will Friedwald in "A Biographical Guide to the Great Jazz and Pop Singers", "His initial four ABC collections were all essentially committed to standards..." In the 1960s, he encountered hybrid accomplishment with both mood and blues and down home music. Since Charles was marked to ABC as a cadence and blues artist, he chose to hold up until his agreement was fulfilled for its three-year restoration before exploring different avenues regarding down home music, in spite of the fact that he needed to do as such sooner. With the help of ABC official Sid Feller, he accumulated a lot of blue grass melodies to record, in spite of the desires of ABC. The arrival of his 1962 blue grass collections "Present day Sounds in Country and Western Music" and its follow-up "Current Sounds in Country and Western Music, Vol. 2" expanded the intrigue of his music to the standard. Now, Charles started to bid more to a white group of onlookers. In 1962 he established his very own record mark, Tangerine Records, which ABC-Paramount advanced and conveyed. 

"Here We Go Again" was recorded amid a stage in Charles' profession when he was centered around performing blue grass music. In this manner, "Here We Go Again" was a down home music tune discharged by the Tangerine mark ABC-Paramount, yet performed in Charles' musicality and blues style. Notwithstanding, his works did not hold up under the Tangerine name until 1968. Feller left ABC in 1965, yet he came back to orchestrate Charles' 1967 collection, "Beam Charles Invites You to Listen". Joe Adams created and designed the collection, which notwithstanding "Here We Go Again". 

First discharged by Charles in 1967, "Here We Go Again" was composed by Lanier and Steagall and distributed by the Dirk Music Company. Charles recorded it at RPM International Studios, Los Angeles, and the melody was recorded as the 6th of ten tracks on "Beam Charles Invites You to Listen". Beginning in 1987, it was incorporated into various most prominent hits and accumulation collections. At the point when "Present day Sounds in Country and Western Music" was reissued in 1988, the melody was included as a little something extra track. It was likewise included on the 1988 collection "Beam Charles Anthology". 

Steagall persevered through polio as a teenager and figured out how to play the guitar and mandolin amid his recovery. This action helped him recapture the utilization of his left arm and hand. When he selected at West Texas State University, he shaped his first nation band. Wear Lanier shaped a gathering by the name of The Rhythm Orchids alongside Buddy Knox and Jimmy Bowen. He was employed as a dirt scientist yet played ends of the week at nation moves. After he quit his expert job, he shaped a band that ended up prevalent in the Rocky Mountain ski-resort clubs. He moved to Los Angeles in 1965 and set out on people club performing and songwriting. He composed for two music distributers, Tree and Combine, before marking with Capitol Records. In the long run, Steagall joined Lanier and Bowen. Steagall and Lanier co-stated "Here We Go Again". Steagall's first break came when Charles secured "Here We Go Again". Steagall says that the tune "came to fruition in an exceptionally abnormal way and in all respects rapidly". One source even cases that Steagall did not come to Hollywood until after Charles recorded the tune. 

As indicated by the sheet music distributed by Dirk Music, "Here We Go Again" is set in 12/8 time with a moderate mix rhythm of sixty-nine beats for each moment. The tune is written in the key of B major. It is basically a blue grass melody, yet contains gospel impacts. As indicated by Matthew Greenwald of Allmusic, "'Here We Go Again' is a profound anthem in the Southern blues custom. Melodiously, it has a renunciation and agony that makes the blues, basically, what it is. The chronicle has a straightforward and sterling gospel course of action and, everything considered, is one of Charles' better endeavors in the studio from the 1960s." 

The playlist of the 1967 visit advancing "Beam Charles Invites You to Listen" isn't promptly accessible, yet "Here We Go Again" was the best-diagramming melody on the collection (and likely on the playlist). Charles' visit started with an advantage show on the USS "Heavenly body", which was getting ready to withdraw for the Vietnam War from San Diego Harbor. The visit, Charles' first since 1964, proceeded to Europe in mid-April where it visited the Royal Festival Hall, London and Salle Pleyel, Paris, just as Vienna. In May, the band played back in the United States at New York City's Carnegie Hall before coming back to California. The visit got awful audits from productions, for example, "Jazz Journal", "Jazz Magazine" and the "New York Post". Later that late spring, the band played Constitution Hall, Washington, D.C. In the fall, Charles had his first rewarding Nevada gambling club exhibitions, which began with a three-week keep running at Harrah's Reno that was lauded in "Assortment". The visit additionally had an all-encompassing fall keep running at New York's Copacabana dance club. 

Greenwald portrayed the first form of "Here We Go Again" as "Another phenomenal case of how Ray Charles had the capacity to intertwine blues and nation". In a survey for the single, an essayist for "Board" magazine composed that the melody could without much of a stretch be a "blockbuster" for Charles. 

The first form appeared at number 79 on the "Board" Hot 100 outline in the May 20, 1967, issue and number 48 on the US "Announcement" Hot Rhythm and Blues Singles top 50 diagram on June 10, 1967. For the weeks finishing July 15, 22 and 29, the melody went through three weeks at its pinnacle position of number 15 on the Hot 100 diagram. It spent July 22 and 29 at its pinnacle position of number 5 on the Hot Rhythm and Blues Singles diagram. By August 12, it dropped out the Hot 100 graph, finishing a 12-week run. It stayed on the Hot Rhythm and Blues Singles diagram for 13 weeks consummation on September 2. "Here We Go Again" was Charles' last single to enter the main twenty of the Hot 100. For the year 1967 the tune completed at number 80 on the US "Bulletin" Year-End Hot 100 graph and 33 on the Year-End Hot Rhythm and Blues Singles outline. 

Abroad, it appeared on the UK Singles Chart top 40 at number 38 on July 8, 1967, which would be its pinnacle. It totalled 3 non-back to back a long time on the diagram. In the Netherlands, "Here We Go Again" showed up on the singles outline at number 10 on July 15, 1967, and later crested at number three. 

As indicated by Will Friedwald, this tune is a case of Charles vocalizing in what might normally be a for the most part superfluous way for sensational impact by utilizing an unexpected voice in comparison to he had ever recently shown. He sang "... not simply utilizing the squeak—utilizing an entirely different sort of squeak, indeed—for extra shading on the sidelines, yet making it the core of the issue, truly squeaking out the words and notes in concordance with the Raelettes" (his experience vocalists). 

As indicated by Allmusic, the performance rendition is recorded at lengths somewhere in the range of 3:14 and 3:20 on different collections. 

Charles is credited as vocalist and musician with obscure backup. Feller is credited for having masterminded and led the account. This is one of two melodies on the collection ("Yesterday" being the other) that notwithstanding being recorded as ABC-Par ABC595 is credited as Dunhill DZS036 [CD]. The individual tune had a mark number ABC/TRC 10938. "In the Heat of the Night" likewise had a Dunhill credit yet an alternate number for both Dunhill and ABC. 

Nancy Sinatra recorded a front of the melody for her 1969 collection "Nancy", which was her first collection subsequent to consummation her business association with maker Lee Hazlewood. The spread, which as indicated by programming guides had a simple tuning in and blue grass music offer, was delivered by Billy Strange. The B-side to the single, "Recollections", was composed by Strange alongside Mac Davis. "Announcement" magazine staff evaluated the melody positively, expressing that the spread was a "smooth sing-a-long pop style". They likewise complimented Sinatra's singing, considering it a "fine" execution, taking note of that it would probably restore her to the "Board" diagrams. Sinatra's form was later remastered and reissued in 1996. 

In spite of the fact that CD Universe depicts the melody as a blue grass music tune, it never outlined on blue grass music graphs. For the week closure May 17, 1969, the melody was recorded among US "Announcement" Bubbling Under Hot 100 Singles outline at number 106 and appeared on the US "Bulletin" Easy Listening Top 40 diagram at number 30. The next week it appeared on the US "Board" Hot 100 outline at number 98, its summit for its fourteen day remain. The tune at that point spent an aggregate of about fourteen days on the Hot 100. For the week finishing June 7, the melody went through a second successive week at its pinnacle position of number 19 on the Easy Listening diagram. The melody stayed on the graph for five weeks until June 14, 1969. In Canada "Here We Go Again" appeared at number 38 on the "RPM" Adult Contemporary graph (already Young Adult Chart) on June 2, 1969. It topped at number 21 for the seven day stretch of June 16, 1969. The tune spent a sum of five weeks on the outline. As indicated by Allmusic databases, 1969 was the last year in her vocation that Sinatra achieved the Hot 100 outline (with "Here We Go Again", "God Knows I Love You" and "Drummer Man"). 

As indicated by Allmusic the first track was 3:09, yet when it showed up on the 2006 assemblage collection "Fundamental Nancy Sinatra", it was 3:11. The single was at first discharged through Reprise Records. In a non-restrictive permitting understanding, Reprise (some portion of Warner Music) gave RCA Records the rights to appropriate the records of a portion of their craftsmen including Sinatra and Dean Martin. In 1971, Sinatra and Reprise went separate ways, so she marked a long haul contract with RCA Records. 

The accompanying artists performed on this track: 

The accompanying artists performed on this collection: 

In 2004, Charles re-recorded "Here We Go Again" as a two part harmony with American artist lyricist Norah Jones, who grew up tuning in to his music. Amid Jones' "Announcement" meet for her 2010 joint effort collection "...Featuring", which incorporated her "Here We Go Again" two part harmony, she said "I got a call from Ray inquiring as to whether I'd be keen on singing on this two part harmonies record. I jumped on the following plane and I brought my mother. We went to his studio and did it live with the band. I sang it directly alongside Ray, watching his mouth for the expressing. He was extremely sweet and comforted me, which was incredible in light of the fact that I was petrified strolling in there." She noted in one "...Featuring" meet that the main part that was not done live was a piano overlay that she added a while later to supplement Charles' console. In a similar meeting, she noticed that she had been allowed the chance to choose a melody from Charles' songbook to execute as a two part harmony and felt that this one gave the best chance to fit as opposed to interchange vocal refrains. On the record, the two artists vocalize, joined by Billy Preston on Hammond organ, who had at one time been the standard organist in Charles' band. 

As a feature of Charles' Grammy Award for Album of the Year-winning "Virtuoso Loves Company", the tune turned out to be the most famous and widely praised on the collection. Despite the fact that the melody had its initial spoilers, it got for the most part great audits. A few analysts noticed the complementarity of Jones and Charles. "The Daily Vault" Jason Warburg depicted the tune as a "lively, smooth pas de deux" in which Charles matches Jones note for note." "JazzTimes"' Christopher Loudon said Charles "mixes flawlessly with Jones on a velvet-and-buckram" execution. The tune was depicted by the "Orlando Sentinel" Jim Abbott as an entertainment of one of the jewels from Charles' down home music period of the 1960s that created the ideal "blend of voices and instruments" with Preston's going with job on Hammond B3. Instead of different tracks on the collection, when Charles' voice was downplayed, this tune was said to speak to his "unstoppable soul", while Jones executed as "a compassionate foil, [with] her warm, apathetic vocals fitting pleasantly with his over an extra yet astounding game plan". Creator Mike Evans composed that "there's a common warmth of direction in each breath [Charles and Jones] take" on the tune. "Music Week" staff noticed the auspiciousness of the discharge with the anecdotal film "Beam" in theaters and portrayed the tune as heartfelt, that finely joins Charles' "profound, sugary snarl with Jones' lighter timber", while taking note of Preston for his "clearing" organ work. 

The tune got other explicit types of applause. Robert Christgau noticed that Jones worried about the vocal concern as did a significant number of Charles' two part harmony accomplices on the collection. "USA Today" Steve Jones said the tune "strikes a simple notch". PopMatters' Kevin Jagernauth says "Jones pleasantly compliments Charles on this lovely opening track". Preston's execution was positively portrayed by "The Washington Post" Richard Harrington as "smoky". Pundit Randy Lewis from the "Chicago Tribune" noticed that the melody's "rural hurt" spoke to that piece of Charles' profession. 

At the point when the melody was incorporated on Jones' "...Featuring", which included three of her coordinated efforts from Albums of the Year and a few from collections that were candidates, the tune did not emerge. Maybe a couple of the audits at Metacritic had substantive remarks on the two part harmony when included among her gathering of coordinated efforts. While surveying "...Featuring", Jonathan Keefe of "Inclination Magazine" composed that the two part harmony was a "progressively staid and less convincing account" on the collection. In any case, Allmusic staff noticed that she worked easily with Charles and Chris Rizik of "Soul Tracks" said the track was something other than filler. 

In December 2004, the Jones– Charles variant of the melody was selected in two classes at the 47th Grammy Awards. At the February 13, 2005 honors function, the two part harmony earned the honor for Record of the Year and Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals. It was the second Record of the Year victor not to make the Hot 100 (after "Stroll On" in 2001 by U2). The melody won Record of the Year, yet not Song of the Year. Record of the Year is granted to the artist(s), producer(s), recording engineer(s) as well as mixer(s), if other than craftsman for recently recorded material. Melody of the Year is granted to the songwriter(s) of another tune or a tune initially accomplishing noticeable quality amid the qualification year. Steagall and Lanier are credited as the essayists of this melody from their work on its unique form in 1967. In this manner, the tune was not another tune. 

For the week finishing September 18, 2004, "Virtuoso Loves Company" sold 202,000 duplicates, positioning second on the US "Board" 200 diagram and turning into Charles' most elevated outlining collection in more than 40 years. Advanced singles deals saw 12 of the 13 tracks on the collection make the US "Bulletin" Hot Digital Tracks Top 50 outline. "Here We Go Again" was the download deals pioneer among the collection's melodies that totaled 52,000 advanced downloads. Amid the week the collection was discharged, the tune appeared on the US "Bulletin" Hot Digital Tracks outline at number 26. "Here We Go Again" dropped out of the best 50 two weeks after the fact. It was discharged as a solitary for computerized download on January 31, 2005. 

After the collection earned eight Grammy Awards and the tune won Record of the Year, deals grabbed and the collection was re-advanced. "Here We Go Again" entered the US "Bulletin" Bubbling Under Hot 100 outline at number five in the issue dated (for the week finishing) February 26, 2005. The tune outlined for seven days on both the US "Bulletin" Hot Digital Songs top 75 at number 73 and the US "Board" Pop 100 at number 74 for the week finishing March 5, 2005, yet at the same time did not make the Hot 100, positioning 113th before dropping out of the graph. In any case, it rose to its Bubbling Under Hot 100 graph top position of number two for the week finishing March 5, 2005. A minimal circle single of the melody was discharged on April 19, 2005. 

In Austria, the two part harmony appeared on the Ö3 Austria Top 40 outline at number 53 on March 6, 2005, and topped the next week at number 52. It logged a month and a half on the graph. "Here We Go Again" entered the French Singles Chart at number 54 on April 2, 2005 and crested multi week later at number 51. It kept going 10 weeks on the best 100 graph. 

As indicated by Allmusic, the two part harmony form was somewhere in the range of 3:56 and 3:59 on different collections. 

The melody was recorded at RPM International Studio (Los Angeles), blended at Capitol Studios and aced at the Mastering Lab. 

Johnny Duncan diagrammed a variant of the tune for Columbia Records that missed the Hot 100 outline. It appeared on the Hot Country Songs outline on September 30, 1972, topping at number 66 and spending a sum of five weeks on the diagram. The tune likewise gone through five weeks on the "Cashbox" Country Singles Chart, appearing on October 7, 1972, and cresting at number 61 three weeks after the fact. 

In 1982, Roy Clark delivered a variant of the tune on his "Turned Loose" collection for Churchill Records that he performed on the November 6, 1982 (season 15, scene 9), scene of "Hee Haw". It missed the Hot 100 graph, yet it entered the Hot Country Songs outline for the week finishing October 30, 1982, at 88. The melody was one of just two referenced in the October 30, 1982, "Announcement" collection audit and was depicted as "a strong nation number". The tune crested at number 65 in the week finishing November 27 and stayed in the diagram for two additional weeks, making the all out run seven weeks. The melody additionally gone through seven weeks on the "Cashbox" Country Singles Chart, appearing on November 6, 1982, and topping at number 61 for about fourteen days (December 4 and 11). 

Billy Vaughn secured "Here We Go Again" on his 1967 "Tribute to Billy Joe" instrumental collection, as did Dean Martin on his 1970 collection "My Woman, My Woman, My Wife". Glen Campbell's adaptation showed up on his 1971 collection "The Last Time I Saw Her", Eddy Arnold's on his 1972 collection "Desolate People", and George Strait's on his 1992 collection "Standing My Ground". Steagall performed it with Reba McEntire on his 2007 "Here We Go Again" collection, however she did exclude it on her 2007 two part harmonies collection "", which was discharged a month later. Their joint effort was positively checked on, and McEntire was said to revitalize this nation standard by Nathalie Baret of "ABQ Journal". Martin's variant was 3:07, and it later showed up on gathering collections, beginning with the 1996 "Senior member Martin Gold, Vol. 2". It has showed up on a bunch of other Martin assemblage collections. Campbell's adaptation was just 2:26. Strait's form is 2:53 and seems later on his 2004 "Biggest Collection" at a 2:55 length. Steagall's rendition with McEntire (who Steagall found at a 1974 area reasonable) is 3:10. R&B and boogie-woogie musician and artist Little Willie Littlefield recorded a rendition for his 1997 collection "The Red One". Subsides and Lee made a form of the melody on their 1976 on their "Serenade" collection. Joe Dolan delivered a 1972 single of the tune that he included on his 1976 collection "Brilliant Hour Of Joe Dolan Vol. 2" and a few of his most prominent hits collections. 

Willie Nelson and Wynton Marsalis, alongside Norah Jones, performed two shows at Lincoln Center's Rose Theater on February 9 and 10, 2009. A 2011 live tribute collection by Nelson and Marsalis highlighting Jones entitled "" was recorded on these two live dates. The collection, which was discharged on March 29, 2011, incorporated a track entitled "Here We Go Again". The vocals on "Here We Go Again" were performed by Jones and Nelson, while instrumental help was given by Marsalis (trumpet), Dan Nimmer (piano), Mickey Raphael (harmonica), Walter Blanding (tenor saxophone), Carlos Henriquez (bass) and Ali Jackson (drums and percussion). The tune, which had a length of 5:10, was masterminded by Andy Farber and performed in a beat and blues 12/8 mix. BBC music analyst Bill Tilland noticed that Jones included her standard thing "style and panache" to this execution. At one show execution, "The New York Times" faultfinder Nate Chinen felt the tune sounded unrehearsed. In spite of the fact that study of this track is inadequate, "Pop Matters" Will Layman takes note of that the collection uncovers "how conclusive and solid Jones sounds while singing with a genuinely real jazz gathering" and how Nelson typically "easily gets through his tunes with high handed effortlessness". In the interim, he adulates the expert authority of Marsalis' quintet. Tilland additionally takes note of that on the collection Marsalis' band "repays satisfactorily for incidental dull vocals." 

George Strait's down home music adaptation was performed with the instrumental help of Joe Chemay (low register guitar), Floyd Domino (piano), Buddy Emmons (steel guitar), Steve Gibson (acoustic guitar), Johnny Gimble (fiddle), Jim Horn (saxophone, alto woodwind), Larrie Londin (drums), Liana Manis (foundation vocals), Curtis Young (foundation vocals), and Reggie Young (electric guitar). The collection was created by Jimmy Bowen and Strait. In 1992 "Stimulation Weekly" Alanna Nash viewed the collection as Strait's "most in-your-face blue grass collection" up to that point in his vocation. Allmusic staff noticed that the collection stood its ground at the season of discharge against a large portion of its rivals and has matured superior to most blue grass music collections. Ralph Novak, Lisa Shea, Eric Levin, and Craig Tomashoff of "Individuals" said the collection speaks to the most clear style of singing. The iTunes Store depicts the collection as the consequence of a progress in periods of blue grass music. 

The tune plays amid the opening credit move by Franz (Harry Baer) and (Margarethe von Trotta) in Rainer Werner Fassbinder's 1970 film "Divine forces of the Plague". Be that as it may, the tune was on neither the eponymous soundtrack for the 2004 film "Beam" nor the constrained release extra soundtrack collection "More Music From Ray".