Prometheus (2012 film) 

Prometheus ( ) is a 2012 sci-fi movie coordinated by Ridley Scott, composed by Jon Spaihts and Damon Lindelof and featuring Noomi Rapace, Michael Fassbender, Guy Pearce, Idris Elba, Logan Marshall-Green, and Charlize Theron. It is set in the late 21st century and focuses on the group of the spaceship "Prometheus" as it pursues a star map found among the relics of a few old Earth societies. Looking for the birthplaces of humankind, the team touches base on an inaccessible world and finds a risk that could cause the eradication of the human species. 

Improvement of the film started in the mid 2000s as a fifth portion in the "Outsider" establishment. Scott and executive James Cameron created thoughts for a film that would fill in as a prequel to Scott's 1979 sci-fi blood and gore movie "Outsider". In 2002, the advancement of "Outsider versus Predator" outweighed everything else, and the task stayed lethargic until 2009 when Scott again indicated intrigue. Spaihts composed a content for a prequel to the occasions of the "Outsider" films, yet Scott picked an alternate heading to abstain from rehashing prompts from those movies. In late 2010, Lindelof joined the task to revise Spaihts' content, and he and Scott built up a story that goes before the tale of "Outsider" however isn't legitimately associated with that establishment. As indicated by Scott, in spite of the fact that the film shares "strands of "Alien"s DNA, in a manner of speaking", and happens in a similar universe, "Prometheus" investigates its very own folklore and thoughts. 

"Prometheus" entered generation in April 2010, with broad plan stages amid which the innovation and animals that the film required were created. Primary photography started in March 2011, with an expected $120– 130 million spending plan. The task was shot utilizing 3D cameras all through, on the whole on down to earth sets, and on area in England, Iceland, Spain, and Scotland. It was advanced with an advertising effort that included viral exercises on the web. Three recordings including the film's driving performers in character, which developed components of the anecdotal universe, were discharged and met with a for the most part positive gathering and grants. 

"Prometheus" was discharged on June 1, 2012, in the United Kingdom and on June 8, 2012, in North America. The film got acclaim for the tasteful plan and the acting, particularly Fassbender's execution as the android David, while plot components that stayed uncertain or unsurprising were the primary wellspring of analysis. The film netted over $403 million around the world. A continuation, "", was discharged in May 2017. 

As a shuttle withdraws a planet, a humanoid outsider beverages a radiant fluid, making its body break up. As its remaining parts course into a cascade, the outsider's DNA goes into disrepair and recombines. 

In 2089, archeologists Elizabeth Shaw and Charlie Holloway find a star map in Scotland that matches others from a few detached antiquated societies. They translate this as a welcome from humankind's heralds, the "Designers." Peter Weyland, the older CEO of Weyland Corporation, reserves a campaign, on board the logical vessel "Prometheus," to pursue the guide to the far off moon LV-223. The ship's group goes in stasis while the android David screens their voyage. Landing in December 2093, mission-executive Meredith Vickers advises them of their main goal to discover the Engineers and not to reach without her authorization. 

The "Prometheus" arrives on the infertile, precipitous surface close to an expansive, counterfeit structure, which a group investigates. Inside, they discover stone chambers, a solid statue of a humanoid head, and the executed body of a substantial outsider, thought to be an Engineer; Shaw recuperates its head. The group finds different bodies, driving them to derive the species is wiped out. Group individuals Millburn and Fifield become awkward with the disclosures and endeavor to come back to "Prometheus", however turned out to be stranded in the structure when they get lost. The endeavor is stopped when a tempest powers the group to come back to the ship. David covertly takes a barrel from the structure, while the rest of the chambers start releasing a dull fluid. In the ship's lab, the Engineer's DNA is found to coordinate that of people. David explores the barrel and the fluid inside. He deliberately spoils a beverage with the fluid and offers it to the clueless Holloway, who had expressed he would do anything for answers. Soon after, Shaw and Holloway engage in sexual relations. 

Inside the structure, a snake-like animal murders Millburn and splashes a destructive liquid that dissolves Fifield's head protector. Fifield falls face-first into a puddle of dull fluid. At the point when the group returns, they discover Millburn's cadaver. David independently finds a control room containing an enduring Engineer in stasis, and a substantial 3D holographic star map featuring Earth. Then, Holloway sickens quickly. He is surged back to "Prometheus", however Vickers will not let him on board, and at his encouraging, consumes him to death with a flamethrower. Afterward, a restorative sweep uncovers that Shaw, in spite of being already fruitless, is presently in cutting edge pregnancy. Dreading the most exceedingly awful, she utilizes a computerized medical procedure table to extricate a squid-like animal from her guts. Shaw at that point finds that Weyland has been in stasis on board "Prometheus." He discloses that he needs to ask the Engineers how to keep his demise from seniority. As Weyland gets ready to leave for the structure, Vickers tends to him as "Father". 

A colossal, changed Fifield comes back to the "Prometheus" and murders a few team individuals before he is executed. The "Prometheus" commander, Janek, estimates that the structure was an Engineer army installation that lost control of a destructive organic weapon, the dim fluid. He additionally establishes that the structure houses a shuttle. Weyland and a group come back to the structure, joined by Shaw. David wakes the Engineer from stasis and addresses him trying to clarify what Weyland needs. The Engineer reacts by executing David and murdering Weyland and his group, before reactivating the shuttle. Shaw escapes and cautions Janek that the Engineer is wanting to discharge the fluid on Earth, persuading him to stop the rocket. Janek and the rest of the group penance themselves by smashing the "Prometheus" into the outsider specialty, catapulting the raft simultaneously, while Vickers escapes in a departure unit. The Engineer's impaired shuttle crashes onto the ground, executing Vickers. Shaw goes to the raft and discovers her outsider posterity is alive and has developed to huge size. David's still-dynamic head cautions Shaw that the Engineer is seeking after her. The Engineer powers open the raft's isolated space and assaults Shaw, who discharges her outsider posterity onto the Engineer; it pushes an ovipositor down the Engineer's throat, quelling him. Shaw recoups David's remaining parts, and with his assistance, dispatches another Engineer shuttle. She means to achieve the Engineers' homeworld trying to comprehend why they needed to demolish mankind. 

In the raft, an outsider animal blasts out of the Engineer's chest. 

Other cast individuals incorporate Kate Dickie as the ship's surgeon, Ford; Emun Elliott and Benedict Wong as, separately, dispatch pilots Chance and Ravel; and Patrick Wilson as Shaw's dad. Ian Whyte and Daniel James depict Engineers. 

The focal topic in "Prometheus" concerns the eponymous Titan of Greek folklore who opposes the divine beings and endowments mankind with flame, for which he is exposed to everlasting discipline. The divine beings need to confine their manifestations on the off chance that they endeavor to usurp the divine beings. The film manages humankind's association with the divine beings—their makers—and the result of challenging them. A human campaign means to discover God and get information about conviction, eternality and passing. They discover prevalent creatures who show up god-like in contrast with mankind, and the "Prometheus" group languish results over their interest. Shaw is straightforwardly in charge of the occasions of the plot since she needs her religious convictions certified, and trusts she is qualified for answers from God; her inquiries stay unanswered and she is rebuffed for her hubris. The film offers comparable goals, giving things of data however leaving the associations and ends to the crowd, possibly leaving the inquiry unanswered. Further religious references are inferred by the Engineers' choice to rebuff mankind with decimation 2,000 years before the occasions of the film. Scott recommended that an Engineer was sent to Earth to stop humankind's expanding hostility, however was executed, inferring it was Jesus Christ. In any case, Scott felt that an express association in the film would be "excessively on the nose." 

Man-made reasoning, a binding together subject all through Scott's vocation as a chief, is especially clear in "Prometheus", principally through the android David. David resembles people yet does not have any desire to resemble them, shunning a typical subject in "automated narrating, for example, "Cutting edge Runner". David is made in the picture of humankind, and keeping in mind that the human group of the "Prometheus" deliver scans for their makers anticipating answers, David exists among his human makers yet is disappointed; he examines his makers concerning why they are looking for their own. Lindelof depicted the ship as a jail for David. At the finish of the film, David's maker (Weyland) is dead and his principal programming will finish without somebody to serve. Lindelof clarified that David's modifying winds up indistinct and that he could be customized by Shaw or his very own feeling of interest. Following Weyland's demise, David is left with Shaw, and is genuine and keen on following her, mostly out of survival and incompletely to straighten something up. 

Another subject is creation and the topic of "Who Am I? Who Made Me? Why Hast Thou Forsaken Me?" Development of the in-universe folklore investigated the Judeo-Christian production of man, however Scott was keen on Greco-Roman and Aztec creation legends about divine beings who make man in their very own picture by giving up a bit of themselves. This creation is appeared in the film's opening in which an Engineer penances itself in the wake of devouring the dim fluid, going about as a "plant specialist in space" to convey life to a world. One of their campaigns makes humankind, who make fake life (David) in their own picture. David at that point acquaints the dim fluid with Holloway who impregnates a sterile Shaw, and the subsequent kid impregnates an Engineer, making the offspring of every one of the three ages. Scott compared the Engineers to the dull holy messengers of John Milton's "Heaven Lost", and said that mankind was their posterity and not God's. 

Shaw is the main religious adherent to the group and straightforwardly shows her religious conviction with an accessory of a Christian cross. Lindelof said that with her logical learning, her convictions felt obsolete in 2093. Shaw is energized when she discovers that she was made by the Engineers and not an otherworldly divinity, but instead than cause her to lose her confidence, it fortifies it. Lindelof said that making inquiries and looking for importance is the purpose of being alive, thus the gathering of people is left to address whether Shaw was secured by God as a result of her confidence. Scott needed the film to finish with Shaw's presentation that she is as yet hunting down authoritative answers. Notwithstanding the religious subjects, Lindelof said that "Prometheus" is ace science and investigates whether logical learning and confidence in God can exist together. 

Next to drawing a few impacts from "Heaven Lost", "The Atlantic"s Govindini Murty noted further impacts, and composed that "[t]he striking pictures Ridley Scott devises for "Prometheus" reference everything from Stanley Kubrick's "" to Leonardo da Vinci's "Vitruvian Man" and Mario Bava's "Planet of the Vampires". Scott likewise develops the first "Outsider" universe by making an unmistakably English folklore educated by Milton's "Heaven Lost" and the emblematic illustrations of William Blake." 

Advancement on a fifth film in the "Outsider" establishment was in advancement by 2002. Scott considered coming back to the arrangement he made with his 1979 sci-fi blood and gore movie "Outsider", to seek after a continuation that would investigate the designed inceptions of the arrangement's Alien animals, and the "space racer"— the extraterrestrial being, who quickly shows up in "Outsider", as the expired pilot of a neglected spaceship. "Outsider" star Sigourney Weaver likewise communicated enthusiasm for coming back to the arrangement. "Outsiders" chief James Cameron talked about the potential for a continuation with Scott, and started working with another essayist on a story for the film. It was then that twentieth Century Fox drew nearer Cameron with a content for a hybrid film that would set the arrangement's beasts against the title characters of the "Predator" films; this venture turned into the 2004 sci-fi film "Outsider versus Predator". After Fox affirmed that it would seek after the hybrid, Cameron quit chipping away at his very own undertaking, trusting the hybrid would "murder the legitimacy of the establishment." In 2006, Cameron affirmed that he would not come back to the "Outsider" continuation venture, trusting that the arrangement was Fox's benefit, and he was reluctant to manage the studio's endeavors to impact the potential spin-off. 

In May 2009, Fox said that the undertaking was a "reboot" of the "Outsider" establishment, and soon a while later was accounted for as an untitled prequel to "Outsider". Improvement ceased in June 2009 when Fox conflicted with Scott over his determination of previous TV commercial executive Carl Erik Rinsch as chief. Fox was possibly keen on seeking after the venture if Scott coordinated. By July 2009, Scott was contracted to coordinate the movie, and screenwriter Jon Spaihts was procured to compose the content dependent on his pitched thought for an immediate "Outsider" prequel. With the chief and essayist set up, and satisfied with Spaihts' pitch, Fox planned a discharge date for December 2011, yet this was in the long run dropped. In June 2010, Scott reported that the content was finished and that pre-creation would start, and a recording date was set for January 2011. Fox in the long run pushed to form the venture into a unique work, and by July 2010, Lindelof had been contracted to redevelop Spaihts' screenplay. In October 2010, Lindelof presented his changed screenplay to Fox. Scott had at first mentioned a $250 million spending plan and a grown-up situated venture, yet Fox was hesitant to contribute this measure of cash, and needed to guarantee the film would get a lower age-rating to widen the potential group of onlookers. 

In December 2010, it was accounted for that the film would be designated "Heaven", named after John Milton's lyric "Heaven Lost", however Scott thought about this would pass on an excess of data about the film. Fox CEO Thomas Rothman proposed "Prometheus", which was affirmed as the title in January 2011. A discharge date was planned for , yet weeks after the fact the discharge was delayed until . With the name affirmed, the generation group started to freely remove the film from its "Outsider" sources, and were purposely ambiguous about the association between the movies, trusting it would assemble gathering of people expectation for "Prometheus". Scott expressed that "while "Outsider" was to be sure the hopping off point for this venture, out of the innovative procedure developed another, terrific folklore and universe in which this unique story happens. The sharp fan will perceive strands of "Alien"s DNA, in a manner of speaking, yet the thoughts handled in this film are novel, expansive and provocative." In June 2011, Scott and Lindelof affirmed that "Prometheus" happens in a similar universe as the occasions of the "Outsider" arrangement. In July 2011, Scott expressed that "before the finish of the third demonstration you begin to understand there's a DNA of the absolute first "Outsider", yet none of the consequent [films]." 

Spaihts met Scott in late 2009 and they talked about Scott's craving to seek after an "Outsider" prequel. Spaihts offered his idea, including a "connect" that would interface the tale of the film's human characters to the "Outsider" adventure. Spaihts was immediately employed, which he credited to the gathering of his "connect" thought. Spaihts guaranteed he made the idea immediately, without assumption. Spaihts composed a 20-page "amazingly itemized framework"; inside three and a half weeks he had finished his first draft, and he submitted it to the makers on Christmas Day, 2009. Inside 12 hours, Scott restored the content with notes for changes, and Spaihts spent the Christmas occasion redrafting. 

Spaihts was entrusted with investigating uncertain riddles from "Outsider, for example, the Space Jockey. He considered the puzzles of "Outsider" to be outsider in nature, and stated, "every one of the riddles have outsider players: the exoskeleton bad dream and ... the massive titan that was known as the 'space jockey' ... How would you make anybody care about occasions between animals like this?" His answer was to connect the outsider puzzles to the past and eventual fate of humankind. He stated: "If that story is by one way or another our own and profoundly enmeshed with the human story, that story changes importance inside our life, things of such hugeness that we think about our very own lives in an unexpected way." Spaihts discovered interpreting Scott's expressive visual ideas to content troublesome, and he occasionally compelled a portion of Scott's thoughts. He reminded Scott that in the scene they were talking about, the characters were liable to gravity thus couldn't just buoy. By April 2010, the content was on the fourth draft. Scott said about the content, "we are discussing divine beings and architects. Designers of room. What's more, were the outsiders structured as a type of organic fighting? Or on the other hand science that would go in and tidy up a planet?" In June 2010, Scott declared that the content was finished and prepared for recording. 

Nonetheless, Scott rather reached Lindelof and requested that he audit Spaihts' content. Inside the hour, an envoy conveyed the content to Lindelof and educated him that he would hold up outside to return it when Lindelof had got done with understanding it. Lindelof was unconscious of what Scott and the makers enjoyed about the current content, and educated them that he found the general idea engaging, however that the story depended too intensely on components of the "Outsider" films, for example, the "Outsider" animals' life-cycle. As a direct prequel to "Outsider", the story was molded to lead into that movie's story, and to reproduce the well-known signals of that arrangement, and Scott needed to abstain from rehashing his past achievements. Lindelof stated, "If the completion of ["Prometheus"] is simply going to be the room that John Hurt strolls into that is brimming with [alien] eggs [in "Alien"], there's nothing fascinating in that, since we realize where it will end. Great stories, you don't have the foggiest idea where they're going to end." "A genuine prequel ought to basically go before the occasions of the first film, however be tied in with something completely unique, include distinctive characters, have an altogether extraordinary topic, in spite of the fact that it happens in that equivalent world." 

Lindelof said that different pieces of the content were sufficiently able to make due without the "Outsider" trademarks, for example, the "Outsider" animal, which he accepted had been weakened by the introduction it had gotten. He stated, "[The producers] were simply searching for somebody to state to them, Hey, we needn't bother with the "Outsider" stuff in here. It shouldn't be about that. It very well may be a piece of this motion picture, however it shouldn't be what it's about." Lindelof said that the film could rather run parallel to the "Outsider" arrangement and that a spin-off would be "Prometheus 2" and not "Outsider", and presented a thought for how such a continuation could function. Lindelof met with the makers the next morning, and was contracted without further ado a while later in late 2010. Under Lindelof, the content veered from Spaihts' "Outsider" prequel into a unique creation. Scott and Lindelof cooperated five days seven days among July and August 2010 to develop the vision Scott needed to pass on and choose what content changes were required, including downsizing the "Outsider" imagery and tropes. In August and September 2010, Lindelof went through very nearly five weeks composing his first draft, which he submitted in mid-September 2010. Motivated by "Edge Runner" and Spaihts' content, Lindelof believed that it is conceivable to consolidate an "Outsider" story of activity and loathsomeness with "the "Sharp edge Runner" topical," to make greater inquiries than he felt were regularly presented in sci-fi films. Lindelof stated, 

Scott's story idea was somewhat motivated by "Chariots of the Gods?", Erich von Däniken's work about the hypothesis of old space travelers which guesses that life on Earth was made by outsiders. Scott stated, "NASA and the Vatican concur that [it is] scientifically inconceivable that we can be the place we are today without there being a little help along the way ... That is what we're taking a gander at [in the film], at some of Erich von Däniken's thoughts of how did we people come to fruition." Spaihts began the possibility that David, the android, resembles people however does not have any desire to be in any way similar to them, shunning a typical topic in "mechanical narrating, for example, "Sharp edge Runner". He additionally built up the subject that while the human team is hunting down their makers, David is as of now among its makers. Scott enjoyed these thoughts and further investigated them in Lindelof's revise. For Shaw, Lindelof felt it was essential that she was unmistakable from "Alien"s Ripley, to keep away from inescapable examinations between the two characters. In Spaihts' draft, Shaw was legitimately in charge of the occasions of the plot since she needs to search out possibly perilous learning. Likewise with David, Lindelof extended this aspect of the character amid his revises. He went through around eight months building up the content, completing in March 2011 as taping started. 

Pre-generation started in April 2010. A group created realistic plans for the film. Scott persuaded Fox to contribute a large number of dollars to procure researchers and applied craftsmen to build up a dream of the late 21st century. The creation of "Prometheus" was set apart by a high level of mystery and story subtleties were kept "amazingly hush-hush." Ridley Scott was resolved to keep up the mystery of the plot, and he required the cast to sign conditions to forestall them unveiling story subtleties, and the cast were permitted to peruse the content just under supervision in Scott's generation office. One special case was made when a messenger flew the content to one performing artist outside the US, and afterward stood watchman while the on-screen character read it. Scott stated, "I was persistent that the content not spill onto the web, where it gets dismembered outside the realm of relevance, which ruins it for everybody." 

In July 2011, Lindelof said that the film would depend upon down to earth impacts, and would utilize CGI for the most part for on-set pre-representation of outside space visuals. Scott said that "you can practically do anything you need" with computerized innovation, and, "Doug Trumbull once said to me 'In the event that you can do it live, do it live.' That was 29 years back. Despite the fact that we have wonderful computerized capacities regardless I state do it live. It's less expensive." Cinematographer Dariusz Wolski persuaded Scott that it is conceivable to film in 3D without breaking a sweat and effectiveness of 2D shooting. 3D organization 3ality Technica gave a portion of the apparatuses and hardware to encourage 3D recording, and prepared the film's group in their legitimate activity. As per Scott, the choice to film in 3D added $10 million to the film's financial plan. Since 3D films need high lighting dimensions on set, the trademark dull and shadowy environment of the "Outsider" films was included after creation utilizing shading evaluating forms, and the 3D gear depended on post-"Symbol" innovation. 

Primary photography started on March 21, 2011, kept going 82 days, and had an expected $120– 130 million spending plan. Taping started at Shepperton Studios and Pinewood Studios in England. Scott utilized eight sound stages for recording, including the 007 Stage. Studio space was constrained and the group needed to make five phases work for roughly 16 sets, and expanded the measure of the 007 phase by over 30%. 

Outside shots of the outsider world were shot in Iceland, where recording happened for about fourteen days. It initiated on July 11, 2011, at the base of Hekla, a functioning well of lava in southern Iceland. Talking about working at the fountain of liquid magma, Scott stated, "On the off chance that one fears nature in this calling, at that point it is ideal to get an alternate line of work". Shooting additionally occurred at Dettifoss, a standout amongst the most dominant cascades in Europe. The Iceland shoot included 160 Icelandic group individuals and more than 200 imported team. Scott said that the recording in Iceland contained around fifteen minutes of film for the film, and that the region spoke to the very beginning. Morocco had been picked as an area for these scenes, yet the 2010 Arab Spring dissents constrained the difference in setting. Choices including the Mojave Desert had been considered, however Scott clarified that Iceland was at last picked in light of the fact that "here it is so harsh and 'Jurassic-like' and that demonstrated definitive". 

In September 2011, taping moved to the Ciudad de la Luz varying media complex in Alicante, Spain. Shooting regions incorporated the unpredictable's huge water tank, and a close-by shoreline. The complex was reserved from August 22, 2011, through to December 10, 2011, and set development happened from August until late September. Roughly 250 individuals chipped away at the three-month-long Spain shoot, producing over €1 million in the nearby economy. Recording likewise occurred in the Wadi Rum valley in Jordan. 

Scott abstained from utilizing green screens except if important. Rather, he utilized different things so the performing artists would know where they ought to look in a specific scene on the down to earth sets where CGI components would be embedded in after creation. Rapace said that green screens were utilized less than multiple times amid recording. The generation utilized five 3ality Technical Atom 3D rigs, four of which were designed with Red Epic 3D cameras set on camera dollies and tripods, which were constantly being used amid taping. The fifth apparatus utilized an Epic camera as a steadicam, which was utilized just sporadically. 

Scott utilized the 3D film to build the figment of profundity. Regardless of this being his first 3D film he found the procedure simple. He stated, "You can truly twiddle a handle and the profundity will increment", and, "the trap isn't to try too hard". In December 2011, Rapace embraced extra exchange chronicles for the film. Extra get scenes were recorded amid January 2012, including a one-day shoot on the Isle of Skye, Scotland, and another scene shot at a collapse the Scottish mountains. For dull scenes, the film was shading evaluated to explicitly adjust for the light loss of 3D glasses, to guarantee the picture was equivalent to the 2D form. 

In July 2011, Scott said that he was recording "Prometheus" with both grown-up arranged R and increasingly available PG-13 film appraisals as a main priority, enabling the more grown-up substance to be cut if important without hurting the general introduction. Scott said he had a duty to twentieth Century Fox to have the capacity to introduce a PG-13 cut of the film if the studio requested, enabling it to be seen by a more extensive potential gathering of people. When gotten some information about the rating, Scott stated, "the inquiry is, do you go for the PG-13, or do you go for what it ought to be, which is R? Monetarily it makes all in all a difference ... basically it's kinda R ... it's not just about blood, it's about thoughts that are extremely upsetting." Scott likewise said that, paying little heed to rating, he would display the most forceful cut of the film he could, while Rothman said that Scott would not be compelled to bargain the film's quality to keep away from a R-rating. On May 7, 2012, Fox affirmed that the film had gotten a R-rating and would be discharged with no cuts being made. As indicated by Scott, the scene of Shaw carefully expelling her outsider posterity was the huge reason for the prohibitive rating, and it was recommended that evacuating the scene would be the best way to pick up a lower one. A battle scene among Shaw and the Engineer was abbreviated in light of the fact that Scott chose that Shaw straightforwardly injuring the Engineer reduced his job. Scott finished up work on the film in March 2012. 

Marc Streitenfeld, who had worked with Scott on before undertakings, created the melodic score for "Prometheus". It took a little more than seven days to record with a 90-piece symphony at Abbey Road Studios in London, England. Streitenfeld started composing thoughts for the score in the wake of perusing the content before recording initiated. He utilized some unordinary methods to make the score, and stated, "I really worked out the sheet music in reverse so the ensemble played it in reverse and after that I carefully flipped it. So you're hearing the score as it's composed, a similar tune, however with a regressive sounding ensemble which gives it a sort of strange, agitating sound." The "Prometheus (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack)" collection was discharged on iTunes on May 15, 2012, and on CD on June 4, 2012. It highlights 23 tracks by Streitenfeld and two supplemental tracks by Harry Gregson-Williams. Frédéric Chopins "Raindrop prelude" (1838) is likewise included in the film. 

Generation architect Arthur Max drove the film's plan staff. His craft group were entrusted with deconstructing the craftsmanship and visuals of "Outsider", and turn around structuring them for the sequentially prior setting of "Prometheus". Impact was drawn from crafted by "Outsider" animal creator H. R. Giger, and creators Ron Cobb and Chris Foss, including their plans for that film which Scott had been unfit to create at the time. 

For the team's space suits, Scott was roused to incorporate round glass head protectors subsequent to perusing a story in Steve Jobs' account about structure an office out of Gorilla Glass. Scott stated, "In case I'm in 2083 and I'm going into space, for what reason would I structure a protective cap that has vulnerable sides. What I need is something where I have 360 [vision]. Glass, by at that point, will be light and you won't almost certainly break it with a projectile." The inside of the prop head protectors had nine working video screens, inner lighting, an air supply given by two fans, and battery packs covered inside a rucksack. The cap's outside highlighted an utilitarian light source and top notch camcorders with a transmitter and recorder. For the whatever it preferences may be, Scott needed to stay away from the cumbersome NASA-style suit. His continuous teammate, Janty Yates, utilized restorative research ideas identifying with skin substitution medicines and materials to build up a piece of clothing that would be authentic, adaptable and agreeable. The outfit contained a neoprene suit worn under a space suit, a base to which the head protector could be appended, and a knapsack. 

On board the ship, Yates gave the characters their own unmistakable looks. Theron is wearing an ice-silver, silk mohair suit. Yates stated, "[Theron] is the ice ruler. It was forever our vision to make her look as sculptural as could be expected under the circumstances". Fassbender's David is dressed likewise to other team individuals, yet his outfit was given better lines to deliver a progressively straight appearance. To make an easygoing, loosened up appearance, Marshall-Green's Holloway was wearing hoodies, angler jeans, and flip-flops, while Elba wore a canvas-lubed coat to speak to his long profession in charge of a ship. 

Arthur Max planned the sets, for example, the outsider world scene and structures, and the vehicles, including the "Prometheus" and the Engineer's ship. Advanced 3D models and smaller than normal copies of each set were worked to enable the architects to imagine the associations among them and to know where the CGI components would be embedded. To all the more likely mix the viable and the computerized, the plan group took shake tests from the Iceland area so they could coordinate the graphical surfaces with the genuine rocks. To make the "Prometheus", Max examined NASA and European Space Agency shuttle structures, and broadened these ideas with his very own thoughts of how future space vehicles may look. He said that he needed "to accomplish something that was cutting edge, which would speak to a lead shuttle with each innovation required to test into the most profound corners of the cosmic system." 

The inside of the "Prometheus" was worked over a two-level structure, fronted by a huge, faceted, fold over windscreen. Theron's quarters were intended to speak to her high status in the group, and were outfitted with present day and cutting edge things, including Swarovski crystal fixtures and a Fazioli piano. The ship's carport was based on the backlot of Pinewood Studios in England. The vehicles inside were worked in 11 weeks and were intended to work on troublesome landscape while having an advanced tasteful. Max made an expansive pyramid structure for the outsider world, which had its primary inside zones associated by a progression of chambers, passageways, and burrows; it was large to the point that a few individuals from the film group moved toward becoming lost inside it. The pyramid was improved in after generation to additionally expand its size. One of the key sets, the chamber where the group discover the humanoid-head statue, was intended to take after the inside of a church building and pass on a semi religious impression. Giger planned the wall paintings that show up inside the chamber. 

For the scene of the "Prometheus" drop to the outsider moon LV-223, enhanced visualizations workmanship executive Steven Messing referenced NASA symbolism, including vortex cloud structures. He additionally utilized elevated photos of areas in Iceland and Wadi Rum shot by VFX boss Richard Stammers and his group. Messing painted over these pictures and joined them with 3D set expansions to make a practical adjusted scene. Scott needed the ship's plummet scenes to have a feeling of glory to differentiate the dull and covered plunge included in "Outsider". A lot of LV-223s world depended on the world visited in "Outsider", however downsized as Scott felt a few components were excessively impossible. Different impacts were the Martian mountain Olympus Mons and a few expansive mountain structures on Earth. NASA counsels gave ideas to the style of outsider universes which were joined into the structure work. MPC built up a computerized portrayal of Wadi Rum utilizing the structure material, adjusted it to find the outsider pyramid and an arrival zone for the "Prometheus", and resized the planet's common highlights with respect to the outsider structures. 

Neal Scanlan and Conor O'Sullivan built up the film's outsider animals, expecting to pass on that every animal has a legitimate organic capacity and reason. Scanlan said that a lot of Scott's motivation for animal structure is drawn from normal life, for example, plants and ocean animals. Animal creator Carlos Huante made the animal structures pale to differentiate the dark conditioned, Giger-impacted stylish of "Outsider". Huante planned them to be white and embryonic on the grounds that the occasions in the film happen before Giger's impact had produced results. Huante took impacts from references Scott was utilizing to structure the pale-cleaned Engineers. Huante likewise referenced other Giger works, national landmarks, substantial models, and the Crazy Horse Memorial statue in South Dakota. Some portion of Huante's initial structure work included creating forerunners to "Alien"s Facehugger, and a crude "Outsider" animal, however these were cut from the last discharge. When structuring the Engineers, Scott and Huante referenced canvases by William Blake and J. M. W. Turner, and established models. Scott needed the Engineers to look like Greco-Roman divine beings, and trained fashioner Neville Page to reference the Statue of Liberty, Michelangelo's "David", and Elvis Presley. The 8-foot tall, humanoid Engineers were made by applying cumbersome, full-body prosthetics to the performers, whose facial highlights were lessened by the material, and were later carefully improved to save the "supernatural" physical flawlessness. Scott portrayed the Engineers as tall, rich "dim blessed messengers". 

The snake-like outsider named the "Hammerpede" was given life through a blend of CGI and viable impacts, and the wires controlling the down to earth manikin were carefully expelled. For a scene in which the Hammerpede is executed, the VFX group carefully energized and embedded the unconstrained development of a substitution head. Amid the scene in which the Hammerpede ejects from Spall's character's cadaver, Scott controlled the manikin utilizing wires. Scott did not illuminate Dickie about what was to happen in the scene and her shouting response was genuine. The animal's plan was incompletely motivated by translucent ocean animals with unmistakable courses, veins, and organs underneath the skin's surface, and cobras. The planners gave the animal a smooth, solid, and ground-breaking appearance. Early plans of the "Trilobite", the tentacled posterity cut from Shaw, took after an octopus or squid. Page redeveloped this animal as an incipient organism in an early condition of improvement, with appendages that started melded and would step by step split, making new arms, as the animal created. The commonsense animal was a remotely worked animatronic creation with a silicone skin. 

The transformed Fifield impacts were accomplished essentially using make-up and prosthetics. Because of worries that the down to earth impacts would be unacceptable, the movie producers finished an elective rendition of the grouping, in which Fifield was rendered as "an advanced character with stretched appendages and an engorged, translucent head, fusing a similarity to Harris' face". Three different varieties of the changed Fifield were displayed, yet these were dismissed as being excessively brutal. 

For its developed structure, the "Grown-up Trilobite", Max discovered motivation from an arthropod-like animal from Earth's Cambrian period, and the outsider octopus in Jean Giraud's outlines for the funny cartoon "The Long Tomorrow". Further motivation came after Max found a formaldehyde-saved monster squid, a picture which met with Scott's endorsement. The film's last-divulged animal, the "Minister", was named by Scott for its since quite a while ago, pointed head that he considered took after a priest's miter. Scanlan expected to speak to the animal's hereditary genealogy, starting with Shaw and Holloway who produce the Trilobite which impregnates the Engineer, in its structure. In any case, the animal was given a to some degree ladylike appearance, since "it was conceived of a female before being conceived of a male." Messing drew motivation for the Deacon's introduction to the world scene from the introduction of foals, and made a luminous appearance for its skin, in view of the equine placenta. The Deacon's jutting jaw was motivated by the troll shark. 

Audio cues were created with an assortment of sources including Pop Rocks—a brand of popping sweets—and a parrot. The flickering ice framing on the stone chambers found in the film was made by applying the popping sweet to materials, for example, wet metal and stone that was then showered with water to create the "popping, breaking" sound. Sound fashioner Ann Scibelli's parrot was recorded more than a little while to archive her assortment of vocalizations which were then utilized as signals, cautions and the calls of Shaw's outsider posterity. 

"Prometheus" contains around 1,300 advanced impact shots. The primary impacts studio was Moving Picture Company (MPC), which created 420 of the shots. A few different studios, including Weta Digital, Fuel VFX, Rising Sun Pictures, Luma Pictures, Lola Visual Effects, and Hammerhead Productions, additionally delivered impacts shots for the film. 

The making of life from the breaking down of an Engineer in the film's opening scene was made by WETA Digital. The scene was hard to create in light of the fact that it needed to pass on the narrative of the Engineer's DNA breaking separated, improving and recombining into Earth DNA in a constrained range of time. The group concentrated on making the DNA stages particular to pass on its evolving nature. Scott mentioned the studio to concentrate on the obliteration happening inside the Engineer. A light shading plan was utilized for the Engineer's DNA and rotted fish spines were utilized as a picture reference, while the contaminated DNA had a dissolved appearance. To discover techniques for portraying the DNA devastation, the group cut vein-like structures from silicone and siphoned dark ink and oils into them while shooting the progressions happening over an all-inclusive timeframe. 

A key scene including an extensive 3D image star map, named the Orrery, was propelled by the 1766 Joseph Wright painting "A Philosopher Lecturing on the Orrery", in which a researcher shows a mechanical planetarium by candlelight. While talking about the need of a star map with Spaihts, Scott referenced that he visualized a physical portrayal being like the sketch, in spite of the fact that he was unconscious of its title and depicted it as "hovers in circles with a light lit picture". Utilizing Scott's depiction, Spaihts found a picture of the work of art. Spaihts stated, "making the jump from a star map, to an Enlightenment painting, and after that once again into the far future. [Scott's] mind only multiplexes in that way". The Orrery was a standout amongst the most perplexing enhanced visualizations, contained 80– 100 million polygons, and accepting a little while to render as a solitary, complete shot. 

"Prometheus" showcasing effort started on July 21, 2011 at the San Diego Comic-Con International, where pictures and film from the film were introduced by Lindelof and Theron; Scott and Rapace took an interest by means of satellite commitment. A fragment of the recording indicated Theron performing bare push-ups, which pulled in much consideration. A secret blurb was discharged on December 14, 2011, with the slogan, "The look for our start could prompt our end." A contraband chronicle of a deficient trailer was released online on November 27, 2011, however was immediately brought somewhere near Fox. The trailer was discharged on December 22, 2011. 

On March 17, 2012, Scott, in association with AMC Theaters, facilitated the debut of the primary full "Prometheus" trailer at the AMC Downtown Disney amid WonderCon in Anaheim, California. The occasion was spilled live by means of Facebook, Twitter, and the AMC Theater site, and the trailer was posted on AMC's YouTube channel following its presentation. Responses to the trailer from WonderCon participants, and on Twitter, were commonly positive, and it got about three million perspectives in the three days following its discharge. On April 10, 2012, news sources were demonstrated a 13-minute montage of scenes in 3D from the film's opening at the Vue Cinema in Leicester Square, London. The screening, and specifically the 3D visuals and the exhibitions of Fassbender, Rapace, Theron, and Elba, was generally welcomed. 

On April 29, 2012, the worldwide dispatch trailer appeared in the United Kingdom on Channel 4 amid the main commercial break of the TV show "Country". Watchers were urged to impart their insights about the trailer on Twitter, some of which were then partaken in a live communicate amid a later break. This was the first occasion when that watchers' tweets were utilized in a communicate promotion. A challenge, offering watchers an opportunity to win tickets to the film at whatever point the social stage Zeebox distinguished the notice airing, was propelled on that site. On May 8, 2012, the commercial turned into the subject of an examination by the British telecom administrative body Ofcom for purportedly rupturing communicate rules when a voiceover urged watchers to book tickets amid the ad with the logo onscreen. The communicate conceivably broke a decision that publicizing and mail order shopping must be obviously discernable from article content. 

In spite of the fact that advertisers normally abstain from elevating grown-up arranged movies to achieve a more extensive statistic, the film pulled in a few special accomplices including Coors, Amazon, and Verizon FiOS, which were assessed to have burned through $30 million in promoting support. Amazon guided intrigued clients to buy tickets through Fandango, and put special material in items dispatched to clients; this was the first occasion when that Amazon had permitted such showcasing by an outside organization. The debut in London was spilled live through the film's site and the Verizon FiOS Facebook page. The occasion was encouraged by BumeBox, which took crowd inquiries from social locales and offered them to correspondents to ask at the occasion. The National Entertainment Collectibles Association (NECA) discharged a progression of "Prometheus" activity figures in September 2012. A book, "Prometheus: The Art of the Film", containing generation craftsmanship and in the background photos, was discharged on June 12, 2012. 

A viral advertising effort started on February 28, 2012, with the arrival of a video including a discourse by Pearce, in character as Peter Weyland, about his vision for what's to come. Set in 2023, the "TED 2023" video exhibits a modern vision of a TED meeting, a yearly innovation and structure occasion held in Long Beach, California. The fragment was considered and structured by Scott and Lindelof, and coordinated by Scott's child, Luke. The generation was made as a team with, and made accessible through TED in light of the fact that Lindelof needed to acquaint new groups of onlookers with the meeting itself. Lindelof said that the scene happens in a modern arena on the grounds that "a person like Peter Weyland—whose conscience is simply gigantic, and the thoughts that he's progressing are out and out hubris—that he'd essentially state to TED, 'On the off chance that you need me to give a discussion, I'm giving it in Wembley Stadium. 

TED people group chief Tom Rielly helped the film's makers gain endorsement for the utilization of the TED brand, which had not recently been utilized for limited time purposes. Rielly was engaged with planning the 2023 gathering, and said that the affiliation created a huge number of special visits to the TED site. The video's discharge was joined by an anecdotal TED blog about the 2023 gathering and a tie-in site for the anecdotal Weyland Corporation. On March 6, 2012, the Weyland site was refreshed to enable guests to put resources into the organization as a major aspect of a diversion, which would uncover new "Prometheus" media. 

Amid the 2012 WonderCon, participants at the movie's board were given Weyland Corporation business cards that guided them to a site and phone number. Subsequent to calling the number, the guest was sent an instant message from Weyland Corporation that connected them to a video that was exhibited as a commercial for the "David 8" android, described by Fassbender. An all-inclusive rendition of the video, discharged on April 17, 2012, records the android's highlights, including its capacity to flawlessly recreate human feelings without the confinements of morals or misery. A full page "David 8" ad was put in "The Wall Street Journal"; a Twitter account worked by a David8, that permitted Twitter clients to ask the character questions, was incorporated. An association with Verizon FiOS was propelled, offering a virtual voyage through the "Prometheus" spaceship. Another video, "Calm Eye", featuring Rapace as Shaw, was discharged on May 16, 2012, and appeared on the Verizon FIOS Facebook page. In a phone call observed by Yutani, an anecdotal organization from the "Outsider" arrangement, Shaw demands Weyland's guide to search out outsider life. In France, the Saint-Martin apparition train station was changed over to look like outsider engineering from the film, and was noticeable to passing suburbanites. The crusade proceeded after the film's discharge with a site that was recorded amid the film's end credits. The site referenced the philosophical novel "Accordingly Spoke Zarathustra" by Friedrich Nietzsche, and highlighted a video of Weyland, who cites from the book. Another video followed in September 2012, highlighting Elba's Captain Janek getting ready for a mission. 

At the May 2012 Digital Hollywood meeting, Lindelof said that the recordings began from the subject of the film's status as an "Outsider" prequel. It was chosen that making recordings with the film's stars would produce more enthusiasm than any critique about its association with the "Outsider" films. He likewise said that the recordings should have been cool enough to legitimize their reality, however not all that essential that their nonattendance from the last film would be an issue for gatherings of people. 

The debut of "Prometheus" occurred on May 31, 2012, at the Empire film in Leicester Square, London. The film was discharged in the United Kingdom on , 2012, and in North America on , 2012. It was at the same time discharged in IMAX theaters and in 3D, and it is encoded for D-Box movement situates that give physical criticism to the group of onlookers amid the film. 

In the United Kingdom, roughly £1 million ($1.6 million) of tickets were pre-sold. 18,827 tickets pre-sold for the London IMAX, the biggest IMAX screen in the nation, which broke the performance center records for the most astounding earning seven day stretch of pre-deals with £293,312 ($474,687), and the most elevated netting first day of pre-deals with £137,000 ($221,717). It stretched out this record to 30,000 tickets sold and £470,977 ($737,588) earned, and become the most pre-booked film at that theater, surpassing the execution of prominent IMAX discharges including "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2" and "Symbol". 

In North America, group of onlookers following demonstrated high enthusiasm among guys, however low among females. In the week prior to the film's discharge, forecasts were clashed on whether "Prometheus" or "" (the primary family-arranged film of the late spring), which were discharged at the same time, would achieve number 1 for that end of the week. On June 6, 2012, Fandango announced that with 42% of every day deals "Prometheus" was beating "Madagascar 3". The web based following for "Prometheus" flooded with each extra special film. "Prometheus" was anticipated to procure roughly $30 million, and "Madagascar 3" around $45 million. As the end of the week drew nearer, following proposed a $55 million introduction for "Madagascar 3" and $50– $55 million for "Prometheus". "Prometheus" was impeded by "Madagascar" opening in 264 additional theaters and its grown-up rating. 

"Prometheus" was viewed as a monetary achievement by and large. After a solid begin in North America, the film neglected to meet the studio's desires, however it kept on performing firmly in different domains until the finish of its dramatic run. "Prometheus" earned $126.4 million (31.4%) in North America and $276.9 million (68.6%) somewhere else for an overall aggregate of $403.4 million, making it the eighteenth most astounding netting film of 2012, and at its pinnacle it was the 155th most noteworthy netting film worldwide unadjusted for expansion. 

"Prometheus" was discharged in 15 showcases between May 30 and June 1, 2012—about seven days before its North American discharge. The prior begin in these nations was planned to maintain a strategic distance from rivalry with the beginning of the 2012 UEFA European Football Championship the next week. On its opening day, which shifts relying upon the nation, it earned $3.39 million in the United Kingdom, $2.2 million in Russia, and $1.5 million in France. The film earned $34.8 million amid its opening end of the week from 4,695 performance centers in 15 showcases, and appeared at number 1 of every 14 of them, with a normal of $7,461 per theater. Its general position for the end of the week was third behind "Men in Black 3" and "Snow White and the Huntsman". Its opening ends of the week in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta ($10.1 million), Russia and the CIS ($9.80 million), and France and the Maghreb district ($6.68 million) spoke to its biggest takings. By June 8, the film had opened in a sum of 50 advertises, and was additionally effective amid its opening ends of the week in Australia ($7.2 million) and South Korea ($4.2 million). Amid its late August opening in Japan, the film earned $9.6 million. 

In North America, "Prometheus" earned $3.561 million in midnight showings at 1,368 theaters, including $1.03 million from 294 IMAX theaters, and proceeded to acquire $21.4 million through its opening day. Amid its opening end of the week, the movie earned $51.05 million from 3,396 theaters—a normal of $15,032 per theater—positioning second behind "Madagascar 3" ($60.4 million), which made it the second biggest opening for a movie coordinated by Scott behind his 2001 spine chiller "Hannibal", the third biggest second-place opening, the ninth biggest opening for a prequel, and the tenth biggest for a R-evaluated film. The biggest statistic of the opening end of the week gathering of people was beyond 25 years old (64%) and male (57%). 3D showings represented 54% of ticket deals, while IMAX contributed 18%—most of which was represented in the 3D figure. The film shut on September 20, 2012 following 105 days (15 weeks) in discharge with an absolute gross of $126.4 million. The figure made it the number 43 most elevated netting film to never complete seven days as the number 1 film. 

The film earned a 73% endorsement rating from 288 pundits—a normal rating of 7/10 on the audit total site Rotten Tomatoes, which stated, "Ridley Scott's goal-oriented semi prequel to "Outsider" may not answer the majority of its central issues, yet it's reclaimed by its frequenting visual glory and convincing exhibitions—especially Michael Fassbender as a picky android." Metacritic gives a score of 65 out of 100 from 42 commentators, which designates "for the most part positive" surveys. CinemaScore surveys announced that the normal evaluation moviegoers gave the film was a "B" on a size of A+ to F, while gathering of people individuals under 25 appraised it the most noteworthy at A-. Surveys oftentimes commended both the film's visual stylish and plan, and Fassbender's execution as the android David got practically all inclusive praise. Anyway the plot drew a blended reaction from faultfinders, who reprimanded plot components that stayed uncertain or were unsurprising, tempered by gratefulness for the activity and awfulness set-pieces. 

"The Hollywood Reporter"s Todd McCarthy called the film's visuals distinctive, shocking, and grand on a specialized dimension, and adulated the exhibitions of Fassbender, Rapace, and Theron, however composed that the film "provides food an excessive amount to envisioned gathering of people desires when somewhat more daring idea may have taken it to some excitingly unsuspected goals." "Time Out London"s Tom Huddleston composed that "the photography is pleasingly fresh and the structure is staggering", yet that, "[t]he content feels flat ... the exchange is sluggish, while the plot, however packed with striking ideas, essentially neglects to blend. After a charming setup, the focal demonstration is loose, befuddling and, in spots, somewhat exhausting, while the peak has blaze and firecrackers however no genuine force." Emanuel Levy composed that the composing was his solitary grievance about the film, which, he stated, "isn't just uneven, yet guarantees more unique thoughts and topical incitements than it can convey." Roger Ebert gave the film 4 out of 4 stars, naming it a "consistent mix of story, embellishments and pitch-immaculate throwing, shot in normal, viable 3-D that doesn't occupy." Ebert composed that Rapace's execution "proceeds here the convention of magnificent female quality started by Sigourney Weaver in "Outsider"", yet thought about that Elba's Janek has the most fascinating character advancement. Ebert suspected that the plot brings up issues and does not answer them, which made the film captivating and parallel to the "exemplary convention of brilliant age science fiction". He later proceeded to name it as a standout amongst the best movies of 2012. 

"Absolute Film"s Jonathan Crocker composed that the plot effectively incorporated itself with "Alien"s folklore while offering its own unique thoughts. "Stimulation Weekly"s Lisa Schwarzbaum was sure towards the cast, especially Rapace, and the cinematography. "Salon"s Andrew O'Hehir composed that the film was "solemn, tremendous and cumbersome", yet that the "ominousness and grandiosity ... is without a moment's delay the film's extraordinary quality and incredible shortcoming" and condemned the characters for lacking presence of mind. O'Hehir additionally referenced Wolski's cinematography and Max's generation structure. "The New York Times"' A. O. Scott scrutinized the story as powerless, and contended that the account's turns and inversions undermine its "grand, awe-inspiring potential". He said the film has no disclosures, only "bits of immediately astonishing data dispossessed of significance or reverberation", and that Rapace is a "fine courageous woman, helpless and decided". 

"Assortment" film pundit Justin Chang composed that the film's story structure was unfit to deal with the philosophical component of the plot, and that "Prometheus" was lethargically conceding key plot focuses under the assumption that a spin-off would be made. "The Guardian's" Peter Bradshaw composed that "Prometheus" was "increasingly self important, progressively detailed—yet less intriguing" than "Outsider", and came up short on the last's "focal executioner punch". Ian Nathan of "Domain" magazine was neutral by Rapace—whom he portrayed as an unconvincing lead—and said that with "an absence of tension, tattered characters, and an exceptionally poor content, the shocking visuals, gloopy franticness, and sterling Fassbenderiness can't forestall "Prometheus" feeling like "Alien"s poor connection." "The Village Voice"s Nick Pinkerton composed that the film is "inclined to shallow unwieldiness", and that Scott "can even now copy the presence of an epic, respectable, essential motion picture—however the appearance is all." He censured Rapace and Marshall-Green for neglecting to ingrain enthusiasm for their characters' relationship, yet included: "there are a couple of set pieces here that will discover a position of respect among devotees of body frightfulness and everything damp and thick". 

James Cameron stated: "I delighted in "Prometheus". I thought it was incredible. I thought it was Ridley coming back to sci-fi with fervor, with extraordinary strategic execution, lovely photography, incredible local 3D. There might have been a couple of things that I would have done another way, however that is not the point—you could say that regarding any motion picture." 

In North America, "Prometheus" DVD and Blu-beam circle discharges were recorded for pre-request in organization with Amazon on June 1, 2012, seven days before the film was discharged in theaters. A predetermined number of film tickets for the film were offered as a pre-request motivating force. In June 2012, "FX" got the rights to the film's system TV debut. On September 7, 2012, Fox declared that "Prometheus" would be the dispatch title of its new advanced conveyance activity "Computerized HD". The film was discharged on September 18, 2012, three weeks preceding its DVD, Blu-beam circle and Video on interest (VOD) discharge, for downloading and spilling through stages including Amazon, iTunes, PlayStation Network and Xbox Live in more than 50 nations. The film was discharged on Blu-beam circle and DVD on October 9, 2012. The Blu-beam circle version of the film was discharged in a 2-plate set and a 4-circle "Authority's Edition". The two renditions contain the showy cut of "Prometheus", editorial by Scott, Lindelof and Spaihts, a DVD and advanced duplicate of the film, exchange and erased scenes, and different highlights. Furthermore, the Collector's Edition contains the 3D variant of the film and around 7 hours of supplemental highlights including a narrative on the film's generation. On October 8, 2012, it was accounted for that Fox had mentioned an all-inclusive adaptation of the movie for home media, yet Scott wouldn't alter cut scenes again into the showy variant of the movie, which he thought about his executive's cut. Amid its first seven day stretch of offer in the United Kingdom, "Prometheus" was the number 1 selling film on DVD and Blu-beam Disk, surpassing its closest rival by a factor of three. A Ultra HD Blu-beam form is planned for discharge in September 2017. 

Scott examined a continuation of the arrangement in March 2012, saying that "Prometheus" leaves numerous inquiries unanswered and that these could be replied in a spin-off. In June 2012, Lindelof said that while plot components were purposely left uncertain with the goal that they could be replied in a continuation, he and Scott had completely talked about what ought to be settled so that "Prometheus" could remain solitary, as a spin-off was not ensured. By August 2012, a spin-off was reported to be being developed for discharge no sooner than 2014. Lindelof decided not to chip away at the new film, refering to different duties. Titled "", the spin-off debuted in London, England on May 4, 2017, and was discharged in the United States on May 19, 2017. Set eleven years after the occasions of "Prometheus", "Outsider: Covenant"s story pursues the group of the Covenant space transport who arrive on an unknown and apparently uninhabited planet. The film stars Katherine Waterston, Danny McBride, Demian Bichir, Jussie Smollett, Amy Seimetz, Carmen Ejogo, Callie Hernandez, Alex England and Billy Crudup. On discharge, "Outsider: Covenant" earned an overall film industry gross of $240.7 million (contrasted with "Prometheus" $403.4 million), and got commonly ideal audits. A continuation of "Outsider: Covenant" is being developed. In 2013, a comic book arrangement was reported by Dark Horse Comics that fills in as a turn off to "Prometheus". The arrangement, titled "Flame and Stone", is an "Outsider versus Predator" hybrid highlighting content selective to "Prometheus". The main issue of "Flame and Stone" was discharged on September 10, 2014.