Drymoreomys 

Drymoreomys is a rat family in the clan Oryzomyini that lives in the Atlantic Forest of Brazil. The single species, D. albimaculatus, is known just from the conditions of São Paulo and Santa Catarina and was not named until 2011. It lives in the muggy woods on the eastern inclines of the Serra do Mar and maybe duplicates all year. Despite the fact that its range is generally huge and incorporates some secured territories, it is sketchy and compromised, and the pioneers suggest that the creature be considered "Close Threatened" on the IUCN Red List. Inside Oryzomyini, "Drymoreomys" has all the earmarks of being most firmly identified with "Eremoryzomys" from the Andes of Peru, a biogeographically abnormal relationship, in that the two populaces are generally isolated and each is adjusted to a parched or a sodden situation. 

With a weight of , "Drymoreomys" is a medium-sized rat with long hide that is orange to ruddy buff above and grayish with a few white fixes beneath. The cushions on the hindfeet are great created and there is dark colored hide on the upper sides of the feet. The tail is dark colored above and beneath. The front piece of the skull is moderately long and the edges on the braincase are frail. The sense of taste is short, with its back edge between the third molars. A few characteristics of the privates are not found in some other oryzomyine rat. 

"Drymoreomys" was first recorded in 1992 by Meika Mustrangi in the province of São Paulo. The creature was not, be that as it may, formally portrayed until 2011, when Alexandre Percequillo and partners named it as another family and species inside the clan Oryzomyini: "Drymoreomys albimaculatus". The nonexclusive name, "Drymoreomys", consolidates the Greek "δρυμός" ("drymos"), signifying "timberland", "ὄρειος" ("oreios"), signifying "mountain-staying", and "μῦς" ("mys"), signifying "mouse". The name alludes to the creature's event in mountain backwoods. The particular name, "albimaculatus", gets from the Latin "albus", signifying "white", and "maculatus", signifying "detected", a reference to the spots of white in the creature's hide. Percequillo and partners discovered minimal geographic variety among tests of "Drymoreomys", despite the fact that a couple of qualities contrast in recurrence between populaces from the conditions of São Paulo and Santa Catarina. 

As indicated by a phylogenetic investigation of proof from morphology, the atomic quality IRBP, and the mitochondrial quality cytochrome "b", "Drymoreomys albimaculatus" is most firmly identified with "Eremoryzomys polius", an oryzomyine from northern Peru and the main species in the variety "Eremoryzomys". Together, "Drymoreomys" and "Eremoryzomys" are a piece of Marcelo Weksler's clade D, one of four primary clades inside Oryzomyini. Some consequent examinations did not bolster a connection between the "Drymoreomys– Eremoryzomys" clade and the remainder of clade D, yet this is likely because of immersion of the phylogenetic flag in mitochondrial information. Oryzomyini incorporates well over a hundred animal types disseminated principally in South America, including close-by islands, for example, the Galápagos Islands and a portion of the Antilles. It is one of a few clans perceived inside the subfamily Sigmodontinae, which envelops several species found crosswise over South America and into southern North America. Sigmodontinae is the biggest subfamily of the family Cricetidae, different individuals from which incorporate voles, lemmings, hamsters, and deermice, all fundamentally from Eurasia and North America. 

"Drymoreomys albimaculatus" is a medium-sized, since quite a while ago followed, short-eared, short-footed rat. It is very unmistakable from different oryzomyines and has various special attributes. In 11 adults from Parque Natural Municipal Nascentes do Garcia in Santa Catarina, head and body length was , tail length was , hindfoot length was , ear length was , and weight was . The hide is long and thick and comprises of dainty, short, wooly underfur and long, thick overfur. In general, the hide of the upperparts is orange to ruddy buff. In the firmly related "Eremoryzomys", the upperparts are grayish. The hairs of the underfur, which are long, are grayish for the greater part of their length and orange or dark colored at the tip. In the overfur, the spread hairs (which structure the fundamental body of the hide), are long and darker at the tip, with an orange band underneath the tip, and the more extended, meager watchman hairs are red to dull dark colored in the half nearest to the tip and are long. The sides are rosy darker. On the underparts, the hairs are grayish at the base and white at the tip, with the exception of on the throat, chest, and (in certain examples) crotch, where the hairs are altogether white—an attribute one of a kind among the oryzomyines. In by and large appearance, the underparts are grayish, with white spots where the hairs are totally white. 

The little, adjusted ears are secured with thick brilliant hairs on the external and with ruddy darker hairs on the inward surface. The mystacial vibrissae (stubbles on the upper lip) are long, typically expanding a little past the ears when laid back against the head, however the superciliary vibrissae (hairs over the eyes) are short and don't reach out past the ears. The upper surface on the forefeet is secured with dark colored hide, and there is white or shiny hide on the digits. Ungual tufts (hide around the bases of the paws) are available on the second through fourth digits. On the short, genuinely expansive hindfeet, the upper side is secured thickly with gleaming to white hairs close to the tips of the feet and toes, and with dark colored hide generally. No other oryzomyine has such dark colored hide on its hindfeet. The second through fourth digits have long gleaming white ungual tufts, yet those on the principal digit are short. On the sole, the cushions are extremely expansive. Among oryzomyines, just "Oecomys" and the wiped out "Megalomys" have comparatively expansive cushions between their digits. There is a thick front of short darker hairs on both the upper and lower sides of the tail. Dissimilar to in "Eremoryzomys", the tail is a similar shading above and underneath. The last parts in a tuft, a surprising component among oryzomyines. 

In the skull, the platform (front part) is generally long. The nasal and premaxillary bones stretch out before the incisors, framing a rostral tube, which is shared among oryzomyines just with "Handleyomys". The zygomatic score (an indent framed by a projection at the front of the zygomatic plate, a hard plate along the edge of the skull) is shallow. The interorbital area (between the eyes) is restricted and long, with the tightest part towards the front. The peaks on the braincase and interorbital locale are feebly created. "Eremoryzomys" has bigger peaks on its interorbital area. 

The sharp foramina (openings in the front piece of the sense of taste) are long, some of the time reaching out to between the main molars (M1). The hard sense of taste is expansive and short, with the back edge between the third molars (M3). "Nephelomys levipes" is the main other oryzomyine with such a short sense of taste, despite the fact that that of "Eremoryzomys polius" is just marginally more. The posterolateral palatal pits (openings in the back piece of the sense of taste close to the M3) change from little to genuinely huge and are situated in slight fossas (despondencies). In "Eremoryzomys", these fossas are more profound. The top of the mesopterygoid fossa, the opening behind the sense of taste, is totally shut or contains little sphenopalatine vacuities. The vacuities are a lot bigger in "Eremoryzomys". The alisphenoid swagger, a bit of bone that isolates two foramina (openings), is available taking all things together "Drymoreomys" examples inspected, aside from in one adolescent example. 

The mandible (lower jaw) is long and low. The coronoid procedure, the frontmost of the three fundamental procedures (projections) at the back of the jawbone, is huge and about as high as the condyloid procedure behind it. The precise procedure, underneath the condyloid, is genuinely short and does not expand further in reverse than the condyloid. There is no observable capsular procedure (a raising at the back of the jaw that houses the base of the lower incisor). 

The upper incisors are opisthodont (with the cutting surface arranged in reverse) and have orange to yellow finish. The upper molar lines are either practically parallel or marginally united with one another toward the front. "Holochilus" and "Lundomys" are the main different oryzomyines with non-parallel molar lines. The valleys between the cusps of the upper molars reaching out from the inward and external sides cover marginally over the midlines of the teeth. The molars are high-cusped, nearly hypsodont. On M1, the anterocone (the front cusp) is isolated into two cuspules on the lingual (inward, towards the tongue) and labial (external, towards the lips) sides of the teeth. The mesoloph, a peak close to the center of the labial side of the tooth, is long and very much created on every one of the three upper molars. On the lower molars (m1 to m3), the cusps on the labial side are found marginally before their lingual partners. The anteroconid, the front cusp on the m1, is separated in two. The m1, m2, and as a rule m3 have a mesolophid, a peak relating to the mesoloph yet situated on the lingual side. Every one of the lower molars has two roots. 

There are 12 ribs and 19 thoracolumbar (chest and mid-region), four sacral, and 36 to 38 caudal (tail) vertebrae. There are three digits at the tip of the penis, of which the focal one is the biggest. The two sidelong digits are not bolstered by hills of the baculum (penis bone). There is just a single spine on the papilla (areola like projection) on the upper side of the penis. On the urethral procedure, situated in the cavity toward the finish of the penis, a beefy procedure along the edge, the horizontal lobule, is available. The preputial (organs before the private parts) are substantial. The absence of horizontal bacular hills, nearness of a sidelong lobule, and size of the preputial organs are for the most part one of a kind attributes among the oryzomyines. 

The karyotype of "Drymoreomys albimaculatus" is 2n=62, FN=62: the creature has 62 chromosomes, and 29 sets of autosomes (non-sex chromosomes) are acrocentric (with one arm so short as to be practically undetectable) and one little pair is metacentric (with two similarly long arms). Both sex chromosomes are submetacentric (with one arm discernibly longer than the other), and X is bigger than Y. Squares of heterochromatin are available on all autosomes and the long arm of Y. Telomeric groupings are found close to the centromeres of the sex chromosomes. Parts of this karyotype—with a high number of generally acrocentric chromosomes and the nearness of heterochromatin on the Y chromosome—are reliable with the example seen in different oryzomyines. Be that as it may, no other oryzomyine has the very same karyotype as "D. albimaculatus". Different species in clade D have less chromosomes, down to 16 in "Nectomys palmipes", in spite of the fact that the karyotype of "Eremoryzomys polius" is obscure. This recommends a transformative pattern of diminishing chromosome number inside the clade. 

"Drymoreomys albimaculatus" happens in the Atlantic Forest on the eastern inclines of the Serra do Mar in the Brazilian conditions of São Paulo and Santa Catarina, at above ocean level. It has not been found in the mediating territory of Paraná, however is probably going to happen there. The biogeographical example demonstrated by the connection among "Drymoreomys" and the Andean "Eremoryzomys" is strange. While there are some comparable instances of connections among Andean and Atlantic Forest creatures, these include occupants of damp woods in the Andes; "Eremoryzomys", conversely, lives in a dry territory. 

"Drymoreomys albimaculatus" gives off an impression of being an authority of thick, sodden, montane and premontane backwoods. It has been found in aggravated and optional backwoods just as in unblemished timberland, however presumably needs adjoining woods to endure. Regenerative movement has been seen in females in June, November, and December and in guys in December, recommending that the species breeds all year. Albeit a portion of its morphological attributes, for example, the extremely huge cushions, are suggestive of arboreal (tree-staying) propensities, most examples were gathered in entanglement traps on the ground. 

The scope of "Drymoreomys albimaculatus" is moderately substantial and the species happens in a few ensured territories, yet it has just been found in seven regions and its living space is compromised by deforestation and fracture. Consequently, Percequillo and associates recommend that the species be surveyed as "Close Threatened" under the IUCN Red List criteria.