Skirmish of Halmyros 

The Battle of Halmyros, referred to by prior researchers as the Battle of the Cephissus or Battle of Orchomenos, was battled on 15 March 1311, between the powers of the Frankish Duchy of Athens and its vassals under Walter of Brienne against the hired fighters of the Catalan Company, bringing about a definitive triumph for the Catalans. 

Occupied with strife with their unique businesses, the Byzantine Empire, the Catalan Company had crossed the southern Balkans and touched base in southern Greece in 1309. The new Duke of Athens, Walter of Brienne, employed them to assault the Greek leader of neighboring Thessaly. In spite of the fact that the Catalans vanquished a significant part of the area for him, Walter would not pay them and arranged to persuasively oust them from their additions. The two armed forces met at Halmyros in southern Thessaly (or at the Boeotic Cephissus, close Orchomenos, as indicated by a before translation). The Catalans were significantly dwarfed and debilitated by the hesitance of their Turkish assistants to battle. The Company had the benefit of choosing the battleground, situating themselves behind damp territory, which they further immersed. On the Athenian side, huge numbers of the most vital masters of Frankish Greece were available and Walter, a prideful man and certain about the ability of his substantial rangers, continued to charge fast against the Catalan line. The bog obstructed the Frankish assault and the Catalan infantry stood firm. The Turks re-joined the Company and the Frankish armed force was steered; Walter and nearly the whole knighthood of his domain fell in the field. Because of the fight, the Catalans assumed control over the leaderless Duchy of Athens; they decided that piece of Greece until the 1380s. 

Following the Sack of Constantinople in 1204, quite a bit of Greece went under the standard of Frankish Crusader realms. The most outstanding of them were the Kingdom of Thessalonica, the Principality of Achaea, and the Duchy of Athens, with its capital at Thebes. Thessalonica demonstrated brief and tumbled to the resurgent Greeks, however the other Frankish territories drove forward and even succeeded for the greater part of the thirteenth century. In his milestone 1909 history of Frankish Greece, the medievalist William Miller composes of the Duchy of Athens that "under the domain of the dukes of the place of de la Roche, exchange thrived, fabricates prospered, and the wonderful qualities of the Theban court awed outsiders acquainted with the grandeurs and shows of a lot more prominent states." On 5 October 1308, the last de la Roche Duke of Athens, Guy II, passed on childless. His progression was debated, however in mid-1309, the High Court (primitive gathering) of Achaea picked his cousin, the Burgundian respectable Walter of Brienne, as successor. 

Around then the Greek world was in strife inferable from the activities of the Catalan Company, a gathering of hired fighters, veterans of the War of the Sicilian Vespers, initially enlisted by the Byzantine Empire against the Turks in Asia Minor. Shared doubt and squabbles prompted war with the Byzantines; ousted from their base in Gallipoli in 1307, the Catalans battled and ravaged their route west through Thrace and Macedonia, until, squeezed by Byzantine troops under Chandrenos, they entered Thessaly in mid 1309. The last chief of the Company, Bernat de Rocafort, had imagined the rebuilding of the Kingdom of Thessalonica with himself at its head, and had even gone into arrangements for a marriage partnership with Guy II. Nothing happened to these arrangements, as Rocafort's undeniably tyrannical standard prompted his affidavit. From that point forward, the Company was led by an advisory group of four, helped by a twelve-part gathering. The landing of the Company's 8,000 men in Thessaly made concern its Greek ruler, John II Doukas. Having recently abused the passing of Guy II to disavow the overlordship of the Dukes of Athens, John swung to Byzantium and the other Greek realm, the Despotate of Epirus, for help. Vanquished by the Greeks, the Catalans consented to go calmly through Thessaly towards the Frankish realms of southern Greece. 

Walter of Brienne had battled the Catalans in Italy amid the War of the Vespers, talked their language, and had picked up their regard. Utilizing this recognition, he currently contracted the Company for a half year against the Greeks, at the high cost of four ounces of gold for each overwhelming cavalryman, two for each light cavalryman and one for each infantryman, to be paid each month, with two months' installment ahead of time. Turning back, the Catalans caught the town of Domokos and exactly thirty different posts, and looted the rich plain of Thessaly, constraining the Greek states to deal with Walter. This brought Walter awards and money related prizes from Pope Clement V, yet the Duke currently declined to respect his deal with the Catalans and give the staying four months' compensation. Walter picked the best 200 horsemen and 300 Almogavar infantry from the Company, paid them their back payments and gave them land with the goal that they would stay in his administration, while requesting the rest to hand over their triumphs and leave. The Catalans offered to remember him as their master on the off chance that they were permitted to keep a portion of the land they had taken to set up themselves however Walter dismissed their proposition and arranged to remove them by power. The Duke of Athens collected an expansive armed force, involving his feudatories—among the most noticeable were Albert Pallavicini, Margrave of Bodonitsa, Thomas III d'Autremencourt, Lord of Salona and Marshal of Achaea, and the nobles of Euboea, Boniface of Verona, George I Ghisi and John of Maisy—just as fortifications sent from different realms of Frankish Greece. 

Various sources report in different level of detail on the occasions previously and amid the fight: part 240 of the annal of Ramon Muntaner; the different renditions of the "Narrative of the Morea" (segments 540 and 548 of the French adaptation, stanzas 7263– 7300 and 8010 of the Greek form, and segments 546– 555 of the Aragonese adaptation), Book VII segment 7 of the historical backdrop of the Byzantine author Nikephoros Gregoras, and brief records in Book VIII of the "Nuova Cronica" of the Florentine investor and negotiator Giovanni Villani, in the "Istoria di Romania" of the Venetian statesman Marino Sanudo and in letter of the last that stayed unpublished until 1940. 

The area of the fight fluctuates in the distinctive sources between two areas. Muntaner reports that it occurred "at a delightful plain close Thebes, where there were swamps", which has been related to the plain of the Boeotic Cephissus and the bogs of Lake Copais (presently depleted). Gregoras in like manner makes reference to that the fight occurred close to the Boeotic Cephissus. Then again, the variants of the "Annal of the Morea" place the fight at "Halmyros", evidently the town of a similar name in southern Thessaly. The previous limitation had been for some time supported in grant; in his standard history of Frankish Greece, William Miller rejected Halmyros based on the geography depicted by Muntaner, a view that keeps on being rehashed in later works. A few recommendations by current researchers for the careful site of the fight in the Cephissus valley exist, running from the region of Orchomenos and the region of Copais to areas further north, around the towns of Chaeronea and Davleia, or even Amfikleia and Lilaia. 

The basic examination of the essential sources by later researchers have turned around the circumstance. Muntaner was himself an individual from the Company until 1307, yet was posted as legislative head of Djerba when the fight happened and just ordered his narrative in 1325– 1328, prompting some genuine blunders in his record. Gregoras, in spite of the fact that a contemporary of the fight, composed his history even later, in 1349– 1351, depending for the most part actually accounts; his record of the Company's exercises amid the years prior to the fight are scrappy and incorrect, and his record of the fight itself is near that of Muntaner, showing maybe that Gregoras drew on a Western source. Then again, the first French adaptation of the "Narrative of the Morea", on which every other form draw, was composed somewhere in the range of 1292 and 1320, and the shortened French rendition enduring today was gathered soon after by a very much educated creator in the Morea. The Greek and Aragonese forms, aggregated later in the century, contain basically a similar data as the French adaptation. A basic bit of proof was the disclosure and production in 1940 of a 1327 letter by Marino Sanudo, who was a kitchen chief working in the North Euboean Gulf upon the arrival of the fight. Sanudo obviously expresses that the fight occurred at Halmyros ("..."fuit bellum ducis Athenarum et comitis Brennensis cum compangna predicta advertisement Almiro""), and his declaration is for the most part thought to be dependable. Thus, later recorded investigations generally acknowledge Halmyros as the site of the fight. 

As indicated by the "Account of the Morea", the Catalan armed force included 2,000 mounted force and 4,000 infantry, while Gregoras claims 3,500 rangers and 4,000 infantry for the Catalans. The Catalan rangers were for the most part of Turkish birthplace (Sanudo reports that they numbered 1,800), both as Turcopoles and pony bowmen; serving under their very own pioneers, the Turks were separated intwo two contingents, one of Anatolian Turks under Halil, which had joined the Company in 1305, and another of under Malik, who had absconded from Byzantine administration not long after the Battle of Apros. The individuals from the last had been sanctified through water as Christians. The sources vary impressively on the measure of Walter's military: Gregoras reports 6,400 mounted force and 8,000 infantry, and the "Account of the Morea" puts it at "more than" 2,000 rangers and 4,000 infantry, while Muntaner declares that it contained 700 knights and 24,000 infantry, the last generally Greek. Present day researchers believe these numbers to be misrepresented, however they do recommend that the Athenian armed force had numerical predominance over the Catalans. 

Looked with a numerically unrivaled yet less experienced adversary, the Company accepted a guarded position, taking consideration to choose a battleground that favored them. The Catalans picked a normally solid position, ensured by a bog which, as per Gregoras, they upgraded by burrowing channels and immersing them with water occupied from the adjacent waterway. The Catalans took up positions on dry ground behind the marsh, organizing themselves in a strong line however the sources give no further subtleties as to their manners. The Athenian armed force gathered at Zetouni (current Lamia). On 10 March 1311, Walter of Brienne formed his confirmation there and drove his military forward. The nearness of the Frankish armed force at Zetouni as of now is a further declaration for finding the fight at Halmyros, as Zetouni lies north of the Cephissus however southwest of Halmyros. For Muntaner's and Gregoras' records to be right, the Catalans would need to be behind the Duke's military; Gregoras besides composes that the Catalans went through the Thermopylae to land in Boeotia, which is amazingly impossible given the nearness of solid Frankish armies at Zetouni and Bodonitsa. 

On the eve of fight, the 500 Catalans in the Duke's administration, stricken by soul, went to him and requested leave to rejoin their old confidants in-arms, saying that they would prefer to kick the bucket than battle against them. Walter supposedly gave them consent to leave, answering that they were free amazing the others. The Turkish helpers took up a different position adjacent, thinking the fight was a guise organized by the Company and the Duke of Athens to eliminate them. 

Walter was presumed for his valiance, verging on neglectfulness, and was certain of accomplishment, as prove by his haughty answer to the 500 hired fighters. Walter's pride and haughtiness, joined with his numerical leeway and his intrinsic faith in the prevalence of substantial respectable rangers over infantry, drove him to lethally think little of the Catalans and request a charge, despite the fact that the landscape was unfavorable to mounted force. Anxious for activity, as indicated by Muntaner, Walter shaped a mounted force line of 200 Frankish knights "with brilliant goads", trailed by the infantry, and set himself with his flag in the vanguard. The Frankish assault bombed yet the reason is misty; Muntaner's depiction is short and gives no subtleties, while in Gregoras, the overwhelming Frankish mounted force stalled out in the mud, with the Almogavars, daintily furnished with swords and darts, dispatching the knights burdened in their substantial protective layer. This is the normally acknowledged form among researchers also. The "Annal of the Morea" infers that the fight was hard-battled—which, as military student of history Kelly DeVries notes, appears to repudiate Gregoras—and that the bog conceivably only diminished the effect of the charge, rather than stalling it completely. It is clear is that the Catalans vanquished the charge and that the Duke and the majority of his men fell. As the two lines conflicted, the Turkish assistants understood that there was no injustice and slid from their camp upon the Athenian armed force, freezing and steering its leftovers. 

Gregoras reports that 6,400 mounted force and 8,000 infantry fell in the fight, a similar number he gives for Walter's powers. As per Muntaner, 20,000 infantry were slaughtered and just two of the seven hundred knights endure the fight, Roger Deslaur and Boniface of Verona. Like the quantity of troops associated with the fight, these misfortunes are mysterious and presumably overstated, however they demonstrate the size of the Athenian thrashing. Both David Jacoby and Kenneth Setton have noticed that the similitudes between record of the fight in Muntaner and Gregoras and the depictions of the prior Battle of the Golden Spurs in 1302, where the Flemish infantry vanquished the French knights, down to the quantity of 700 knights killed "all with goads of gold", as guaranteed by Muntaner. Jacoby specifically considers the formation of a fake swamp to end the rangers charge as a perhaps created component in the two cases, to explain the astounding annihilation of French knights using a "slippery" trap. Some senior individuals from the Frankish respectability are known to have endure: Nicholas Sanudo, later Duke of the Archipelago, figured out how to get away, and a couple of others, for example, Antoine le Flamenc, who is known to have taken an interest in and endure the fight, were most likely caught and later delivered. Walter's head was separated by the Catalans and numerous years after the fact was taken to Lecce, in Italy, where his child Walter VI covered him in the Church of Santa Croce. 

The fight was a conclusive occasion ever of Greece; nearly the whole Frankish world class of Athens and its vassal states lay dead on the field, and when the Catalans moved onto the terrains of the Duchy, there was inadequate opposition. The Greek occupants of Livadeia quickly surrendered their firmly sustained town, for which they were compensated with the privileges of Frankish residents. Thebes, the capital of the Duchy, was deserted by numerous individuals of its occupants, who fled to the Venetian fortress of Negroponte, and was pillaged by the Catalan troops. At last, Athens was surrendered to the victors by Walter's widow, Joanna of Châtillon. All of Attica and Boeotia passed gently under the control of the Catalans, and just the lordship of Argos and Nauplia in the Peloponnese stayed in the hands of Brienne followers. The Catalans separated the region of the Duchy among themselves. The annihilation of the past medieval gentry enabled the Catalans to take ownership moderately effectively, much of the time wedding the widows and moms of the very men they had killed in Halmyros. The Catalans' Turkish partners, be that as it may, denied the idea to settle in the Duchy. The Turks of Halil took a lot of the goods and set out toward Asia Minor, just to be assaulted and nearly demolished by a joint Byzantine and Genoese power as they attempted to cross the Dardanelles a couple of months after the fact. The Turks of Malik entered the administration of the Serbian lord Stefan Milutin, however were slaughtered in the wake of defying him. 

Coming up short on a pioneer of stature, the Catalan Company swung to their two recognized hostages; they solicited Boniface from Verona, whom they knew and regarded, to lead them, yet after he declined, picked Roger Deslaur. Deslaur demonstrated a failure, and the threatening vibe of Venice and the other Frankish states constrained the Catalans to look for an amazing defender. They swung to the Aragonese King of Sicily, Frederick II, who designated his child Manfred as Duke of Athens. By and by, the Duchy was administered by a progression of vicars-general delegated by the Aragonese Crown, regularly cadet individuals from the Aragonese illustrious family. The best vicar-general, Alfonso Fadrique, extended the Duchy into Thessaly, setting up the Duchy of Neopatras in 1319. The Catalans solidified their standard and endure a Briennist endeavor to recoup the Duchy in 1331– 1332. During the 1360s, the twin duchies were tormented by inner difficulty, incorporating a semi war with Venice, and progressively felt the danger of the Ottoman Turks, however another Briennist endeavor to dispatch a battle against them in 1370– 1371 came to nothing. It was not until 1379– 1380 that Catalan principle confronted its first genuine difficulty, when the Navarrese Company vanquished Thebes and quite a bit of Boeotia. In 1386– 1388, the driven ruler of Corinth, Nerio I Acciaioli, caught Athens and guaranteed the Duchy from the Crown of Aragon. With his catch of Neopatras in 1390, the period of Catalan standard in Greece reached an end. 

In military history, the fight was a piece of a noteworthy move in European fighting, which started with the Battle of the Golden Spurs in 1302: it flagged a time where infantry effectively tested the customary transcendence of gallant substantial mounted force.