USS Constellation versus La Vengeance 

The USS "Star grouping" versus "La Vengeance", or the Action of 1 February 1800, was a solitary ship activity battled between frigates of the French Navy and the United States Navy amid the Quasi-War. In the fight the American frigate USS "Group of stars" attempted to take the French frigate "La Vengeance" as a prize. The two boats were intensely harmed. Despite the fact that the French frigate struck her hues twice, she figured out how to escape simply after the principle pole of her rival had fallen. 

In 1798, an undeclared war had started between the United States and France because of French seizures of American ships. As a major aspect of an American exertion to stop French assaults, Commodore Thomas Truxton drove an American maritime squadron that was dispatched to the Lesser Antilles. Discovering that ordinary French maritime powers were in the locale, Truxton set out in his lead "Group of stars" and cruised to Guadeloupe to draw in them. On 1 February 1800, while nearing the French state, "Group of stars" met François Marie Pitot's frigate "La Vengeance" of the French Navy. Notwithstanding Pitot's endeavors to escape, his frigate was drawn into a substantial commitment with "Heavenly body". In spite of the fact that the French frigate struck her hues (surrendered) twice, "Star grouping" was unfit to take "La Vengeance" as a prize. In the long run Pitot had the capacity to escape with his frigate to Curaçao, however simply in the wake of continuing serious losses and harm to his vessel. Truxton's ship continued genuine harm and cruised to Jamaica for fixes before returning home to a saint's welcome. 

In 1800, the Quasi-War between the United States and France was in full power. So as to anticipate French assaults against American freighters in the Caribbean, the United States Navy kept up four squadrons of vessels in the area. One such squadron was instructed by Commodore Thomas Truxton, and entrusted with watching the Lesser Antilles. Taking order on 19 January 1800 in the wake of touching base at Saint Kitts in his leader USS "Star grouping", Truxton's squadron comprised of four frigates, three yachts, and a ship-fixed battleship. Other than the various privateers working in the territory, the main French maritime powers in Truxton's zone of tasks were the frigate "La Vengeance" under François Marie Pitot and the corvette "La Berceau" under Louis Senes. The two vessels had landed at Guadeloupe on 10 December 1799 escorting the new directors of the French province. Once at Saint Kitts Truxton scattered his squadron, giving each ship requests to voyage autonomously. He at that point set sail for Guadeloupe on 30 January 1800 with his leader "Star grouping", aiming to challenge the French frigate and corvette there. That day, Pitot in "La Vengeance" left Guadaloupe's capital of Basse-Terre for France. 

By this point in the Quasi-War, the 1,265-ton "Group of stars" conveyed 38 gun in spite of formally being ordered by the United States Navy as a 36-firearm frigate. Beforehand her deadly implement had comprised of 24-pounder firearms, however these had demonstrated wasteful amid Truxton's activity with "L'Insurgente" and therefore were expelled and supplanted with twenty-eight 18-pounder gun and ten 24-pounder carronades. Truxton and his team were solidified veterans and were very much arranged for a battle. Their French partners were not as prepared for a commitment. Pitot's frigate was conveying an expansive amount of specie just as 36 American detainees of war and 80 travelers, two of whom were officers. Under such conditions Pitot expected to maintain a strategic distance from a commitment if conceivable, despite the fact that "La Vengeance" was an all the more intensely furnished vessel conveying eight 42-pounder carronades, twenty-eight 18-pounders, and sixteen 12-pounder gun. The French additionally had an unmistakable preferred standpoint in case of a boarding activity, as "Heavenly body" had just 310 men to "La Vengeance's" supplement of 380 team. 

On 1 February 1800 at 07:00, Truxton's group spotted what had all the earmarks of being a 54-firearm frigate flying British hues two associations off the Basse-Terre roadstead. With an end goal to speak with the secretive frigate, "Group of stars" flew British hues. Pitot had located the American ship by 07:45. Thinking the vessel pursuing him was an unrivaled 55-firearm warship, he tried to stay away from strife, and kept on cruising with the breeze as opposed to travel north as he had initially planned. With an end goal to expand her speed, the French frigate's group put out studding sails to get more wind. The conduct of Pitot's frigate motioned to Truxton that she was extremely a French warship, so he requested "Star grouping" cleared for activity and gave pursue. By 08:00 he struck the British hues and raised the American banner. As he shut with "La Vengeance" he yelled through a talking trumpet for the French vessel to surrender. 

Now the activity started, with Pitot's stern chasers starting to shoot upon "Heavenly body". With an end goal to cut the American frigate's favorable position in speed, "La Vengeance" changed course toward the south-east where the breeze would give her leeway. As he moved his vessel, Pitot had the capacity to release a broadside went for "Constellation"s fixing. The American frigate held on to return fire until she'd picked up the climate gage. Presently having the benefit of the breeze, Truxton's opening twofold shotted broadside hammered into the port side of "La Vengeance"s body. Cruising one next to the other, the two frigates kept on connecting each other for more than two hours while Truxton endeavored fruitlessly to move his ship into a raking fire position. As the French would in general go for the apparatus, at a certain point "Constellation"s foresails were shot away and the frigate lost her mobility until they could be supplanted. 

"La Vengeance" arranged for a boarding activity when the two frigates moved nearer together at 22:45, however this endeavor was thwarted when "Group of stars" discharged broadsides of grapeshot at Pitot's ship while American marines shot their flintlocks and flung explosives down from the gear. With the French ship drawing off, the two vessels started a more drawn out range round shot duel that kept going until 02:00 on 2 February 1800, when "La Vengeance" struck her hues for the second time. Sooner or later prior in the activity, Pitot had struck his banner however the Americans did not see due to dimness. Truxton moved "Group of stars" to inside of his vanquished adversary intending to accept her as a prize. The American commodore's desire were ruined when at 03:00 "Constellation's" mainmast fell over the edge, murdering a few topmen who ran down with it. With the Americans unfit to come nearby his vessel, Pitot exploited the circumstance and essentially disappeared into the obscurity. 

Setbacks were overwhelming on the two sides, and the two vessels were in such poor condition that every leader thought he had sunk his adversary. The vast majority of "La Vengeance" fixing had been overwhelmed; just the lower foremast, lower mizzenmast, and bowsprit were operational. Pitot set course for Curaçao and was compelled to ground his vessel there to keep her from sinking. The quantity of French losses is to some degree indistinct: official French records report 28 dead and 40 injured, while accounts from Curaçao express that the French frigate had lost 160 men. When Pitot came to Curaçao he was assailed with further issues. "La Vengeance" stayed out of activity for a considerable length of time because of troubles in gaining bolster expected to fix the frigate from the Dutch authorities there. A French endeavor to catch the island conveyed the materiel expected to fix the frigate, yet when requested to help assault the island Pitot cannot and disappeared to Guadaloupe. 

"Heavenly body" had endured overwhelming harm with 15 of her group killed and a further 25 injured, of whom 11 later kicked the bucket. The ship cruised to Port Royal, Jamaica, for a refit, 

yet, Truxton couldn't total the vital fixes on account of a deficiency of maritime stores. The ship left Jamaica seven days after she touched base, with just her mainmast supplanted. Subsequent to escorting a guard of 14 galleons back to the United States, Truxton cruised his battered frigate to Hampton Roads for a legitimate refit. Simply after he came back to the United States did the American commodore at long last discover that the "La Vengeance" had not been sunk. Truxton was viewed as a saint and got impressive acclaim for his activities. Because of his fight with Pitot's frigate, the American government complimented Truxton with a Congressional Gold Medal delineating the fight. James C. Jarvis, a 13-year-old Midshipman who was murdered when the mainmast crumbled, wound up renowned for his fortitude amid the fight.