Mucho Macho Man 

Mucho Macho Man (foaled June 15, 2008) is a resigned American Thoroughbred racehorse eminent as the champ of the 2013 Breeders' Cup Classic. He was foaled in Florida and named after the Village People melody "Macho Man". His raisers were Carole and John Rio of Florida, who possessed his dam. His foalhood moniker was "Lazarus" since he seemed dead during childbirth, yet unexpectedly restored. He developed to be an extremely substantial pony, remaining over high. All through the vast majority of his dashing vocation, Mucho Macho Man was fundamentally claimed by Dean and Patti Reeves of Reeves Thoroughbred Racing of Suwanee, Georgia. They bought a lion's share enthusiasm for him after his first race in 2010, and in 2012 turned into his sole proprietors. In February 2014, Frank Stronach obtained an undisclosed offer in the steed in the interest of his Adena Springs Farms, proprietor of Mucho Macho Man's sire, Macho Uno. The stallion presently inhabits Adena Springs and started to remain at stud in the 2015 reproducing season. 

Whenever Dean and Patti Reeves obtained the steed, they set him with pony mentor Tim Ritvo, who presently started an occupation with Gulfstream Park. Preparing obligations were swung over to Tim's significant other and individual coach Kathy Ritvo, who prepared Mucho Macho Man from his fourth race on. His hustling vocation was bolstered by an affectionate group, driven by Ritvo and the Reeves just as Reeves' dashing chief Finn Green. Mucho Macho Man was ridden in races by a few top racers, including Rajiv Maragh, Ramon Dominguez, Mike Smith, Edgar Prado and Gary Stevens. 

Since Mucho Macho Man was brought into the world late in the year for a Thoroughbred foal, as a growing two-and three-year-old he needed to go up against ponies that were a while more established and progressively develop. He was additionally tall, and as a youthful racehorse some of the time got in his own particular manner; as a three-year-old, he ventured on his front feet with his rear feet and removed a horseshoe in two unique races. In 2011, he contended in every one of the three Triple Crown races, coming in third in the Kentucky Derby. Following a five-month cutback because of medical procedure that tended to an issue with his breathing, he came back to the track in November 2011 with a success, won three evaluated stakes races in 2012, and completed a nearby second to Fort Larned in that year's Breeders' Cup Classic. 

In 2013, subsequent to defeating a respiratory infection from the get-go in the year, he ran two races on the east coast, completing third the multiple times, and after that was sent right on time to Santa Anita Park to get ready for that year's Breeders' Cup. He won a preliminary race, the Awesome Again Stakes, his seventh win in general and his first Grade I win. This certified him for the 2013 Breeders' Cup Classic, which he won, barely crushing Will Take Charge and Declaration of War. His prosperity earned him the Secretariat Vox Populi Award and the National Thoroughbred Racing Association Moment of the Year just as two Eclipse Award designations and 2013 Florida-reproduced Horse of the Year. Sportswriter Steve Haskin, who pursued the pony's vocation for "The Blood-Horse", expressed that the adventure "if enough elevating human intrigue stories to fill a book". Mucho Macho Man came back to the track in January 2014 with an unequivocal success in the Sunshine Millions Classic, however completed fourth in the Santa Anita Handicap. He stayed in preparing, still basically solid, yet following the disclosure of wounding on his fetlocks and different indications of "mileage", he was resigned in July 2014. 

Mucho Macho Man is a cove horse with white markings that incorporate a star and stripe all over, a sock to his left side rear leg, and a coronet on his front right leg. He remains over high. He was sired by Macho Uno, who won the Breeders' Cup Juvenile and was named American Champion Two-Year-Old Colt in 2000. Macho Uno was a child of Hall of Fame champion Holy Bull. Mucho Macho Man's dam is the 2001 Anoakia Stakes victor Ponche de Leona. Both sire and dam were possessed by Frank Stronach's Adena Springs Farms at the season of mating; the pregnant horse was along these lines obtained by John and Carole Rio of Florida, where Mucho Macho Man was foaled, and in this manner the Rios are authoritatively recorded as his raisers. Mucho Macho Man was Ponche de Leona's second foal and was brought into the world amazingly late in the foaling season on June 15, 2008; this implied as a two-and three-year-old, not yet completely developed, he needed to contend on equivalent terms with steeds who were as much as five months more established than he. 

Ponche de Leona conveyed Mucho Macho Man three weeks after her due date. During childbirth, the foal was inert with no heartbeat. Homestead staff attempted to resuscitate him by rubbing and shaking him. He was inert for a few minutes, at that point his eyes opened and he "just got up and dashed away". Accordingly, his foalhood epithet was "Lazarus". Notwithstanding being a late foal, he was enormous and henceforth moderate to achieve full improvement. Since the youthful steed was so tall and thin, John Rio called him "Mr. Green Jeans", however nobody else did. His official name is gotten from the Village People melody "Macho Man", and proprietor Dean Reeves' moniker for him is "Macho". 

The Rios sold the pony as a two-year-old to Jim Culver of Dream Team One Racing Stable, keeping a proprietorship share for themselves. After Mucho Macho Man's first race in 2010, a dominant part share in the yearling was acquired by Dean and Patti Reeves, proprietors of Reeves Thoroughbred Racing of Suwanee, Georgia, close Atlanta. At the point when the Reeves bought their controlling interest, he was sent into preparing with Tim Ritvo, however when Ritvo was named chief of hustling at Gulfstream Park in Florida, the molding of the yearling was swung over to his better half and individual mentor, Kathy. Jonathan "Finn" Green joined the Reeves' program as hustling director in September 2011. 

Mucho Macho Man conquered a few medical problems in 2011 and 2013. He had medical procedure to address a breathing issue in 2011, and experienced a respiratory infection and foot issues, including a quarter break, in 2013. 

Not exclusively did the pony get by close demise in 2008, so did Kathy Ritvo, who showed at least a bit of kindness transplant in November 2008. She was determined to have cardiomyopathy in 2001, restricting her steed preparing profession. By 2008 her condition weakened to the point where she was hospitalized for a while, and she was close passing when an organ wound up accessible. Under a half year after transplant medical procedure, she came back to preparing race steeds. In a 2011 meeting, she contrasted her very own quick recuperation with the unconstrained recuperation of the steed as a foal, and expressed, "from the minute I opened my eyes [following surgery], I felt fabulous. He's Mucho Macho Man and I'm Macho Woman." 

In 2012, Reeves Thoroughbred Racing purchased out Dream Team One's 30-percent intrigue and turned into the sole proprietors of Mucho Macho Man. Afterward, Mike and Laura Sivo got a minority share. Additionally in 2012, the group added a perpetual exercise rider to their list: Ritvo's nephew, previous racer Nick Petro, Jr. Petro really rode Mucho Macho Man more than any other person. A solid care staff likewise worked reliably with the steed, including right hand mentor Marcelino Valencia, stable lucky man Valietal Tapia, and hot walker Karina Lopez. The pony's associations stayed unaltered through 2013. In February 2014, foreseeing the stallion's future retirement to a stud profession after the 2014 season, Adena Springs Farms acquired an enthusiasm for Mucho Macho Man, however he stayed in preparing with a similar group and dashed under Reeves' hues. Straightforward Stronach, taking note of that Adena orchestrated the mating between Macho Uno and Ponche de Leona, depicted the deal as "a homecoming of sorts". 

Mucho Macho Man was given his essential begin under seat via Carole and John Rio. Still tall and slender, he was sent to Bill White for race preparing, with Carole telling the coach, "physically this pony is late, however rationally he's way ahead." Throughout his dashing vocation, Mucho Macho Man has been depicted as a by and large quiet steed with a decent disposition, an "upbeat" horse who "loves his activity", "systematic" and simple to rate. Be that as it may, he loathed being whipped, and was infamous for his aversion of wet conditions, performing inadequately when requested to keep running in the mud; his most exceedingly awful races were on messy tracks. Despite the fact that saw as "laid back", he was commonly exceptionally quick out of the beginning entryway, which caused him issues twice in his three-year-old season when he detached a front horseshoe by venturing without anyone else front impact points with his rear feet. Ritvo said "I thoroughly consider he's so eager to get of the entryway that he's springing before his front feet are no more." His snappiness out of the door, portrayed by one of his racers as likened to that of a Quarter Horse, turned into a benefit once he developed. Steve Haskin noticed that the pony was undefeated at whatever point he had the lead by the eighth post however had never won when he didn't. 

Mucho Macho Man initially dashed at Calder Race Course. He was scratched by the track veterinarian from the primary race into which he was entered; he had been marginally harmed when the pony by him raised and flipped over in the beginning door. He was entered in another race seven days after the fact, a lady race in which he completed second, losing to a foal named Gourmet Dinner. After that race, Mucho Macho Man was acquired by Reeves Thoroughbred Racing. Senior member and Patti Reeves had thought about obtaining Gourmet Dinner, however Dean Reeves said at the time, "Call me insane, yet I like the second pony." After the deal, Tim Ritvo assumed control over the preparation of Mucho Macho Man from his unique coach, Bill White. The foal came in third at his next race, at Saratoga in New York state; he won his first race on September 19, 2010, at Monmouth Park in New Jersey. After that race, the foal's preparation was swung over to Kathy Ritvo when Tim started working for Gulfstream Park. In November 2010, Mucho Macho Man climbed to evaluated class and completed second behind To Honor and Serve twice in succession at Aqueduct Racetrack in New York City, first in the Nashua Stakes and after that in the Remsen Stakes. All through his two-year-old year the youthful pony was effectively occupied, so he hustled with signals for both White and Ritvo. 

Mucho Macho Man started his second year of dashing by completing fourth behind victor Dialed in the Grade III Holy Bull Stakes at Gulfstream Park, and indeed completed behind Gourmet Dinner, who was third. Mucho Macho Man was then sent to New Orleans for the Risen Star Stakes at the Fair Grounds Race Course. Ridden by Rajiv Maragh, he recorded his originally evaluated stakes win, winning by one and a half lengths over Santiva. Ritvo removed the signals for an exercise preceding the race and kept them off, expressing that the yearling had developed and was more quiet without them. At the Risen Star, he previously went to the notice of one of his future racers, Gary Stevens, at that point a games examiner, who noticed the foal's quiet air, depicting him as "a relaxed client... extremely loose". The following race was the Louisiana Derby, a noteworthy preliminary race for the Kentucky Derby. In that race, he lost his correct front horseshoe toward the begin when he "snatched a quarter"— removing the shoe and a touch of his foot when he ventured on the impact point of his front foot with one of his back feet. He completed third behind Pants on Fire and Nehro. 

Before he was an entire 36 schedule months old, Mucho Macho Man challenged each of the three legs of the American Triple Crown. He completed third to Animal Kingdom and Nehro in the Kentucky Derby. He was portrayed as having a "puerile look" before the Derby, and Ritvo said that he was all the while developing, yet Stevens noted amid the Derby's transmission, "when he fills into this casing, he will be a major, incredible pony." Mucho Macho Man was 6th behind Shackleford in the Preakness. Toward the begin, he again detached a shoe, this time from his left front foot, despite the fact that Ritvo had changed him to stuck on horseshoes. The stumble may have represented his low setting. Prior to the Belmont, Ritvo got a farrier expert, who gave the pony hand crafted stuck on horseshoes made of a wire-encircled manufactured composite and who additionally squared off the toes of Mucho Macho Man's rear shoes to make it harder for him to coincidentally venture on his front heels. At the Belmont, Ramon Dominguez took over from Maragh as the foal's racer, and proceeded to ride him for an aggregate of five races. That day, the track was messy and the steed ran seventh behind victor Ruler on Ice. After the Belmont, he didn't race for a while in light of the fact that he required medical procedure to fix an issue with his relaxing. 

In September, Finn Green, a recuperating alcoholic with his very own account of triumph over affliction, started working for Reeves. A proficient horseman, Green demanded that as a state of business he reserved the option to advocate for what was best for a pony under his administration, regardless of whether that implied communicating difference and forcing "intense love" on the proprietors. He and Ritvo saw eye to eye on Mucho Macho Man, and they started arranging the yearling's arrival to the track. After a break of very nearly five months, Mucho Macho Man dashed in November and won a recompense race at Aqueduct, starting a three-race series of wins. He had lost his "toddler" look, put on weight, and as Ritvo put it, "His shoulders [caught] up with his behind." Ritvo and Green at that point mapped out a 2012 exercise and hustling plan for Mucho Macho Man, aiming to run him each six to ten weeks with recuperation time after each race. 

For his four-year-old presentation, Mucho Macho Man kept running at Gulfstream Park, overcoming Ron the Greek in the Sunshine Millions Classic, a race limited to ponies reared in Florida or California. He had at long last developed into his tall edge. Dominguez returned as his racer and was satisfied with what he saw, saying, "You can truly tell how much he's adult since I rode him in the Belmont. In those days, he was only a major thin pony that had a great deal of developing to do. Presently he resembles he's adult and has everything made sense of." Dominguez further depicted him as "forward" out of the door and said the race was a "simple" win. He dashed again in March, winning the Grade II Gulfstream Park Handicap by two lengths. In May at Churchill Downs, he completed third behind Successful Dan and Fort Larned in the Grade II Alysheba Stakes, conveying top load of . His next race was the Grade II Suburban Handicap at Belmont Park on July 7. Ridden out of the blue by Mike Smith, who was his racer for the rest of the year, he led the pack in the straight and won by 2.5 lengths. It was viewed as his most noteworthy success of the year. In the Woodward Stakes at Saratoga on September 1, he completed second by a neck, having been pushed toward the outside of the track by the champ, To Honor and Serve, in the last furlong. On November 3, Mucho Macho Man was one of twelve steeds to challenge the Breeders' Cup Classic at Santa Anita in California. Beginning at chances of 6– 1, he was dependably in the initial two and completed second, a large portion of a length behind Fort Larned. There was a - length hole back to different sprinters, who included Flat Out, Game On Dude, To Honor and Serve, and Ron The Greek. He finished the year seventh in the country for all out race profit, and tied for thirteenth in the World Thoroughbred Rankings. 

Mucho Macho Man started his 2013 season by running again in the Sunshine Millions Classic, however the track was messy, and on this event he was pulled up in the homestretch and put rearward in the race. As the pony was not unmistakably weak, racer Smith told Ritvo, "It's gotta be something inside." Though theory was that he just disliked the wet track, presently he was determined to have a respiratory infection. He likewise built up a quarter break in his foot and spent the remainder of the spring recovering at Fair Hill Training Center in Maryland. 

In June, he came back to the track. Ridden by Edgar Prado, he began as the chances on most loved for the Criminal Type Stakes at Belmont Park however completed third of the five sprinters. On August 3, he completed third to Cross Traffic and Successful Dan in the Whitney Handicap at Saratoga, with Ron The Greek fourth and Fort Larned fifth. It was right now that his proclivity to win just when in front at the eighth post was first remarked upon in the dashing press. He was by and by entered in the Woodward Stakes at Saratoga on August 31, yet Ritvo scratched him upon the arrival of the race because of the wet track, portrayed as an "ocean of slop". 

Ritvo then moved Mucho Macho Man to Santa Anita Park right around two months before the Breeders' Cup races since she felt he "flourished" in California. It was a noteworthy responsibility for the pony's group, as Ritvo, Green, Petro, Tapia and Lopez needed to leave their command post in Florida, and Reeves needed to cover the costs. Dignitary Reeves stated, "Everyone has essentially put their lives and their family second to the advantage and all the better we can accomplish for Macho." The steed's next race was the Awesome Again Stakes at Santa Anita on September 28. Since both Smith and Prado had earlier riding responsibilities, Ritvo and Green chose to contact Gary Stevens. Stevens' commitment to the human intrigue adventure incorporated a rebound in 2013 subsequent to having been compelled to resign seven years sooner because of weakening knee torment. He likewise had his own brush with death, having endure a noteworthy riding mishap in 2003. In a bit of good fortune, Stevens' specialist, Craig O'Brien, stopped by the animal dwellingplace to ask about the steed's accessibility about a similar time Ritvo and Green had chosen to check whether Stevens was accessible. Stevens later professed to be unconscious of his operator's intrigues. Taking note of that Stevens had depicted Seabiscuit's racer George Woolf in the eponymous film, Ritvo later kidded, "I was in Hollywood. How would I be able to not utilize a film star?" over the span of the Awesome Again, Mucho Macho Man settled behind the pioneers before making an offer on the last turn. The pony driven by three lengths in the homestretch, and quickened clear of the field to win effectively by lengths over Paynter. It was his first win in 2013 and his first Grade I stakes win. The triumph was additionally a "win and you're in" qualifying race for the Breeders' Cup Classic, which incorporated a waiver of the $100,000 section expense for the Classic. 

On November 2, Mucho Macho Man challenged his second Breeders' Cup Classic and was the second most loved at 4– 1 out of a solid field that included Game On Dude (the top pick), Paynter, Palace Malice, Fort Larned, Will Take Charge and Flat Out, just as the European challenger Declaration of War. The pony broke rapidly from the entryway and led the pack, however Stevens chose to settle him simply behind the pioneers before heading off to the outside and moving to the front on the last turn. In the end arranges, he held off two in number late difficulties to win by a thin nose over second-place finisher Will Take Charge and by a head over third-place finisher, the European contender Declaration of War. After Mucho Macho Man's triumph, the 50-year-old Stevens, winning the Classic out of the blue after 14 past endeavors, stated, "this was a colossal encounter to win this race... It's the good to beat all of my vocation." Ritvo was credited with a "super" occupation of preparing the pony. In a snapshot of synchronicity, on-screen character Elizabeth Banks, who co-featured with Stevens in "Seabiscuit", playing Marcella Howard, introduced the Breeders' Cup Classic trophy. 

In December, Mucho Macho Man was granted the 2013 Secretariat Vox Populi Award, perceiving the battles the pony had defeated in achieving achievement, likewise taking note of the achievements of his associations, including mentor Ritvo's prosperity conquering her very own medical problems to prepare him and Stevens' rebound from retirement. Senior member and Patti Reeves expressed, "It is a significant privilege to imagine that a steed with such humble beginnings could entwine the lives and accounts of such huge numbers of individuals, and pull at the heartstrings of dashing fans from everywhere throughout the world." At the finish of 2013, Mucho Macho Man was the main positioned horse for the year in North American tote rewards, higher than opponents Will Take Charge and Game On Dude just as the other two top five contenders Orb and Wise Dan. He was likewise assigned for two Eclipse Awards, Horse of the Year and Older Male Horse, yet completed second in the two classifications to Wise Dan. 

He was named Florida-reared Horse of the Year for 2013, taking note of that he was just the third Florida-reproduced pony to win the Classic, after Unbridled and Skip Away. In the 2013 World's Best Racehorse Rankings, Mucho Macho Man was given a rating of 125, the best pony on the planet running exclusively on earth, a five-route tie as the seventh-best racehorse on the planet, and tied with Animal Kingdom as the second-best racehorse in North America, behind Wise Dan. His success in the Classic was likewise chosen as the National Thoroughbred Racing Association's "Snapshot of the Year". Investment in the web based surveying for that grant, up by in excess of 50 percent from the earlier year, was accepted to be to a great extent because of the prevalence of Mucho Macho Man and the general population around him. 

In December 2013, Ritvo and Green affirmed that Mucho Macho Man would come back to race as a six-year-old, and their objective for the steed was to "focus on the Breeders' Cup once more". In spite of the fact that assumed full-developed, regardless he had kept on rounding out from the earlier year. Ritvo declared that the pony would start his hustling season for a third time with the Sunshine Millions Classic, if the track was dry. On January 18, 2014, Ritvo and the pony got a crisp morning and a most optimized plan of attack. Mucho Macho Man won the six-horse race by 14 lengths. The field incorporated his previous enemy, Gourmet Dinner, who completed fifth. Stevens returned as his racer and expressed, "I equipped him down toward the conclusion to make an effort not to try too hard." 

His associations next entered him in the Santa Anita Handicap, nicknamed the "Enormous 'Top", on March 8, coming back to California as opposed to transportation him abroad to keep running in the $10 million Dubai World Cup soon thereafter, again expressing that they believed it to be best for the pony. With the declaration that Will Take Charge was additionally coming to California, the 2014 race turned into the most exceedingly foreseen running since the matchup of Alysheba and Ferdinand in 1988, the main other time that the earlier year's Breeders' Cup top two finishers came back to challenge each other at the Santa Anita Handicap. Extra intrigue originated from the arrival of Game On Dude, who won the Big 'Top in 2011 and 2013. Mucho Macho Man was doled out the most astounding impost at . Will Take Charge was doled out and Game on Dude, . Eight steeds entered, with Mucho Macho Man the morning line top pick. Amusement On Dude, depicted as "ablaze" that day, won the race and broke the stakes record in doing as such, Will Take Charge was second, yet Mucho Macho Man began to lose vitality at the three-eighths shaft and completed fourth behind Blingo. Ritvo had no reasons for his complete the process of, taking note of just that he had missed a couple of preparing days because of downpour, and the additional dampness had likewise changed the state of the Santa Anita track. On May 1, 2014, Georgia Governor Nathan Deal broadcasted Mucho Macho Man Day in the territory of Georgia, perceiving the achievements of the pony and the consideration he and his proprietors conveyed to Georgia. 

He came back to Florida for preparing after the Big 'Top, however subsequent to performing ineffectively in a June exercise was found to make them wound of his fetlocks, and was given lighter obligation. On July 15 it was reported that Mucho Macho Man was formally resigned from hustling and would remain at stud at Adena Springs starting in the 2015 reproducing year. In a further spot of synchronicity, around the same time Stevens reported he was taking a break from race riding because of the requirement for a complete knee substitution. Ritvo clarified that Mucho Macho Man was sound, yet "[a]fter five periods of preparing and dashing, he hints at some minor mileage. He is as yet stable and cheerful, however we have concluded that it is to his greatest advantage to resign him. He has nothing more to demonstrate to any of us." 

Changes of separation and contractions for the proprietors are given after the table. 

Mucho Macho Man is sired by Macho Uno, who remains at stud at Adena Springs Farms in Kentucky. , Macho Uno had sired 38 stakes champs. Other than Mucho Macho Man, they include: Potesta, victor of the Hollywood Oaks; Macho Again; and Wicked Style. Macho Uno is a child of Holy Bull, who was the 1994 American Horse of the Year, and Breeders' Cup Classic victor Awesome Again is a relative to Macho Uno; the two steeds were out of the female horse Primal Force. The sire line of Mucho Macho Man follows back to the 1898 Kentucky Derby victor, Plaudit. Since Macho Uno conveys no lines to stallions Northern Dancer, Seattle Slew, Hail to Reason, or In Reality, who normally show up in Thoroughbred families, he is esteemed as a close complete outcross for most Thoroughbred female horses in North America. 

Mucho Macho Man's dam is stakes-winning Ponche de Leona, whose family isn't especially outstanding. Her sire, Ponche, won five stakes races and sired five stakes victors. Her dam won one race in 19 begins. Mucho Macho Man along these lines has next to no linebreeding; just a 4×4 cross to the sire Mr. Miner, implying that this steed shows up twice in the fourth era of his family. Ponche de Leona was acquired at the Keeneland deal in November 2007 by John and Carole Rio for $33,000 when in foal with Mucho Macho Man, the moderately low cost somewhat inferable from having been reared late in the year; late foals are hard to sell. Be that as it may, by November 2011, after the accomplishment of Mucho Macho Man in his three-year-old year, and in foal to Macho Uno once more, the Rios exchanged her at Keeneland for $300,000. Following Mucho Macho Man's Breeders' Cup win in 2013, and having additionally created the stakes-put Mucho Man's Gold, she was again sold at the Keeneland January 2014 deal, this time in foal to Distorted Humor, bringing $775,000. In 2013, she was named Florida broodmare of the year by the Florida Thoroughbred Breeders' and Owners' Association.