Eve (U.S. Television arrangement) 

Eve is an American TV sitcom, made by Meg DeLoatch, which initially broadcast for three seasons on United Paramount Network (UPN) from September 15, 2003 to May 11, 2006. Highlighting a group cast comprising of Eve, Jason George, Ali Landry, Natalie Desselle-Reid, Brian Hooks, and Sean Maguire, the show rotates around two arrangements of male and female companions endeavoring to explore associations with the contrary sex. The official makers were Robert Greenblatt and David Janollari; the arrangement was delivered by The Greenblatt/Janollari Studio and Mega Diva Inc. in relationship with Warner Bros. TV for UPN. 

The arrangement was created as a vehicle for Eve under the working title "The Opposite Sex"; UPN officials moved toward the rapper about a TV venture after the accomplishment of individual performer Brandy in one more of the system's sitcoms—"Moesha". Eve's arrangement was made as a major aspect of the system's endeavor to engage a more youthful group of onlookers. In the wake of being gotten, the show was renamed "Eve" to pull in the rapper's fans. The arrangement was set in Miami, however shot at Sunset Gower Studios in Hollywood, Los Angeles. Eve said that she was scared at first by the way toward getting ready for and taping a sitcom, and she would later lament not completely focusing on her character. The show was disseminated by UPN in its unique run, and later by TV One. UPN had advanced "Eve" as a major aspect of its new parody square, one of four new comedies created by the system. 

"Eve" experienced low viewership notwithstanding its high appraisals among youthful African American ladies; it was dropped following UPN's merger with The WB Television Network (The WB) to dispatch The CW in 2006. The arrangement's dropping, alongside that of other dark sitcoms, was scrutinized by news sources for diminishing portrayal of African American characters and the quantity of jobs for African American performing artists on TV. Basic reaction to "Eve" was blended; some adulated its incorporation as a piece of UPN's line-up of dark sitcoms, yet others felt Eve needed magnetism, and that the arrangement was mediocre compared to other dark sitcoms. In spite of the negative gathering, the show and Eve got a few honor assignments. The arrangement was discharged on the iTunes Store and Amazon Video. 

"Eve" spins around Miami style planner Shelly Williams (Eve), "a lady whose design profession is moving [but whose] her adoration life is a work in advancement". Toward the beginning of the arrangement, Shelly has been unfit to locate an appropriate accomplice for ten months. She starts an on and off association with physical advisor J.T. Seeker (Jason George), which is about crashed when he cries while they watch "Casablanca" on their first date. The two characters swing to two of their dear companions for counsel on the contrary sex, love, and connections. Shelly as often as possible searches for counsel from previous model Rita Lefleur (Ali Landry) and wedded companion Janie Egins (Natalie Desselle-Reid), while J.T. discovers support in his closest companions dance club chief Donovan Brink (Sean Maguire) and IRS specialist Nick Dalaney (Brian Hooks). 

Scenes normally portray the companions' comedic and sentimental undertakings and vocation issues, for example, Shelly, Rita, and Janie cooperating at their Miami-based style boutique DivaStyle and J.T. applying to universities. The six characters each have numerous dates and genuine connections, and the arrangement can be seen as an augmentation of the idea of "the clash of the genders" for its equivalent portrayal of both male and female perspectives on the issue. Janie fills in as Shelly's voice of reason, while Rita urges her to be increasingly indiscreet with dating. They frequently can't help contradicting each other on the most ideal path for Shelly to approach her affection life. Rita, Janie, Nick, and Donovan are regularly appeared amidst Shelly and J.T's. miscommunications. 

Despite the fact that Shelly and J.T's. relationship is the prevalent storyline, the arrangement explores the connections of its supporting cast; Donovan and Rita date one another, and the very particular Nick endeavors to locate the ideal accomplice. Donovan claims the Z Lounge, which is portrayed as "one of Miami's most sweltering clubs" and fills in as one of the spots where the gathering frequently meets. Other regularly repeating characters incorporate Shelly's more youthful love intrigue Grant (Sharif Atkins), Janie's significant other Marty (Reggie Gaskins), and Shelly's mom Beverly (Penny Johnson Jerald). A few VIPs likewise show up on the show, including Queen Latifah, Missy Elliott, Brooke Burke, Vivica A. Fox, and Cedric the Entertainer. 

<onlyinclude></onlyinclude> 

The primary season presents the six principle characters: Shelly, J.T., Rita, Janie, Nick, and Donovan. Shelly runs the design boutique DivaStyle with her companions Janie and Rita. She seeks after an association with J.T., just to find he fears responsibility and displays some petty conduct. Their relationship is regularly tried by successive errors. Scratch needs to locate his optimal accomplice, yet his endeavors are ordinarily upset as he is extremely specific about ladies. Despite the fact that his association with a lady named Dani seems, by all accounts, to be fruitful, they before long separation. Donovan ends up impractically pulled in to Rita, however he opposes the allurement out of dread of demolishing their fellowship. 

Shelly and J.T. separate toward the start of the second season and seek after a companions with advantages relationship. In the wake of finding that she is bankrupt, Rita moves in with Janie to set aside extra cash. She likewise starts an association with Donovan. At the point when Janie ends up irritated with Rita for remaining at her home for quite a while, Rita convinces J.T. what's more, Nick to let her stay with them. Shelly winds up pulled in to a more youthful man, and J.T. ends up envious understanding that he is enamored with her. In the season finale, the two men propose to Shelly. In the meantime, Donovan's application for residency is rejected and the companions plan for his arrival to England. 

In the third-season debut, Shelly acknowledges J.T's. engagement proposition. Donovan gets a work visa in the wake of getting a new line of work selling cosmetics items for a British organization. Shelly and J.T. separate once more, making plans to stay just companions. J.T. seeks after a profession in drug and tries out the Miami State Medical School. He discovers that school is more troublesome than he originally suspected, and battles with his classes and funds. Amid the spring, Rita reignites her association with Donovan and gets her own loft. In the arrangement's finale, Beverly at long last admits to Yusef, Shelly's dad, that she is conveying his youngster; Shelly questions his capacity to be a dad once more. The arrangement finishes in a cliffhanger, with Janie, Rita, and Donovan captured for illicitly selling BOTOX at DivaStyle. 

Joined Paramount Network (UPN) administrators moved toward Eve about building up a TV venture following her execution of her rap single "Gangsta Lovin'" (2002) at an occasion denoting the channel's 2002 season debuts. The system had pitched the plan to her preceding her appearances in the 2002 movies "XXX" and "Barbershop". Following their discharge, UPN recharged its enthusiasm for seeking after an arrangement with Eve. She had built up the fundamental reason behind the sitcom, in which she would star as a style planner with a supporting multi-ethnic gathering. The show's creation was credited to TV maker Meg DeLoatch. UPN officials planned the arrangement as a vehicle for Eve following the positive reaction to individual artist Brandy in another UPN sitcom, "Moesha". 

Eve acknowledged the job as an approach to exhibit an alternate side of her identity that was unexplored in her music. Her co-star Jason George remarked that the show enabled the gathering of people to consider Eve to be in excess of a bad-to-the-bone rap craftsman, saying: "The part that individuals realize the least about her goes over most in this show: There's a genuinely girlie young lady side to her." DeLoach underscored the contrast among Eve and her character Shelly Williams by saying: "She's conveying such a large amount of herself to the job of Shelly however she's playing a character. A portion of the things Shelly does aren't really what Eve would do." To additionally separate herself as a performing artist, Eve ruled against singing the show's signature melody. 

Exposed as the "Untitled Eve Project" in an early official statement, the arrangement had the working title "The Opposite Sex" before it was changed to mirror Eve's status as the star. Eve at first opposed the change and felt that "The Opposite Sex" was a more grounded decision, however portrayed it as a "corporate choice". As indicated by her, UPN administrators clarified that the title would better pull in the rapper's fans. They likewise felt that the gathering of people would not be confounded by the title "Eve", in spite of Eve playing a character named Shelly. After the title was set up, the show's reason was changed somewhat, yet stayed based on male and female companions talking about their affection lives, and exploring their associations with the contrary sex. While Eve depicted the arrangement as "the PG adaptation of "Sex and the City"", DeLoatch advanced "Eve" as novel for consolidating both male and female points of view on dating and love. She further portrayed the sitcom as "focus[ing] on one relationship and follow[ing] the majority of the good and bad times in it" with the motivation behind "appearing male and female perspectives". To accomplish this objective, DeLoatch included male essayists in the talks of potential scenes and storylines to hear their info. 

Generation was taken care of by The Greenblatt/Janollari Studio, Mega Diva Inc, and Warner Bros. TV. Robert Greenblatt and David Janollari filled in as the arrangement's official makers. DeLoatch, Troy Carter, David Duclon, and Eve additionally added to the arrangement as co-official makers. Rapper Missy Elliott composed and played out the signature tune, which was delivered by Soul Diggaz. "Eve" was one of four new comedies created by UPN for the 2003– 04 TV season, as a feature of "another parody square" including "We all", "Stone Me Baby," and "The Mullets". An author from "Today" depicted UPN's selection of Eve into a satire for instance of the system's endeavor to frame its own personality through focusing on a more youthful, multi-ethnic group of onlookers. In his book "television a-Go-Go: Rock on TV from American Bandstand to American Idol", Jake Austen recognized "Eve" as a major aspect of a pattern in which artists were conspicuously highlighted as the stars of TV programs; he refered to Brandy's job in "Moesha" and Queen Latifah on "Living Single" as two different models. 

When the arrangement was authoritatively declared amid UPN's communicated forthright introductions, Ali Landry, Natalie Desselle-Reid, and Brian Hooks were affirmed to play Rita, Janie, and Nick separately. Guard Robinson was initially planned to depict J.T., however was later substituted by Jason George for undisclosed reasons. The job of Donovan was additionally recast, with the first on-screen character Eddie McClintock expelled for Sean Maguire. The supporting cast of Landry, Desselle-Reid, Hooks, and Maguire were portrayed by Tom Jicha of the "Sun-Sentinel" as "fringe" since they were composed to "servic[e] the highs and lows of the sentiment among Shelly and J.T." With Shelly and J.T's. relationship as the core of the sitcom, Janollari communicated trusts that the scenes would tail them "from their gathering in the pilot, through the means of a typical relationship, the whole distance, ideally to marriage". In the fall of 2006, TV One started broadcasting the arrangement as a feature of a concurrence with Warner Bros. Residential Cable Distribution. Alongside "Us all", "Eve" was the first run through in which the station obtained the rights for demonstrates that were at present airing on system TV. 

Despite the fact that the show was set in Miami, shooting occurred at Sunset Gower Studios in Hollywood, Los Angeles. Stock outside shots of Miami were utilized for the opening credits and advances between scenes. The arrangement was taped with a different camera setup, with every scene last around 20 to 22 minutes barring ads. Eve said she was at first threatened by the measure of work required to plan for and film a TV arrangement. Amid a meeting with "Board", she clarified that while recording the main season she had an inclination that she "simply needed to leave on the grounds that there was such a long way to go, it's only an alternate world". Since she observed satire to challenge due to the "specific beats you need to learn", Eve procured two acting mentors to help improve her planning. One of her mentors was Chip Fields, who visited the show's set to offer Eve acting exhortation. Amid the advancement of the second season, Eve saw the set as her home, and felt the procedure was simpler, having developed nearer to the cast and group. In a 2016 meeting with "Grazia", she uncovered her lament at not completely conceding to her character and the arrangement. She clarified: "I was the most youthful individual on set and was clubbing in the middle of being on set and learning my lines. I think back and wish I was increasingly committed. Be that as it may, I gained from it." 

The show, just as a lion's share of UPN's projects, was authoritatively dropped when the system converged with The WB Television Network (The WB) to shape The CW in 2006. Plant Gillespie of "The Crisis" was reproachful of UPN's choice to drop the arrangement given how the system "in one swoop, cleared out five of its eight African American comedies" with the production of The CW. Gillespie communicated frustration at the absence of African American sitcoms on the three noteworthy systems, saying: "Without that open door for a portion of the more youthful craftsmen to sharpen and build up their abilities, it will conceivably have a generational effect." IndieWire's Dara T. Mathis recognized "Eve" for instance of UPN's eminent dark sitcoms and compared the abrogations of a greater part of UPN's comedies as a sign that the class was in a condition of decay. Commentator Tim Goodman noticed that "Eve" was one of six shows "intended for an African American group of onlookers", highlighting "an African American lead on-screen character" that were dropped amid the merger. He saw these retractions as an indication of systems "eliminat[ing] specialty programming". Julian Kimble of "Complex" included "Eve" on a rundown of projects that "are regularly disregarded", close by other UPN sitcoms "Half and Half" and "We all". The arrangement has not been made accessible on Blu-beam or DVD, yet it was discharged on the iTunes Store and Amazon Video. 

"Eve" has gotten blended criticism since its first communicate. Melanie McFarland of the "Seattle Post-Intelligencer" applauded the progressions made amid the show's advancement and featured Maguire as the champion. In reference to its change from the first pilot, she depicted "Eve" as the "Eliza Doolittle of UPN comedies". The supporting cast was lauded by David Hinckely of the "New York Daily News", who composed that they "structure an engaging and fittingly hypochondriac chorale behind Eve's relationship move". "Eve" was contrasted with the UPN satire "Lady friends" by "The New York Times" Alessandra Stanley, who viewed Eve as a fitting lead with "a urgently intense edge that coordinates the paw-print tattoos on her chest". Brian Josephs of "Turn" shared positive recollections of African-American TV programs on UPN, recognizing Monday evenings on the system as the spot "where Eve changed from Ruff Ryder to sitcom performer". "Eve" was recorded by researcher Jake Austen as one of the shows "that rose in the wake of the social liberties time" that filled in as "a dynamic feature for dark innovativeness". Tom Jicha gave a less energetic survey, expressing that "Eve" was "simply one more cutout sitcom". 

"Eve" drew analysis for its predictable composition, and the lead's poor execution. The show was incorporated on a rundown by "Coal black's" Kevin L. Clark profiling the main ten most noticeably bad dark TV programs ever. Clark was disparaging of the scenes' titles, for example, "Condom Mania", "She Snoops to Conquer" and "Pornography Free", and composed that they demonstrated an abuse of "over the top prosaisms that boob-tube groups of onlookers would come to know and love once unscripted television hit its shelter". Arianna Davis of Refinery29 contrarily looked at "Eve" to 1990s dark sitcoms, and established that it was a piece of the "rollout of goofy shows [...] that felt less like deliberate programming and increasingly like shabby endeavors at replicating a fruitful publicizing model". The "Los Angeles Times" Mimi Avins felt that the show did not have the sparkle and the composition nature of "Sex and the City", recognizing Eve as its weakest connection. She felt that Eve did not indicate "the acting capacity or high-voltage moxy that vaulted Will Smith from rapper to TV star" in "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air". Amid her survey of the first pilot, Melanie McFarland composed that the sitcom did not have any potential because of Eve's poor execution over the "[t]errible landscape, modest ensembles and a couple of glaring miscasts". Eve's choice to separate the arrangement from her way of life as a rapper was addressed by Roger Catlin of the "Hartford Courant", who felt that the character of Shelly could have utilized "the identity charge" from Eve's life. In spite of discovering Eve an appealling nearness, Catlin felt that her acting, alongside that of Ali Landry, was inadequately created. Resounding Catlin's evaluation, the "San Francisco Gate"s Tim Goodman was disparaging of Eve and Landry's execution. Goodman likewise composed that the show was a case of "the most exceedingly bad composition on TV", refering to its homophobic jokes and its dependence on banalities. 

Notwithstanding the blended gathering from TV pundits, the show, and Eve's execution, got a few honor designations. In 2004, the show was designated for the Teen Choice Award for Choice Breakout TV Show. Eve was likewise designated for Choice TV Actress – Comedy around the same time. Eve was assigned again for the Teen Choice Award for Choice TV Actress: Comedy in 2005. She additionally gotten two assignments for the Blimp Award for Favorite Television Actress amid the 2005 and 2006 Kid's Choice Awards. Eve earned a selection for the 2005 Image Award for Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series, and the 2005 BET Awards Comedy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series. 

The table underneath shows "Eve"s appraisals in the United States. "Rank" alludes to how well "Eve" appraised contrasted with other TV arrangement that disclosed amid prime time hours of the comparing TV season. It is appeared in connection to the all out number of arrangement airing on the then-six noteworthy English-language organizes in a given season. "Watchers" alludes to the normal number of watchers for every single unique scene, communicate amid the TV season in the arrangement's ordinary availability. The "season debut" is the date that the principal scene of the period broadcast, and the "season finale" is the date that the last scene of the period publicized. 

As per the Nielsen Company, the show accomplished high evaluations among "Latina young people Ages 12– 17" and earned 3.8 million watchers in that statistic in 2005. It was the second-most elevated UPN sitcom in the classification, with just "Everyone Hates Chris" positioning above it in this statistic.