Hurricane Rusa 

Hurricane Rusa was the most dominant tropical storm to strike South Korea in 43 years. It was the 21st JTWC tropical dejection, the fifteenth named storm, and the tenth hurricane of the 2002 Pacific storm season. It created on August 22 from the storm trough in the northwestern Pacific Ocean, well toward the southeast of Japan. For a few days, Rusa moved toward the northwest, in the long run escalating into an amazing tropical storm. On August 26, the tempest moved over the Amami Islands of Japan, where Rusa left 20,000 people without power and caused two fatalities. Crosswise over Japan, the hurricane dropped heavy precipitation cresting at in Tokushima Prefecture. 

Subsequent to debilitating marginally, Rusa made landfall on Goheung, South Korea with winds of 140 km/h (85 mph ). It had the capacity to keep up a lot of its force because of warm air and insecurity from an adjacent virus front. Rusa debilitated while traveling through the nation, dropping overwhelming precipitation that topped at in Gangneung. A 24-hour aggregate of in the city broke the record for the most astounding day by day precipitation in the nation; in any case, the heaviest precipitation was confined. Over 17,000 houses were harmed, and expansive zones of harvest fields were overwhelmed. In South Korea, Rusa murdered in any event 233 people, making it the deadliest tropical storm there in over 43 years, and caused $4.2 billion in harm. The hurricane likewise dropped overwhelming precipitation in neighboring North Korea, leaving 26,000 people destitute and murdering three. Rusa likewise demolished expansive zones of yields in the nation officially influenced by progressing starvation conditions. The tropical storm later moved toward becoming extratropical over eastern Russia on September 1, scattering three days after the fact. 

The storm trough brought forth a tropical sadness on August 22 north of Bikini Atoll and southwest of Wake Island. It moved toward the west-northwest, a development it would keep up for a lot of its term. From the get-go August 23, it increased into Tropical Storm Rusa, about east of Guam. At 1800 UTC on August 25, the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA) updated Rusa to a tropical storm while the framework was upper east of the Northern Marianas Islands. The following day, the office evaluated that the tropical storm accomplished pinnacle winds of 150 km/h (90 mph ). Around a similar time, the Joint Typhoon Warning Center (JTWC) assessed crest winds of 215 km/h (135 mph ). 

While at pinnacle force, Rusa struck the Japanese island of Amami Ōshima. In the wake of keeping up the pinnacle twists for about 12 hours, Rusa debilitated somewhat as it proceeded toward the west-northwest, however on August 28 the JMA again announced the hurricane achieved winds of 150 km/h (90 mph ). In spite of estimates that it would debilitate, Rusa kept up its power while passing south of Japan, because of negligible breeze shear and warm ocean surface temperatures of up to . The tropical storm again debilitated marginally on August 29 while going between the Amami Islands and Japan. From that point, Rusa swung toward the north toward the Korean Peninsula. Warm, clammy air blew over the promontory in front of the tempest, which counteracted huge debilitating, and a moving toward virus front added to climatic shakiness. At around 0800 UTC on August 31, Rusa made landfall on Goheung, South Korea, with winds of 140 km/h (85 mph ). As per the JTWC, Rusa was the most dominant hurricane to hit the nation since 1959. The hurricane quickly debilitated while crossing the nation, crumbling into a tropical wretchedness right off the bat September 1. Around that time, the JTWC issued its keep going warning on the framework. The dejection swung toward the upper east, and in the wake of traveling through the Sea of Japan, Rusa moved toward becoming extratropical over Primorsky Krai in the Russian Far East late on September 1. The extratropical leftovers proceeded with upper east and scattered on September 4 over the Kamchatka Peninsula. 

In spite of the fact that harm was heaviest in South Korea, Typhoon Rusa first influenced Japan. The risk from the tempest incited the Okinawa government to drop a fiasco drill for the island. On the island, high oceans from Rusa left two United States marines missing; a later news report incorporated the two absent as tempest related fatalities. In the Anami Islands, Rusa decimated six houses, driving 38 people to clear. The tempest left 20,000 people without power and dropped a few flights. Winds came to in Nomozaki, Nagasaki. Downpours succumbed to seven days in the nation, topping at in Tokushima Prefecture. The heaviest of the precipitation fell in Nara Prefecture, where a station revealed in 60 minutes. At any rate 275 houses were overwhelmed, and 137 houses were harmed. Amid its entry, Rusa harmed 12 people, 4 genuinely. The storm likewise created light downpour and high oceans along the shore of Taiwan. 

Before Rusa influenced South Korea, the Korea Meteorological Administration (KMA) issued high ocean alerts on August 29. Air terminals were shut in the southern part of the nation, and dams let out water to forestall unreasonable flooding. Hurricane Rusa influenced quite a bit of South Korea with overwhelming precipitation and high breezes. Jeju Island off the nation's southern coast announced of precipitation, delivering streak flooding that overflowed vehicles. On the island, high breezes brought down trees and left 60,000 people without power. All lower and center schools on the island were shut, and inhabitants were stranded after authorities ended ship and carrier administration. On the South Korean terrain, twists came to as high as . High measures of precipitation were accounted for on Jeju Province and along the nation's southern coast, despite the fact that the heaviest precipitation was just revealed in a little district. In Gangneung, situated in the eastern segment of the nation, extreme rainstorms created because of high flimsiness coming about because of damp air from the east communicating with the Taebaek Mountains, delivering high measures of precipitation. The city revealed the most elevated precipitation aggregate in the nation with , of which was seen in one day. The all out spoke to 62% of Gangneung's normal yearly precipitation, and turned into the most astounding day by day precipitation in the nation's history, surpassing the past record set in 1981 by . In the South Korea inside, precipitation rates were viewed as a 1 of every multi year occasion. 

Harm in South Korea was evaluated at $4.2 billion (₩5.15 trillion KRW). Harm was heaviest in Gangneung, where about 36,000 homes and 622 military structures were overflowed. At the airbase in Gangneung, floods submerged 16 jet contenders. Along the coast, high breezes harmed 640 boats and about 200,000 marine structures, and 265 industrial structures were additionally harmed. The substantial precipitation left mudslides in the nation, one of which shrouded ten autos in Gangneung. Flooding and the avalanches disturbed the nation's foundation; the tempest devastated 274 bridges and harmed streets and rails at 164 locations. Rusa executed 300,000 livestock and overwhelmed 85,000 hectares (210,000 acres) of harvest fields, speaking to 6% of the nation's rural grounds, generally influencing products of the soil. The tempest caused the Vana H Cup KBC Augusta golf competition to end early, and an arena to be utilized for the 2002 Asian Games was harmed. The nation over, 88,625 people were compelled to empty because of the storm, and 17,046 houses were harmed. High breezes left 1.25 million individuals subsequent to blowing down 24,000 power lines. There were 213 deaths in the nation, and another 33 were missing and assumed dead; This made Rusa the deadliest storm in the nation in more than 43 years. 

In neighboring North Korea, Rusa created winds of and overwhelming precipitation coming to in bumpy territories of Kangwon Province; precipitation totaled in the district of Kosong. The downpours caused streak flooding and expanded surface overflow. This happened about a month after comparatively overwhelming downpours caused serious harm in the nation. The downpours from Rusa harmed and overwhelmed a large number of houses and numerous open structures, and obliterated 86,000 tonnes of harvest handle; the last was most noteworthy because of the nation's continuous starvation conditions. Harm was heaviest in Kangwon Province, and the tropical storm influenced four territories and one managerial city. More than 26,000 people were left destitute in the nation, albeit preemptive guidance took into account clearings. Rusa upset transportation by devastating 25 km (16 mi) of streets and 24 bridges; in any case, the majority of the harm was segregated to a little locale. There were three passings in North Korea. 

The hurricane additionally influenced the Russian Far East. On Sakhalin island, Rusa's remainders dropped substantial precipitation, the comparability of two months normal precipitation. The downpours overflowed 350 houses, however there were no passings in the area. 

Following the tempest, harmed structures contaminated streams in South Korea with synthetic compounds and substantial metals. The nation used 30,000 soldiers to help with tidying up and fixing storm harm. President Kim Dae-jung approved crisis financing for fiasco help. Quite a bit of Gangneung lost power and water; thus, alleviation supplies were sent to the influenced residents. By ten days after Rusa struck the nation, electrical cables were reestablished and transportation came back to ordinary. After an intrigue to different inhabitants in the nation, the South Korea Red Cross section got $49 million in gifts (₩58 billion won), generally from the nation's northwest segment. The office gave 50,680 meals to 16,919 families, just as attire and cooking supplies. Occupants in the nation raised about $60 million (₩72.1 billion won) in a debacle alleviation, the most astounding such aggregate for a catastrophe in the country. The Chinese Red Cross sent $20,000 toward the South Korean Red Cross in the weeks after the tempest. On September 13, the South Korean government proclaimed 203 cities and areas as calamity zones, which entitled 8,714 families who continued tempest harm to get government credits. The joined tempest harm and floods going before the tempest made the country's economy contract amid the second from last quarter of 2002. The 2003 financial year detailed a $300 million shortfall for non-disaster protection organizations, for the most part because of misfortunes from the tropical storm. Yield harm from Rusa made the cost of rice increment to their largest amounts since 1980. In the year after the tempest, the South Korean government attempted to remake harmed streets and gave month to month help installments to families who lost their homes. Nonetheless, numerous occupants stayed destitute and were living in transitory havens. The nation's Habitat for Humanity assembled 69 houses for tempest unfortunate casualties in 2003, despite the fact that that was just for a little part of the general number of individuals influenced. About a year after Rusa hit, Typhoon Maemi additionally hit South Korea with more grounded breezes, causing $3.74 billion in harm and 117 deaths. The harm all out was not exactly from Rusa however was increasingly huge to mechanical territories. 

In North Korea, the Red Cross gave help supplies to occupants influenced by flooding. The organization's global debacle alleviation subsidize gave FR75,000 (2002 CHF ($50,000 USD).. Fighters were utilized to aid pursuit and salvage missions and to fix harmed foundation. Because of tempest harm, the Red Cross in North Korea disseminated over 2.1 million water cleaning tablets and over 11,000 water compartments. The office additionally given 32,753 blankets and 4,931 kitchen units. After the tempest, individuals left destitute by the tempest looked for haven with neighbors or in safe houses. A South Korean dairy organization gave 42,000 cans of child recipe to North Korea. 

The name Rusa was resigned after its use in 2002, and was supplanted with Nuri in 2004.