Keechaka Vadham 

Keechaka Vadham () is an Indian quiet movie delivered, coordinated, taped and altered by R. Nataraja Mudaliar. The primary film to have been made in South India, it was shot in five weeks at Nataraja Mudaliar's creation house, India Film Company. As the individuals from the cast were Tamils, "Keechaka Vadham" is viewed as the main Tamil film. No print of it is known to have endure, making it a lost film. 

The screenplay, composed by C. Rangavadivelu, depends on a scene from the "Virata Parva" fragment of the Hindu epic "Mahabharata", concentrating on Keechaka's endeavors to charm Draupadi. The film stars Raju Mudaliar and Jeevarathnam as the focal characters. 

Discharged in the late 1910s, "Keechaka Vadham" was industrially effective and gotten positive basic input. The film's prosperity incited Nataraja Mudaliar to make a progression of comparable chronicled films, which established the framework for the South Indian film industry and prompted his being perceived as the dad of Tamil film. Nataraja Mudaliar's works were a motivation to different movie producers including Raghupathi Surya Prakasa and J. C. Daniel. 

Keechaka, the officer of King Virata's powers, endeavors to charm and wed Draupadi using any and all means; he even attempts to attack Draupadi, provoking her to tell Bhima, her significant other and one of the Pandava siblings, about it. Afterward, when Keechaka meets Draupadi, she demands him to meet with her at a mystery concealing spot. He lands there, just to discover Bhima rather than Draupadi; Bhima slaughters him. 

R. Nataraja Mudaliar, a vehicle vendor who was situated in Madras, built up an enthusiasm for movies in the wake of viewing Dadasaheb Phalke's 1913 fanciful film, "Raja Harishchandra" at the Gaiety theater in Madras. The previous at that point took in the essentials of photography and filmmaking from Stewart Smith, a Poona-based British cinematographer who had taken a shot at a narrative that chronicled the viceroyship of Lord Curzon 

(1899– 1905). Nataraja Mudaliar purchased a Williamson 35 mm camera and printer from Mooppanar, a rich landowner situated in Thanjavur, for 1,800. In 1915, he set up the India Film Company, which was South India's first creation organization. He at that point set up a film studio on Miller's Road in Purasawalkam with the assistance of business partners who put resources into his creation house. 

Nataraja Mudaliar looked for counsel from his companion, dramatic craftsman Pammal Sambandha Mudaliar, who proposed that he delineate the narrative of Draupadi and Keechaka from the "Virata Parva" section of the Hindu epic "Mahabharata". Some of Nataraja Mudaliar's relatives protested, feeling that it was an unseemly story for his presentation adventure, yet Sambandha Mudaliar influenced him to continue with making the film as gatherings of people knew about the story. Lawyer C. Rangavadivelu, a dear companion of Nataraja Mudaliar, helped him recorded as a hard copy the screenplay as the last was not an essayist by calling. The compositions of Raja Ravi Varma gave Nataraja Mudaliar a wellspring of motivation for reproducing the story on celluloid. Nataraja Mudaliar cast organize performing artists Raju Mudaliar and Jeevarathnam as Keechaka and Draupadi, individually. 

"Keechaka Vadham" was taped on a financial plan of 35,000 (about $2,700 in 1917), which was very costly at the time. Important photography started in 1916– 1917, and the film was shot over 35– 37 days. Nataraja Mudaliar imported the film stock London with the assistance of an Englishman named Carpenter, who worked for the Bombay division of the photographic innovation organization, Kodak. Film student of history Randor Guy noted in his 1997 book "Starlight Starbright: The Early Tamil Cinema" that a flimsy white bit of material was utilized as a roof for taping and daylight was separated through it onto the floor. Rangavadivelu was additionally experienced in assuming female jobs in front of an audience for the Suguna Vilasa Sabha, and instructed the craftsmen on set. The film's creation, cinematography and altering were taken care of by Nataraja Mudaliar himself. 

The film was shot with a speed of 16 outlines for each second, which was the standard rate for a quiet film, at the India Film Company, with intertitles in English, Tamil and Hindi. The Tamil and Hindi intertitles were composed by Sambandha Mudaliar and Devdas Gandhi separately, while Nataraja Mudaliar composed the English intertitles himself with the help of Guruswami Mudaliar and Thiruvengada Mudaliar, an educator from Pachaiyappa's College. 

"Keechaka Vadham" was the principal film made in South India; as the cast was Tamil, it is likewise the main Tamil film. As per Guy, Nataraja Mudaliar built up a research center in Bangalore to process the film negatives since there was no film lab in Madras. Nataraja Mudaliar trusted that Bangalore's colder atmosphere "would be caring to his uncovered film stock"; he handled the film negatives there each end of the week, and returned on Monday morning to continue shooting. The film's last reel length was . 

As indicated by Muthiah, "Keechaka Vadham" was first discharged at the Elphinstone Theater in Madras; the film got 50,000 (about $3,850 in 1917) subsequent to being screened in India, Burma, Ceylon, the Federated Malay States and Singapore. The film yielded 15,000 (about $1,155 in 1917), which Muthiah noted to be a "clean benefit back then." Writer Firoze Rangoonwalla noticed that a commentator for "The Mail" lauded the film: "It has been set up with incredible consideration and is drawing full houses". Fellow called attention to that with the film's basic and business achievement, Nataraja Mudaliar had "made history". Since no print is known to have endure, this makes it a lost film. 

"Keechaka Vadham"s achievement motivated Nataraja Mudaliar to make a progression of chronicled films: "Draupadi Vastrapaharanam" (1918), "Magma Kusa" (1919), "Shiva Leela" (1919), "Rukmini Satyabhama" (1922) and "Mahi Ravana" (1923). He resigned from filmmaking in 1923 after a flame that slaughtered his child and obliterated his generation house. Nataraja Mudaliar is generally viewed as the dad of Tamil film, and his movies helped establish the framework for the South Indian film industry; his works motivated Raghupathi Surya Prakasa, the child of Raghupathi Venkaiah Naidu, and J. C. Daniel.