Kenneth R. Shadrick 

Kenneth R. "Kenny" Shadrick (August 4, 1931July 5, 1950) was a United States Army trooper who was executed at the beginning of the Korean War. He was generally yet inaccurately revealed as the principal American warrior slaughtered in real life in the war. 

Shadrick was conceived in Harlan County, Kentucky, one of 10 youngsters. Subsequent to dropping out of secondary school in 1948, he joined the U.S. Armed force, and went through a time of administration in Japan before being dispatched to South Korea at the beginning of the Korean War in 1950 alongside his unit, the 34th Infantry Regiment, 24th Infantry Division. Amid a watch, Shadrick was murdered by the assault rifle of a North Korean T-34 tank, and his body was taken to a station where columnist Marguerite Higgins was covering the war. Higgins later detailed that he was the primary warrior executed in the war, a case that was rehashed in media over the United States. His life was broadly profiled, and his burial service drew several individuals. 

His demise is presently accepted to have happened after the principal American battle fatalities in the Battle of Osan. Since the characters of different troopers murdered before Shadrick stay obscure, he is still frequently erroneously refered to as the first U.S. trooper executed in the war. 

Shadrick was conceived on August 4, 1931, in Harlan County, Kentucky. He was the third of 10 kids destined to Lucille Shadrick and Theodore Shadrick, a coal excavator. Growing up amid the Great Depression, Kenneth Shadrick moved with his family to Wyoming, West Virginia, at that point to a remote town called Skin Fork, away, as his dad was searching for coal mining occupations. Shadrick was portrayed by his family as "an ardent peruser" all through his youth, who had an assortment of interests, including Westerns and magazines. He additionally delighted in riding his bike and, at times, chasing. 

Shadrick selected Pineville High School in 1947 and got good grades in his classes. Amid his sophomore year in 1948, he built up an enthusiasm for football and made the school's group, however he was little for his age. The group couldn't bear the cost of regalia, and Shadrick's dad gave him five dollars to get one, yet it was stolen from his storage in October 1948. The episode upset Shadrick so much he dropped out of school, apparently declining to come back from that day forward. After one month, he and a companion enrolled in the U.S. Armed force. Shadrick's dad would later allude to the stolen school uniform as the reason Shadrick enrolled in the military, and said he felt it by implication caused his child's passing. 

On November 10, 1948, Shadrick left for fundamental battle preparing at Fort Knox, Kentucky. As he was 17 years of age, Shadrick needed to persuade his folks to sign papers enabling him to enroll. Shadrick finished this preparation in February 1949, and cruised for Japan to join the 34th Infantry Regiment, 24th Infantry Division, for post– World War II occupation obligations. Shadrick went through a year on Kyushu island with the division. As per his family, Shadrick making the most of his visit in Japan at first, however by June 1950 he was becoming worn out on the nation, and demonstrated in letters he was feeling discouraged. 

The evening of June 25, 1950, 10 divisions of the North Korean armed force propelled a full-scale attack of South Korea. Progressing with 89,000 men in six segments, the North Koreans got the scattered, not well prepared, and ill-equipped South Korean armed force unsuspecting steered them. North Korean powers annihilated confined obstruction, pushing consistently down the promontory against the contradicting 38,000 bleeding edge South Korean men. Most of the South Korean powers withdrew notwithstanding the attack, and by June 28 the North Koreans had caught the southern capital, Seoul, and constrained the administration and its broke powers to pull back southward. 

In the interim, the United Nations Security Council casted a ballot to send help to the falling nation and U.S. President Harry S. Truman requested ground troops to the nation. U.S. powers in the Far East had been relentlessly diminishing since the finish of World War II, five years sooner, and Shadrick's division was the nearest to the warzone. Under the direction of Major General William F. Dignitary, the division was understrength and the greater part of its hardware was out of date because of decreases in military spending. Regardless of these lacks the division was requested into South Korea, entrusted with taking the underlying stun of the North Korean advances until the remainder of the Eighth United States Army could arrive and build up a guard. 

Dignitary's arrangement was to carrier one unit of the 24th Infantry Division into South Korea through C-54 Skymaster transport flying machine and to square propelling North Korean powers while the rest of the division was transported on boats. The 21st Infantry Regiment was distinguished as the most battle prepared of the 24th Infantry Division's three regiments, and the 21st Infantry's first Battalion was chosen since its administrator, Lieutenant Colonel Charles B. Smith, was the most experienced, having directed a legion at the Battle of Guadalcanal amid World War II. On July 5, Task Force Smith connected North Korean powers at the Battle of Osan, deferring 5,000 North Korean infantry for seven hours before being crushed. The 540-man drive endured 60 slaughtered, 21 injured and 82 caught, an exceptionally overwhelming loss rate. In the bedlam of the retreat, a large portion of the bodies were abandoned, and the destinies of a considerable lot of the missing were obscure for half a month. 

Amid that time, the 34th Infantry Regiment set up a line between the towns of Pyongtaek and Ansong, south of Osan, to battle the following deferring activity against the propelling North Korean powers. The 34th Infantry Regiment was also caught off guard for a battle, with few troopers experienced in battle. Right now, Shadrick was a piece of a M9A1 Bazooka group with first Battalion, 34th Infantry. 

Around an hour and a half after Task Force Smith started its withdrawal from the Battle of Osan, the 34th Infantry sent Shadrick as a major aspect of a little exploring power northward to the town of Sojong-ni, south of Osan. The little power, under the direction of Lieutenant Charles E. Payne and comprising generally of bazooka groups and infantry, stopped at a burial ground in the town, where they recognized a North Korean T-34/85 tank on a street toward the north. Shadrick and the other bazooka administrators started terminating on the tank from long-go hid positions at around 16:00. With them was Sergeant Charles R. Turnbull, a US Army battle picture taker. Turnbull asked Shadrick to time a bazooka shot so its glimmer could be gotten in Turnbull's photo, and Shadrick agreed. Shadrick made the shot and delayed, at that point ascended from his covered position to check whether he had effectively hit the tank, uncovering himself. The T-34 returned shoot with its automatic weapon, and two slugs struck Shadrick in the chest and arm. Shadrick kicked the bucket minutes after the fact. 

Payne's watch withdrew without pulverizing the tank, accepting Shadrick's body with them as the main setback. The power came back to the 34th Infantry Command present in Pyongtaek on report to Brigadier General George B. Barth and Colonel Harold B. Ayres, who were instructing the troops in the town. Additionally present was Marguerite Higgins, a war reporter for the "New York Herald Tribune". Higgins along these lines detailed Shadrick's demise, alluding to him as the primary American slaughtered in the Korean War. 

Shadrick's family was educated of his passing by a neighbor who had heard his name on a radio communicate, and the news from the military came by means of transmit a few days after the fact. The family was promptly immersed by correspondents and neighborhood well-wishers. Shadrick's body was come back to the United States, and on June 17, 1951, a burial service gone to by several neighborhood inhabitants was held in Beckley, West Virginia. The administration was set to match with the commemoration of the beginning of the war. His banner hung coffin was escorted down the boulevards of the town on a pony drawn carriage, and he was covered at the American Legion graveyard in the town. 

Higgins' record of Shadrick's passing was generally republished. "Time" magazine distributed a tale about Shadrick's passing on July 17, 1950, refering to Shadrick as the main "announced" demise in Korea. "Life" magazine detailed Shadrick for as long as a year as the principal US warrior to bite the dust in the war, and the case has frequently been rehashed, including as of late as July 4, 2011, in the nearby paper in Huntington, West Virginia, "The Herald-Dispatch". 

American Legion Post 133 raised a landmark to Shadrick at the Wyoming County town hall. The landmark refers to Shadrick's unit, date of death, and notes him as the "primary setback of the Korean clash" with an inscription that understands, "He stands first in the whole line of nationalists who have set out to pass on that opportunity may live, develop and increment its gifts. Opportunity lives and through it he lives – in a way that lowers the endeavors of generally men." It is one of a few commemorations to neighborhood occupants who served in the military. 

Resulting distributions have shed uncertainty on the exactness of the cases of Shadrick's refinement. Onlooker accounts at the Battle of Osan point to the principal passing as a heavy armament specialist in the 21st Infantry Regiment, who had been killed at around 08:30, eight hours before Shadrick's demise. This officer was executed when an alternate T-34 tank was impaired at the fight and one of its team individuals assaulted adjacent troops with a PPSh-41 "Burp Gun". In the disarray of the fight, a large number of the injured and dead troops were abandoned by withdrawing American troops, and a huge piece of the power was additionally caught; subsequently, the character of this first battle casualty remains a riddle. 

Shadrick's honors and embellishments include: