Vivien Leigh 

Vivien Leigh (; conceived Vivian Mary Hartley, and styled as Lady Olivier after 1947; 5 November 19138 July 1967) was an English stage and film on-screen character. 

She won two Academy Awards for Best Actress, for her notorious exhibitions as Scarlett O'Hara in "Run with the Wind" (1939) and Blanche DuBois in the film rendition of "A Streetcar Named Desire" (1951), a job she had likewise played in front of an audience in London's West End in 1949. She additionally won a Tony Award for her work in the Broadway melodic adaptation of "Tovarich" (1963). 

In the wake of finishing her dramatization school training, Leigh showed up in little jobs in four movies in 1935 and advanced to the job of champion in "Flame Over England" (1937). Commended for her excellence, Leigh felt that her physical traits once in a while kept her from being paid attention to as a performing artist. In spite of her popularity as a screen on-screen character, Leigh was principally a phase entertainer. Amid her 30-year vocation, she assumed jobs extending from the champions of Noël Coward and George Bernard Shaw comedies to great Shakespearean characters, for example, Ophelia, Cleopatra, Juliet, and Lady Macbeth. Further down the road, she executed as a character performing artist in a couple of movies. 

At the time, the open unequivocally recognized Leigh with her second husband, Laurence Olivier, who was her life partner from 1940 to 1960. Leigh and Olivier featured together in many stage preparations, with Olivier regularly coordinating, and in three movies. She earned a notoriety for being hard to work with, and for quite a bit of her grown-up life, she experienced bipolar turmoil, just as repetitive episodes of interminable tuberculosis, which was first analyzed in the mid-1940s and at last asserted her life at 53 years old. Despite the fact that her vocation had times of dormancy, in 1999 the American Film Institute positioned Leigh as the sixteenth most noteworthy female motion picture star of exemplary Hollywood film. 

Leigh was conceived Vivian Mary Hartley on 5 November 1913 in British India on the grounds of St. Paul's School, Darjeeling. She was the single offspring of Ernest Richard Hartley, a British representative, and his better half, Gertrude Mary Frances (née Yackjee; she additionally utilized her mom's last name by birth of Robinson). Her dad was conceived in Scotland in 1882, while her mom, a sincere Roman Catholic, was conceived in Darjeeling in 1888 and may have been of Irish and Armenian or Indian family. Gertrude's folks, who lived in India, were Michael John Yackjee (brought into the world 1840), a wealthy person, and Mary Teresa Robinson (brought into the world 1856), who was destined to an Irish family slaughtered amid the Indian Rebellion of 1857 and experienced childhood in a halfway house, where she met Yackjee; they wedded in 1872 and had five youngsters, of whom Gertrude was the most youthful. Ernest and Gertrude Hartley were hitched in 1912 in Kensington, London. 

In 1917, Ernest Hartley was exchanged to Bangalore as an officer in the Indian Cavalry, while Gertrude and Vivian remained in Ootacamund. At three years old, youthful Vivian showed up for her mom's beginner theater gathering, discussing "Little Bo Peep". Gertrude Hartley endeavored to impart an energy about writing in her little girl and acquainted her with crafted by Hans Christian Andersen, Lewis Carroll and Rudyard Kipling, just as accounts of Greek folklore and Indian legends. At six years old, Vivian was sent by her mom from Loreto Convent, Darjeeling, to the Convent of the Sacred Heart (presently Woldingham School) at that point arranged in Roehampton, southwest London. One of her companions there was future on-screen character Maureen O'Sullivan, two years her senior, to whom Vivian communicated her longing to turn into "an incredible on-screen character". She was expelled from the school by her dad, and going with her folks for a long time, she went to schools in Europe, quite in Dinard (Brittany, France), Biarritz (France), the Sacred Heart in San Remo on the Italian Riviera, and in Paris, getting to be conversant in both French and Italian. The family came back to Britain in 1931. She went to "A Connecticut Yankee", one of O'Sullivan's movies playing in London's West End, and revealed to her folks of her desire to turn into a performing artist. Soon after, her dad enlisted Vivian at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London. 

Vivian met Herbert Leigh Holman, known as Leigh Holman, an advodate 13 years her senior, in 1931. Regardless of his objection to "dramatic individuals", they wedded on 20 December 1932 and she ended her investigations at RADA, her participation and enthusiasm for acting having just wound down in the wake of meeting Holman. On 12 October 1933 in London, she brought forth a little girl, Suzanne, later Mrs. Robin Farrington. 

Leigh's companions recommended she play a little job as a student in the film "Things Are Looking Up", which was her film debut, yet uncredited as an additional. She connected with an operator, John Gliddon, who trusted that "Vivian Holman" was not an appropriate name for an on-screen character. In the wake of dismissing his numerous recommendations, she took "Vivian Leigh" as her expert name. Gliddon prescribed her to Alexander Korda as a conceivable film on-screen character, however Korda dismissed her as lacking potential. She was thrown in the play "The Mask of Virtue", coordinated by Sidney Carroll in 1935, and got magnificent audits, trailed by meetings and paper articles. One such article was from the "Every day Express", in which the questioner noticed "a lightning change came over her face", which was the primary open notice of the fast changes in state of mind which had turned out to be normal for her. John Betjeman, the future artist laureate, depicted her as "the embodiment of English girlhood". Korda went to her premiere night execution, conceded his mistake, and marked her to a film contract. She proceeded with the play be that as it may, when Korda moved it to a bigger theater, Leigh was observed to be unfit to extend her voice enough or to hold the consideration of so substantial a group of people, and the play shut before long. In the playbill, Carroll had reconsidered the spelling of her first name to "Vivien". 

In 1960 Leigh reviewed her inner conflict towards her first experience of basic praise and unexpected distinction, remarking, "that a few commentators wanted to be as silly as to state that I was an extraordinary performing artist. Furthermore, I thought, that was a silly, devilish thing to state, since it put such an onus and such an obligation onto me, which I just couldn't convey. What's more, it took me years to adapt enough to satisfy what they said for those first takes note. I discover it so idiotic. I recall the commentator great and have never pardoned him." 

Laurence Olivier saw Leigh in "The Mask of Virtue", and a companionship created after he saluted her on her execution. Olivier and Leigh started an issue while going about as darlings in "Flame Over England" (1937), yet Olivier was as yet hitched to performing artist Jill Esmond. Amid this period, Leigh read the Margaret Mitchell epic "Run with the Wind" and trained her American operator to prescribe her to David O. Selznick, who was arranging a film variant. She commented to a writer, "I've given myself a role as Scarlett O'Hara", and "The Observer" film faultfinder C. A. Lejeune reviewed a discussion of a similar period in which Leigh "paralyzed all of us" with the declaration that Olivier "won't play Rhett Butler, yet I will play Scarlett O'Hara. Sit back and watch." 

Notwithstanding her relative freshness, Leigh was picked to play Ophelia to Olivier's Hamlet in an Old Vic Theater generation arranged at Elsinore, Denmark. Olivier later reviewed an occurrence when her mind-set quickly changed as she was getting ready to go in front of an audience. Without evident incitement, she started shouting at him before abruptly getting to be quiet and gazing into space. She had the capacity to perform without incident, and by the next day she had come back to ordinary with no memory of the occasion. It was the first run through Olivier saw such conduct from her. They started living respectively, as their individual life partners had each wouldn't allow both of them a separation. Under the ethical norms at that point implemented by the film business, their relationship must be kept from general visibility. 

Leigh showed up with Robert Taylor, Lionel Barrymore and Maureen O'Sullivan in "A Yank at Oxford" (1938), which was the first of her movies to get consideration in the United States. Amid generation, she built up a notoriety for being troublesome and preposterous, halfway in light of the fact that she despised her auxiliary job however mostly on the grounds that her touchy shenanigans appeared to pay profits. In the wake of managing the risk of a claim brought over a negligible episode, Korda, in any case, trained her operator to caution her that her choice would not be recharged if her conduct did not improve. Her next job was in "Walkways of London", otherwise called "St. Martin's Lane" (1938), with Charles Laughton. 

Olivier had been endeavoring to expand his movie profession. He was not notable in the United States in spite of his achievement in Britain, and prior endeavors to acquaint him with American crowds had fizzled. Offered the job of Heathcliff in Samuel Goldwyn's generation of "Wuthering Heights" (1939), he made a trip to Hollywood, leaving Leigh in London. Goldwyn and the movie's chief, William Wyler, offered Leigh the optional job of Isabella, yet she cannot, leaning toward the job of Cathy, which went to Merle Oberon. 

Hollywood was amidst a generally announced hunt to discover an on-screen character to depict Scarlett O'Hara in David O. Selznick's generation of "Run with the Wind" (1939). At the time, Myron Selznick—David's sibling and Leigh's American dramatic specialist—was the London illustrative of the Myron Selznick Agency. In February 1938, Leigh made a solicitation to Myron Selznick that she be considered to fill the role of Scarlett O'Hara. 

David O. Selznick watched her exhibitions that month in "Flame Over England" and "A Yank at Oxford" and suspected that she was superb yet not the slightest bit a conceivable Scarlett on the grounds that she was "excessively British". Leigh went to Los Angeles, notwithstanding, to be with Olivier and to attempt to persuade David Selznick that she was the correct individual for the part. Myron Selznick likewise spoken to Olivier and when he met Leigh, he felt that she had the characteristics that his sibling was hunting down. As indicated by legend, Myron Selznick took Leigh and Olivier to the set where the consuming of the Atlanta Depot scene was being recorded and arrange dealt with an experience, where he presented Leigh, disparagingly tending to his more youthful sibling, "Hello, virtuoso, meet your Scarlett O'Hara." The next day, Leigh read a scene for Selznick, who sorted out a screen test with executive George Cukor and kept in touch with his better half, "She's the Scarlett dull pony and looks damn great. Not for anybody's ear but rather your own: it's limited to Paulette Goddard, Jean Arthur, Joan Bennett and Vivien Leigh". The chief, George Cukor, agreed and applauded Leigh's "extraordinary ferocity". She verified the job of Scarlett before long. 

Taping demonstrated troublesome for Leigh. Cukor was rejected and supplanted by Victor Fleming, with whom Leigh as often as possible fought. She and Olivia de Havilland furtively met with Cukor during the evening and on ends of the week for his recommendation about how they should play their parts. Leigh become friends with Clark Gable, his better half Carole Lombard and Olivia de Havilland; however she conflicted with Leslie Howard, with whom she was required to play a few enthusiastic scenes. Leigh was in some cases required to work seven days seven days, regularly late into the night, which added to her misery; and she missed Olivier, who was working in New York City. On a long-separate phone call to Olivier, she pronounced: "Puss, my puss, how I loathe film acting! Detest, detest, and never need to do another film again!" 

Cited in a 2006 history of Olivier, Olivia de Havilland protected Leigh against cases of her hyper conduct amid the taping of "Run with the Wind": "Vivien was faultlessly proficient, perfectly taught on "Run with the Wind". She had two extraordinary concerns: doing her best work in an incredibly troublesome job and being isolated from Larry [Olivier], who was in New York." 

"Run with the Wind" brought Leigh quick consideration and notoriety; yet she was cited as saying, "I'm not a film star – I'm a performing artist. Being a film star – only a film star – is such a bogus life, lived for phony qualities and for attention. Performing artists continue for quite a while and there are constantly brilliant parts to play." The film won 10 Academy Awards including a Best Actress grant for Leigh, who additionally won a New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress. 

In February 1940, Jill Esmond consented to separate Laurence Olivier, and Leigh Holman consented to separate Vivien, in spite of the fact that they kept up a solid companionship for an amazing remainder. Esmond was allowed care of Tarquin, her child with Olivier. Holman was conceded care of Suzanne, his little girl with Leigh. On 31 August 1940, Olivier and Leigh were hitched at the San Ysidro Ranch in Santa Barbara, California, in a service went to just by their hosts, Ronald and Benita Colman and witnesses, Katharine Hepburn and Garson Kanin. Leigh had made a screen test and would have liked to co-star with Olivier in "Rebecca", which was to be coordinated by Alfred Hitchcock with Olivier in the main job. In the wake of survey Leigh's screen test, David Selznick noticed that "she doesn't appear to be directly as to earnestness or age or guiltlessness", a view shared by Hitchcock and Leigh's tutor, George Cukor. 

Selznick saw that she had demonstrated no excitement for the part until Olivier had been affirmed as the lead on-screen character, so he cast Joan Fontaine. He wouldn't enable her to join Olivier in "Pride and Prejudice" (1940), and Greer Garson assumed the job Leigh had needed for herself. "Waterloo Bridge" (1940) was to have featured Olivier and Leigh; in any case, Selznick supplanted Olivier with Robert Taylor, at that point at the pinnacle of his prosperity as one of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer's most well known male stars. Her top charging mirrored her status in Hollywood, and the film was prominent with gatherings of people and pundits. 

The Oliviers mounted a phase generation of "Romeo and Juliet" for Broadway. The New York press broadcasted the two-faced nature of the start of Olivier and Leigh's relationship and scrutinized their morals in not coming back to the UK to help with the war exertion. 

Commentators were unfriendly in their evaluation of "Romeo and Juliet". Rivulets Atkinson for "The New York Times" stated: "In spite of the fact that Miss Leigh and Mr. Olivier are attractive youngsters, they barely act their parts by any stretch of the imagination." While the greater part of the fault was ascribed to Olivier's acting and bearing, Leigh was additionally condemned, with Bernard Grebanier remarking on the "dainty, shopgirl nature of Miss Leigh's voice". The couple had contributed practically the majority of their consolidated funds of $40,000 in the task, and the disappointment was a budgetary catastrophe for them. 

The Oliviers shot "That Hamilton Woman" (1941) with Olivier as Horatio Nelson and Leigh as Emma Hamilton. With the United States not yet having entered the war, it was one of a few Hollywood movies made with the point of stimulating a professional British conclusion among American groups of onlookers. The film was famous in the United States and an extraordinary accomplishment in the Soviet Union. Winston Churchill orchestrated a screening for a gathering that included Franklin D. Roosevelt and, on its decision, tended to the gathering, saying, "Men of honor, I figured this film would intrigue you, demonstrating extraordinary occasions like those in which you have quite recently been partaking." The Oliviers remained top picks of Churchill, going to suppers and events at his solicitation for an incredible remainder; and, of Leigh, he was cited as saying, "By Jove, she's a clinker." 

The Oliviers came back to Britain in March 1943, and Leigh visited through North Africa that equivalent year as a major aspect of a revue for the military positioned in the locale. She supposedly turned down a studio contract worth $5,000 every week so as to volunteer as a major aspect of the war exertion. Leigh performed for troops before becoming sick with a tenacious hack and fevers. In 1944 she was analyzed as having tuberculosis in her left lung and went through a little while in clinic before seeming to have recuperated. Leigh was recording "Caesar and Cleopatra" (1945) when she found she was pregnant, at that point had an unnatural birth cycle. Leigh briefly fell into a profound gloom that hit its depressed spot, with her tumbling to the floor, crying in a crazy fit. This was the first of many major bipolar confusion breakdowns. Olivier later came to perceive the indications of an approaching episode – a few days of hyperactivity pursued by a time of sorrow and a hazardous breakdown, after which Leigh would have no memory of the occasion, yet would be intensely humiliated and sorry. 

With her specialist's endorsement, Leigh was all around ok to continue acting in 1946, featuring in a fruitful London generation of Thornton Wilder's "The Skin of Our Teeth"; however her movies of this period, "Caesar and Cleopatra" (1945) and "Anna Karenina" (1948), were not extraordinary business victories. Every single British film in this period were unfavorably influenced by a Hollywood blacklist of British movies. In 1947 Olivier was knighted and Leigh went with him to Buckingham Palace for the instatement. She progressed toward becoming Lady Olivier. After their separation, as indicated by the style allowed to the separated from spouse of a knight, she wound up referred to socially as Vivien, Lady Olivier. 

By 1948 Olivier was on the top managerial staff for the Old Vic Theater, and he and Leigh set out on a six-month voyage through Australia and New Zealand to raise assets for the theater. Olivier played the lead in "Richard III" and furthermore performed with Leigh in "The School for Scandal" and "The Skin of Our Teeth". The visit was a remarkable achievement and, despite the fact that Leigh was tormented with sleep deprivation and enabled her understudy to swap her for seven days while she was sick, she by and large withstood the requests put upon her, with Olivier taking note of her capacity to "enchant the press". Individuals from the organization later reviewed a few squabbles between the couple as Olivier was progressively angry of the requests put on him amid the visit. The most sensational fight happened in Christchurch, New Zealand, when her shoes were not found and Leigh would not go in front of an audience without them. A depleted and exasperated Olivier shouted an indecency at her and slapped her face, and a crushed Leigh slapped him consequently, overwhelmed that he would hit her openly. Consequently, she advanced toward the phase in obtained siphons, and in a flash, had "dried her tears and grinned splendidly in front of an audience". Before the finish of the visit, both were depleted and sick. Olivier told a writer, "You may not know it, however you are conversing with a few strolling bodies." Later, he would see that he "lost Vivien" in Australia. 

The achievement of the visit urged the Oliviers to show up together, playing out similar works with one expansion, "Antigone," included at Leigh's request since she wished to assume a job in a disaster. 

Leigh next looked for the job of Blanche DuBois in the West End arrange creation of Tennessee Williams' "A Streetcar Named Desire" and was thrown after Williams and the play's maker Irene Mayer Selznick saw her in "The School for Scandal" and "Antigone"; Olivier was contracted to coordinate. The play contained an assault scene and references to indiscrimination and homosexuality, and was bound to be questionable; the media discourse about its reasonableness added to Leigh's tension. By the by, she accepted firmly in the significance of the work. 

At the point when the West End generation of "Streetcar" opened in October 1949, J. B. Priestley censured the play and Leigh's execution; and the pundit Kenneth Tynan, who was to make a propensity for rejecting her stage exhibitions, remarked that Leigh was seriously miscast in light of the fact that British performing artists were "too very much reared to act out viably in front of an audience". Olivier and Leigh were chagrined that piece of the business achievement of the play lay in gathering of people individuals taking care of see what they accepted would be a lustful story, instead of the Greek disaster that they imagined. The play additionally had solid supporters, among them Noël Coward, who portrayed Leigh as "grand". 

After 326 exhibitions, Leigh completed her run, and she was before long doled out to repeat her job as Blanche DuBois in the film rendition of the play. Her flippant and regularly off color comical inclination enabled her to set up an affinity with Brando, however she had an underlying trouble in working with chief Elia Kazan, who was disappointed with the bearing that Olivier had taken in molding the character of Blanche. Kazan had favored Jessica Tandy and later, Olivia de Havilland over Leigh, yet realized she had been a triumph on the London organize as Blanche. He later remarked that he didn't hold her in high see as a performing artist, trusting that "she had a little ability." As work advanced, be that as it may, he turned out to be "loaded with profound respect" for "the best assurance to exceed expectations of any on-screen character I've known. She'd have slithered over broken glass in the event that she figured it would support her execution." Leigh found the job exhausting and remarked to the "Los Angeles Times", "I had nine months in the performance center of Blanche DuBois. Presently she's in order of me." Olivier went with her to Hollywood where he was to co-star with Jennifer Jones in William Wyler's "Carrie" (1952). 

Leigh's execution in "A Streetcar Named Desire" won gleaming surveys, just as a second Academy Award for Best Actress, a British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) Award for Best British Actress, and a New York Film Critics Circle Award for Best Actress. Tennessee Williams remarked that Leigh conveyed to the job "everything that I expected, and much that I had never longed for". Leigh herself had blended emotions about her relationship with the character; in later years, she said that playing Blanche DuBois "spilled me into frenzy". 

In 1951, Leigh and Laurence Olivier performed two plays about Cleopatra, William Shakespeare's "Antony and Cleopatra" and George Bernard Shaw's "Caesar and Cleopatra", substituting the play every night and winning great surveys. They took the preparations to New York, where they played out a season at the Ziegfeld Theater into 1952. The audits there were additionally generally positive, however film faultfinder Kenneth Tynan enraged them when he recommended that Leigh's was a fair ability that constrained Olivier to bargain his own. Tynan's castigation nearly hastened another breakdown; Leigh, panicked of disappointment and goal on accomplishing enormity, harped on his remarks and disregarded the positive surveys of different faultfinders. 

In January 1953, Leigh ventured out to Ceylon to film "Elephant Walk" with Peter Finch. Not long after taping started, she had a mental meltdown and Paramount Pictures supplanted her with Elizabeth Taylor. Olivier restored her to their home in Britain, where, between times of ambiguity, Leigh revealed to him she was enamored with Finch and had been having an illicit relationship with him. Over a time of a while, she continuously recuperated. Because of this scene, a considerable lot of the Oliviers' companions educated of her issues. David Niven said she had been, "very frantic". Noël Coward communicated shock in his journal that "things had been awful and deteriorating since 1948 or something like that". Leigh's sentimental association with Finch started in 1948, and came and went for quite a while, at last glinting out as her psychological condition decayed. 

Likewise in 1953, Leigh recouped adequately to play "The Sleeping Prince" with Olivier, and in 1955 they played out a season at Stratford-upon-Avon in Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night", "Macbeth", and "Titus Andronicus". They played to limit houses and pulled in commonly great audits, Leigh's wellbeing apparently steady. John Gielgud coordinated "Twelfth Night" and composed, "... perhaps I will at present make something worth being thankful for of that divine play, particularly on the off chance that he will give me a chance to pull her little ladyship (who is brainier than he yet "not" a conceived performing artist) out of her shyness and safeness. He sets out too confidently ... yet, she scarcely sets out at all and is frightened of exceeding her method and doing whatever she has not slaughtered the immediacy of by overpractice." In 1955 Leigh featured in Anatole Litvak's film "The Deep Blue Sea"; co-star Kenneth More felt he had poor science with Leigh amid the taping. 

In 1956, Leigh played the lead job in the Noël Coward play "South Sea Bubble", however pulled back from the creation when she wound up pregnant. A little while later, she lost and entered a time of dejection that went on for quite a long time. She joined Olivier for an European voyage through "Titus Andronicus", yet the visit was defaced by Leigh's continuous upheavals against Olivier and different individuals from the organization. After their arrival to London, her previous spouse, Leigh Holman, who could at present apply a solid impact on her, remained with the Oliviers and helped quiet her. 

In 1958, believing her marriage to be finished, Leigh started an association with performing artist Jack Merivale, who knew about Leigh's ailment and guaranteed Olivier that he would think about her. In 1959, when she made a progress with the Noël Coward parody "Take care of Lulu!", a commentator working for "The Times" portrayed her as "lovely, delightfully cool and matter of certainty, she is special lady of each circumstance". 

In 1960 she and Olivier separated and Olivier before long hitched performing artist Joan Plowright. In his self-portrayal, Olivier talked about the long stretches of strain they had encountered due to Leigh's ailment: "All through her ownership by that uncannily detestable beast, hyper sorrow, with its dangerous consistently fixing spirals, she held her very own individual canniness – a capacity to camouflage her actual mental condition from practically all aside from me, for whom she could scarcely be relied upon to take the inconvenience." 

Merivale ended up being a settling impact for Leigh, yet in spite of her clear satisfaction, she was cited by Radie Harris as trusting that she "would prefer to have carried on with a short existence with Larry [Olivier] than face a long one without him". Her first spouse Leigh Holman likewise invested significant energy with her. Merivale joined her for a voyage through Australia, New Zealand and Latin America that endured from July 1961 until May 1962, and Leigh delighted in positive audits without imparting the spotlight to Olivier. Despite the fact that she was still plagued by episodes of misery, she kept on working in the theater and, in 1963, won a Tony Award for Best Actress in a Musical for her job in "Tovarich". She likewise showed up in the movies "The Roman Spring of Mrs. Stone" (1961) and "Ship of Fools" (1965). 

Leigh's last screen appearance in "Ship of Fools" was both a triumph and meaningful of her sicknesses that were flourishing. Maker and executive Stanley Kramer, who wound up with the film, intended to star Leigh yet was at first unconscious of her delicate mental and physical state. Later describing her work, Kramer recalled her mettle in taking on the troublesome job, "She was sick, and the strength to proceed, the fearlessness to make the film – was practically staggering." Leigh's execution was tinged by suspicion and brought about upheavals that damaged her association with different performing artists, albeit both Simone Signoret and Lee Marvin were thoughtful and understanding. In one surprising example amid the endeavored assault scene, Leigh ended up distressed and hit Marvin so hard with a spiked shoe that it denoted his face. Leigh won the "L'étoile de Cristal" for her execution in a main job in "Ship of Fools". 

In May 1967 Leigh was practicing to show up with Michael Redgrave in Edward Albee's "A Delicate Balance" when her tuberculosis repeated. Following half a month of rest, she appeared to recuperate. The evening of 7 July 1967, Merivale left her as normal at their Eaton Square level to perform in a play, and he returned home just before midnight to locate her sleeping. Around 30 minutes after the fact (at this point 8 July), he entered the room and found her body on the floor. She had been endeavoring to stroll to the restroom and, as her lungs loaded up with fluid, she crumbled and choked. Merivale first reached her family and later had the capacity to achieve Olivier, who was accepting treatment for prostate malignant growth in a close-by emergency clinic. In his collection of memoirs, Olivier depicted his "appalling anguish" as he quickly made a trip to Leigh's living arrangement, to find that Merivale had moved her body onto the bed. Olivier offered his regards, and "stood and appealed to God for pardoning for every one of the shades of malice that had jumped up between us", before aiding Merivale make memorial service courses of action; Olivier remained until her body was expelled from the level. 

Her demise was openly reported on 8 July, and the lights of each venue in focal London were smothered for 60 minutes. A Catholic administration for Leigh was held at St. Mary's Church, Cadogan Street, London. Her burial service was gone to by the illuminators of British stage and screen. As indicated by the arrangements of her will, Leigh was incinerated at the Golders Green Crematorium and her powder were dispersed on the lake at her mid year home, Tickerage Mill, close Blackboys, East Sussex, England. A remembrance administration was held at St Martin-in-the-Fields, with a last tribute perused by John Gielgud. In 1968 Leigh turned into the principal performer respected in the United States, by "The Friends of the Libraries at the University of Southern California". The function was led as a remembrance administration, with determinations from her movies appeared and tributes given by such partners as George Cukor, who screened the tests that Leigh had made for "Run with the Wind", the first run through the screen tests had been found in 30 years. 

Leigh was viewed as a standout amongst the most lovely performing artists of her day, and her chiefs stressed this in the greater part of her movies. Whenever inquired as to whether she trusted her magnificence had been a hindrance to being paid attention to as a performer, she stated, "Individuals believe that on the off chance that you look genuinely sensible, you can't in any way, shape or form act, and as I just consideration about acting, I figure excellence can be an extraordinary impediment, in the event that you truly need to resemble the part you're playing, which isn't really similar to you." 

Executive George Cukor depicted Leigh as a "quintessential on-screen character, hampered by excellence", and Laurence Olivier said that faultfinders should "give her kudos for being an on-screen character and not go on everlastingly giving their decisions a chance to be twisted by her incredible magnificence." Garson Kanin shared their perspective and portrayed Leigh as "a shocker whose bewitching magnificence frequently would in general cloud her stunning accomplishments as an on-screen character. Extraordinary marvels are rarely incredible actresses – just on the grounds that they don't should be. Vivien was unique; aggressive, driving forward, genuine, frequently enlivened." 

Leigh clarified that she played "whatever number distinctive parts as could be expected under the circumstances" trying to gain proficiency with her specialty and to scatter partiality about her capacities. She trusted that parody was more hard to play than show since it required increasingly exact planning and said that more accentuation ought to be put upon satire as a component of an on-screen character's preparation. Nearing the finish of her vocation, which ran from Noël Coward comedies to Shakespearean catastrophes, she watched, "It's a lot simpler to make individuals cry than to make them snicker." 

Her initial exhibitions got her quick achievement Britain, however she remained to a great extent obscure in different pieces of the world until the arrival of "Run with the Wind". In December 1939, movie commentator Frank Nugent wrote in "The New York Times", "Miss Leigh's Scarlett has vindicated the silly ability journey that by implication turned her up. She is so superbly intended for the part by craftsmanship and nature that some other performer in the job would be unfathomable", and as her distinction raised, she was highlighted on the front of "Time" magazine as Scarlett. In 1969 pundit Andrew Sarris remarked that the accomplishment of the film had been to a great extent because of "the enlivened throwing" of Leigh, and in 1998, composed that "she lives in our brains and recollections as a dynamic power as opposed to as a static nearness". Film history specialist and commentator Leonard Maltin portrayed the film as one of the unsurpassed greats, writing in 1998 that Leigh "splendidly played" her job. 

Her execution in the West End generation of "A Streetcar Named Desire", depicted by the theater author Phyllis Hartnoll as "evidence of more prominent powers as a performer than she had until now appeared", at a long period amid which she was viewed as one of the best on-screen characters in British theater. Examining the ensuing film rendition, Pauline Kael composed that Leigh and Marlon Brando gave "two of the best exhibitions at any point put on film" and that Leigh's was "one of those uncommon exhibitions that can really be said to summon both dread and pity." 

Her most noteworthy commentator was Kenneth Tynan who derided Leigh's execution inverse Olivier in the 1955 generation of "Titus Andronicus", remarking that she "gets the news that she is going to be violated on her better half's carcass with minimal more than the gentle irritation of one who might have favored froth elastic." He was likewise disparaging of her reinterpretation of Lady Macbeth in 1955, saying that her execution was deficient and come up short on the vital fierceness requested of the job. After her demise, in any case, Tynan amended his conclusion, portraying his prior analysis as "one of the most noticeably bad blunders of judgment" he had ever constructed. He came to trust that Leigh's elucidation, in which Lady Macbeth utilizes her sexual charm to keep Macbeth excited, "made more sense ... than the typical fight hatchet" depiction of the character. In an overview of theater commentators led not long after Leigh's demise, a few named her execution as Lady Macbeth as one of her most noteworthy accomplishments in theater. 

In 1969 a plaque to Leigh was put in the Actors' Church, St Paul's, Covent Garden, London. In 1985 a picture of her was incorporated into a progression of United Kingdom postage stamps, alongside Sir Alfred Hitchcock, Sir Charlie Chaplin, Peter Sellers and David Niven to celebrate "English Film Year". In April 2013 she was again incorporated into another arrangement, this time commending the 100th commemoration of her introduction to the world, accomplishing the uncommon honor for a non-imperial of showing up on British stamps time and again. 

The British Library in London bought the papers of Laurence Olivier from his home in 1999. Known as "The Laurence Olivier Archive", the gathering incorporates a considerable lot of Vivien Leigh's own papers, including various letters she kept in touch with Olivier. The papers of Vivien Leigh, including letters, photos, contracts and journals, are possessed by her little girl, Mrs. Suzanne Farrington. In 1994 the National Library of Australia bought a photo collection, monogrammed "L and V O" and accepted to have had a place with the Oliviers, containing 573 photos of the couple amid their 1948 voyage through Australia. It is currently held as a component of the record of the historical backdrop of the performing expressions in Australia. In 2013, a document of Vivien Leigh's letters, journals, photos, explained film and theater contents and her various honors was gained by the Victoria and Albert Museum.