HMS Bellerophon (1786) 

HMS "Bellerophon" was a 74-firearm awful rate ship of the line of the Royal Navy. Propelled in 1786, she served amid the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, for the most part on barricades or guard escort obligations. Referred to mariners as the "Billy Ruffian", she battled in three armada activities, the Glorious First of June, the Battle of the Nile and the Battle of Trafalgar, and was the ship on board which Napoleon at long last surrendered, finishing 22 years of almost persistent war with France. 

Worked at Frindsbury, close Rochester in Kent, "Bellerophon" was at first laid up in common, quickly being authorized amid the Spanish and Russian Armaments. She entered administration with the Channel Fleet on the episode of the French Revolutionary Wars, and partook in the Glorious First of June in 1794, the first of a few armada activities of the wars. "Bellerophon" barely evaded being caught by the French in 1795, when her squadron was almost overwhelm by a ground-breaking French armada, yet the striking activities of the squadron's leader, Vice-Admiral Sir William Cornwallis, made the French retreat. She assumed a minor job in endeavors to capture a French attack drive headed for Ireland in 1797, and after that joined the Mediterranean Fleet under Sir John Jervis. Disengaged to strengthen Rear-Admiral Sir Horatio Nelson's armada in 1798, she partook in the conclusive thrashing of a French armada at the Battle of the Nile. She at that point came back to England and went out toward the West Indies, where she spent the Peace of Amiens on travels and guard escort obligation between the Caribbean and North America. 

"Bellerophon" came back to European waters with the resumption of the wars with France, joining an armada under Vice-Admiral Cuthbert Collingwood barricading Cadiz. The strengthened armada, by then instructed by Horatio Nelson, drew in the joined Franco-Spanish armada when it rose up out of port. At the Battle of Trafalgar on 21 October "Bellerophon" battled a severe commitment against Spanish and French boats, continuing overwhelming setbacks including the passing of her commander, John Cooke. After fixes "Bellerophon" was utilized barricading the adversary armadas in the Channel and the North Sea. She handled the waters of the Baltic Sea in 1809, making assaults on Russian transportation, and by 1810 was off the French coast once more, barring their ports. She went out to North America as a guard escort somewhere in the range of 1813 and 1814, and in 1815 was doled out to bar the French Atlantic port of Rochefort. In July 1815, vanquished at Waterloo and discovering getaway to America banished by the barring "Bellerophon", Napoleon got on "the ship that had hounded his means for a long time" (as per sea history specialist David Cordingly) to at long last surrender to the British. It was "Bellerophon"s last seagoing administration. She was satisfied and changed over to a jail dispatch in 1815, and was renamed "Bondage" in 1824 to free the name for another ship. Moved to Plymouth in 1826, she proceeded in administration until 1834, when the last convicts left. The Admiralty requested her to be sold in 1836, and she was separated. 

"Bellerophon"s long and recognized profession has been recorded in writing and people tunes, honoring the accomplishments of the "Billy Ruffian". 

"Bellerophon" was requested from the business shipbuilder Edward Greaves and Company, of Frindsbury in Kent, on 11 January 1782 to an altered structure initially created by Surveyor of the Navy Sir Thomas Slade. She was one of ten boats worked to the changed "Pompous"- class configuration, initially created by Slade in 1758 and used to construct two boats, and . The structure was revived and somewhat changed in 1774, and endorsed by the Admiralty on 25 August that year. The bottom was set down at Frindsbury in May 1782. Estimating on the gundeck and on the bottom, she had a light emission estimated 1,612 tons burthen and mounted 74 firearms. This weapon comprised of twenty-eight 32-pounder firearms on her lower gundeck, twenty-eight 18-pounder weapons on the upper gundeck, fourteen 9-pounder weapons on the quarterdeck and four 9-pounder firearms on the forecastle. 

The ship was named "Bellerophon", a choice that had been landed in any event April 1782, when it was gone into the minutes of the Surveyor's Office. The First Lord of the Admiralty at the time, John Montagu, fourth Earl of Sandwich, had clearly chosen the name from Lemprière's Classical Dictionary, which he kept around his work area. The as of late arranged 74-firearm deliver was from there on to be named after the Greek warrior Bellerophon who rode the winged pony Pegasus and slew the beast Chimera. The articulation demonstrated troublesome for the normal mariners of the period, and she was broadly known by variations, most ordinarily "Billy Ruffian" or "Billy Ruff'n", in spite of the fact that "Paunch Ruff One" shows up in a sarcastic 1810 print by Thomas Rowlandson, and "Bellyruffron" in the novel "Poor Jack" by Frederick Marryat. She was embellished with a nonentity of Bellerophon. 

When "Bellerophon" was propelled, there was no squeezing requirement for new warships. The marking of the Treaty of Paris in 1783 finished the American War of Independence while "Bellerophon" was still under development. Despite the fact that Greaves had been contracted to have her prepared for propelling by April 1784, she went through an additional two years on the slipway, most likely in light of the fact that the Navy Board requested development work to be postponed to enable her timber to be prepared, an extravagance accessible now that there were no squeezing military needs. At the point when the dispatch came, it was postponed a few times, at long last occurring amid a time of substantial pre-winter storms in October 1786. She was propelled with little function on 7 October 1786, by Commissioner Charles Proby, of Chatham Dockyard. She was then towed over the River Medway and moored off Chatham Dockyard. She was taken into the dry dock there on 7 March 1787, where her frame was fitted with copper sheathing, and she was fitted for the Ordinary. Her last expenses came to £30,232.14.4d paid to Greaves for structure her, and a further £8,376.15.2d spent on accommodating her for administration. 

Laid up at Chatham amid the long stretches of harmony, "Bellerophon" was not authorized until July 1790, when the emergency known as the Spanish Armament broke out. As war with Spain compromised, warships lying in common started to be charged and fitted for ocean. "Bellerophon"s first administrator, Captain Thomas Pasley, touched base on 19 July and started the way toward setting up her for administration. Following a month spent fitting out the ship with firearms, poles, stores and fixing, and enlisting a team, Pasley gave the requests for his group to slip the moorings on 16 August, and "Bellerophon" advanced down the Medway to the armada harbor at the Nore. 

From the Nore, "Bellerophon" continued to the Downs and joined the armada positioned there. She went through three weeks in the roadstead, practicing her weapons, before moving to Spithead. The conciliatory emergency with Spain had to a great extent decreased by October 1790, and "Bellerophon" was sent to Sheerness in late November. She stayed in commission, still under Pasley, amid the Russian Armament in 1791, yet when this time of strain additionally go without tearing into open war, "Bellerophon" was sent back to Chatham and satisfied there on 9 September 1791. 

With the flare-up of the French Revolutionary Wars, "Bellerophon" was authorized in March 1793, under her previous commander, Thomas Pasley. Pasley fitted her for ocean and cruised to join the Channel Fleet under Admiral Lord Howe. The Channel Fleet cruised on 14 July, with requests to watch off Brest in the desire for blocking and annihilating the French armada based there. While south-west of the Scilly Isles on 18 July, "Bellerophon" crashed into in intense breezes. "Bellerophon" lost her bowsprit, foremast and primary topmast, and had her nonentity and cutwater crushed, which required putting into Plymouth for fixes. 

In the wake of being fixed, "Bellerophon" rejoined the Channel Fleet, which at this point was watching the Western Approaches. She built up a notoriety for speed amid these obligations, and was given the moniker of "The Flying Bellerophon". In September 1793 Howe doled out her to a flying squadron made up of the quickest ships of the line, and gave Pasley order of the squadron, with the brief position of commodore. 

On 27 November 1793, the boats of Pasley's squadron caught the French corvette "Blonde". At the season of her catch "Blonde" was equipped with 28 firearms and had a team of 210 men under the order of Citizen Gueria. A consequent prize cash see recorded the vessels that mutual in the returns as "Bellerophon", , and . 

With Pasley now in charge of a squadron, "Bellerophon" got another leader in January 1794, Captain William Johnstone Hope, with Commodore Pasley proceeding to fly his wide flag on board her. For the following five months the Channel Fleet watched off Ushant and the Brittany coast. 

The Channel Fleet assumed a vital job in the end phases of the Atlantic battle of May 1794, when Howe moved out into the Atlantic in the expectation of blocking a moving toward French escort under Admiral Pierre Jean Van Stabel. The principle French battlefleet was additionally known to be adrift, under Admiral Louis Thomas Villaret de Joyeuse. Howe sent Pasley, as of late elevated to raise chief of naval operations, and his flying squadron, comprising of "Bellerophon" and the 74-firearm ships , and , ahead to scout for French powers. At 6 am on 28 May the appended frigate flagged "Bellerophon" to report a locating of a weird armada. Pasley took the squadron south-east to examine, coming in sight of a huge armada at 9 am, and checking thirty-three boats, of which somewhere around twenty-three seemed, by all accounts, to be boats of the line. They were affirmed as French by early afternoon, and Pasley flagged this news back to Howe. Howe requested an interest, and before supper the main British boats, with Pasley's flying squadron framing the van, interacted with the back generally French. "Bellerophon" was the main ship to come without hesitation, when the 110-firearm "Révolutionnaire" dropped back to obstruct her methodology. Pasley attached to close the French ship and started trading broadsides. The substantial flame of the bigger French ship caused significant harm, especially to "Bellerophon"s fundamental topmast, and she battled alone until the rest of the flying squadron and two boats from the principle armada, and , touched base to help her. The harmed "Bellerophon" at that point floated clear of the activity, and as night fell Howe motioned for the armada to change in line ahead and sit tight to morning before continuing the commitment. 

The activity continued the next morning, with Howe shutting on the French and after that slicing through their line. "Bellerophon" pursued Howe's lead, the 100-weapon , and supported some harm from French discharge. Howe disengaged a few French ships in the back and beat them with broadsides, however Villaret de Joyeuse had the capacity to realize his van to safeguard them, and the two armadas separated again during the evening to change their fight lines and fix harm. Poor climate on 30 May and 31 May kept the armadas from reaching, however the next day, 1 June, Howe had the capacity to realize an unequivocal activity, later known as the Glorious First of June. The British drew closer in line side by side, with "Bellerophon" toward the stopping point. As they drew nearer, the boats were intensely cannonaded by the French. Pasley was hit in the leg by a cannonball as he remained on the quarterdeck, with Midshipman Matthew Flinders revealing that "our daring chief naval officer lost his leg by a 18-pounder shot which came in through the barricadoes of the quarter-deck – it was in the warmth of the activity." When two sailors communicated their distress, Pasley answered "Thank you, yet don't worry about it my leg: deal with my banner." He was taken beneath where the broke leg was cut away. Skipper Hope kept the ship in the commitment, beating the 74-firearm "Éole" until the French ship was constrained out of the line. "Bellerophon" had by then lost every one of the three topmasts, and her mainsail and lower covers had been sliced to pieces. Expectation at that point flagged the frigate to tow the "Bellerophon" clear of the activity. In spite of being under substantial flame amid the fight, "Bellerophon"s setbacks were nearly light, adding up to four men slaughtered and between twenty-seven and thirty injured. 

"Bellerophon" came back with the armada to England after the fight, where the injured Pasley left the ship. "Bellerophon" was taken into Portsmouth Dockyard for fixes, and after that continued her watches in the Western Approaches with the Channel Fleet. Skipper Hope was supplanted in late November, and on 1 December 1794 "Bellerophon" got another authority, Captain James Cranstoun, eighth Lord Cranstoun. 

"Bellerophon" came back to ocean in May 1795 following three months tied down in the Solent. She had been at Spithead on 1 May, when the 98-firearm burst into flames and exploded, with "Bellerophon" safeguarding twelve men. Still with the Channel Fleet, she joined a squadron directed by Vice-Admiral Sir William Cornwallis which was watching off Ushant. The squadron had touched base on station on 7 June, and the next day caught an escort of eight French traders off Belle Île. The squadron stayed in the zone until 16 June, when a post on "Bellerophon" detected a huge armada toward the east-south-east. This was the Brest armada, comprising of thirteen boats of the line, two frigates, two brigs and a shaper, under Admiral Villaret de Joyeuse. Intensely dwarfed, Cornwallis requested a retreat, however the "Bellerophon" and cruised curiously gradually and he wound up being consistently updated by the French. Keeping his boats together, Cornwallis requested "Bellerophon" to take up position at the leader of his line, later clarifying that "The Bellerophon I was happy to keep in some measure as a save, having reason at first to assume there would be full event for the most extreme efforts of us all ... I thought about that transport a fortune coming up, having known about her previous achievements, and watching the soul showed by all ready when she passed me, joined to the energy and action shewed by Lord Cranstoun amid the entire cruize." 

Following an entire day of interest, the main French boats made an endeavor to cut off , trailing in the British back. Cornwallis dropped back to help "Mars", while Captain Robert Stopford of HMS "Phaeton" started making signals inferring a British armada was in sight. At the point when French posts spotted removed topsails, Villaret de Joyeuse concluded that Cornwallis' activities implied that a British armada was drawing closer to help him, and canceled the interest. There was no British armada in the region; the topsails were those of a caravan of British galleons. 

"Bellerophon" came back to England in June, before withdrawing to watch the Western Approaches until September. She entered Portsmouth Dockyard again in October and experienced a refit costing £8,103. She continued watch and barricade obligation in the Western Approaches in January 1796, at first under Cranstoun, however from April viably under the acting-captaincy of Lieutenant John Loring. Cranstoun's substitution, Captain Henry D'Esterre Darby, touched base to take order in September. Barricade obligation proceeded until early January 1797, when news achieved the armada that a French endeavor had showed up off Ireland. Found napping, the Admiralty requested "Bellerophon" and various different boats to watch off Bantry Bay. By then the French undertaking had been scattered by awful climate, and following three weeks on watch, "Bellerophon" put into Cork where she rendezvoused with the Irish squadron under Admiral Robert Kingsmill. Not long after her arrival to Spithead toward the beginning of March, "Bellerophon" was given new requests by the Admiralty. She cruised on 17 March, destined for Cadiz to join Sir John Jervis' Mediterranean Fleet barring the port. 

"Bellerophon" rendezvoused with Jervis' armada in the Bay of Cadiz on 30 May 1797. After three days she was visited for the main time by Horatio Nelson, at that point a back chief of naval operations and in order of the inshore squadron of the barricading armada. "Bellerophon" was with the armada in the Bay of Cadiz until October, when Jervis took it to ocean to watch between Cape Trafalgar and Cape St. Vincent. These obligations kept going until late May 1798, when "Bellerophon" was alloted to a segregated squadron under Captain Thomas Troubridge and requested to meet with and strengthen Nelson's squadron. Nelson was in the Mediterranean chasing for an expansive French armada which had cruised from Toulon conveying troops. 

The French had set out on a mind boggling land and maritime battle in the Mediterranean, with a definitive point of propelling an intrusion and control of Egypt. The British knew that the French had amassed an extensive armed force, driven by General Napoleon Bonaparte, yet their goal was obscure. Rendezvousing with Troubridge's squadron on 7 June, Nelson currently had an adequate power to connect with the French, and started to brush the Mediterranean. The hunt kept going about two months, with the British power following westwards, and after that back east, here and there missing the French power by days. The French power, subsequent to attacking and catching Malta, touched base off Alexandria on 1 July and started landing troops. It was not until 25 July that news achieved Nelson, by then at grapple off Sicily, that the French armada had showed up off Egypt. He took his armada to ocean, and touched base off Alexandria on 1 August, yet found the harbor vacant. Traveling east, he found the French armada, comprising of thirteen boats of the line, four frigates and various gunboats, at stay in Abu Qir Bay. 

It was late on 1 August when the British armada showed up in the straight, and the French were at stay in a solid cautious position. The French officer, Vice-Admiral François-Paul Brueys d'Aigalliers, did not expect a night assault, yet Nelson requested his boats to shape up and assault the leader of the French van, exploiting an ideal breeze which enabled his boats to float down the line, while keeping the French back from fortifying the van and focus. "Bellerophon" was the eighth ship in the British line, and as the fight started, Darby turned her towards the French focus, in the end coming to grapple at 7 pm. Conceivably because of some mistake with respect to the team or in light of the fact that the grapple had hauled, "Bellerophon" stopped close by the French lead, the 120-firearm "Situate". 

"Bellerophon" presently wound up in an edgy position. The substantially more dominant three-decked "Arrange" discharged a few broadsides into the "Bellerophon", crushing her vessels, getting off weapons and cutting apparatus. French marines on the higher decks poured volleys of rifle shoot onto "Bellerophon"s uncovered upper decks. Somewhere in the range of 60 and 70 of her group were murdered or injured in the primary phases of the commitment, including Darby, who was rendered oblivious by a head wound. Order at that point lapsed to the principal lieutenant, Lieutenant Daniel. Daniel and the second lieutenant, Lieutenant Lander, were both injured, yet had the capacity to coordinate the battling until a shot removed Daniel's left leg. As he was conveyed beneath he was hit by grapeshot and slaughtered out and out. The fourth lieutenant, John Hadaway, was injured and was taken underneath to the specialist, while the fifth lieutenant, George Joliffe, was murdered on the deck. Following an hour battling "Arrange" alone, "Bellerophon"s mizzenmast crumbled, pursued without further ado a short time later by the mainmast. Lieutenant Lander was among those executed in the fall of the mainmast, and order declined to the third lieutenant, the healthy Lieutenant Robert Cathcart. A few flames had broken out on both "Bellerophon" and "Situate". As indicated by the "Bellerophon"s logbook, at 9pm, when a further flame broke out on the "Orient", Cathcart was down underneath on obligation, and the multi year old Midshipman John Hindmarsh was quickly the senior officer on deck. He requested the stay link cut and the spritsail was raised, yet put too extraordinary a strain on the foremast, which fallen. Presently absolutely dismasted, "Bellerophon" started to float away from the activity, her group battling fires. As she moved out of the line she got some long range shots from the French "Tonnant". 

As "Bellerophon" gradually floated away, she was located by the 74-weapon , moving toward the inside. It was at this point around 9 pm; in the haziness "Swiftsure"s commander, Benjamin Hallowell, was unfit to recognize the dismasted transport and assumed that she was a harmed French ship endeavoring to get away. He discussed terminating into her, yet chose to hold flame and proceed to the French focus, where he in the end came to grapple toward the back of "Situate", near "Bellerophon"s unique position. Darby had at this point recouped adequately to continue direction, and at his request the battered "Bellerophon" reached grapple at the east end of the sound, and her team started making fixes. The fight seethed for the duration of the night, and inevitably finished in a definitive triumph for the British. The following five days were spent fixing the ship and covering the dead. 49 men were slaughtered and 148 injured on "Bellerophon". Eight more passed on of their injuries in the next week. 

Subsequent to doing brief fixes in Abu Qir Bay, "Bellerophon" raised jury poles and, towing the caught "Spartiate" with HMS "Grand", cruised to Gibraltar for a refit. At the point when this was finished she came back to Britain, touching base at Spithead on 2 April 1800, where she satisfied and entered the dockyard for an increasingly significant refit in September. These works added up to £32,608 and kept going until August 1801. She recommissioned on 25 June 1801 under the order of Captain Lord Garlies and cruised in August to rejoin the Channel Fleet, which was barring Brest. Master Garlies was supplanted by Captain John Loring on 25 November, and "Bellerophon" proceeded on the bar until getting new requests toward the beginning of March 1802. 

"Bellerophon" was among five boats requested to join Admiral John Duckworth's squadron in the West Indies, and having put away, she cruised from Torbay on 2 March 1802. When of her entry on 27 March, the Treaty of Amiens had been marked, and Britain and France found a sense of contentment. For the following eighteen months "Bellerophon" participated in travels in the Jamaica Passage and escorted vendor caravans among Jamaica and Halifax. 

"Bellerophon" was in the West Indies when the Napoleonic Wars broke out in May 1803. Her skipper, John Loring, was delegated commodore of the British squadron, which rapidly went in all out attack mode against French sending in the Blockade of Saint-Domingue. In mid-1803, the squadron under Captain Henry William Bayntun, comprising of HMS "Bellerophon", , and caught the French privateers "Poisson Volant" and . The Royal Navy brought both into administration. The corvette "Mignonne" and a brig were caught in late June, after which the British watched off Cap-François. On 24 July the squadron, made up of "Bellerophon" and the 74-weapon ships HMS "Elephant", and HMS "Vanguard", ran over two French 74-firearm boats, "Duquesne" and "Duguay-Trouin", and the frigate "Guerrière", endeavoring to escape from Cap-François. The squadron gave pursue, and on 25 July redesignd and caught "Duquesne" after a couple of shots were discharged, while "Duguay-Trouin" and "Guerrière" figured out how to dodge their followers and departure to France. One man was slaughtered on board "Bellerophon" amid the interest. She stayed barricading Cap-François until November, when the French authority of the battalion there, General Rochambeau, drew nearer Loring and mentioned to be permitted to clear his men, which were being blockaded by a local Haitian power driven by Jean-Jacques Dessalines. To avoid Rochambeau circumventing, Loring sent dispatches from "Bellerophon" and "Elephant" into the Caracol Passage where they cut out the French clipper "Découverte" on 22– 23 November. The French formally surrendered on 30 November and were permitted to empty on three frigates, "Surveillante", "Clorinde", and "Vertu", and various littler ships, and were escorted to Jamaica by the squadron. 

An especially extreme episode of intestinal sickness struck the ship toward the beginning of February 1804; 212 individuals from "Bellerophon"s group became sick. 17 kicked the bucket on board the ship, while 100 must be exchanged to a shore-based emergency clinic, where a further 40 passed on. She was requested back to Britain in June, escorting a huge caravan, and touched base in the Downs on 11 August. She quickly satisfied and was taken into Portsmouth Dockyard for a refit. On 27 September four shipwrights working in magazine by flame light set off some free powder. The blast murdered every one of the four. 

"Bellerophon" rejoined the Channel Fleet, still off Brest, and under the direction of Admiral Sir William Cornwallis. These obligations kept going until mid 1805, with Loring being supplanted by Captain John Cooke on 24 April. 

In May 1805 a vast French armada under the direction of Vice-Admiral Pierre-Charles Villeneuve got away from Toulon. "Bellerophon" was dispatched with a squadron under Vice-Admiral Cuthbert Collingwood to watch the Straits of Gibraltar. Before they could arrive, Villeneuve had gathered Spanish fortifications under Admiral Federico Gravina, and had cruised into the Atlantic, sought after by Nelson's Mediterranean Fleet. While Nelson pursued Villeneuve around the West Indies without reaching, Collingwood mounted a barricade of Cadiz. His squadron was still there in mid-August when Villeneuve showed up off the port with his armada. Having too few boats to catch the joined armada, Collingwood enabled them to enter Cadiz, and afterward remounted the bar. He was strengthened with various ships throughout the following couple of months, with Nelson assuming control over direction on 28 September. 

Nelson mounted a free barricade of the joined armada, keeping the vast majority of his armada far out, yet with a line of frigates and bigger boats positioned at interims among himself and Cadiz. On 19 October the joined armada was seen to put ocean, and the flag was passed down the line of boats. William Pryce Cumby, "Bellerophon"s first lieutenant, was first in the fundamental armada to detect the flag, flying from the last ship in the correspondence connect, HMS "Mars". The British started to seek after the joined armada as it advanced towards the Straits of Gibraltar, and came in sight of it on the morning of 21 October. The officer and mariners of "Bellerophon" arranged for the fight to come, a portion of the weapon teams chalking the words "Triumph or Death" on their firearm barrels. At 11 am "Bellerophon"s flag sailor, John Franklin, noticed that Nelson had lifted the flag "Britain expects that each man will carry out his responsibility", and after 90 minutes "Bellerophon" entered the fight as the fifth ship in Collingwood's lee section. She was toward the back of the 80-firearm HMS "Tonnant" and in front of the 74-weapon , with the 74-firearm near to her port side. 

At 12:30 pm, "Bellerophon" slice through the foe line, sneaking by the stern of the Spanish 74-firearm "Monarca" and terminating two broadsides into her. Moving past the Spanish ship, "Bellerophon" crashed into the French 74-weapon "Aigle", hitting "Aigle"s port quarter with her starboard bow, and ensnaring the two boats' yards. Bolted together, they traded broadsides at short proximity, with fighters on board "Aigle" clearing "Bellerophon"s decks with gun shoot and projectiles. Cumby saw that the officers were being focused on, and that Cooke's unmistakable epaulets stamped him out. Cumby asked him to take them off, just for Cooke to answer "It is past the point of no return presently to take them off. I see my circumstance however I will bite the dust like a man." "Bellerophon" was presently supporting flame from "Aigle" and three different boats, the Spanish "San Juan Nepomuceno" and "Bahama", and the French "Swiftsure". "Bellerophon"s fundamental and mizzenmasts were shot away at 1 pm, and at 1:11 pm, Captain Cooke was hit and slaughtered. An onlooker recorded that He had released his guns in all respects every now and again at the adversary, who as regularly endeavored to board, and he had executed a French officer alone quarterdeck. He was in the demonstration of reloading his pistols ... when he got two black powder gun balls in the bosom. He promptly fell, and upon the officer going up and inquiring as to whether he should bring him down beneath, his answer was "No, given me a chance to lie unobtrusively one moment. Advise Lieutenant Cumby never to strike." 

With Cooke dead, Cumby expected direction. "Bellerophon"s decks had to a great extent been cleared by French flame, and boarding parties started to advance onto the ship. A few French mariners moved out onto "Bellerophon"s spritsail yard, however a "Bellerophon" crew member discharged the prop holding the yard, making them fall into the ocean. French mariners clutching "Bellerophon"s rails had their hands beaten until they were compelled to give up. "Bellerophon"s ensign had been shot away multiple times, so enraging her yeoman of signs, Christopher Beaty, that he took the biggest Union Jack he could discover and moved up into the mizzen fixing and lifted it over the covers. The French sharpshooters on "Aigle" purportedly held their flame as he did this, in profound respect of his boldness. The two boats were so near one another that weapon teams on their lower decks were battling hand to hand at the gunports, while projectiles hurled through the ports caused substantial setbacks. One projectile tossed into "Bellerophon" detonated in the heavy armament specialist's storeroom, blowing open the entryway however luckily blowing shut the entryway of the magazine. The subsequent flame was immediately doused, keeping a disastrous blast. 

By 1:40 pm, having been under substantial discharge for over 60 minutes, "Aigle"s team brought down her gunports and gradually moved away. At the point when the smoke cleared, Cumby saw that the Spanish "Monarca", which "Bellerophon" had first connected with, had struck her hues. Cumby sent an officer in a vessel to claim her. "Bellerophon"s group presently attempted to make fixes and clean up destruction. She quickly shot her weapons again when the van of the consolidated armada, driven by Rear-Admiral Pierre Dumanoir le Pelley, made an overdue endeavor to provide to the with some much needed help of the middle and back. The assault was beaten off, and at 5 pm, "Bellerophon"s weapons stopped discharging. At 5:30 pm Cumby sent a vessel to claim the "Bahama", which had likewise struck her hues. Before the finish of the fight "Bellerophon" had supported losses of 27 men murdered and 123 injured. Among the dead was her commander, the ace, John Overton, and sailor John Simmons. 

For the following seven days, "Bellerophon"s group were involved in fixing harm, fixing jury poles, and attempting to ride out the tempest that struck the territory following the fight. She put into Gibraltar on 28 October 1805, and experienced crisis fixes to enable her to come back to England as an escort for , together with . Both "Belleisle" and "Bellerophon" required pressing consideration, however it was regarded fitting that they ought to have the pleasure of going with Nelson's body back to Britain on board "Triumph". Cumby was supplanted on 3 November, the day preceding starting the voyage home, by Captain Richard Thomas. Thomas was himself supplanted the following day be that as it may, by Captain Edward Rotheram, who had told Collingwood's leader, , amid the fight. 

The three boats cruised together to the extent Start Point, where on 2 December "Triumph" isolated to make a beeline for Portsmouth, while "Bellerophon" and "Belleisle" put into Cawsand Bay. "Bellerophon" was then taken into Plymouth Dockyard to be fixed, coming back to dynamic obligation on 26 February, still under Rotheram's direction. Joining the Channel Fleet yet again, "Bellerophon" continued her standard obligations, barricading and watching off Ushant and Brest. 

Rotheram's order went on for two and half years, until he was supplanted on 8 June 1808 by Captain Samuel Warren. Warren was requested to take "Bellerophon" and join the armada in the North Sea, barricading the Dutch ports. She framed piece of Rear-Admiral Alan Gardner's squadron. By 1809 the vital circumstance in the Baltic had disintegrated after Russia marked the Treaties of Tilsit and started to help France. "Bellerophon" was requested to join the armada positioned in the Baltic under Admiral Sir James Saumarez. Saumarez dispatched "Bellerophon" and north to the Gulf of Finland in June, and on 19 June the two boats went over three suspicious looking luggers, moored off Hango. The water was too shallow to even think about allowing them to approach the luggers, so a vessel party was dispatched under "Bellerophon"s Lieutenant Robert Pilch. The British boarded the luggers, however wound up in a snare, when various Russian shore batteries and a few gunboats opened shoot on them. Pilch expeditiously requested the luggers to be singed, reboarded his men and landed them beside the closest Russian shore battery. The battery, guarded by 100 mariners, was raged and conveyed, the British spiked the weapons and wrecked the magazine, before coming back to the boats with just five men injured. 

By July "Bellerophon" was a piece of a squadron told by Captain Thomas Byam Martin of HMS "Inflexible". They were off Percola Point on 7 July when a flotilla of eight Russian gunboats was located. A watercraft party driven by Lieutenant Hawkey of "Relentless" made an endeavor to remove the vessels that night. Hawkey was slaughtered in the endeavor, however "Bellerophon"s Lieutenant Charles Allen took over order, and six of the gunboats were caught, and a seventh devastated, with 12 make containing stores for the Russian Army likewise being taken. "Bellerophon" made a few travels amid the remainder of the year, visiting the Åland Islands and Karlskrona, before coming back to Britain with an escort in November 1809. 

"Bellerophon" was quickly refitted in January 1810, after which she was tied down at the Nore. She at that point continued her barricade obligations in the North Sea, serving under a progression of administrators. Warren was prevailing by Captain John Halsted on 23 August, and he by Captain Augustus Brine on 5 November. Salt water's direction kept going until February 1813, amid which time "Bellerophon" stayed with the North Sea barring squadron. Skipper Edward Hawker touched base to assume control over direction on 11 February 1813, and arrangements were made for "Bellerophon" to turn into the lead of Vice-Admiral Sir Richard Goodwin Keats, the recently delegated Governor of Newfoundland. "Bellerophon" transported Keats to St. John's, and afterward cruised south to Bermuda as a caravan escort. Coming back to St John's in the late spring, she caught a few American boats, including the 16-weapon privateer "Genie". She spent the remainder of the year watching off Cape Race, before coming back to Britain with a caravan in November. 1814 was spent on comparable obligations: "Bellerophon" escorted a guard to St John's among April and June, and afterward watched off Cape Race until December. She at that point moved to the Nore, and on 9 April 1815 Hawker was supplanted by Captain Frederick Lewis Maitland. 

In May "Bellerophon" cruised to Plymouth and joined a squadron under Rear-Admiral Sir Henry Hotham, with requests to join the bar of the French Atlantic ports. Hotham, flying his banner in , sent Maitland in "Bellerophon" to watch Rochefort, where two frigates, a brig and a corvette were lying in the harbor. "Bellerophon" went through over a month on this station, watching the ways to deal with the port and blocking seaside vessels. Then, Napoleon had been crushed at the Battle of Waterloo on 18 June and on 2 July he touched base in Rochefort. Following the thrashing of his militaries, and with the rebuilding of the Bourbon government up and coming, Napoleon would have liked to be permitted to sail to the United States. News achieved Maitland toward the beginning of July that Napoleon was in Rochefort, and two 20-weapon boats, and , were sent to strengthen "Bellerophon" and watch different doorways to the port. 

Napoleon was being compelled to leave French soil by the between time French government in Paris. On the off chance that he postponed, he gambled turning into a detainee of the Bourbons, Prussians or Austrians. The option was to surrender to the British and solicitation political haven. On 10 July Napoleon sent two emissaries, General Anne Jean Marie René Savary and the Comte de Las Cases, out to "Bellerophon" to meet Maitland and talk about the likelihood of enabling Napoleon to venture out to the United States. Maitland was compelled to keep this, and rather offered to accept Napoleon his ship and transport him and his entourage to Britain. Further discourses and exchanges occurred throughout the following couple of days, yet with his alternatives running out, Napoleon had chosen by 13 July to surrender to the British. On 14 July Maitland was given a letter educating him that Napoleon would turn out to "Bellerophon" the next morning to surrender. 

Napoleon set out on board the brig "Épervier" promptly toward the beginning of the day of 15 July, and advanced out to the "Bellerophon". As he drew closer, the 74-firearm "Radiant", flying Vice-Admiral Hotham's banner, was located drawing nearer. Worried that the brig probably won't achieve "Bellerophon" before the "Wonderful" arrived, and that subsequently Hotham would dominate and get Napoleon himself, Maitland sent "Bellerophon"s flatboat to gather the previous Emperor and exchange him to the ship. Sooner or later somewhere in the range of 6 and 7 a.m., the flatboat pulled nearby "Bellerophon" and General Henri Gatien Bertrand moved on board, trailed by Napoleon. The marines stood ready, and Napoleon strolled to the quarterdeck, showed some respect for Maitland and in French declared "I am come to toss myself on the insurance of your Prince and your laws." Maitland bowed accordingly. With the previous head in care on board a British warship, the Napoleonic Wars were at long last finished. To sea antiquarian David Cordingly, this minute was "Bellerophon"s "delegated magnificence [when] a month and a half after the clash of Waterloo, ... Napoleon, caught in Rochefort, surrendered to the skipper of the ship that had hounded his means for over twenty years." 

Maitland demonstrated Napoleon the extraordinary lodge, which he had put available to him, and gave him a voyage through his ship. At 10:30 a.m., "Sublime" moored in the roadstead and Maitland went to make his report. Hotham endorsed of his courses of action, and concurred that Napoleon ought to be transported to England on board "Bellerophon". He got on himself to meet the previous Emperor, and a stupendous supper was held in the incredible lodge, gone to by Napoleon's entourage and British officers. The next day Napoleon visited Hotham on "Great", and after his arrival, Maitland started the voyage to England in organization with HMS "Myrmidon". A routine was before long created, with Napoleon generally going for a stroll on deck around 5 p.m., trailed by a formal supper at 6 p.m. The mariners and officers expelled their caps and stayed away when Napoleon went ahead deck, possibly chatting with him in the event that he welcomed them to. The routine was broken marginally promptly toward the beginning of the day of 23 July, when Napoleon showed up at sunrise, as "Bellerophon" came in sight of Ushant, the last bit of French land unmistakable for the rest of the voyage. He moved up to the stern, gone to by a sailor, and spent the morning viewing the coastline gradually subside from view. He was joined by individuals from his entourage, however he didn't address any of them. 

"Bellerophon" moored off Brixham on the morning of 24 July, and there Maitland got orders from Admiral Lord Keith to "keep each individual whatever from going ahead board the ship you direction, aside from the officers and men who create her group." Despite dismissing the shore water crafts which moved toward the secured warship conveying crisp bread and organic product to sell, word in the long run spilled out that Napoleon was on board the ship. The news caused a buzz, and vast quantities of water crafts loaded up with tourists before long encompassed the ship. Once in a while Napoleon would turn out to take a gander at them, however regardless of pleas from certain individuals to be permitted ready, Maitland wouldn't permit any contact among ship and shore. On 26 July "Bellerophon" got requests to continue to Plymouth harbor where Lord Keith was tied down on board his leader . Napoleon stayed on board "Bellerophon" and the ship was kept disconnected from the crowds of inquisitive tourists by two guardships, and , moored close within reach. 

"Bellerophon" went through about fourteen days in Plymouth harbor while the experts went to a choice about how to manage Napoleon. On 31 July they imparted their choice to the previous ruler. Napoleon was to be ousted to the remote island of Saint Helena. He would be permitted to take three officers, his specialist, and twelve workers. Napoleon, who had would have liked to be permitted to settle unobtrusively in Britain, was harshly frustrated by the news. "Bellerophon" was not to bring him into outcast. The Admiralty was worried that the maturing ship was unacceptable for the long voyage toward the South Atlantic, and the 74-weapon was chosen for the undertaking. On 4 August, Lord Keith requested "Bellerophon" to go to ocean and anticipate the entry of HMS "Northumberland". On 7 August Napoleon expressed gratitude toward Maitland and his team for their benevolence and neighborliness, and left "Bellerophon" where he had gone through more than three weeks while never arriving in England. He boarded "Northumberland", which at that point cruised for Saint Helena. 

Chief Maitland's record of the time Napoleon spent on board his ship was distributed in 1826. 

Having released Napoleon, "Bellerophon" cruised to Sheerness, and tied down there on 2 September. There she was satisfied once and for all, and deprived of her weapons and poles. With no further requirement for some, ships following the finish of the Napoleonic Wars, "Bellerophon" joined various boats laid up thusly. A report on 16 October 1815 instructed moving a number with respect to convicts recently housed on board the previous into increasingly reasonable settlement. The report proposed that "The class of ship, which I venture to see as most appropriate for this administration, would be a seventy-four, of about indistinguishable measurements from the "Bellerophon" in the stream Medway, being of simple draft of water and grand between decks." The report was affirmed and the recommendation followed up on. "Bellerophon" was taken into Sheerness Dockyard in December 1815 and went through nine months fitting out as a jail transport. 

The work was finished at an expense of £12,081 and the detainees were moved in January 1817. "Bellerophon" by and large held around 435 detainees amid her time in this job, despite the fact that in 1823 changes in enactment brought about the grown-up detainees being exchanged out of "Bellerophon" and the ship rather being utilized to house kid detainees, with 320 arriving sooner than required 1824. In 1824 the choice was taken to rename , a 80-weapon deliver propelled in 1818, HMS "Bellerophon". To free the name, the previous HMS "Bellerophon" was renamed "Bondage" on 5 October 1824. She proceeded as a jail transport for young men until mid 1826, when it was chosen that the course of action of the interior spaces made her unsatisfactory for workshops. The young men were exchanged to another mass, the previous , and it was chosen to move "Bondage" to Plymouth. The ship was taken into Sheerness Dockyard in April 1826, and was fitted out for the adventure to Plymouth. She landed there in June and went through the most recent eight years of her working presence as a convict mass in Plymouth. By 1834 the rate of punitive transportation had been definitely expanded to get out the old masses. At the point when the last convicts had left "Bondage", she was given back to the Navy Department, who put her available to be purchased. 

The Commissioners for executing the workplace of Lord High Admiral of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland pulled out that they would offer a few vessels available to be purchased on 21 January 1836, including "Imprisonment", of 1613 tons, at that point lying at Plymouth. She sold on that day for £4,030. Ads in the neighborhood "Plymouth, Devonport and Stonehouse News" in September 1836 reported the unloading of her timber. 

Some of "Bellerophon"s timber was purchased at closeout by George Bellamy, who had been "Bellerophon"s specialist at the Nile. Bellamy consolidated them into a house he was working at Plymstock. Chief Maitland purchased some portion of her nonentity and a portion of her stern trimmings, later saving them in the accumulations of what in the long run turned into the Royal Naval Museum. The National Maritime Museum holds a few relics identifying with "Bellerophon" and the general population associated with her, including Captain John Cooke's dirk, sword and gun, and a trophy introduced to Admiral Pasley by Lloyd's of London. Their accumulations additionally contain curios identifying with her association with Napoleon, including the sofa from Maitland's lodge, and the skull of a goat which provided milk for Napoleon and his suite. 

The ship and her team highlight, or are referenced, in a few authentic books set amid the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, including a few of the Aubrey– Maturin arrangement of books by Patrick O'Brian, and the novel "Sharpe's Trafalgar" by Bernard Cornwell. 

"Bellerophon" shows up in various works of art, including a few portraying the ship's job in Napoleon's surrender. Sir William Quiller Orchardson painted "Napoleon on the Bellerophon", delineating the previous sovereign remaining on the stern, watching the French coastline retreat as his entourage look on. Sir Charles Lock Eastlake painted a picture of Napoleon in uniform, remaining on "Bellerophon"s deck, while John James Chalon delivered "Scene in Plymouth Sound in August 1815", a seascape, with "Bellerophon" encompassed by hordes of individuals in little pontoons. Thomas Luny painted a comparative scene, appearing putting into Torbay to meet with HMS "Northumberland". Various well known prints and inscriptions were likewise delivered, delineating minutes from Napoleon's landing on "Bellerophon" to surrender, to his last exchange to "Northumberland" for his voyage into outcast. The ship additionally shows up in prints and depictions of the fights she had battled in. She is portrayed on the Cadiz barricade with the remainder of the inshore squadron in a work by Thomas Buttersworth, and is obvious at the Glorious First of June in works by Nicholas Pocock, Cornwallis' Retreat by William Anderson, and the Battles of the Nile and Trafalgar by Thomas Whitcombe. 

"Bellerophon" is referenced in a few stanzas in a melody remembering Cornwallis' Retreat in 1795, which celebrate both Cornwallis (alluded to by mariners' famous moniker for him, "Billy Blue"), and "Bellerophon"s battling record at the Glorious First of June. The people tune "Boney was a Warrior", about the life of Napoleon, incorporates a stanza praising the ship's connections with his definitive surrender.Boney went a-cruisin'"Way-yes yah!"Aboard the Billy Ruffian"Johnny Franswor!" 

a. This resuscitated plan is now and then alluded to as the "Edgar" class. 

b. Greaves had initially moved toward the Navy Board in December 1781 with a proposition to assemble a 64-firearm transport at his yard at Limehouse, and a 74-weapon dispatch and a frigate at Frindsbury. The Board turned him down, feeling that the Limehouse yard was unacceptable for structure anything bigger than a 44-weapon dispatch, and that the Frindsbury yard was excessively near the Navy's own shipbuilding offices at Chatham. Business yards paid higher wages than the Navy's yards and the Board was concerned talented laborers would be poached from Chatham. Greaves guaranteed not to utilize men from the Chatham yard, and the Board chose to offer him the agreement for a 74-firearm dispatch on 8 January 1782. Greaves marked the agreement on 19 February 1782. 

c. To fabricate and fit "Bellerophon" for administration required 2,000 trees (adding up to 50 sections of land), 100 tons of iron jolts, 30 tons of copper jolts, 30,000 treenails, 4,000 copper sheets, 12 tons of tar, 400 gallons of linseed oil, 5 tons of paint, 10,000 square yards of canvas, 80 tons of shot, 20 tons of black powder, 200 tons of arrangements and 260 tons of crisp water. 

d. Sources concur that four men were executed, however while Winfield and Goodwin report twenty-seven injured, Cordingly has the marginally higher figure of thirty injured. 

e. Darby may have expected to stay close by the 80-weapon "Franklin", the ship quickly in front of "Arrange", or to have attached nearby the hole among "Franklin" and "Situate", in order to have the capacity to rake "Orient"s bows. Cordingly thinks about that the purpose behind a definitive situating was never clarified. Adkin favors the clarification that Darby planned to rake "Orient"s bows, yet the stay had hauled. 

f. This was among the most elevated setback figures of any of the British boats. Just the 50 dead and 143 injured of HMS "Lofty" was equivalent. "Bellerophon"s all out setback rundown of 197 was somewhat higher than "Majestic"s 193, and added up to almost a fourth of the all out British losses in the fight. Robert Cathcart, as the senior enduring lieutenant, was prescribed for advancement by Earl St Vincent, a proposal the Admiralty acknowledged, propelling him to officer. 

g. Cumby partook in the prizes after Trafalgar. He was advanced twice in fast progression, to leader on 24 December 1805, and to post-commander on 1 January 1806. 

h. Napoleon composed a letter at night of 13 July, routed to the Prince of Wales, Prince Regent amid the ailment of his dad, King George III, Your Royal Highness,A injured individual to the groups which divert my nation, and to the animosity of the best powers of Europe, I have ended my political vocation, and I come, similar to Themistocles, to toss myself upon the neighborliness of the British individuals. I put myself under the security of their laws; which I guarantee from your Royal Highness, as the most dominant, the most consistent, and the most liberal of my enemies.Rochefort 13 July 1815Napoleon 

I. A fractional passage is 

We'd the "Triumph" and the "Mars",And the "Sov'ren" – pride of tars,"Billy Ruff'n", and the "Brunswick", known to distinction... No I couldn't care less a rap,For any Frenchy chap,When they come they'll get the dressing they deserve;I've the best four in the fleet,That the French well could meet,With the Fightin' Billy Ruff'n in reserve.Billy Blue – Here's to you, Billy Blue, here's to you!As she broke the line with Howe,So she's diversion to do it now,And rehash her 'First o' June' here in these seas;With their name for dauntless pluck,and the Billy Ruff'n's luck,I will battle the same number of Frenchmen as you please!Billy Blue – Here's to you, Billy Blue, here's to you!