Melodifestivalen 

Melodifestivalen (; actually "the Melody Festival") is a yearly tune rivalry composed by Swedish open telecasters Sveriges Television (SVT) and Sveriges Radio (SR). It decides the nation's agent for the Eurovision Song Contest, and has been organized pretty much consistently since 1958. Since 2000, the challenge has been the most mainstream TV program in Sweden; it is additionally communicated on radio and the Internet. In 2012, the semi-finals arrived at the midpoint of 3.3 million watchers, and over an expected four million individuals in Sweden viewed the last, practically 50% of the Swedish populace. 

The celebration has delivered six Eurovision champs and twenty four top-five placings for Sweden at the challenge. The champ of the Melodifestival has been picked by boards of hearers since its origin. Since 1999, the juries have been joined by an open phone vote which has an equivalent impact over the ultimate result. The challenge has an extensive effect on music graphs in Sweden. 

The presentation of semi-finals in 2002 raised the potential number of contenders from around twelve to thirty-two. A kids' rendition of the challenge, Lilla Melodifestivalen, additionally started that year. Light coordinated pop melodies, referred to locally as "schlager" music, used to be prevalent to the point that the celebration was here and there alluded to as "schlagerfestivalen" ("the schlager celebration") or "schlager-sm" ("schlager Swedish title") by the Swedish media. Be that as it may, different styles of music, for example, rap, reggae, and glitz shake have shown up since the occasion's extension. The presentation of a fabulous last in Stockholm has pulled in generous the travel industry to the city. 

With seven countries contending, the main Eurovision Song Contest occurred in Lugano, Switzerland in May 1956. Sweden's first challenge was the third, in 1958. Without broadcasting an open choice, Sveriges Radio (SR) sent Alice Babs to the challenge in Hilversum, Netherlands. The melody chose was "Samma stjärna lyser för oss två" (similar stars sparkle for both of us), later renamed "Lilla stjärna" (Little star). It completed fourth at Eurovision on 12 March 1958. 

The first Melodifestival, consolidated into the "Säg det prescription musik" radio arrangement, occurred on 29 January 1959 at Cirkus in Stockholm; eight tunes took an interest. Four "master" juries in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö, and Luleå chose the champ. The challenge was won by Siw Malmkvist performing "Augustin", yet SR chose that the triumphant melody—paying little respect to its unique entertainer—would be performed by Brita Borg at Eurovision. This approach, of choosing the craftsman for Eurovision inside and having different specialists perform potential Swedish sections at Melodifestivalen, was ceased in 1961. The challenge turned into an independent TV program in 1960, known as the "Eurovisionschlagern, svensk last". In the occasion's initial years, it was communicated to Norway and Denmark through the Nordvision organize. The challenge received its present name, "Melodifestivalen", in 1967. 

The Melodifestival has neglected to be arranged on three events. In 1964, the challenge was dropped because of a craftsman's strike; Sweden did not send a tune to Eurovision that year. Sweden was missing at Eurovision for a second time in 1970 in view of a Nordic blacklist of the casting a ballot framework, which had prompted a four-route tie for the lead position at the 1969 challenge. After SR arranged the 1975 challenge in Stockholm, left-wing bunches contended that Sweden ought not burn through cash to win and host Eurovision once more. This prompted mass shows against business music and the association of an enemy of business "Alternativfestivalen". Subsequently, Sweden chose not to send a tune to Eurovision 1976, however returned in 1977. 

Several tunes and entertainers have entered Melodifestivalen since its presentation. In spite of the fact that musicians living outside Sweden were once not permitted to enter Melodifestivalen, the 2012 challenge denoted the first run through remote lyricists could submit sections, furnished that they teamed up with a Swedish lyricist. To be qualified, lyricists and entertainers must be no less than sixteen years old upon the arrival of the principal Eurovision semi-last. 

Until 2001, support in the celebration was constrained to a solitary night. The quantity of candidates went from five to twelve. A two-round framework was utilized discontinuously somewhere in the range of 1981 and 1998, in which everything except five of the challengers were dispensed with in a first round of casting a ballot. Inability to achieve the second round under this framework was viewed as a noteworthy disappointment for a noticeable craftsman; when Elisabeth Andreassen neglected to qualify in 1984, it nearly finished her vocation. The presentation of week after week semi-finals in 2002 expanded the quantity of challengers to thirty-two. Somewhere around ten of the competitors must perform in Swedish. A CD of every year's contending tunes has been discharged since 2001, and a DVD of the semi-finals and last since 2003. 

Melodifestivalen has been the platform for the achievement of well known nearby acts, for example, ABBA, Tommy Körberg, and Lisa Nilsson. The challenge has played host to entertainers from outside Sweden, including Baccara, Alannah Myles, Katrina Leskanich, and Cornelis Vreeswijk. Melodifestivalen members have likewise spoken to—and ineffectively endeavored to speak to—different nations at Eurovision. While nearby accomplishment for Melodifestivalen champs is normal, most candidates come back to lack of clarity and few have real global achievement. The effect that the challenge makes on the Swedish diagrams implies a craftsman need not win the challenge to procure critical household record deals. For instance, the tune which completed last at Melodifestivalen 1990, "Symfonin" by Loa Falkman, topped the Swedish singles diagram. The latest event was 2016 with Samir and Viktor's tune "Bada Nakna". In 2007, twenty-one members came to "Sverigetopplistan". The week after the 2008 last, melodies from the celebration made up the whole top fifteen on the local singles graph. 

The way toward narrowing a large number of potential passages down to twenty-eight keeps going more than seven months. SVT legitimately chooses fourteen passages from among the entries from the general population on the loose. Thirteen extra sections originate from extraordinary solicitations made by SVT or different passages that SVT has chosen from among the entries. At last, the twenty-eighth passage is chosen through the "Svensktoppen Nästa" rivalry. Something like 10% of the last twenty-eight tunes are sung in Swedish. The whole procedure can start as right on time as May of the earlier year and is done by January. 

SVT starts searching for tunes nine months before the beginning of the broadcast Melodifestival (inside days of the earlier year's Eurovision last). The due date for accommodation is in September and melodies can be in any language. In the pre-determination, tune length is restricted to three minutes and twenty seconds; tunes must be abbreviated to three minutes on the off chance that they achieve the last twenty-eight and qualifying tunes may likewise be remixed. 

The accommodation procedure is managed by individuals from the Swedish Music Publishers Association (SMFF), whose task is to diminish the quantity of melodies, which have numbered more than 3,000 per year since 2002, to around 1,200. The 3,440 sections got in the preselection for Melodifestivalen 2009 is the most in the challenge's history. The SMFF's decisions are then given to a sixteen-man jury of music experts, SVT staff and different individuals from the general population. The jury ranges from adolescents to individuals in their fifties. The melodies that qualify, alongside their writers and lyricists, are reported toward the finish of September. This is frequently trailed by intense theory over who will play out the tunes. Musicians that qualify must give meetings to SVT, go to a question and answer session before the challenge, and stay open to special appearances if their tune achieves the last. 

SVT chooses entertainers for the sections. Specialists who play out the demo of a tune naturally enter the challenge; they should play out their tunes if appropriate exchange entertainers can't be found. The craftsmen's tunes chance exclusion in the event that they decline. Previously, this standard prompted the preclusion of, among others, Carola's "När löven faller" in 2003 and Stephen Simmonds' "So Good" in 2006. SVT may likewise offer tunes to different entertainers without thinking about the interests of the demo craftsman. This kept the Brandsta City Släckers (in 2004) and Pernilla Wahlgren (in 2005) from playing out the tunes they had submitted. Substitutions for precluded tunes toll capriciously at the challenge. In 2006, "Devious Boy" by Hannah Graaf (the swap for Simmonds' melody) completed second to toward the end in its semi-last. In 2002 and 2007, conversely, the substitutions performed by Jan Johansen and Måns Zelmerlöw achieved the last ten. The competitors that will play out the twenty-eight qualifiers from the preselection are reported in late November. Vocalist musicians are normal. All things considered, specialists frequently affirm that they will take an interest before the official declaration. 

The trump card ("joker") framework was acquainted in 2004 with expand the music highlighted. Four specialists, one in every semi-last, were welcomed by SVT to enter a melody of their decision into the challenge, if it doesn't break the standards. The trump card tunes and craftsmen were reported in January. Since the special cases' presentation, three have won the challenge. In 2011 there were 15 trump cards. The special case framework was ceased in 2013. 

The scenes for every year's Melodifestival are reported in September of the first year. The semi-finals are held in towns and urban areas all through Sweden. The 16,300-limit Ericsson Globe in Stockholm has facilitated the last since the semi-finals were presented in 2002, through to 2012. In 2013, the last moved to the recently fabricated Friends Arena in Solna Municipality, Stockholm County. The Scandinavium in Gothenburg was offered the 2005 last, however turned it down as it conflicted with a Frölunda ice hockey coordinate. 

The occasion spent its initial a very long time at one setting: Cirkus in Stockholm, which facilitated the initial ten rivalries. It has facilitated the last of Melodifestivalen multiple times altogether. The Stockholm Globe Arena has facilitated seven finals, and SVT's central command in Stockholm has organized five. The challenge initially occurred outside Stockholm in 1975 as a major aspect of a decentralization strategy at SR. Stockholm has facilitated thirty-seven finals altogether, including the initial fourteen. Gothenburg has facilitated eight, and Malmö seven. The challenge's last has never been held outside these urban areas. Prior to the 2002 extension, the host of the earlier year's Melodifestival would have the Eurovision Song Contest in case of a Swedish triumph. Consequently, the 1985 Eurovision was held in Gothenburg, the 1992 challenge in Malmö and the 2000 challenge in Stockholm. Since 2002, the main scenes that have facilitated in excess of three semi-finals are Gothenburg's Scandinavium, which has facilitated one consistently since 2003, and's Malmö Arena. In 2008, Andra Chansen was held in Kiruna, north of the Arctic Circle. Since 2013 the last is held at the Friends Arena. 

The broadcast Melodifestival endures five weeks and comprises of six live shows: four elimination rounds, in which seven tunes contend; a Second Chance round including tunes which barely passed up capability from the elimination rounds; and a stupendous last. Ten tunes contain the last: two programmed qualifiers from every one of the elimination rounds, and the two most well known melodies in the Second Chance round. In 2015, there are seven tunes for every elimination round, and twelve (eight victors and four from Andra Chansen) in the last. 

Before the presentation of the present arrangement of elimination rounds ("deltävlingar") in 2002, the challenge was generally a solitary live show. Under the present framework, four elimination rounds are communicated at 20:00 CET on back to back Saturday evenings. The semi-finals start toward the beginning of February, and seven tunes contend in each show. 

Not at all like in the last, no juries are utilized; televoting chooses the outcomes. The tunes are performed live with phone lines open for the first round of casting a ballot; two melodies with the least votes don't meet all requirements to the second round. The main five fight for a spot in the last and Andra chansen round – the first and second set tunes meeting all requirements to the last, and the third and fourth set tunes advancing to Andra chansen. 

The two finalists repeat their entrances toward the finish of the communicate. The association of a semi-last framework for Melodifestivalen promoted broadcast warms at national Eurovision determinations. A comparative framework was embraced by the Eurovision itself in 2004. 

The Second Chance round ("Andra chansen") is the fifth warmth in which the staying four passages to the last are picked. The third-and fourth-put melodies from every semi-last (eight tunes altogether) contend in the occasion. The principal Second Chance round in 2002 had a board of previous victors choose the two finalists. Somewhere in the range of 2003 and 2006, the semi-last exhibitions were re-communicated, and a series of casting a ballot limited the tunes to three or four. Another round then decided the two finalists. The program was communicated on the Sunday evening after the fourth semi-last. It was held in a littler setting than those that would have facilitated the semi-finals, for example, Berns Salonger in Stockholm, which facilitated the Second Chance round in 2005. 

In 2007, the Second Chance round turned into a full semi-last, occurring in a setting tantamount in size to those facilitating the others. The extended Second Chance happens on a Saturday night, adding an additional week to the occasion's timetable. The configuration of casting a ballot additionally changed with the presentation of a thump out framework. The framework matches the eight melodies off against one another, at that point limits them down to four preceding blending them off once more. The victors of the two-second round pairings experience to the last. The two finalists don't repeat their melodies toward the finish of the program. 

In 2015, the framework was changed once more. The eight tunes are separated into four duels, with one melody from each duel qualifying into the last, conveying the quantity of finalists to 12. 

The last happens at 20:00 CET on a Saturday in mid-March. Twelve tunes (11 melodies in 2009, 10 preceding 2015) take an interest: two from every elimination round, four from the Second Chance round, and, just in 2009, the universal jury's decision. A running request is chosen by the challenge's chiefs the prior week to guarantee that comparative tunes and craftsmen are kept separated in the last. Dress practices for the last are hung on the earlier Friday, and tickets sell out nearly as fast as those for the last itself. The last draws in much the travel industry to its host city; an overview in 2006 demonstrated that 54% of onlookers had gone from outside the host city, Stockholm. Of these, 6% had originated from outside Sweden. 

As at Eurovision, a communicate of the EBU logo presents and shuts the TV inclusion, joined by the prelude to Marc-Antoine Charpentier's setting of "Te Deum". Video "postcards" present the sections. The last incorporates interim exhibitions, which are performed while the juries intentional and before the televote closes. Previous Melodifestivalen competitors have executed as interim acts before, incorporating Lena Philipsson in 2005 and the multi-craftsman mixture of previous sections in 2000. 

The champ gets a trophy, "Cave stora Sångfågeln" ("The Great Songbird"), from the earlier year's victor. The trophy, planned by Ernst Billgren, was uncovered in 2005 and granted to all past Melodifestivalen champs at the "Alla tiders Melodifestival" occasion in March of that year. The champ of the challenge repeats their melody toward the finish of the occasion. 

Before the presentation of the present casting a ballot framework in 1999, a gathering of local or age-based juries chose the victor of Melodifestivalen. In 1993, televoting was utilized tentatively, however demonstrated ineffective. The Swedish phone organize fallen because of the quantity of calls, and claims by the Swedish newspaper press proposed the utilization of televoting had radically modified the outcomes. Night papers discharged what they professed to be the back-up juries' votes, which demonstrated that the victor, Arvingarna's "Eloise", would have completed fourth had the juries' votes checked. SVT never affirmed the exactness of these cases. 

The present casting a ballot design presented in 1999 is a positional casting a ballot framework, like that utilized at the Eurovision Song Contest. The casting a ballot is comprised of two portions, in the first juries declare their votes; in the second section the televoting result is reported. The absolute estimation of votes has more often than not been 2 x 473 (2 x 638 since 2018), which implies that televotes and juries have an equivalent 50/50 saying something the last outcome. The juries, generally 11, have spoken to either Swedish districts or, since 2010, nations partaking in the year's Eurovision Song Contest. Until 2017, every jury granted 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 to their main seven tunes; in any case, since 2018, the focuses have been changed to 1 to 7, 8, 10 and 12. After the jury casting a ballot, the televoting result is uncovered by the hosts in rising request. Somewhere in the range of 1999 and 2010, the televoting focuses were fixed; the main seven tunes would get 11, 22, 44, 66, 88, 110 and 132 points. Beginning in 2011, televoting indicates are given every section dependent on its level of absolute vote. On the off chance that a passage gets 10% of the televotes it will be proportionate to 10% of 473, for example 48 points (or 638 and 64 individually since 2018). The melody with the most astounding number of focuses toward the finish of the casting a ballot is the champ. 

Phone lines open following the radio see for the last and don't close until the juries have casted a ballot. Two phone numbers are utilized for every melody, giving voters the alternative of whether to give cash to SVT's "Radiohjälpen" philanthropy request or not as they vote. Watchers can likewise cast a ballot by instant message, and just occupants of Sweden can cast a ballot. 

The votes of the juries are declared by representatives who are not individuals from the juries. The votes are perused in rising request, starting with one point and completing with twelve. Whenever read, they are rehashed by the host, for instance: 

Representative: "Ett poäng till melodi nummer två." ("One point to tune number two.") 

Moderator: Ett poäng till (name tune)." ("One point to (name song).") 

Since 2012, most representatives have reported the focuses in English, with the hosts rehashing them in Swedish. 

As the votes are reported, they are ordered on a realistic scoreboard. SVT changes the manner in which the jury cast a ballot are reported from year to year. For instance, the finalists of "" went about as representatives in 2004, and in 2006 Fredrik Lindström declared jury counts utilizing the lingos of every locale. The last of Melodifestivalen has broken Nordic casting a ballot records on a few events; in 2007, casting a ballot figures surpassed two million out of the blue. 

In the event that there is a tie, the tune that has gotten more votes from the open gets the higher position. There have been two ties for the lead position ever of challenge. In 1969, Tommy Körberg tied for the lead position with Jan Malmsjö. The juries them voted in favor of their most loved out the two, prompting Tommy Körberg winning. In 1978, Björn Skifs tied for the lead position with Lasse Holm and Wizex (performing together); a comparative tie-break process bringing about Skifs winning. 

Fifty-five of Sweden's fifty-six Eurovision agents have originated from Melodifestivalen. Sweden has won the Eurovision Song Contest multiple times: in 1974, 1984, 1991, 1999, 2012 and 2015. Sweden has the second most astounding number of wins for a nation at Eurovision; just Ireland has won the challenge all the more regularly. The 1974 Eurovision victor, ABBA's "Waterloo", was casted a ballot the most prominent Melodifestivalen tune ever at the "Alla tiders Melodifestival" celebration in March 2005. Soon thereafter, it was casted a ballot most mainstream Eurovision melody of the challenge's initial fifty years at a function in Copenhagen. The accompanying table records those passages which completed fifth or higher at Eurovision: 

The vast majority of Melodifestivalen's guidelines are directed by those of the Eurovision Song Contest. Be that as it may, guidelines have been presented by the Swedish telecasters. The challenge's legitimate tenets are discharged by SVT right off the bat in anticipation of every year's Melodifestival, to guarantee any progressions are noted by lyricists and entertainers. 

There was a point of confinement of six individuals in front of an audience for every execution. This incorporated the Melodifestivalen choir ("huskören", truly "the house choir"), a five-man gathering of adaptable sponsorship artists utilized by generally members. Specialists could utilize a few or the majority of the back-up artists, or utilize their very own gathering. All vocals must be totally live; human voices were not permitted on support tracks. Be that as it may, from 2009, the quantity of entertainers permitted in front of an audience was eight, and voices were permitted on support tracks. A live symphony was utilized each year from the occasion's presentation to 2000, aside from 1985 and 1986. Two symphonies were utilized somewhere in the range of 1960 and 1963, an expansive ensemble and "Göte Wilhelmsons kvartett", a jazz group of four. Since 2001, members have performed to support tracks. 

Passages can't be openly communicated until the semi-finals are reviewed on radio. Passages disposed of in the semi-finals might be communicated when the semi-last has wrapped up. A ban is set on tunes that meet all requirements for the later adjusts until the sneak peaks for the Second Chance are communicated. After this, confinements on the communicate of hopeful melodies are lifted. 

Supporters now and then roll out clearing improvements to winning melodies before they go to Eurovision. For instance, at Melodifestivalen 1961, Siw Malmkvist won with "April, April". Performing after her triumph, she discovered the verses of the melody and roared with laughter. The press condemned this as infantile. SR supplanted her with Lill-Babs for the Eurovision Song Contest. The 1987 victor "Fyra bugg och en Coca Cola", performed by Lotta Engberg, is another model; the tune's title was changed to "Boogaloo" for Eurovision, as utilization of a brand name was against the Contest's principles. This name was picked as Sweden's two past Eurovision champs had likewise incorporated the postfix "- loo". 

Until 1999, contending melodies were just allowed in Swedish, aside from 1965, 1973, 1974, 1975. This did not stop most winning passages recording English (and other language) adaptations of their melodies. Since the annulment of Eurovision's language confinements in 1999, paying little respect to the execution language at Melodifestivalen, each Swedish passage has been in English. Spanish, French, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Bosnian and Persian are among different dialects to have highlighted. Cameron Cartio's entrance in Melodifestivalen 2005 was performed in a built language. 

Melodifestivalen is communicated on TV, radio and the web. It is communicated on SVT1 with global inclusion on SVT World. Until 1987, the challenge was communicated on Sveriges Radio TV, later known as TV1. Somewhere in the range of 1988 and 2000, the occasion was communicated on various channels relying upon where it was held. Finals in Stockholm were communicated on Kanal 1 (some time ago TV1) while finals in Gothenburg or Malmö were communicated on TV2. Sveriges Radio has communicated the occasion on P1, P3 and P4, where is presently communicated. 

In spite of the fact that the last is generally hung on a Saturday, in 1990 it was hung on a Friday. TV2 proposed this would draw in more watchers. In 1991, it was hung on Easter Sunday for a similar reason. The 2002 last was postponed by seven days for inclusion of the 2002 Winter Olympics. 

The challenge has had an official site since 1999. Webcasts have been given since 2005. Since 2006, among February and the Eurovision last in May, SR has webcast a radio station devoted to the challenge called "P4 Melodifest". On P4, the open sneak peaks semi-finalists each Friday. Communicate the night after the last, a "dagen efter" ("the following day") TV program goes about as an epilog to the occasion. It checks the responses of the finalists after the challenge's peak. No critique is given for the occasion on TV. Carolina Norén is observer on the occasion for Sveriges Radio. The celebration has been communicated in widescreen since 2002 and Dolby Digital since 2004. 

The challenge's survey figures have been ascending since 2002. In 2007, roughly 4.1 million Swedes—practically 44% of the nation's populace—viewed the last, and somewhere in the range of 2.9 million and 3.2 million watchers observed every one of the semi-finals. The review figures for the 2007 celebration are almost two million shy of the most noteworthy recorded survey figures from 1990. Melodifestivalen is given substantial inclusion in the Swedish press. An examination by the Economic Science and Communication Department at Karlstad University inferred that inclusion from the press may have affected the consequences of the 2007 celebration. 

Melodifestivalen's picture has advanced all through its reality, however single word has characterized the challenge's music: "schlager". In Sweden, schlager (a German word actually meaning a "hit") speaks to any tune related with the challenge, from the jazz music included vigorously during the 1960s to passages, for example, Linda Bengtzing's in 2006. Christine Demsteader of "The Local" portrayed Swedish schlager as "commonly described by an annoyingly redundant tune and paltry verses of practically no significance". 

Jazz specialists, for example, Monica Zetterlund and Östen Warnerbring won the occasion during the 1960s. ABBA, who won Eurovision in 1974, proceeded to be Sweden's best music send out. The gathering affected Melodifestivalen, however the whole Swedish standard music scene. During the 1980s, Bert Karlsson's Mariann Grammofon record mark was in charge of the pervasiveness of "simple, important tunes". The mid twenty-first century has seen more assortment in the challenge, for example, Afro-dite's 2002 disco champ and The Ark's 2007 "retro glitz shake" exertion. 

In front of an audience contrivances have for some time been a piece of exhibitions at the challenge. Lena Philipsson's utilization of a receiver remain in her execution of "Det gör ont" at the 2004 challenge is a model. At the point when Philipsson facilitated Melodifestivalen in 2006, four flippant short movies were communicated amid the semi-finals to demonstrate what had happened to the mouthpiece remain in the years since her success. Fireworks are another regular trick in Melodifestivalen exhibitions. After the 2007 occasion, Karolina Lassbo of "Dagens Media" reprimanded the celebration's melodic substance and generation, contending that the 1988 challenge was "when Melodifestivalen was as yet a schlager rivalry" and the occasion had turned into "a cross between [reality series] "Distinction Factory" and [inter-city diversion show] "Stadskampen"".