Straightforward Pick 

Straightforward Pick Hon. RIBA (23 November 1878 – 7 November 1941) was a British transport executive. In the wake of qualifying as a specialist in 1902, he worked at the North Eastern Railway, before moving to the Underground Electric Railways Company of London (UERL) in 1906. He was CEO and bad habit director of the London Passenger Transport Board from its creation in 1933 until 1940. 

Pick had a solid enthusiasm for structure and its utilization in open life. He controlled the advancement of the London Underground's corporate personality by dispatching eye-getting business craftsmanship, visual computerization and present day design, building up a profoundly conspicuous brand, including the primary renditions of the roundel typeface still utilized today. Under his heading, the UERL's Underground system and related transport administrations extended significantly connecting into new zones and invigorating the development of London's rural areas. His effect on the development of London between the world wars prompted him being compared to Baron Haussmann and Robert Moses. 

Pick's advantage reached out past his very own association; he was an establishing part and later filled in as President of the Design and Industries Association. He was additionally the principal executive of the Council for Art and Industry and consistently composed and addressed on structure and urban arranging subjects. For the administration, Pick arranged the vehicle plan for the mass departure of regular folks from London at the flare-up of war and delivered gives an account of the wartime utilization of channels and ports. 

Forthright Pick was conceived on 23 November 1878 at Spalding, Lincolnshire. He was the main offspring of five destined to draper Francis Pick and his better half Fanny Pick (née Clarke). Pick's fatherly granddad, Charles Pick, was a rancher in Spalding who kicked the bucket in his forties, leaving eight kids. His maternal granddad, Thomas Clarke, was a metal forger and Wesleyan lay minister. As a youngster, Pick was adademic, liking to peruse and assemble accumulations of moths and butterflies and articles found on the shoreline instead of participate in games. 

Prior to turning into a draper, Pick's dad had a desire to turn into a legal advisor and he urged his child to pursue this profession. Pick went to St Peter's School in York on a grant, and was articled to a York specialist, George Crombie, in March 1897. He qualified in January 1902 and finished a law degree at the University of London around the same time, yet did not have any significant bearing to rehearse. 

In 1902, Pick started working for the North Eastern Railway. He worked first in the organization's traffic insights office before getting to be collaborator to the organization's general chief, Sir George Gibb in 1904. In 1904, Pick wedded Mabel Mary Caroline Woodhouse. The couple had no kids. 

In 1906, Gibb was delegated overseeing chief of the UERL. At Gibb's welcome, Pick likewise moved to the UERL to keep filling in as his partner. The UERL controlled the District Railway and, amid 1906 and 1907, opened three profound dimension tube lines – the Baker Street and Waterloo Railway (Bakerloo tube), the Charing Cross, Euston and Hampstead Railway (Hampstead tube) and the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway (Piccadilly tube). 

The UERL had money related issues. Ticket costs were low and traveler numbers were essentially underneath the pre-opening assessments. The lower than anticipated traveler numbers were incompletely the aftereffect of rivalry between the UERL's lines and those of the other cylinder and sub-surface railroad organizations. The spread of road level electric cable cars and engine transports, supplanting slower, horse-drawn street transport, additionally removed an expansive number of travelers from the trains. 

By 1908, Pick had turned out to be attention officer in charge of promoting and it was as of now that, working with the organization's general director Albert Stanley, he started building up the solid corporate personality and visual style for which the London Underground later wound up renowned, including the presentation of the "UNDERGROUND" brand. Pick's logic on configuration was that "the trial of the integrity of a thing is its readiness for use. On the off chance that it bombs on this first test, no measure of ornamentation or completion will make it any better; it will just make it progressively costly, increasingly absurd." 

Pick moved toward becoming traffic improvement officer in 1909 and business director in 1912. Albert Stanley supplanted Gibb as overseeing chief in 1910. Amid 1912 and 1913, the UERL expanded its command over transport benefits in London by obtaining two cylinder railroads, the City and South London Railway (C&SLR) and Central London Railway (CLR), and various transport and cable car organizations. One of Pick's obligations was to build traveler numbers, and he trusted that the most ideal approach to do as such was by empowering expanded support of the organization's administrations outside pinnacle hours. He dispatched publications which advanced the Underground's trains and London General Omnibus Company's (LGOC's) transports as a methods for achieving the wide open around London and attractions inside the city. Pick understood that assortment was vital to keep up voyagers' advantage and he authorized plans from specialists working in a wide range of styles. In the meantime, he defended transport courses to guarantee that they supplemented and went about as feeder administrations for the organization's railroad lines, tripling the quantity of LGOC worked courses amid 1912 and stretching out the zone secured to multiple times its past size. Sunday outing administrations to relaxation goals were executed to completely use generally inactive transports and understandings were set up with country transport administrators to facilitate benefits as opposed to rival them. 

Pick presented a typical promoting strategy, improving the presence of stations by institutionalizing blurb sizes, constraining the number utilized and controlling their situating. Before he assumed responsibility for promoting, publications had been stuck up on any accessible surface on station structures and stage dividers in a packed confuse of shapes and sizes that prompted grumblings from travelers that it was hard to discover the station name. Pick institutionalized business blurb sizes on printers' twofold crown sheets, masterminding these in sorted out gatherings to empower the station name to be effectively observed. The Underground's very own special notices were littler, utilizing single or combined twofold illustrious sheets, and were orchestrated independently from the business publicizing. Pick depicted the procedure: "after many bungling examinations I landed at some thought of how publication publicizing should be. Everybody appeared to be very satisfied and I got a notoriety that truly sprang out of nothing." 

To make the Underground Group's publications and signage increasingly particular he appointed calligrapher and typographer Edward Johnston to structure an unmistakable new typeface. Pick indicated to Johnston in 1913 that he needed a typeface that would guarantee that the Underground Group's publications would not be confused with commercials; it ought to have "the striking straightforwardness of the real lettering of the best time frames" and have a place "indisputably to the twentieth century". Johnston's sans serif "Underground" typeface, (presently known as Johnston) was first utilized in 1916 and was successful to the point that, with minor adjustments as of late, today is still being used. 

Related to his progressions to blurb show game plans, Pick tried different things with the situating and measuring of station name signs on stages, which were frequently insufficient in number or inadequately set. In 1908, he settled on a game plan where the sign was supported by a red plate to make it emerge unmistakably, making the "bulls-eye" gadget – the most punctual type of what is today known as the roundel. In 1909, Pick began to consolidate the "bulls-eye" and the "UNDERGROUND" brand on blurbs and station structures, however was not happy with the course of action. By 1916, he had chosen to adjust the logo utilized by the LGOC, the Underground Group's transport organization, which was as a ring with a bar bearing the name "GENERAL" over the middle. Pick authorized Johnston to update the "bulls-eye" and the structure utilized today depends on that created by Johnston and first utilized in 1919. 

In 1919, with an arrival to ordinariness after the First World War, Pick started creating plans to expand the Underground system out into rural areas that needed sufficient transport administrations. The main significant augmentations made to the Underground system since the three cylinder lines had opened were the expansion of the District Railway to Uxbridge in 1910, and the augmentation of the Bakerloo cylinder to Watford Junction somewhere in the range of 1913 and 1917. Affirmed plans put on hold amid the war were resuscitated: the CLR was reached out to Ealing Broadway in 1920, the Hampstead tube was stretched out to Edgware somewhere in the range of 1923 and 1924 and the C&SLR was reproduced and stretched out to Camden Town somewhere in the range of 1922 and 1924. Fund for the last two expansions was acquired through the administration's Trade Facilities Acts which guaranteed advances for open functions as a methods for reducing joblessness. For new lines, Pick initially considered stretching out Underground administrations toward the north-east of London where the mainline rural administrations of the Great Northern Railway (GNR) and Great Eastern Railway (GER) were poor and problematic. Studies were completed for an expansion of the Piccadilly tube on GNR tracks to New Barnet and Enfield or on another course to Wood Green and plans were created for an augmentation of the CLR along GER tracks to Chingford and Ongar, yet both mainline organizations firmly restricted the Underground's infringement into their domains. 

Needing to utilize the administration's budgetary sponsorship, which was accessible for a constrained period, Pick did not have room schedule-wise to press the Underground's case for these expansions. Rather he built up an arrangement for an augmentation of the C&SLR south-west from Clapham Common to Sutton in Surrey. Pick still confronted solid resistance from the London, Brighton and South Coast Railway and the London and South Western Railway which worked in the region, yet the Underground had the upside of previously having an endorsement for the last couple of miles of the course as a major aspect of an unused pre-war consent for another line from Wimbledon to Sutton. The railroad organizations tested the requirement for another administration, asserting it would essentially empty travelers out of their own trains and that any augmentation should just keep running similarly as Tooting, however Pick had the capacity to counter their contentions and arranged a trade off settlement to broaden the C&SLR to the extent Morden. 

Indeed, even before the C&SLR augmentation had been finished in 1926, conceivable outcomes for the northward expansion of the Piccadilly tube started to return. From 1922, a progression of press crusades required the improvement of administrations at the GNR's Finsbury Park station where exchanges between cylinder lines, mainline prepares, transports and cable cars were famously terrible. In June 1923, an appeal from 30,000 neighborhood inhabitants was submitted to parliament, and, in 1925, the administration called an open request to survey alternatives. Pick introduced plans to soothe the clog at Finsbury Park by stretching out the Piccadilly tube north to Southgate. Restriction from the London and North Eastern Railway (successor to the GNR following the 1923 gathering of railroad organizations) was again impressive and dependent on cases that the new Underground line would take travelers from the mainline administrations. Utilizing information from the Bakerloo tube, Hampstead cylinder and C&SLR augmentations, Pick exhibited that the course got ready for the new line would animate new private improvement and increment traveler numbers for all rail administrators in the zone, expanding those on the Piccadilly tube by 50 million every year. Parliamentary endorsement was allowed in 1930 to expand the Piccadilly tube north past Southgate to an end at Cockfosters. The endorsement likewise included correlative expansions of the Piccadilly tube from its western end at Hammersmith to enhance District Railway administrations to Hounslow and South Harrow. The improvement was again financed with government upheld credits, this time through the 1929 "Advancement (Loan Guarantees and Grants) Act". To guarantee the most productive joining between the new cylinder line and the UERL's transport and cable car tasks, the stations were found further separated than in focal regions and where street transport administrations could be organized to convey and gather the most travelers. At Manor House, the station was planned with metro exits legitimately on to person on foot islands in the street served by the neighborhood cable cars. 

In 1924, with designs for the C&SLR expansion a work in progress, Pick charged Charles Holden to plan the station structures in another style. The structures supplanted a set by the Underground's very own engineer, Stanley Heaps, which Pick had discovered unacceptable. Pick had initially met Holden at the Design and Industries Association (DIA) in 1915, and he saw the innovator designer as one he could work with to characterize what Pick called "another structural maxim". Pick needed to streamline and rearrange the plan of the stations to make them inviting, brilliantly lit and proficient with vast, uncluttered ticket corridors for the fast clearance of tickets and brisk access to the trains by means of elevators. At these new stations, tickets were issued from various "passimeters", coated stalls in the focal point of the ticket corridor, instead of the customary ticket office windows set to the other side. 

Pick was satisfied with the outcomes and at a DIA supper in 1926 announced "that another style of structural enhancement will emerge" prompting an "Advanced London – current not jumbled exemplary or Renaissance." Amongst Pick's next payments for Holden were the upgrade of Piccadilly Circus station (1925– 28), where a wide underground concourse and ticket lobby were worked underneath the street intersection, and the Underground Group's new central station working at 55 Broadway, St James' (1925– 1929). The new base camp structure was on an unadroitly molded site, halfway over the stages and tracks of St. James' Park station. In spite of the fact that Holden's training had not structured such an expansive place of business, it had involvement of substantial emergency clinic plan, which Pick saw as integral to the structure of a cutting edge place of business. Whenever finished, the twelve-story, high cruciform structure was the tallest in London and the pinnacle overwhelmed the horizon. The structure was generally welcomed by design commentators and won Holden the RIBA's London Architecture Medal for 1929. Two models authorized for the structure were less generally welcomed, creating extensive debate in the media. The bareness and crude cutting of by Jacob Epstein prompted calls for them to be expelled from the structure and the leading body of the Underground Group thought about supplanting them with new figures by another craftsman. Despite the fact that he secretly conceded later that the figures were not to his taste, Pick openly upheld Holden's determination of Epstein as stone carver and offered to leave over the issue. The emergency was turned away when Epstein was convinced to decrease the length of the penis of one of the figures and the models stayed set up. 

Pick needed another kind of structure for the more open destinations of the stations on the Piccadilly line's expansions. To choose what this new sort should seem as though, he and Holden made a short voyage through Germany, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands in July and August 1930 to see the most recent advancements in present day engineering. Pick was disillusioned with a great part of the new engineering that he found in Germany and Sweden, thinking of it as either excessively extraordinary or inadmissibly exploratory. The design in the Netherlands was considerably more to his preferring, especially structures by Willem Marinus Dudok in Hilversum. Despite the fact that the engineering in Denmark was not viewed as amazing, Pick was inspired with the manner by which creators there were frequently in charge of all components of a structure including the inside installations and fittings. 

The structures Pick charged from Holden (1931– 33) built up another standard for the Underground, with the model station at Sudbury Town being depicted by compositional student of history Nikolaus Pevsner as a "milestone" and the beginning of "the 'work of art' period of Underground design". To guarantee that the new stations accomplished the total and reasonable structure that he needed, Pick trained the building divisions to give Holden full subtleties of all gear required for the stations. After late gear changes by the specialists at the initial couple of new stations traded off the incorporated plan, Pick took individual charge of the coordination of the building and designing components. In the mid-1930s when the acquaintance of trolleybuses with supplant cable cars required the establishment of new road shafts to help overhead wiring, Pick was distinctly intrigued that the structure of the posts was composed to oblige the majority of the conceivable gear and signage that may be required. He additionally managed the structures of the new transport stops and transport shields that were introduced when indicated halting focuses were presented for transport administrations. 

As a component of the Transported by Design program of exercises, on 15 October 2015, following two months of open casting a ballot, crafted by Frank Pick was chosen by Londoners as one of the 10 most loved transport structure symbols. 

Toward the start of the 1920s, with vehicle numbers drained by wartime administration in France and Belgium, the Underground Group's transport activities started to encounter a flood in rivalry from an expansive number of new free transport administrators. These little administrators were unregulated and gone after the gathering's most beneficial courses removing an extensive number of its travelers and a lot of its pay. Albert Stanley (recognized as Lord Ashfield in 1920) and Pick battled back by approaching parliament to control transport activities in the capital. The London Traffic Act 1924 allowed their solicitation by setting up the London Traffic Area to manage street traveler traffic inside London and the encompassing regions. All through the 1920s, Pick drove the Underground Group's endeavors to arrange its administrations with the city cable car administrators, the Metropolitan Railway and the rural mainline rail administrations. The point was to accomplish a pooling of salary between the majority of the administrators and expel inefficient challenge. Toward the finish of 1930, an answer was declared in a bill for the arrangement of the London Passenger Transport Board (LPTB), an open partnership which was to assume responsibility for the Underground Group, the Metropolitan Railway and most of the transport and cable car administrators inside a region assigned as the London Passenger Transport Area covering the County of London and Middlesex and parts of Buckinghamshire, Essex, Hertfordshire, Kent, Surrey and Sussex. 

Pick had turned out to be joint overseeing executive of the Underground Group in 1928, and when, on 1 July 1933, the gathering was taken over by the LPTB, he wound up CEO and bad habit administrator, on a yearly compensation of £10,000 (around ). Ashfield was director. Pick drove the board's arrangements on the pay to be paid to the proprietors and investors of every one of the vehicle activities being dominated. 

With most of London's vehicle tasks now under the control of a solitary association, Pick had the capacity to start the following round of upgrades. On the Metropolitan Railway (renamed the Metropolitan line), Pick and Ashfield started to justify administrations. The scarcely utilized and misfortune making Brill and Verney Junction branches past Aylesbury were shut in 1935 and 1936. Cargo administrations were diminished and jolt of the rest of the steam worked segments of the line was arranged. In 1935, the accessibility of government-supported credits to animate the hailing economy enabled Pick to advance framework wide enhancements under the New Works Program for 1935– 1940, including the exchange of the Metropolitan line's Stanmore administrations to the Bakerloo line in 1939, the Northern line's Northern Heights venture and expansion of the Central line to Ongar in Essex and Denham in Buckinghamshire. 

Amid 1938 and 1939, with war foreseen, an expanding some portion of Pick's time was spent in getting ready for the moving toward strife. The Railway Executive Committee was reconstituted in 1938 to go about as a focal organizing body for the nation's railroads with Pick as the LPTB's agent. This job assimilated the vast majority of his time after the advisory group took over control of the railroads on 1 September 1939. Following a conflict with different individuals from the LPTB board over the administration's recommendations to confine the profit that it could pay to its investors, Pick expressed his expectation to resign from the board toward the finish of his seven-year arrangement in May 1940. Pick had recently proposed a revamping of the LPTB's senior administration structure and would have liked to have the capacity to proceed with the association in some kind of joint general chief position. Ashfield decided not to discover such a proceeding with job for Pick and, on 18 May 1940, to the shock of numerous inside the association, Pick resigned from the LPTB board, authoritatively because of falling flat wellbeing. Pick's post of CEO was canceled and supplanted with a gathering of six heads of office. 

Pick's enthusiasm for configuration prompted his contribution in the establishing, in 1915, of the Design and Industries Association. The association intended to unite producers and fashioners to improve the nature of mechanical plan. Through his enhancements in the UERL's promoting and marking, Pick was considered by numerous individuals of its individuals to take a down to earth lead in accomplishing the association's points and he was before long addressing regarding the matter, giving talks amid 1916 and 1917 at the Art Workers Guild in London, at the Royal Scottish Academy in Edinburgh and somewhere else. After the First World War, Pick kept on giving talks routinely and distributed articles on plan. He additionally started to set out his thoughts on recreation and town arranging, a region of structure he wound up intrigued by through its association with transport arranging. He composed and addressed broadly regarding this matter amid the 1930s including exhibiting a 14,000 word paper to the Institute of Transport in 1927 and tending to the International Housing and Town Planning Congress in 1939. Worried about the uncontrolled and unchecked development of London, mostly encouraged by the new lines that London Underground was structure, Pick was a solid supporter of the requirement for a green belt around the cash-flow to keep up open space inside reach of urban zones. 

In 1922, he composed and distributed secretly a flyer "This is the World that Man Made, or The New Creation" that was affected by the pragmatist composing of Ray Lankester. In it Pick was cynical that humanity was not accomplishing its inventive potential. He came back to the subject in addresses he gave during the 1930s when he sketched out his worry that at some not very removed point advance in civilisation would arrive at a characteristic end and a steady condition would emerge where, he trusted, it is difficult to keep up innovativeness and an entropic decay would pursue. Afterward, in the most recent year of his life and with the Second World War under way, he distributed two booklets on post war recreation, "England Must Rebuild" and "Ways to Peace". Pick composed the prologue to the English interpretation of Walter Gropius' "The New Architecture and the Bauhaus" distributed in 1935. 

Adjacent to his situations at the UERL and LPTB, Pick held various modern managerial and warning positions. In 1917, amid the First World War, Pick was designated to be leader of the Mines Directorate's Household Fuel and Lighting Department at the Board of Trade where Albert Stanley was the President. Pick was in charge of the control of the proportioning and appropriation of residential fuel supplies. He stayed in this situation until June 1919. In 1928, he was named as an individual from the Royal Commission On Police Powers and Procedure. He likewise filled in as an individual from the London and Home Counties Traffic Advisory Committee and as an individual from the Crown Lands Advisory Committee. 

Pick was President of the Institute of Transport for 1931/32. He was President of the Design and Industries Association from 1932 to 1934 and the director of the Board of Trade's Council for Art and Industry from 1934 to 1939. 

Amid 1938, the administration named Pick to design the vehicle tasks for the clearing of regular folks from London. At first planned for 30 September 1938, the plans were dropped when Neville Chamberlain's with Adolf Hitler turned away war that year, yet were initiated a year later toward the start of September 1939 on the affirmation of war with Germany. In the wake of leaving the LPTB, Pick visited British ports for the Ministry of Transport to set up a report on techniques for improving port tasks and payload dealing with. In August 1940, he reluctantly acknowledged the situation of chief general of the Ministry of Information. His time at the Ministry of Information was short and despondent and he left following four months and came back to the Ministry of Transport, where he completed investigations on upgrades in the utilization of Britain's channels and streams. 

Biographers have portrayed Pick as being "extremely modest", and "splendid however forlorn". Christian Barman depicted him as an individual who roused clashing feelings about his identity and his activities: "a man about whom such a significant number of individuals held such huge numbers of various perspectives". Pick recognized that he could be hard to work with: "I have constantly remembered my own frailties – a touchiness. Anxiety with numb-skulls, briskness as opposed to careful quality. I am an awful hand at the benevolent word or easygoing compliment." His moralistic character prompted companions giving him the moniker "Jonah". Pick esteemed analysis and appreciated testing banter, however he griped that he thought that it was hard to get individuals to face him. UERL board part Sir Ernest Clark believed Pick to be maybe excessively productive and unfit to completely designate and give up obligation: "his own proficiency badly affects the effectiveness of others... By what method can the housemaid invest heavily in a vocation to which the special lady will demand putting the completing touch?" Pick's companion Noel Carrington believed that his meticulousness made him the "perfect auditor general." 

Pick ran his office on a fortnightly cycle and his outstanding task at hand was gigantic. Barman portrayed Pick's office as a preparation school for future supervisors, with a standard turnover of staff who might go on to the board positions when Pick thought them prepared. 

Ashfield thought about that Pick had "a sterling character and enduring faithfulness", and "a regulatory capacity which was exceptional", with "a sharp logical personality which had the capacity to seize upon fundamentals and after that drive his way through to his objective, constantly reinforced by a beyond any doubt information of the issue and trust in himself." Charles Holden depicted Pick's administration of gatherings: "Here his choices were those of a big-hearted tyrant, and the individuals left the gathering with a reasonable feeling of an errand to be performed, troublesome, maybe, and in some cases outlandish, as might therefore end up being to be, yet typically well worth investigating if just in delivering persuading verification regarding impediments. Out of these exploratory strategies there frequently developed new and most fascinating arrangements, which Pick rushed to acknowledge, and to receive in substitution for his own recommendations." 

Loathing respects, Pick declined offers of a knighthood and a peerage. He accepted, in 1932, the Soviet Union's Honorary Badge of Merit for his recommendation on the development of the Moscow Metro. He was a privileged individual from the Royal Institute of British Architects. 

Pick was broadly perused and was affected by numerous authors on logical, sociological and social issues including works by Alfred North Whitehead, Leonard Hobhouse, Edwin Lankester, Arthur Eddington and John Ruskin. On structure, he was impacted by D'Arcy Wentworth Thompson's depiction of plan in nature in "On Growth and Form" and by engineer William Lethaby. His profound respect for William Morris drove him to embrace Morris' most loved shade of green as his own, utilizing green ink for most of his correspondence. 

Pick had not been well for certain years. The worries of his war work negatively affected his wellbeing and he lost two stone amid his movements around the nation to inquire about his report on the trench business. Albeit depleted toward the finish of the visit, he kept in touch with companions that he was battling with the inertness and was seeking after something new to do. He kicked the bucket at his home, 15 Wildwood Road, Golders Green, on 7 November 1941 from a cerebral drain. His burial service was held at Golders Green Crematorium on 11 November 1941 and a commemoration administration was held at St Peter's Church, Eaton Square on 13 November 1941. 

Working with Ashfield, Pick's effect on London's vehicle framework was extensive. Transport antiquarian Christian Wolmar thinks of it as "practically difficult to misrepresent the high respect in which [London Transport] was held amid its very short prime, drawing in authority guests from around the globe anxious to gain proficiency with the exercises of its prosperity and apply them in their very own nations" and that "it spoke to the apogee of a kind of sure open administration ... with a notoriety that any state association today would envy ... just made conceivable by the brightness of its two popular pioneers, Ashfield and Pick." In his eulogy of Pick, Charles Holden portrayed him as "the Maecenas within recent memory." Writing in 1968, Nikolaus Pevsner depicted Pick as "the best benefactor of expressions of the human experience whom this century has so far delivered in England, and for sure the perfect supporter of our age." Considering Pick's open articulations on workmanship and life, craftsmanship student of history Kenneth Clark recommended that "in an alternate age he may have turned into a kind of Thomas Aquinas". History specialist Michael Saler contrasted Pick's impact on London Transport with that of Lord Reith on the BBC's improvement amid the equivalent between war period. Urban organizer Sir Peter Hall recommended that Pick "had as much effect on London's improvement in the twentieth century as Haussmann had on that of Paris in the nineteenth", and history specialist Anthony Sutcliffe contrasted him with Robert Moses, the city organizer in charge of numerous urban foundation extends in New York. 

Pick's will was probated at £36,000 (£ in present-day terms). In his will he handed down a Francis Dodd painting, "Ely", to the Tate Gallery. Transport for London and the London Transport Museum hold chronicles of Pick's matter of fact and individual papers. 

Pick is remembered with a dedication plaque at St Peter's School, York, divulged in 1953 by Lord Latham, and a blue plaque was raised at his Golders Green home in 1981. A structure at London Underground's Acton Works is named Frank Pick House in his respect. It remains on the north side of the Piccadilly and District line railroad tracks toward the east of Acton Town station. Pick is remembered with a changeless dedication at Piccadilly Circus station by the BAFTA-winning and Turner Prize-designated specialists Langlands and Bell. The work, entitled "Magnificence < Immortality", was dispatched by London Transport Museum and introduced by Art on the Underground (Transport for London's authentic workmanship program). It was divulged on 7 November 2016, the 75th commemoration of Pick's demise. 

Notes 

References 

Book index