One Tree Hill (melody) 

"One Tree Hill" is a melody by Irish musical crew U2 and the ninth track on their 1987 collection "The Joshua Tree". In March 1988, it was discharged as the fourth single from the collection in New Zealand and Australia, while "In God's Country" was discharged as the fourth single in North America. The discharge graphed at number one on the New Zealand Singles Chart. 

The track was written in memory of Greg Carroll, a Māori man the band initially met in Auckland amid the Unforgettable Fire Tour in 1984. He turned out to be dear companions with lead artist Bono and later filled in as a roadie for the gathering. Carroll was murdered in July 1986 out of a bike mishap in Dublin. Following the tangi burial service in New Zealand, Bono composed the verses to "One Tree Hill" in Carroll's memory. The verses mirror Bono's musings at the tangi and amid his first night in New Zealand when Carroll took him up Auckland's One Tree Hill. They likewise pay respect to Chilean vocalist musician and extremist Víctor Jara. Musically, the melody was created in a jam session with maker Brian Eno. The vocals were recorded in a solitary take, as Bono felt unequipped for singing them a second time. 

"One Tree Hill" was gotten positively by faultfinders, who differently portrayed it as "a delicate, frequenting beatitude", "a momentous melodic highlight", and a festival of life. U2 postponed playing out the melody on the Joshua Tree Tour in 1987 as a result of Bono's feelings of trepidation over his passionate state. After its live presentation on the visit's third leg and an excited response from groups of onlookers, the melody was played every so often for the remainder of the visit and semi-normally amid the Lovetown Tour of 1989– 1990. It has seemed just sporadically from that point forward, and most versions were performed in New Zealand. Exhibitions in November 2010 on the U2 360° Tour were committed to the excavators who passed on in the Pike River Mine fiasco. Amid the Joshua Tree Tour 2017 to recognize the 30th commemoration of the collection, "One Tree Hill" was performed at each show. 

U2 first visited Australia and New Zealand in 1984 to open The Unforgettable Fire Tour. Following a 24-hour trip into Auckland, lead artist Bono was unfit to conform to the time distinction between New Zealand and Europe. He left his lodging amid the night and met a few people who indicated him around the city. Greg Carroll was a piece of that gathering: he had met U2's generation chief Steve Iredale and been offered work helping the band for their forthcoming show by virtue of Greg's involvement with nearby musical crews. They wound up taking Bono up One Tree Hill (Maungakiekie), one of the most noteworthy – and all the more profoundly huge to Māori individuals – of Auckland's biggest volcanoes. Greg functioned as a phase hand delicately ceasing individuals jumping in front of an audience, and was portrayed as "this exceptionally supportive fellah going around the spot". U2's supervisor Paul McGuinness thought Carroll was helpful to the point that he ought to go with the band for the rest of the visit. The gathering helped him get an international ID, and he in this manner went along with them out and about in Australia and the United States as their partner. He turned out to be exceptionally dear companions with Bono and his better half Ali Hewson, and following the finish of the visit, he worked for U2 in Dublin. 

On 3 July 1986, just before the beginning of the chronicle sessions for "The Joshua Tree", Carroll was murdered in a bike mishap while on a dispatch run. A vehicle had pulled before him, and unfit to stop in the downpour, Carroll struck the side of the vehicle and was murdered immediately. The occasion stunned the whole band; drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. stated, "his passing truly shaken us – it was the first occasion when anybody in our working circle had been slaughtered." Guitarist the Edge stated, "Greg resembled an individual from the family, however the way that he had gone under our wing and had voyage so distant from home to be in Dublin to work with us made it even more hard to manage." Bassist Adam Clayton depicted it as "a calming minute", saying, "it propelled the mindfulness that there are more critical things than shake 'n' roll. That your family, your companions and for sure different individuals from the band – you don't have the foggiest idea how much time you have left with them." Bono stated, "it was a staggering blow. He was helping me out. He was taking my bicycle home." He later remarked, "it conveyed gravitas to the account of "The Joshua Tree". We needed to fill the opening in our heart with something extremely, substantial to be sure, we adored him such a great amount of." Accompanied by Bono, Ali, Mullen, and different individuals from the U2 association, Carroll's body was flown back to New Zealand and covered in the customary Māori way at Kai-iwi Marae close Whanganui, Carroll's main residence. Bono sang "Let It Be" and "Knockin' on Heaven's Door" for him at the burial service. 

Soon after coming back to Dublin, Bono composed verses for a tune about the memorial service that he titled "One Tree Hill" after the slope he recollected from his visit to Auckland in 1984. The music was grown from the get-go in the chronicle sessions for "The Joshua Tree". The Edge stated, "We were sticking with Brian [Eno]. He was playing consoles ... we just got this score moving, and this part started to come through. It's nearly highlife, in spite of the fact that it's not African at all ... the sound was for me around then an exceptionally intricate one. I could never have longed for utilizing a sound like that before at that point, yet it just felt right, and I ran with it." Bono recorded his vocals in a solitary take, as he felt that he couldn't sing the verses a second time. The Edge utilized a Bond Electraglide guitar to play a performance with an "overwhelming fluff" sound toward the finish of the melody. Three artists from Toronto—Dick, Paul and Adele Armin—recorded string pieces for the melody in Grant Avenue Studio in Hamilton, Ontario. In a six-hour telephone call with the Edge, and under the supervision of maker Daniel Lanois, the Armins utilized "complex 'electro-acoustic' string instrument[s]" they created called Raads to record a piece made for the tune. Dick Armin stated, "[U2] were keen on utilizing strings, yet not in the traditional style of improving. They didn't need a nineteenth century gather playing behind them." Bono found the melody so enthusiastic, he was unfit to hear it out after it had been recorded. 

In the melody, Bono incorporated the verse: "Jara sang, his tune a weapon in the hands of adoration/You realize his blood still cries from the beginning". This alludes to the Chilean political dissident and society vocalist Víctor Jara, who turned into an image of the obstruction against the Augusto Pinochet military fascism after he was tormented and slaughtered amid the 1973 Chilean overthrow. Bono scholarly of Jara in the wake of meeting René Castro, a Chilean wall painting craftsman, while on Amnesty International's A Conspiracy of Hope visit. Castro had been tormented and held in an inhumane imprisonment for a long time by the military since his craftsmanship scrutinized the Pinochet-drove routine that had caught control in 1973 amid the overthrow. While acquiring a silkscreen of Martin Luther King, Jr. that Castro had made, Bono saw a print of Jara. He turned out to be progressively acquainted with him in the wake of perusing "Una Canción Truncada" (An Unfinished Song), composed by Jara's widow Joan Turner. 

"One Tree Hill" and "The Joshua Tree" are committed to Carroll's memory. The track was recorded by Flood and Pat McCarthy, blended by Dave Meegan, and delivered by Lanois and Eno. 

"One Tree Hill" keeps running for 5 minutes, 23 seconds. It is played in like manner time at a rhythm of 120 beats for each moment. The melody starts with a highlife-impacted riff by the Edge on guitar, which rehashes out of sight all through the tune. Percussion from drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. enters following two seconds. At 0:07, a second guitar enters. At 0:15, Clayton's bass and Mullen's drums enter, and at 0:31, the stanza harmony movement of C– F– B– F– C is presented. The main stanza starts at 0:47. At 1:32, the tune moves to the ensemble, changing to a C– B– F– C harmony movement. The second stanza at that point starts at 1:49, and after the second ensemble, a short melodic break starts at 2:36, in which the Edge's guitar is supplanted by the Raad strings. The third stanza starts at 3:07, and the Edge's guitar resumes at 3:38 in the chorale. A guitar solo starts at 4:16 and is played until the instrumentation finds some conclusion at 4:36. Following two seconds of quietness, the Raad strings blur in and Bono continues to sing the coda. The last verse and strings become dull over the last six seconds. 

Clayton called it part of a set of three of tunes on the collection, alongside "Projectile the Blue Sky" and "Moms of the Disappeared", that discredit the contribution of the United States in the Chilean upset. McGuinness expressed that the symbolism in the tune portrayed the feeling of disaster felt by the band over Carroll's passing. Colm O'Hare of "Hot Press" trusted the Edge's guitar riff exemplified the verse "run like a stream rushes to the ocean". Thom Duffy of the "Orlando Sentinel" felt the melody mirrored the enticement of a darling. Richard Harrington of the "Washington Post" recognized the tribute to Carroll, including that it showed U2's conviction that music could goad change. 

In the same way as other U2 tunes, "One Tree Hill" can be translated in a religious way. "Hot Press" editorial manager Niall Stokes called it "a profound visit de drive", saying "it is a psalm of commendation and festivity which depicted the customary Māori internment of their companion on One Tree Hill and connections it idyllically with topics of recharging and reclamation." Beth Maynard, a Church minister from Fairhaven, Massachusetts, felt the tune "pledges confidence notwithstanding misfortune, consolidating elegiac lines about a companion ... what's more, the martyred Chilean lobbyist and society artist Victor Jara, with an unobtrusive inspiration of end-time recovery and a twisting howl to God to send the pentecostal Latter Rain." Matt Soper, Senior Minister of the West Houston Church of Christ, trusted the verses were an endeavor by Bono to comprehend God's place on the planet. Steve Stockman, a minister at Queen's University Belfast, felt that the tune implied "extraordinary places past the existence of earth". Music columnist Bill Graham noticed "the verses, with their reference to conventional Māori entombment services on One Tree Hill, demonstrated that the band's confidence didn't reject a sympathy with others' convictions and customs. Their Christianity wouldn't mortar over the all inclusive prime examples of grieving." 

"One Tree Hill" was discharged on "The Joshua Tree" on 9 March 1987 as the ninth tune on the collection. Some CD pressings inaccurately split the tracks, with the melody's coda included as a major aspect of the track for the accompanying tune, "Exit". In New Zealand and Australia, "One Tree Hill" was discharged as a 7-inch single in New Zealand and Australia in March 1988. The spread craftsmanship (captured by Anton Corbijn), sleeve (planned by Steve Averill), and B-sides ("Bullet the Blue Sky" and "Hurrying to Stand Still") were indistinguishable to those utilized for U2's 1987 single "In God's Country", discharged just in North America. A tape single, accessible just in New Zealand, was additionally discharged. The tune achieved number one on the New Zealand Singles Chart. "One Tree Hill" was incorporated as a little something extra track on the Japanese adaptation of U2's 1998 accumulation collection, "The Best of 1980– 1990". The going with video assemblage incorporated the tune's music video, coordinated by Phil Joanou, which includes a live act taken from a formerly unreleased cut of U2's 1988 rockumentary "Shake and Hum". Extra live exhibitions were discharged on the computerized collection "Live from the Point Depot" (2004) and the U2.com part selective collection "U22" (2012). Select versions of the 30th commemoration arrival of "The Joshua Tree" in 2017 highlighted a remix of "One Tree Hill" by St Francis Hotel and another blend of the melody's repeat by Brian Eno. 

"One Tree Hill" was gotten positively by pundits. "Hot Press" supervisor Niall Stokes portrayed it as a standout amongst U2's best tracks, considering it a "fitting tribute" to Carroll. The "Toronto Star" felt it was a standout amongst the best melodies on the collection. Steve Morse of "The Boston Globe" looked at Bono's vocals at the tune's decision to the energy of American soul artist Otis Redding, likewise taking note of that the coda was reminiscent of the psalm "Astonishing Grace". Steve Pond of "Moving Stone" called it "a delicate, frequenting invocation". Bill Graham of "Hot Press" said the tune was "confident, not dismal", portraying the verse "We run like a waterway to the ocean" as "[musician Mike Scott's] analogy recast as far as interminable life and the Maori's very own conviction." He depicted the Edge's playing as "a free limbed guitar song with both an African and a Hawaiian tinge", finishing up by saying "in spite of its moving vocal coda, 'One Tree Hill' isn't solemn. It commends the life of the soul not its termination." 

Composing for "The New York Times", John Rockwell felt that it was a case of U2 extending their range, saying "the incorporation of melodic figures of speech [is] never so plainly investigated on a U2 record, particularly the gospel tune of 'One Tree Hill'". Colin Hogg of "The New Zealand Herald" called it "a momentous melodic focal point", trusting it to be the best tune on the collection. Colm O'Hare of "Hot Press" said it was "ostensibly the most piercing, inwardly charged melody U2 have ever recorded." He included that it was the "least instrumentally enhanced tune on the collection, dazzling in a sentiment of room and transparency." McGuinness called it one of his most loved U2 tunes. 

The American TV dramatization "One Tree Hill" was named for the tune after arrangement maker Mark Schwahn was tuning in to "The Joshua Tree" when composing the thought for the show. "One Tree Hill" was likewise the name of the arrangement finale, which included the melody in the scene's last scene. 

"One Tree Hill" made its live presentation on 10 September 1987 in Uniondale, New York, the premiere night of the third leg of the Joshua Tree Tour, where it opened the reprise. The melody had been let alone for the set as yet on the grounds that Bono dreaded he would be unfit to conquer his feelings in the live setting. In spite of his apprehensions, the melody got an energetic response from the group of onlookers. It was played out a further multiple times and afterward dropped from the show for a time of two months. It was restored in the fundamental set on 17 November 1987 in Los Angeles, California, and played a further multiple times on the visit. "One Tree Hill" was played once in a while on the Lovetown Tour, showing up at 19 of 47 shows. The penultimate execution, on 31 December 1989, was communicated live on radio to 21 nations all through Europe as a New Year's Eve present from the band. 

"One Tree Hill" was missing amid most of the Zoo TV Tour, just showing up as an all-inclusive bit toward the finish of "One" at the two shows in New Zealand in 1993. It didn't show up again until 24 November 2006 in Auckland, New Zealand, on the last leg of the Vertigo Tour. It was considered to close the show, however visit originator Willie Williams voiced worry as it had not been performed in full since 1990. The tune was performed before "Some of the time You Can't Make It all alone" in the principle set. U2 performed it an extra multiple times on the visit. "One Tree Hill" was missing for most of the U2 360° Tour yet was restored in November 2010 for two shows in New Zealand, where it was devoted to the diggers who kicked the bucket in the Pike River Mine catastrophe; their names were shown on the video screen amid the melody. Committing the tune, Bono stated, "we composed it for Greg Carroll, whose family are with us today around evening time. In any case, today around evening time it has a place with the diggers of the West Coast Pike River." U2 played "One Tree Hill" on 25 March 2011, in Santiago, Chile, in a two part harmony with Francisca Valenzuela, and they committed it to Victor Jara. It was additionally played in a spontaneous option to the reprise at a show in Chicago on 5 July 2011 to check the 25th commemoration of the demise of Greg Carroll 

In 2009, when gotten some information about the probability of U2 playing out the melody, the Edge stated, "it's one we sort of keep for unique events, such as playing New Zealand." Bono included, "it's an exceptional tune that holds within it a great deal of solid sentiments, and I don't have a clue in case we're apprehensive about it or something, yet we ought to play it more." McGuinness said that U2 thought that it was hard to play live. 

"One Tree Hill" came back to live exhibitions amid the Joshua Tree Tour 2017, which included 51 shows from May through October 2017, every one of which highlighted a full act of the whole "Joshua Tree" collection in running request. Every tune from the collection was joined by a film appeared on the set's LED presentation that filled in as a background to the band's execution. The film played amid "One Tree Hill" included a picture of extensive red moon along that blurred into film of Native American individuals. It was coordinated by Anton Corbijn and taped in Lancaster, California over a 14-hour film shoot. Bono devoted exhibitions of the melody to artist Chris Cornell (who passed on in May 2017), to artist Chester Bennington (who kicked the bucket in July 2017), to the casualties of the Manchester Arena besieging, and to the casualties of the Orlando dance club shooting. 

U2 

Extra entertainers 

Specialized 

References 

Book reference