Jack Sparrow 

Skipper Jack Sparrow is an anecdotal character and the principle hero of the "Privateers of the Caribbean" film arrangement. The character was made by screenwriters Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio, and is depicted by Johnny Depp. The portrayal of Sparrow depends on a mix of The Rolling Stones' guitarist Keith Richards and Looney Tunes animation character Pepé Le Pew. He initially shows up in the 2003 film "". He later shows up in the continuations "" (2006), "" (2007), "" (2011), and "" (2017). 

In the movies, Sparrow is one of the nine privateer rulers in the Brethren Court, the Pirate Lords of the Seven Seas. He can be deceptive and endures generally by utilizing mind and arrangement as opposed to by power, selecting to escape most unsafe circumstances and to battle just when vital. Sparrow is acquainted looking for with recover his ship, the "Dark Pearl", from his mutinous first mate, Hector Barbossa. Later he endeavors to get away from his blood obligation to the incredible Davy Jones while battling the East India Trading Company. 

The "Privateers of the Caribbean" arrangement was enlivened by the Disney amusement park ride of a similar name, and when the ride was patched up in 2006, the character of Captain Jack Sparrow was added to it. He featured the Legend of Captain Jack Sparrow fascination at Disney's Hollywood Studios, and is the subject of turn off books, including a kids' book arrangement "", which annals his high school years. 

Skipper Jack Sparrow initially shows up in "" (2003). 

Jack Sparrow touches base in Port Royal in Jamaica to seize a ship. Regardless of saving Elizabeth Swann, the little girl of Governor Weatherby Swann, from suffocating, he is imprisoned for theft. That night, a reviled privateer deliver called "Dark Pearl" assaults Port Royal and Elizabeth is abducted. "Dark Pearl"s skipper, Hector Barbossa, urgently looks for one final gold coin to break an old Aztec revile that he and his team are under. A metalworker named Will Turner liberates Sparrow to help him in saving Elizabeth. They appropriate HMS "Interceptor" and enroll a diverse group in Tortuga, Haiti before making a beeline for Isla de Muerta, where Elizabeth is held hostage. En route, Will discovers that Sparrow was "Dark Pearl"s commander until Barbossa drove a revolt ten years sooner and assumed control over the ship, marooning Sparrow on an island to bite the dust. Sparrow reveals to Turner that his dad was a privateer known as "Bootstrap" Bill Turner. 

The salvage endeavor goes amiss and Barbossa maroons Jack and Elizabeth on a similar island whereupon he had stranded Sparrow previously. Elizabeth makes a flag fire from rum barrels and they are saved by the British Royal Navy. Sparrow give a break with Commodore James Norrington to lead Norrington to "Dark Pearl". Norrington denies until Elizabeth, frantic to spare Will, immediately acknowledges Norrington's prior proposition to be engaged. Directly before the movie's climactic fight with the privateers at Isla de Muerta, Sparrow swipes a reviled coin from the money box, making himself unfading and fit for dueling Barbossa. He shoots his adversary with the gun he has conveyed for a long time similarly as Will breaks the revile, killing Barbossa. In spite of having helped the Navy, Sparrow is condemned to hang. 

At Sparrow's execution in Port Royal, Will spares Sparrow, yet they are immediately caught. Elizabeth intercedes, proclaiming her affection for Will who is exonerated, while Sparrow escapes by tumbling off an ocean divider. "Dark Pearl" and her new team touch base so as to recover him, and he progresses toward becoming chief again. Awed by the wily privateer, Norrington permits him one day's head begin before giving pursue. 

A year following the occasions of the primary film, Sparrow looks for the Dead Man's Chest, which contains the core of Captain Davy Jones. Sparrow made a deal with Jones to raise the indented "Dark Pearl" and make Sparrow skipper for a long time. Presently the obligation is expected, and Sparrow should either serve one hundred years on board the "Flying Dutchman", or be hauled to Davy Jones' Locker by the Kraken. On the off chance that he can locate the Dead Man's Chest Sparrow can free his spirit and control Jones and the oceans. 

Adding to Sparrow's hardships, Lord Cutler Beckett of the East India Trading Company has an individual score to settle with Sparrow. Beckett needs the chest and powers Will Turner to scan for Sparrow and his enchantment compass. Turner finds Sparrow and his group on Pelegosto, held hostage by barbarians who plan to eat Sparrow. They getaway, and voyage to Tia Dalma (a supernatural lady later uncovered to be the Goddess, Calypso, bound in human structure as Dalma, and previous admirer of Jones). Dalma quickly observes fate in Will, and furnishes Sparrow with a container of soil - Jones can just set foot ashore once at regular intervals, and since land is the place Sparrow is sheltered, Dalma proposes with the earth that he takes land with him. 

Sparrow hits another arrangement with Jones to convey one hundred spirits in return for his own. Jones concurs yet keeps Turner as a "decent confidence installment". Sparrow is selecting mariners in Tortuga when he experiences Elizabeth Swann and James Norrington, the last having surrendered to liquor. Sparrow persuades Elizabeth that Turner can be liberated by utilizing the enchantment compass to discover the chest. The team head for Isla Cruces and find Will, who got away from Jones' ship and has stolen the way to the Chest. Turner needs to wound Jones' heart and free his dad from Jones' bondage, while Norrington plots to reestablish his profession by conveying the heart to Beckett. Sparrow needs it to persuade Jones to cancel the Kraken. 

Norrington escapes with the heart in the midst of a fight with Jones' group, and Jones gathers the Kraken. Acknowledging Sparrow is the objective, Elizabeth traps him on board the "Dark Pearl" as the group deserts the ship, and kisses him while she cuffs him to the pole. At that point, the beast eats up Sparrow and hauls the ship and his spirit to Davy Jones' Locker. The enduring group looks for shelter with Tia Dalma who delivers a skipper she says can protect Sparrow: a revived Hector Barbossa. 

Two months following the occasions of the second film, with Davy Jones' heart in his ownership and the "Flying Dutchman" under his order, Cutler Beckett starts eliminating all privateers. To battle Beckett, the nine privateer rulers of the Brethren Court meet at Shipwreck Cove. Just Jack Sparrow is missing, executed and sent to Davy Jones' Locker toward the finish of the past film. Sparrow, as Pirate Lord of the Caribbean, must visit, as he didn't bequeathe to an assigned beneficiary his "bit of eight", a privateer ruler's marker. The aggregate "nine bits of eight" are expected to free ocean goddess Calypso to vanquish Beckett. With Elizabeth Swann and Will Turner, Barbossa drives Sparrow's team to Davy Jones' Locker utilizing stolen navigational diagrams from the privateer master Sao Feng (Chow Yun-fat). After the team find him, Sparrow disentangles a piece of information on the outlines enabling them to get away from the Locker. 

At the Brethren Court, Elizabeth has succeeded Captain Sao Feng as a Pirate Lord and is chosen "Privateer King" after Sparrow breaks a stalemate vote. Sparrow is quickly rejoined with his dad, Captain Teague. Amid a conference with Beckett and Jones, Sparrow is exchanged for Turner, whom Jones and Beckett had caught. At the point when Sparrow consults with Beckett in the all-inclusive form of the film, it is uncovered that he once cruised the "Dark Pearl" under Beckett's order, however abandoned subsequent to declining to convey slave payload. The "Dark Pearl" fights the "Flying Dutchman" amid a bedlam made by Calypso, amid which Sparrow takes Jones' heart to end up undying. At the point when Jones mortally wounds Turner, Sparrow rather spares Turner by helping him cut the heart, which executes Jones and makes Turner the "Dutchman"s skipper. Together, the "Pearl" and the "Dutchman" decimate Beckett's ship. Toward the end, Barbossa again lays hold of the "Pearl" and Sao Feng's diagrams, stranding Sparrow and Gibbs in Tortuga. Be that as it may, Sparrow had figured out how to remove the navigational area of the graphs and with them starts to scan for the amazing Fountain of Youth. 

In the wake of neglecting to discover the Fountain of Youth, Sparrow touches base in London just to learn somebody is gathering a group by utilizing his name. While hunting down the sham, he spares Gibbs from being hanged however is caught by the Royal Guards. They present him to King George II. Sparrow is amazed to learn Captain Barbossa is currently a privateer in the Royal Navy. Sparrow will not consult with them to find the Fountain of Youth and breaks. Before long he encounters his impersonator, a past love interest named Angelica (Penélope Cruz). She shanghais him to serve on board the "Ruler Anne's Revenge", the ship captained by her dad Blackbeard (Ian McShane), who powers Sparrow to look for the Fountain of Youth. 

Sparrow flops in his endeavor to assume control over the ship in a rebellion against Blackbeard and spare the credulous Angelica from her insidious dad. In the wake of experiencing perilous mermaids, Barbossa, and the Spanish Navy, Sparrow finds the Fountain of Youth. At the point when Angelica is injured, he traps Blackbeard into giving up himself to spare her, and Angelica reprimands Sparrow for her dad's passing. Sparrow and Angelica recognize their affections for each other, however Sparrow maroons Angelica on an island, trusting she may vindicate her dad's passing. Gibbs, in the mean time, has recovered the contracted "Dark Pearl" from Blackbeard's gathering of contracted ships in the desire for reestablishing it to typical size. Despite the fact that he has relinquished his chance for eternality, Sparrow agrees to being well known as the person who found the Fountain of Youth. Following the film's end credits, Angelica's voodoo doll of Sparrow has floated to the island that she is marooned on. 

Sparrow returns in the fifth film, depicted by and by Johnny Depp. Some time after the journey for the Fountain of Youth, Jack has reassembled a little group, however the "Dark Pearl" is as yet caught in a jug, his new ship the "Withering Gull" has never left compartment, and his most recent plans have met with disappointment. In the mean time, his opponent Barbossa has turned into the most extravagant and most dominant privateer of the seven oceans. 

Sparrow and his team endeavor to loot the new bank of St. Martin. The burglary is a triumph, yet all the gold in it had fallen while they were hauling the storage, and Sparrow's group deserts him. Depressed, Jack exchanges his otherworldly compass for a beverage. Be that as it may, this double-crossing of the compass discharges an old adversary of Sparrow, whom holds a genuine resentment against him; the heartless undead privateer seeker Captain Salazar. A long time beforehand, Jack had crushed Salazar by deceiving him into cruising his ship into the Devil's Triangle, where Salazar and his team were reviled to live as the undead. Salazar states that Jack roosted in the ship's apparatus like a "little feathered creature", acquiring him the name "Jack the Sparrow". It was amid this occasion Jack gotten his compass, just as his trademark gear. 

While in jail, Jack is reached by Henry Turner, the child of Will and Elizabeth, to look for his guide in finding the Trident of Poseidon. Recollecting Elizabeth and Will from his past misfortunes, Jack concurs however not before communicating some faltering. The following day, Sparrow is condemned to be executed by guillotine (by Jack's incidental picking), however is saved by Henry and his group. Helped by hopeful cosmologist Carina, Jack and Henry endeavor to find the Trident of Poseidon, as both need its capacity to break curses identified with the ocean. Barbossa discharges the "Pearl" from its container, allowing them to surpass Salazar. Jack and Barbossa talk about the way that Carina is in truth Barbossa's departed girl, whom he had left at a shelter so as to give her a shot for a superior life. Jack endeavors to utilize the key to extort Barbossa, however falls flat. 

They can follow the Trident to its resting place. Despite the fact that Salazar about murders Jack, they can obliterate the Trident. With the annihilation of the Trident, Salazar and his group become mortal once more. Jack, Henry and Carina escape as Barbossa penances himself to execute Salazar. Notwithstanding their disparities, Jack grieves Barbossa's passing. Afterward, Jack watches Will and Elizabeth's gathering before he leaves, the "Dark Pearl" and his compass by and by in his ownership. 

When composing the screenplay for "The Curse of the Black Pearl", Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio imagined Captain Jack Sparrow as a supporting character in the vein of Bugs Bunny and Groucho Marx. The makers considered him to be a youthful Burt Lancaster. Executive Gore Verbinski conceded, "The principal film was a motion picture, and after that Jack was put into it nearly. He doesn't have the commitments of the plot in a similar ways that different characters have. He winds his way through, and he sort of effects every other person." Sparrow speaks to a moral privateer, with Captain Barbossa as his degenerate foil. His actual thought processes more often than not stay conceal, and whether he is noteworthy or detestable relies upon the gathering of people's point of view. This goes about as a component of Will Turner's circular segment, in which Sparrow reveals to him a privateer can be a decent man, similar to his dad. 

Following the accomplishment of "The Curse of the Black Pearl", the test to making a spin-off was, as indicated by Verbinski, "You don't need only the Jack Sparrow film. It resembles having a garlic milkshake. He's the flavor and you need a great deal of straight men ... How about we not give them an excessive amount of Jack. It resembles a lot of pastry or a lot of something to be thankful for." Although "Dead Man's Chest" was composed to drive the set of three's plot, Sparrow's perspective as he is sought after by Davy Jones turns out to be progressively restless, and the journalists created the man-eater succession to demonstrate that he was in risk whether ashore or adrift. Sparrow is puzzled over his appreciation for Elizabeth Swann, and endeavors to legitimize it all through the film. 

"At World's End" was intended to return it tonally to a character piece. Sparrow, specifically, is tinged with franticness after broadened isolation in Davy Jones' Locker, and now wants everlasting status. Sparrow battles with the stuff to be an ethical individual, after his legitimate streak caused his fate in the second film. This is for the most part appeared by his inexorably whimsical conduct and Jack's fantasies, which seemed, by all accounts, to be basically his unhinged personality first and foremost where many "Jack Sparrows" seemed to group the ship in his single outcast, however later the mind flights developed progressively critical and there were fundamentally two "Jacks" continually contending about which way to pursue: the everlasting status or the mortality. The last fantasy occurred while Jack was detained on the Dutchman, where his legitimate streak won. Before the finish of "At World's End", Sparrow is cruising to the Fountain of Youth, an early idea for the second film. Rossio said in 2007 that a fourth film was conceivable, and maker Jerry Bruckheimer communicated enthusiasm for a turn off. Violence Verbinski agreed that "the majority of the accounts get under way by the main film have been settled. In the event that there ever were another "Privateers of the Caribbean" film, I would begin crisp and spotlight on the further undertakings of Captain Jack Sparrow." 

"" was first reported on September 28, 2008, amid a Disney occasion at the Kodak Theater. Verbinski did not come back to coordinate the fourth portion and was supplanted by Rob Marshall. The motion picture utilizes components from Tim Powers' epic of a similar name, especially Blackbeard and the Fountain of Youth, however the film is certifiably not a straight adjustment of the novel. 

Hoping to complete a family film, Johnny Depp visited the Walt Disney Studios in 2001 when he knew about designs to adjust the Pirates of the Caribbean ride into a film. Depp was energized by the likelihood of restoring an old Hollywood type, and found the content met his particular sensibilities: the group of the "Dark Pearl" were not looking for fortune but rather attempting to return it to lift a revile on them, and the customary rebellion had just happened. Depp was thrown on June 10, 2002. Maker Jerry Bruckheimer felt Depp would give the film an edge that could draw young and grown-up groups of onlookers in spite of Disney's notoriety for delicate kids' passage. 

At the principal read-through, Depp astonished the cast and group by depicting the character in a helter-skelter way. He inquired about eighteenth century privateers and, seeing parallels with current heroes, displayed his execution on Keith Richards. Richards later showed up in two appearances as Jack's dad, Captain Teague, in "At World's End" and "On Stranger Tides". Verbinski and Bruckheimer believed in Depp, somewhat in light of the fact that Orlando Bloom would play the customary Errol Flynn-type character. Depp ad libbed the film's last line, "Presently, present to me that skyline", which the author called his most loved line. Disney officials were at first confounded by Depp's execution, addressing whether the character was flushed or gay. While watching the surges, Disney CEO Michael Eisner broadcasted Depp was demolishing the film. Depp's reaction to Disney administrators was they could confide in him with his decisions or let him go. Numerous industry insiders scrutinized Depp's throwing, as he was a flighty performing artist not known for working inside the customary studio framework. 

Depp's execution won praise from film commentators. Alan Morrison discovered it "Sublimely over-the-top ... As far as physical accuracy and verbal conveyance, it's an ace class in parody acting." Roger Ebert applauded Depp for illustration far from the character as composed and discovered Depp's execution "unique in its each particle. There has never been a privateer, or so far as that is concerned a person, similar to this in some other movie ... his conduct demonstrates a lifetime of practice". Depp won a Screen Actor's Guild grant for his execution, and was assigned for a Golden Globe and the Academy Award for Best Actor, the first in his profession. "Film School Rejects" contended the film made Depp as much a motion picture star as he was a character performer. 

Depp's arrival in "Dead Man's Chest" was the first occasion when he had ever constructed a continuation. Drew McWeeny expressed, "Recall how cool Han Solo was in "Star Wars" the first occasion when you saw it? And after that recollect how much cooler he appeared when "Realm" turned out? This is enormous a hop." Depp got a MTV Movie Award and a Teen Choice Award for "Dead Man's Chest", and was named for an Empire Award and another Golden Globe. For his execution in "At World's End", Depp won a MTV Movie Award for Best Comedic Performance, just as a People's Choice Award, a Kids' Choice Award, and another Teen Choice Award. He has marked on to repeat the job for future continuations. 

Depp wears a dreadlock wig in a stone and-move way to deal with a privateer tasteful. He wears a red bandanna and various articles in his hair, affected by Keith Richards' propensity for gathering trinkets from his movements; Sparrow's improvements incorporate his "bit of eight". Sparrow wears kohl around his eyes, which was roused by Depp's investigation of travelers, whom he contrasted with privateers, and he wore contacts that went about as shades. Sparrow has a few gold teeth, two of which have a place with Depp, in spite of the fact that they were connected amid recording. Depp at first neglected to have them evacuated in the wake of shooting "The Curse of the Black Pearl", and wore them all through the shooting of the continuations. Like all parts of Depp's execution, Disney at first communicated incredible worry over Depp's teeth. Sparrow wears his goatee in two twists. At first wire was utilized in them, yet the wires were surrendered in light of the fact that they made the meshes stick up when Depp set down. Sparrow has various tattoos, and has been marked a privateer on his correct arm by Cutler Beckett, underneath a tattoo of a sparrow. 

Depp worked together with ensemble architect Penny Rose on his character's appearance, handpicking a tricorne as Sparrow's mark calfskin cap; to make Sparrow's extraordinary, different characters did not wear cowhide caps. An elastic rendition was utilized for the scene in "Dead Man's Chest" when the cap skims on water. Depp got a kick out of the chance to stick to one ensemble, wearing one lightweight silk tweed dress coat all through the arrangement, and he must be persuaded out of wearing his boots for a variant without a sole or heel in shoreline scenes. The official line is that none of the outfits from "The Curse of the Black Pearl" endure, which enabled the chance to make harder material shirts for tricks. In any case, one remains which has been shown in a presentation of screen outfits in Worcester, England. It was a bad dream for Rose to find similar creators of Sparrow's scarf in Turkey. Rose did not have any desire to silkscreen it, as the homewoven piece had the right worn feel. Sparrow wears an extra belt in the spin-offs, on the grounds that Depp preferred another clasp which did not fit with the first piece. 

Sparrow's weapons are veritable eighteenth century pieces: his sword dates to the 1740s and his gun is from the 1760s. Both were made in London. Depp utilized two guns on set, one of elastic. Both endure creation of the principal film. Sparrow's enchantment compass likewise made due into the continuations, however chief Gore Verbinski had a red bolt added to the dial as it turned into an increasingly noticeable prop. As it doesn't act like a typical compass, a magnet was utilized to make it turn. Sparrow wears four rings, two of which have a place with Depp. Depp purchased the green ring in 1989 and the gold ring is a reproduction of a 2400-year-old ring Depp provided for the team, however the first was later stolen. The other two are props to which Depp gave backstories: the gold-and-dark ring is stolen from a Spanish widow Sparrow allured and the green mythical beast ring reviews his undertakings in the Far East. Among Depp's extra thoughts was the neckband made of human toes that Sparrow wears as the Pelegosto get ready to eat him, and the staff depended on one a companion of Depp's claimed. 

Throughout the set of three, Sparrow experiences physical changes. In "The Curse of the Black Pearl", Sparrow curses himself to fight the undead Barbossa. Like every one of the performers playing the "Dark Pearl" group, Depp needed to shoot scenes in outfit as a kind of perspective for the artists, and his shots as a skeleton were shot again without him. Depp repeated the scene again on a movement catch organize. In "At World's End", Sparrow fantasizes a rendition of himself as an individual from Davy Jones' group, clung to a divider and encrusted with barnacles. Verbinski managed that the structure held Sparrow's unmistakable look, and rejected starting plans which depicted him as more than 100 years of age. 

As per screenwriters Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio, Sparrow is a cheat who utilizes mind and trickery to achieve his objectives, liking to end debate verbally rather than by power. He strolls with a somewhat inebriated swagger and has slurred discourse and thrashing hand motions. Sparrow is astute, ascertaining, and capricious. He tricks Norrington and his group to set sail on the illustrious ship "Interceptor", which forces the reverence of Lieutenant Groves as he surrenders: "That is got the opportunity to be the best privateer I have ever observed". Norrington himself assents to this recognition: "So no doubt", in sharp differentiation to what he had recently declared: "You are without uncertainty the most exceedingly awful privateer I have ever known about". In the third film, while he leaves Beckett's ship stranded and makes off, Lieutenant Groves asks him: "Do you think he designs it hard and fast, or just influences it to up as he comes?" 

Despite the fact that a gifted swordsman, Sparrow wants to utilize his prevalent knowledge amid battle, abusing his condition to turn the tables on his adversaries, thinking "Why battle when you can arrange?" He utilizes procedures of peaceful exchange and turning his foes against one another. He summons conferences and entices his foes from their deadly expectations, urging them to see the master plan, as he does when he induces Barbossa to defer coming back to mortal structure so he can fight the Royal Navy. He frequently utilizes complex pleasantry and vocabulary to bewilder his adversaries, and it is proposed that his pacifism might be one reason Barbossa and the team of the "Dark Pearl" mutinied. 

The character is depicted as having made, or possibly added to, his very own notoriety. At the point when Gibbs discloses to Will that Sparrow got away from a desert island by tying two ocean turtles together, Sparrow decorates the story by guaranteeing the rope was produced using hair from his very own back, while truly, Sparrow got away from the island by dealing with rum merchants. The computer game "" puts together itself with respect to these fanciful stories, including the sacking of Nassau port without discharging a shot. Depp has compared privateers to demigods in that their notoriety went before them. Sparrow demands being tended to as "Chief" and frequently gives the goodbye, "This is the day you will dependably recall as the day that you "nearly" got Captain Jack Sparrow!" which is now and again amusingly cut off. At the point when Norrington blames him for being the most exceedingly bad privateer he has ever known about, Sparrow answers, "Yet you "have" knew about me." In an erased scene from "The Curse of the Black Pearl" Sparrow contemplates being "the undying Captain Jack Sparrow", and amid "At World's End" he again is keen on interminability, despite the fact that his dad, Captain Teague, cautions it tends to be a horrendous revile. Sparrow considers being "Chief Jack Sparrow, the last privateer," as the East India Trading Company cleanses theft. 

Notwithstanding his numerous heroics, Sparrow is a privateer and an ethically vague character. When consenting to exchange 100 spirits, including Will, to Davy Jones in return for his opportunity, Jones asks Sparrow whether he can, "censure a guiltless man—a "companion"— to a lifetime of subjugation in your name while you meander aimlessly?" After a wavering Sparrow cheerfully answers, "That's right! I'm great with it!" He imprudently keeps running up obligations with Anamaria, Davy Jones, and the other privateer rulers. Sao Feng, privateer master of Singapore, is especially derisive towards him. In an apprehensive minute, Sparrow deserts his group amid the Kraken's assault, however hidden unwaveringness and profound quality propel him to return and spare them. Sparrow professes to take care of business of his oath, and communicates shock that individuals question his honesty; there is no homicide on his criminal record. 

Depp mostly put together the character with respect to Pepé Le Pew, a womanizing skunk from "Looney Tunes". Sparrow professes to have a "gigantic instinctive feeling of the female animal," despite the fact that his triumphs are regularly left with a sharp memory of him. Previous blazes, Scarlett and Giselle, normally slap him or anybody searching for him. His clever appeal effectively draws in ladies, and even has Elizabeth scrutinizing her sentiments. Verbinski noted phallic meanings in Sparrow's association with his vessel, as he holds the ship's wheel. The "Dark Pearl" is depicted as "the main ship which can surpass the "Flying Dutchman"". The Freudian suggestions proceed in the third film when Sparrow and Barbossa fight for captaincy of the "Dark Pearl", flaunting the length of their telescopes, and in an erased scene, they battle about the controlling wheel. Sparrow guarantees his "solitary love is the ocean," and portrays his ship as speaking to opportunity. Davy Jones' Locker is spoken to as a desert, symbolizing his own hellfire. 

Commander Jack Sparrow has turned out to be a standout amongst the most notorious film characters ever. At the point when "Dead Man's Chest" netted over around the world, Ian Nathan credited this to Sparrow's prominence: ""Pirates", the establishment, just needed to turn up. There was an incredible extra from the brazen enjoyments of its presentation, something we hadn't felt since the Clone Wars considered it daily." "Domain" in 2006 announced Depp's execution the seventy-fourth "thing that shook our reality" and later named him the eighth most prominent motion picture character ever. In 2015, another survey of the 100 biggest film characters ever set him as the fourteenth most prominent. A review of in excess of 3,000 individuals indicated Jack Sparrow was the most well known Halloween outfit of 2006, and a 2007 survey held by the Internet Movie Database demonstrated Sparrow to be the second most mainstream live activity legend after Indiana Jones. In a 2007 Pearl & Dean survey, Jack Sparrow was recorded as Depp's most prominent execution. 

Todd Gilchrist feels Sparrow is the main component of the movies that will stay ageless. As per Sharon Eberson, the character's prevalence can be credited to his being a "heel whose incidental episodes of still, small voice enable watchers to run with the blemishes on the grounds that, as played to the overwhelming grip by Depp, he possesses each scene he is in". Film history teacher Jonathan Kuntz ascribed Sparrow's notoriety to the expanded addressing of manliness in the 21st century, and Sparrow's identity appears differently in relation to activity experience saints in film. Leonard Maltin agrees that Sparrow has a joyful disposition and does not pay attention to himself. Imprint Fox noted Sparrow is a dreamer dream figure for ladies, free from a great part of the duty of generally legends. Sparrow is recorded by IGN as one of their ten most loved film outlaws, as he "lives for himself and the opportunity to do whatever it is that he damn well satisfies. Valuable couple of film characters have encapsulated what makes the fugitive such a sentimental figure for gatherings of people as Captain Jack Sparrow has." "Excitement Weekly" put it on its decade's end, "best-of" list, saying, "Part Keith Richards fracture, part sozzled parlor reptile, Johnny Depp's swizzleshtick privateer was unquestionably a standout amongst the most astonishing characters of the decade." In June 2010, Sparrow was named one of "Stimulation Weekly" "100 Greatest Characters of the Last 20 Years". 

Jack Sparrow additionally shows up in computer games and books spun off the "Privateers of the Caribbean" media establishment. Jack likewise shows up in the "Disney Infinity" arrangement, where he is voiced by Jared Butler, and in the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement, first in 2005's "Kingdom Hearts II", where he is voiced by James Arnold Taylor, and again in 2019's "Kingdom Hearts III", repeated by Butler. 

"Privateers of the Caribbean: The Complete Visual Guide" gives a backstory to Sparrow in which he was conceived on a privateer deliver amid a tropical storm in the Indian Ocean and was prepared to fence by an Italian. Books following Sparrow's undertakings before the occasions of the film incorporate a twelve-book arrangement concentrating on his young years entitled "", and a five-books "" arrangement. In 2011, Ann C. Crispin composed a novel titled "", which pursues Jack's experiences as a vendor chief for the East India Trading Company. 

In 2011, parody assemble the Lonely Island, in a joint effort with number vocalist Michael Bolton, discharged a melody named for Jack.