Eega 

Eega () is a 2012 Indian bilingual dream film composed by K. V. Vijayendra Prasad and coordinated by his child, S. S. Rajamouli. It was created by Korrapati Ranganatha Sai Varahi Chalana Chitram with an expected spending plan of 260 to 400 million (US$– million), and was made at the same time in Telugu and Tamil, the last as Naan Ee (). The film stars Sudeep, Nani and Samantha Ruth Prabhu. M. M. Keeravani formed the soundtrack and score. K. K. Senthil Kumar was chief of photography and Kotagiri Venkateswara Rao altered the film. Janardhan Maharshi and Crazy Mohan composed the exchange for the Telugu and Tamil adaptations, separately. 

The account of "Eega" is as a sleep time story advised by a dad to his girl. Its hero is Nani, who is infatuated with his neighbor Bindu. Nani is killed by a well off agent named Sudeep, who is pulled in to Bindu and thinks about Nani as an opponent. Nani resurrects as a housefly and endeavors to ensure Bindu while avenging his demise. 

The thought for the film began during the 1990s from a discussion in which Prasad kidded with Rajamouli about the possibility of a fly looking for vengeance against a human. Rajamouli rethought the thought in the wake of completing "Maryada Ramanna" (2010), and Prasad formed it into a content. The film's creation started on 7 December 2010 at Ramanaidu Studios in Hyderabad. Key photography started on 22 February 2011 and proceeded until late February 2012. Makuta VFX and Annapurna Studios managed "Eega" special visualizations and advanced middle of the road procedure, separately. 

The two adaptations of the film, close by a Malayalam-named variant titled Eecha, were discharged on 6 July 2012 in roughly 1,100 screens all around. The exhibitions of the essential cast, Rajamouli's heading, and enhanced visualizations got basic recognition upon discharge. "Eega" was one of the most noteworthy netting Telugu movies of the year, winning more than 1.25 billion (US$ million). Its Hindi-named form, Makkhi, which was discharged on 12 October 2012, had not made identical business progress as of June 2015. "Eega" won two National Film Awards (Best Feature Film in Telugu and Best Special Effects), five South Filmfare Awards including Best Telugu Film, Best Telugu Director, Best Telugu Actress (Samantha) and Best Telugu Supporting Actor (Sudeep) and three South Indian International Movie Awards. It was screened at the Toronto After Dark Film Festival, the Shanghai International Film Festival, and the Madrid International Film Festival. 

A young lady who is unfit to rest requests that her dad disclose to her a sleep time story. Albeit hesitant at first, he discloses to her an account of a fly named Nani. 

Nani is a young fellow who represents considerable authority in getting ready firecrackers. He is enamored with his neighbor Bindu, a miniaturized scale craftsman who runs Project 511, a non-administrative association (NGO). Bindu likewise creates affections for Nani however she doesn't express them. Trying to fund-raise for her NGO, Bindu visits the workplace of a rich, ground-breaking industrialist named Sudeep, who likewise discovers her alluring. He gets to know her, gives 1.5 million (US$ thousand), and additions her trust. Sudeep considers Nani to be an opponent and plans to slaughter him. One night, Nani encourages Bindu to complete a bit of small scale craftsmanship—a memento produced using a pencil. While returning home, he is hijacked by Sudeep, who slaughters him, making his demise resemble a mishap. Unconscious of the occurrence, Bindu proposes to the withering Nani by phone; it is the exact opposite thing Nani hears before he is resurrected as a housefly that can't recall its past life. 

The fly's memory is activated when it experiences Sudeep and Bindu. Sudeep asks the grief stricken Bindu to go with him to New Delhi to meet the training clergyman; on the off chance that she can inspire the pastor with an introduction about the NGO, he may enable it to increase national acknowledgment. The fly causes Sudeep to have a mishap on his way to the airplane terminal and states "I will slaughter you" on the windshield; this makes Sudeep jumpy. The fly, who sees Bindu grieving Nani's demise in her room, uncovers itself to be Nani by composing on the work area with her tears. It passes on the conditions of Nani's demise to Bindu, and they unite against Sudeep. The last's fixation on the fly influences his expert and individual life. In a chain of occasions, his cash is singed to fiery remains, abandoning him practically poverty stricken. 

Sudeep gains from a magician that Nani is resurrected as a fly and looks for vengeance. Sudeep orchestrates to execute Nani however the fly escapes and causes a short out, slaughtering the magician and leaving Sudeep oblivious. Nani and Bindu expect Sudeep is dead yet he is spared by his colleague. Sudeep is angered when he discovers that Bindu is helping the fly. Sudeep murders his accomplice to gather a 7 billion (US$ million) protection arrangement. 

Sudeep takes Bindu to his home and Nani tails them. Nani truly harms Sudeep with a needle. The last clasps Nani's wing and lethally wounds him with a similar needle. Nani hops through the fire of a consuming match then into a stacked gun, which shoot. The shot goes through Sudeep and hits an oxygen barrel, which detonates and slaughters him. Bindu takes the fly's wing and makes a special necklace with it. One day when making a trip to work, an eve mystery annoys her; Nani, again reawakened as a fly, assaults him with a needle before reporting his arrival. 

The young lady is awed with the tale of the fly her dad describes. 

The thought for "Eega" started in the late 1990s in screenwriter K. V. Vijayendra Prasad mind. Around then, he was kidding about a housefly looking for retribution on a human in a discussion with his child S. S. Rajamouli. Prasad later built up the thought as a content for an English-language film set in 1830s America, in which an African-American kid kicks the bucket trying to free his family from bondage and is resurrected as a fly. In the wake of finishing "Maryada Ramanna" (2010), Rajamouli reexamined the idea subsequent to considering coordinating a film that was particular from some other. He chose to make "Eega" a bilingual film in Telugu and Tamil – every scene including discourse was shot twice, once for every language. The Tamil form, titled "Naan Ee", was Rajamouli's directorial debut in Tamil film. The film was displayed by Daggubati Suresh Babu of Suresh Productions. 

Without precedent for his profession, Rajamouli started throwing after the content was finished in light of the fact that he felt the story required on-screen characters who were reasonable for the jobs. Nani, the hero, was the first of the three of the primary cast individuals to be picked; he finished recording his scenes in 25 days. Samantha Ruth Prabhu, the second performing artist cast, was marked as the female lead. Rajamouli picked Sudeep to play the fly's human enemy in the wake of being inspired with the on-screen character's execution in "Rann" (2010), and give rapper Noel Sean a role as Nani's companion in the film. Sudeep drew motivation for his job as the lowlife from the 1983 Kannada film "Bhakta Prahlada"; he was depicting a character he viewed as a "miscreant" with "dim shades" as opposed to a rival. 

The content was doctored by Rajamouli's sibling, S. S. Kanchi, while Janardhan Maharshi and Crazy Mohan composed the exchange for the Telugu and Tamil forms individually, denoting their first coordinated effort with Rajamouli. James Fowlds was at first picked as the movie's executive of photography, however was supplanted by K. K. Senthil Kumar because of inventive contrasts and planning clashes. M. M. Keeravani formed the movie's soundtrack and score, Kotagiri Venkateswara Rao altered the movie, Ravinder Reddy was its specialty chief, and Rajamouli's significant other Rama chipped away at the outfit plan. 

Creation of the film started with a formal dispatch function on 7 December 2010 in Hyderabad. The first form was recorded over a six-month time frame and cost about 110 million; Rajamouli felt the nature of the material was poor and begun once more. The film's last spending plan was evaluated at somewhere in the range of 260 and 400 million. 

Key photography started on 22 February 2011 in Hyderabad; 90% of the film was shot at Ramanaidu Studios in the city. An arrangement was recorded at Sri Sita Ramachandra Swamy Temple in Ammapally close Shamshabad, toward the beginning of March 2011. Scenes with Nani, Samantha, and Sudeep were taped amid the main shooting plan, which was finished on 16 March. Shooting was upset in April by a continuous work question between film laborers and makers. Rajamouli considered moving "Eega" out of Hyderabad if the strike proceeded. Recording proceeded in Kokapet toward the beginning of September 2011, and key photography was finished in late February 2012 as after generation started. 

As indicated by Rajamouli, the film unit counseled a 3D video of the storyboard before shooting a scene every day. After the shooting of every scene was finished, the altering and re-recording systems were finished with basic greyscale liveliness. An Arri Alexa camera, a prime focal point, and Scorpio and Strada cranes were utilized for the foremost photography, while a test focal point and high-force lighting were utilized for the full scale photography. Senthil Kumar needed to utilize an uncommon focal point with a base f-stop of f8.0; the wide gaps required high-power lighting to get satisfactory shots. He utilized GoPro cameras as they were the littlest conceivable ones that offered near proficient goals. Ghost Cam was utilized to film outrageous moderate movement arrangements; certain scenes were shot at 2,000 edges for each second. 

Advanced middle of the road (DI) was led at Annapurna Studios in Hyderabad. A top of the line DI framework was imported and the procedure took a half year to finish. Vocalist Chinmayi, who named for Samantha in "Eega", found the procedure troublesome in light of the fact that the recording did not contain the vivified fly. Rajamouli drew closer Anuj Gurwara to compose the exchange for the Hindi-named variant titled "Makkhi". The Hindi naming started in Hyderabad, and Gurwara named for Nani in the film. Ajay Devgan and his significant other Kajol, going about as guardians recounting to the film's story to their tyke at sleep time, gave voiceovers amid the opening credits of "Makkhi". The visuals going with the end credits were adjusted to demonstrate the fly imitating the shenanigans of Devgan, Salman Khan, and Akshay Kumar. 

R. C. Kamalakannan and Pete Draper of Makuta VFX administered "Eega" special visualizations, and Rahul Venugopal was the film's set chief and matte painter. V. Srinivas Mohan, who later teamed up with Rajamouli on "", chipped away at a short arrangement for the film. Rajamouli wanted to finish chip away at the fly symbolism in four months, yet it took fourteen. 

90% of the activity related work was done in Hyderabad; the staying 10% was finished in the United States. In an Indo-Asian News Service talk with, Draper said he worked together with thirteen specialists and a huge group of illustrators to structure the fly. Since the film's fly's eyes include 80 percent of its face, Rajamouli felt they could make it expressive; he utilized the 1986 Pixar American short film "Luxo Jr." for motivation. The yield of the primary group of illustrators, utilizing the reference material arranged, was inadmissible and Rajamouli modified the fly's enumerating. Utilizing an incredible focal point, the film group led a challenging photographic shoot of oblivious flies in a jug put away in a fridge. In the wake of amplifying the subtleties, Rajamouli rolled out restorative improvements to the fly's face to make it look engaging onscreen. Another group including Draper, three idea craftsmen, three modelers, two shader originators, two hair and hide creators, three riggers and a few artists, planned the energized fly in two months. Its head and hide were planned in the wake of molding its body and wings. The fly was refined day by day utilizing mud models to assist the procedure. The illustrators found the arrangements among Sudeep and the fly substantially more hard to execute in light of the fact that the last needed to express feelings just however its slim arms as opposed to its face. 

A portion of the embellishments couldn't be planned in India, so Makuta VFX connected with movement specialists in Armenia, China, Iran, Israel, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States. The organization's 30-part group experienced a preparation program on acting hypothesis and creepy crawly arranges. "Eega" is the main Indian film to utilize PC created symbolism for almost an hour and a half of its length; the film had 2,234 real life liveliness shots. By mid-June 2012 Rajamouli had endorsed 1,970 shots; the last form was appeared to the film unit after the endorsement of 226 pending shots. The special visualizations cost an expected 70 million. 

The film's primary topic is retribution; the spirit of a killed man is resurrected as a fly and looks for vengeance against his executioner. Rajamouli recognized a few likenesses to David Cronenberg "The Fly" (1986), in which a researcher turns into a fly when his investigation breakdowns, and thought of "Eega" as a "socio-dream" as opposed to a sci-fi film. At a gathering with understudies at the Annapurna International School of Film and Media Campus (AIFSM), he analyzed the fight between the fly and Sudeep, which the dark horse fly successes, to David triumph over Goliath and India's triumph in the 1983 Cricket World Cup. Insane Mohan contrasted the film and "Apoorva Sagodharargal" (1989), a vengeance show whose hero Appu (Kamal Haasan) is a midget. 

Mohan told Malathi Rangarajan of "The Hindu" that despite the fact that the film's content may look like those of "Stuart Little" (1999) and "Shrek" (2001), the utilization of the predicament of somebody tormented by a housefly was a unique thought. As indicated by Tamil film antiquarian and performing artist Mohan Raman, "Naan Ee"unlike the creature focused movies "Nalla Neram" (1972) and "Neeya?" (1979)lacks a human hero. Film pundit Baradwaj Rangan discovered "Eega" hero sensible, as opposed to the ones in the energized movies by the Walt Disney Company, aside from when it shows a couple of human attributes. "Early afternoon" thought about "Eega" to "Cockroach" (2010), an Australian short film about a man who is resurrected as a cockroach after he is unintentionally killed on his big day. 

The film's optional topic is the survival of affection past death. Rangan has compared "Eega" to a phantom film in light of the fact that a dead hero comes back to his friends and family as a harried soul. Malini Mannath of "The New Indian Express" found the scene where the fly thwarts Sudeep's endeavor to draw near to Bindu reminiscent of one in the film "Apparition" (1990). Mayank Shekhar reprimanded the connection between the lead pair, which he said advocates stalking as an acknowledged type of sentiment. Malathi Rangarajan said the foe took the "outrageous advance" of killing the saint right off the bat in the film, interestingly with the cliché opponent whose desire for the female lead has quite recently started and undermines the legend. 

Remarking on the use of Tantrism, "The New Indian Express" Kruthi Grover found the demise of the alchemist like the tale of Bhasmasur, an evil presence in Indian folklore to whom Shiva enables to decrease an individual to fiery remains by contacting her or his head. At the point when Bhasmasur attempts to contact Shiva's head, Vishnu accept the type of Mohini and makes Bhasmasur contact his own head, executing him. As indicated by Malathi Rangarajan, the movie's topics of Tantrism and dark enchantment are reminiscent of the utilization of the mysterious as a plot gadget in movies coordinated by B. Vittalacharya. 

The soundtracks of "Eega" and "Naan Ee", each comprising of five songsone of which is a remixed rendition of the film's title tune—were made by M. M. Keeravani. Keeravani said in light of the fact that the film's subject of vengeance and the hero (a housefly) are general ideas, his "just test" was guaranteeing the music did not have a "particular ethnic or territorial flavor" and "request". He consolidated the humming sound made by flies into the score and misrepresented or diminished it as indicated by a scene's passionate nature. Rajamouli drew nearer Madhan Karky to compose the verses for "Naan Ee" soundtrack after the arrival of "Enthiran" (2010), clarifying the significance of every tune in the film's account. Just as giving point by point profiles of the characters, Rajamouli ordered a couple of scenes, which helped Karky compose the verses. 

"Eega" soundtrack was discharged on 30 March 2012 at a special occasion at Shanti Sarovar, Brahma Kumaris' foundation in Gachibowli, a suburb of Hyderabad. The soundtrack for "Naan Ee" was discharged on 1 April at another limited time occasion at Sathyam Cinema in Chennai. "Eega" soundtrack discharge on iTunes was postponed until 3 April to maintain a strategic distance from robbery and unlawful downloads. 

Composing for "The Hindu", Sangeetha Devi Dundoo called the soundtrack "melodious ... sharply differentiated by the foundation score, which flawlessly moves from calm to perky to throbbing". Another pundit for "The Hindu", S. R. Ashok Kumar commended Vijay Prakash version of "Konjam". Kumar valued the utilization of violins in "Eedaa" and called "Magma Lava" "a great number". Karthik Pasupulate of "The Times of India" composed that Keeravani "just appears to save his best for [Rajamouli]", calling the soundtrack "one of his best". 

"Eega", with "Naan Ee" and "Eecha", was discharged on 6 July 2012 on around 1,100 screens. The Government of Tamil Nadu demanded stimulation charge on "Naan Ee" at the rate of 30%. "Eega" Hindi-named adaptation, titled "Makkhi", was discharged on 12 October 2012. The film was additionally named into Chinese and Swahili as "Kungfu Housefly" and "Inzi", individually; the last was discharged with the trademark "Kisasi Cha Mwisho" ("Fly: a definitive retribution"). "Inzi" was discharged in Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, and Republic of the Congo, making "Eega" the primary Telugu film to be discharged in Africa. 

Worldwide dispersion rights for the Telugu form were sold for 340 million, and PVP Cinema obtained "Naan Ee" circulation rights for 50 million. Outside India, 14 Reels Entertainment disseminated "Eega" and "Naan Ee" in relationship with Ficus, Inc. Dependence Entertainment gained "Makkhi" dissemination rights. 

Weeks after "Eega" discharge, its pilfered form was discharged; it was wrongfully shot in a venue in Varadaiahpalem, Chittoor region. A legal watermarking examination on the pilfered duplicates confirmed that a camcorder was utilized all the while. The advanced watermarking additionally helped agents find the wellspring of the robbery of "Naan Ee" to a venue in Coimbatore. 

As indicated by Rajamouli, "Eega" was unlawfully downloaded multiple times inside seven days of the pilfered rendition being spilled on the Internet. Rajamouli included that a database of IP locations of non-occupant Indians who much of the time download content was imparted to migration specialists which could influence their potential US living arrangement grant applications. The counter robbery cell delinked in excess of 2,000 connects to the pilfered adaptations of "Naan Ee" on the Internet. 

"Naan Ee" satellite TV rights were sold to Sun TV for 33.5 million—a record cost for a Telugu executive's film, surpassing Rajamouli's underlying desires. "Makkhi" transmission rights were sold to STAR Gold for 80 million. As per STAR Gold general chief Hemal Jhaveri, "Makkhi" TV debut had an objective rating point rating of 3.5; exchange investigator Sreedhar Pillai called its execution "wonderful". 

In November 2012, Aditya Music discharged "Eega" on Blu-beam with English captions and DTS-HD MA 5.1 encompass sound. The discharge additionally contained a two-hour DVD about the creation of the film. J. Hurtado of Twitch Film looked into the Blu-beam rendition, stating, "The most appalling ruining of the film comes as a seriously screwed complexity scale, which prompts ludicrously pounded dark dimensions rendering almost all shadow detail totally demolished". Hurtado considered the sound a "wonderful thing, giving great division and a blasting low end that places you amidst the "Eega" activity in a way that even my dramatic experience couldn't do". 

As indicated in terms of professional career examiner Komal Nahta, "Eega" got 170 million in South India on its first day of discharge. On its opening end of the week, it netted US$538,996 from 31 screens in the United States—a for each screen normal of $17,387. In ten days, "Naan Ee" earned 130 million from 208 screens in Tamil Nadu. On its second end of the week, "Eega" netted $253,334 from 42 screens in the US, bringing its ten-day aggregate in that nation to $913,046. By at that point, "Naan Ee" had netted an aggregate of $14,259 in the United States. "Naan Ee" earned 180 million out of three weeks at the Tamil Nadu film industry—a record for a bilingual, Telugu-Tamil film. By early August 2012, the joined merchant share for the Telugu and Tamil adaptations was 570 million. 

As per "Bangalore Mirror", the film earned 1.15 billion all around as of August 2012. Its last worldwide gross is evaluated at 1.25 to 1.3 billion. "Eega" netted about $1.08 million in the United States; it was one of the nation's most elevated earning Telugu films. It was pronounced the most elevated netting bilingual film in Tamil Nadu after it earned 246.6 million, with a wholesaler offer of 85 million, in 50 days. The film broke the record held by "Arundhati" (2009), whose Tamil-named rendition earned a merchant offer of 65 million. 

Indo-Asian News Service expressed that "Eega" was the most astounding earning Telugu film of 2012, yet "Bangalore Mirror" said it was the second-most noteworthy (after "Gabbar Singh") in film industry income. As indicated by "Deccan Herald", "Eega" and "Julai" were the main 2012 major spending Telugu movies to make back the initial investment and have a positive crowd reaction. "Makkhi" opened inadequately, regardless of positive informal, in the long run winding up as a normal grosser. As to execution of "Makkhi", Rajamouli felt the film was ineffectively introduced and did not contact its dramatic gathering of people despite the fact that it was better gotten on TV, thus later on worked together with movie producer Karan Johar – whom he considered the "one missing connection" – on the introduction of the Hindi-named variant of his later film, "Baahubali: The Beginning". 

Baradwaj Rangan, composing for "The Hindu", said without a human hero, just a scoundrel and a courageous woman, the group of onlookers is "drove through a story that is clever, nostalgic, activity pressed, sentimental—there's even a touch of the mysterious tossed in". Additionally for "The Hindu", Malathi Rangarajan stated, "How about we praise the illusion of [Rajamouli's] creative ability that has influenced the housefly to show up as strong as any of our muscle-flexing saints". Karishma Upadhyay of "The Telegraph" called the film "a champ from the main casing to the last" and adulated Rajamouli's screenplay, composing that it made "the ludicrous appear to be genuine, willing you to acknowledge whatever he tosses at you". J. Hurtado of Twitch Film called "Eega" the "best, most crazy, most creative film of the year", and applauded Rajamouli's scripting, the special visualizations and Sudeep's execution, calling the last "honestly amusing". V. S. Rajapur, Indo-Asian News Service gave "Eega" four stars out of five, and lauded the exhibitions and music; Rajapur was especially energetic about the enhanced visualizations, saying the diligent work put in by the whole group was "unmistakably obvious onscreen". An analyst from Sify called "Eega" an "idealist, comic book-like dream" that "tosses you into an encounter so significant that nothing else truly matters". 

Radhika Rajamani of Rediff.com granted "Eega" four stars out of five; she lauded its special visualizations, exhibitions and cinematography and said Sudeep "is such a pleasure to watch on screen". Karthik Pasupulate and M. Suganth of "The Times of India" both gave "Eega" four stars out of five; Pasupulate said it offers a "mind-twisting rush a-second ride of the period, likely the decade". Suganth considered it a "bravura bit of business filmmaking that is an inadequate triumph in each perspective". Rajeev Masand of CNN-News18 gave the film four stars out of five and applauded its idea, and said Sudeep assumed his job with a "genuine comic book pizazz" and a "silly tinge". Composing for Bollywood Hungama, Subhash K. Jha commended "Eega's" "sharp held account", which dominated the "precarious plot". He further stated, "Gutsy shrewd and unique, this is the performer of the period". Anupama Chopra gave the film four stars out of five out of an audit for "Hindustan Times" and considered it a "distraught thrill ride that merits taking" and the "most abnormal film [she has] found in years". Shabana Ansari evaluated "Eega" three stars out of five of every a "Day by day News and Analysis" survey and called the vivified fly "another age Indian saint" with "grandiose thoughts". 

Kruthi Grover of "The New Indian Express" composed that "Eega" comes up short on a legitimate structure regardless of having powerful enhanced visualizations and altering. She included that the film transforms into a "senseless enlivened motion picture for children" after the fly's introduction to the world. Auditing "Makkhi" for "Dainik Bhaskar", Mayank Shekhar said the film's reason is extended past its potential and that therefore it "just continues endlessly and on" in its "unique, crude, crude structure". 

"Eega" got the Best Feature Film in Telugu and Best Special Effects grants at the 60th National Film Awards. It later got a B. Nagi Reddy Memorial Award as Best Wholesome Entertainment from the Government of Andhra Pradesh. At the 60th Filmfare Awards South "Eega" got seven selections and won five honors, including Best Film – Telugu, Best Director – Telugu, and Best Supporting Actor – Telugu (Sudeep). 

Samantha got Filmfare Best Actress grants in the Telugu and Tamil classifications for her exhibitions in "Eega" and "Neethaane En Ponvasantham", turning into the second Indian female performing artist to win these honors in the two dialects around the same time (after Revathi, who won 1993 Best Actress grants for "Thevar Magan" and "Ankuram"). At the second South Indian International Movie Awards, "Eega" got seven assignments and won three honors; Best Film, Best Cinematographer, and Best Actor in a Negative Role. Ravinder Reddy won the Best Art Direction Award at the 2013 Fantaspoa International Fantastic Film Festival in Brazil for his work in "Eega". The film won nine honors, including Most Original Film, Best Film to Watch With a Crowd, and Best Special Effects at the eighth yearly Toronto After Dark Film Festival in November 2013. At the seventh Vijay Awards in 2013, Sudeep won the Best Villain Award for his execution in "Naan Ee". "Eega" won eight honors at the 2012 Nandi Awards, including Best Director, Best Villain and Best Music Director for Rajamouli, Sudeep and M. M. Keeravani individually. 

The film's Telugu adaptation was appeared at film celebrations around the world. In December 2012, it was appeared at the yearly Chennai International Film Festival. After showings at the L'étrange and Sundance film celebrations, it was the main Telugu film screened in the Marché du Film segment of the 2013 Cannes Film Festival and the display area of the 2013 Shanghai International Film Festival. 

"Eega" is the main Telugu film to get six designations at the Madrid International Film Festival, and is the primary Indian Best Film candidate. Designations at the 2013 version of the film celebration included Best Film, Best Supporting Actor (Sudeep), and Best Cinematographer (Senthil Kumar). The film was welcome to the 2013 Bucheon International Fantastic Film Festival in South Korea, and was the fifth unknown dialect film appeared at the eighteenth Busan International Film Festival in October 2013. 

Sudeep got national acknowledgment for his execution in "Eega"; Rajinikanth let him know, "I thought I was the best lowlife to date. However, you beat me to it". His execution was valued by different VIPs, for example, Akkineni Nagarjuna, Mahesh Babu, and Ram Gopal Varma; Varma said he perceived Sudeep's potential subsequent to watching "Eega", including, "Many underestimate his acting in that movie for in all actuality, regarding his looks while interfacing with the fly, however as a chief, I realize that it is so hard to act when you are envisioning the fly to be there". Sudeep's execution in "Naan Ee" awed producer Chimbu Deven, who give him a role as the opponent in "Puli" (2015). 

Talking about the centennial of Indian film at the CII Media and Entertainment Summit 2012, producer Shekhar Kapur said territorial film is outperforming Hindi film in substance and story, and refered to "Eega" for instance. Kapur said he was awed with its story and utilization of innovation, and called it "no not exactly a Hollywood superhuman film". Shah Rukh Khan called "Eega" a "wonderfully unique" film and an "unquestionable requirement watch" with kids. Lavanya Tripathi refered to Nani's execution in "Eega" as one reason she worked with him in "Bhale Magadivoy" (2015). 

"Eega" was caricatured twice in Bhimaneni Srinivasa Rao parody film "Sudigadu" (2012); when a young lady requests that her dad disclose to her a sleep time story in the opening credits, and in a scene in which the hero takes steps to kill a female wrongdoing manager with weapons planned by Rajamouli, including the fly's needle. In December 2012, "Eega" and Sudeep topped Radhika Rajamani's Rediff.com "Top Five Telugu Films Of 2012" and "Best Telugu Actors of 2012" records; as per her, Sudeep left a "permanent" mark on the film and gave an "incredibly decent record" of himself as the foe. Shobha Warrier of Reddif put Sudeep on her rundown of "Top Tamil Actors of 2012", composing that his execution was "so superlative and far better than some other performer's in Tamil" that it "must be named as the best execution of the year". Radhika Rajamani positioned Rajamouli first on her "Top Telugu Directors of 2012" list, which was distributed in January 2013. 

In August 2015, Pooja Darade of "The Times of India" included "Eega" in her rundown of "Telugu motion pictures one must watch before biting the dust"; she said it "has set an exclusive requirement of how innovativeness can be utilized viably". In an April 2016 meeting with "The Hindu", Tamil performing artist Suriya said films like "Sagara Sangamam" (1983), "Eega", "Baahubali: The Beginning", and "Manam" (2014) are recalled any longer than increasingly customary movies.