Clash of Radzymin (1920) 

The Battle of Radzymin () occurred amid the Polish– Soviet War (1919– 21). The fight happened close to the town of Radzymin, some north-east of Warsaw, between August 13 and 16, 1920. Alongside the Battle of Ossów and the Polish counteroffensive from the Wieprz River territory, this commitment was a key piece of what later ended up known as the Battle of Warsaw. It likewise turned out to be one of the bloodiest and most exceptional skirmishes of the Polish-Soviet War. 

The main period of the fight started on August 13 with a frontal ambush by the Red Army on the Praga bridgehead. The Soviet powers caught Radzymin on August 14 and ruptured the lines of the first Polish Army, which was safeguarding Warsaw from the east. Radzymin changed hands a few times in substantial battle. Outside representatives, except for the British and Vatican envoys, quickly left Warsaw. 

The arrangement for the fight was direct for the two sides. The Russians needed to get through the Polish barriers to Warsaw, while the Polish point was to protect the region sufficiently long for a two dimensional counteroffensive from the south, driven by General Józef Piłsudski, and north, driven by General Władysław Sikorski, to outmaneuver the assaulting powers. 

Following three days of extreme battling, the corps-sized first Polish Army under General Franciszek Latinik figured out how to repulse an immediate ambush by six Red Army rifle divisions at Radzymin and Ossów. The battle for control of Radzymin constrained General Józef Haller, administrator of the Polish Northern Front, to begin the fifth Army's counterattack sooner than arranged. Radzymin was recovered on August 15, and this triumph ended up being one of the defining moments of the clash of Warsaw. The key counteroffensive was effective, pushing Soviet powers from Radzymin and Warsaw and in the long run devastating four Soviet armed forces. 

Following the disappointment of the Kiev Offensive, the Polish militaries withdrew westwards from focal Belarus and Ukraine. In spite of the fact that the Bolshevik powers neglected to encompass or annihilate the majority of the Polish Army, most Polish units were in desperate need of new fortifications. The Polish order wanted to stop the propelling Russian powers before Warsaw, the capital of Poland. In the meantime General (later Marshal of Poland) Józef Piłsudski was to lead a flanking move from the region of the Wieprz River, while General Władysław Sikorski's fifth Army was to leave the Modlin Fortress and head north-east, to remove the Soviet powers traveling westwards, toward the north of the twist of the Vistula and Bugonarew and on towards Pomerania. Nonetheless, for this intend to succeed, it was indispensable that Polish powers hold Warsaw. 

The protection of Warsaw was sorted out by the first Polish Army under General Franciszek Latinik and by a piece of the Northern Front under General Józef Haller. The military comprised of four understrength infantry divisions: the eighth, eleventh, and fifteenth, with the first Lithuanian-Belarusian Division for possible later use. What's more, it had available to its the fight exhausted tenth Infantry Division, two Air Groups (four escadrilles altogether), 293 bits of ordnance and three protected trains. 

The city was to be encompassed by four lines of protection. The furthest ran some toward the east of Warsaw: toward the east of Zegrze Fortress, at that point along the waterway Rządza to Dybów and south through Helenów, Nowa Czarna and the Białe Błota swamps east of Wołomin. From that point it went through Leśniakowizna, thick woods involved by mounted guns preparing grounds, and after that along the Okuniew– Wiązowna– Vistula line. 

The second line ran a mile closer to Warsaw, along the lines of mostly saved First World War-period channels worked by German and Russian armed forces in 1915, isolated by a dead zone. It kept running from the banks of the stream Bugonarew at Fort Beniaminów, along the Struga– Zielonka– Rembertów-Zakręt– Falenica line. The two most noticeable turns of this line were the towns of Radzymin and Wołomin. The third line of safeguard kept running in the quick region of the right-bank district of Praga, while the Vistula River bridgeheads shaped the last fourth line. 

The eleventh Polish Infantry Division was dispatched to Radzymin on August 8 so as to set up the city's guards for the normal landing of Bolshevik powers. While the unit's center was conformed to veterans of the second Polish Rifle Division of the French-prepared and prepared Blue Army, it had been as of late strengthened with new, however crude, initiates. The Poles set up guards before the town, using some prior German and Russian First World War channels and burrowing new positions. The Polish line ran some before the town, from the incomplete 1909 Fort Beniaminów at the banks of the stream Bugonarew through Mokre to Dybów. The next day the sixth Russian Rifle Division caught Wyszków some toward the north-east. On August 12 the Polish first Lithuanian– Belarusian Division deserted the principal line of protection and pulled back through Radzymin towards Warsaw. Radzymin now ended up at the cutting edge; by sunset the main Russian powers showed up before Ruda and Zawady, two towns kept an eye on by the Polish 48th Infantry Regiment, and Russian mounted guns shelled Radzymin out of the blue. 

From the north, Warsaw, which traverses the Vistula, was successfully protected by the Vistula, Bug and Narew streams. The Red Army's absence of current building gear for the stream intersections repressed a flanking assault of Warsaw from the west, which had been Russia's verifiable way of assault, towards Płock, Włocławek and Toruń, where their powers could cross the Vistula and strike Warsaw from the west and north-west over changeless scaffolds there. While a ring of nineteenth and mid twentieth century Russian-manufactured strongholds, some portion of the Warsaw Fortress, ran for the most part along the western side of the Vistula, these fortresses lay in vestiges; Russian powers started obliteration in 1909 and had devastated most when of their withdrawal from Warsaw in 1915, amid the First World War. 

The most catalyst approach for an expansive scale strike on Warsaw was from the east. Landscape was for the most part level; various streets combined radially along a circular segment from the Modlin Fortress toward the north (where the Narew streams into the Vistula), to Legionowo, Radzymin, and Mińsk Mazowiecki legitimately toward the east. In the interim, the main perpetual resistances in the zone of Radzymin were the inadequate Fort Beniaminów and a line of First World War channels west of Radzymin, disregarded since their development by Russians and Germans in 1915. 

The first and second lines of Polish safeguards were kept an eye on by customary powers. These included three Polish infantry divisions: the eleventh (from the Bug River to Leśniakowizna), the eighth (Leśniakowizna to Okuniew) and the fifteenth (Okuniew to the Vistula River). The first Army additionally held the recently arrived first Lithuanian-Belarusian Division available for later (Marki– Kobyłka), while the Northern Front's base camp stores comprised of the tenth Infantry Division and some littler units. The third line was kept an eye on by units of prepared State Police and an assortment of volunteer units of low battle esteem. Out of those units, at first just the eleventh Division under Colonel Bolesław Jaźwiński participated in the battle. Its 48th "Kresy Rifles" Regiment (Colonel Łukowski) kept an eye on the Bugonarew-Mokre line, the 46th "Kaniów Rifles" Regiment (Colonel Krzywobłocki) kept an eye on the Mokre-Czarna edge, and the 47th "Kresy Rifles" Regiment (Lt. Colonel Szczepan) kept an eye on the Czarna– Leśniakowizna line. Toward the south of the eleventh Division were positions around Wołomin kept an eye on by the eighth Infantry Division, comprising of the 36th, 21st and 33rd Infantry Regiments, just as the thirteenth Infantry Regiment held available for later, which later participated in the Battle of Ossów. 

The battle estimation of Polish units is hard to evaluate as they included crisp enlisted people of the alleged Volunteer Army, veterans of First World War, fight solidified troopers who battled in before phases of the Polish-Bolshevik War, and regular citizens with for all intents and purposes no battle preparing. Before the fight the 46th Regiment got 700 fortifications: for the most part weaklings from different arrangements, a force of volunteer guard protects and walk organizations of sappers. The eleventh Infantry Division, ostensibly 9000 men solid, practically speaking had just 1500 fighters in first-line units. The circumstance for the Polish Army was dire to the point that a portion of the warriors sent as fortifications had apparently "never observed a rifle in their lives". Furthermore, most units to hold fast at Radzymin were depleted in the wake of enduring a retreat from Belarus. Be that as it may, the Polish side had prevalent insight and ethereal predominance. 

The two Russian divisions striking Radzymin were fight solidified Siberian divisions driven by experienced cutting edge administrators. The two divisions were as depleted as their rivals, whom they had pursued right from Belarus. Be that as it may, preceding the fight the two divisions got fortifications from different units, rather than crisp selects, and were much better in labor than other Russian units on the Polish front. Afterward, in his monograph on the war, Marshal of Poland Józef Piłsudski commented that the boss of the 27th Rifle Division had accomplished what was incomprehensible in the Polish Army in spite of various endeavors: putting back echelons and stragglers of his division into bleeding edge administration. This was in fact an issue for the two armed forces, as the quantity of "knifes and sabers", or officers battling in the primary line, was consistently littler than the quantity of second echelon troops. On August 15 Polish knowledge announced the quality of the Russian powers as "three to four standard Russian divisions". Indeed, even post-war diaries by General Żeligowski notice "[t]hree Russian infantry divisions, that is 27 regiments, however honestly understrength, against one of our own", however in certainty the Russian powers just had two divisions. 

Both Polish and Russian organizers anticipated an assault on Warsaw—and Radzymin specifically—from the east. However the main battles began toward the north-east of the Polish capital. Warsaw was to be struck from the east by the sixteenth Red Army. In the meantime the fourteenth Red Army (under Ieronim Uborevich) caught Wyszków and began a quick walk westwards, towards Toruń. It was then to cross the lower Vistula and strike Warsaw from the north-west. Nonetheless, its 21st Rifle Division stayed on the south side of the Bug River and set out toward Warsaw legitimately, compelled from Russia's Commissar of War Leon Trotsky. Supported by the Russian 27th Rifle Division, it came into contact with the Polish powers at Radzymin on August 12, and arranged for an attack the next morning. 

The Soviet examining assault started at 07:00 hours, yet the 21st Rifle Division accomplished no achievement. After the Soviets had been repulsed, the guarding eleventh Infantry Division got some mounted guns fortifications. The big guns administrators needed to utilize the congregation tower of Radzymin as a perception present and on push the batteries ahead, closer to the forefront. Nonetheless, before the movement of the big guns was finished, another Soviet assault started at around 17:00, this time completed by four detachments of the 21st and 27th Rifle Divisions, fortified with 59 cannons pieces. The Russians accomplished a 3:1 predominance in capability. Denied of big guns support, the unpracticed and overstretched 1/46th Infantry Regiment, guarding the town of Kraszew, broke, and the Soviets picked up passage to Radzymin. The Polish unit pulled back in frenzy, and officers left their arms and rucksacks behind. One of the mounted guns officers noticed that the Russians accomplished total strategic shock: "I requested my supper arranged when my helper came yelling 'Lieutenant Sir, the Reds are in the city. 

The retreat was made significantly progressively genuine by the way that the gendarmes, entrusted with settling the front and getting betrayers, additionally fled in frenzy. The town itself was severely harmed, and the leader of the 46th Regiment, Colonel Bronisław Krzywobłocki, was compelled to arrange the retreat of the rest of his powers south-west from the town. The remainder of the division had no choice yet to fall back to the line of First World War channels. Amid the confused withdrawal all the mounted guns sub-units got lost. By 19:00 hours the town was in Russian hands. 

Despite the fact that the Polish division was vanquished, the Russian powers did not seek after. This enabled the Poles to mount a night counterattack. A solitary automatic weapon regiment assaulted a situation behind Radzymin. While eventually ineffective, the brigade constrained the Russian troops to stay stationary medium-term, giving the Poles severely required time to regroup and get fortifications, which came as a solitary regiment from the first Lithuanian-Belarusian Division. Rather than withdrawing to the third line of safeguards, the Poles stayed outside the town, planning to retake it the next day. 

Updates on the annihilation at Radzymin achieved Warsaw that day, causing alarm among both the legislature and standard individuals. The next day the war zone was visited by, among others, Prime Minister Wincenty Witos, ecclesiastical nuncio Achille Ratti (the future Pope Pius XI), Maciej Rataj and General Józef Haller, the leader of the Northern Front. General Haller's dispatch of 01:00 hours that night called the Polish annihilation at Radzymin "dishonorable", and requested the leaders of the 46th Infantry Regiment and divisional mounted guns to be quickly court-martialled. The boss of the 46th Regiment was quickly mitigated of direction and supplanted with Major Józef Liwacz. 

The gravity of the circumstance was surely knew by the Polish Commander-in-Chief Józef Piłsudski, who commented that all the fight plans for his counteroffensive depended on the presumption that Warsaw would hold, and recommended to General Tadeusz Rozwadowski that he fortify the Radzymin region with any powers accessible, including an "as once huge mob tank assault". In spite of this recommendation, out of 49 tanks of the first Tank Regiment accessible in Warsaw around then, just around six partook in the fight. The loss of Radzymin likewise constrained General Władysław Sikorski's fifth Army, battling north of the Bug River and along the Vistula, to begin a counteroffensive from the Modlin Fortress sooner than arranged. Rozwadowski and General Maxime Weygand, an individual from the French Military Mission to Poland, even recommended that Piłsudski additionally rush his arrangements for a counteroffensive, however he can't and chose to pursue the first plans. 

The Russians considered the catch of Radzymin a vital achievement. The Polish knowledge blocked and unscrambled an euphoric, however totally false, report by the Revolutionary Military Committee of the third Army dispatched to Moscow, educating the Russian government that "the valiant units of the third Army have caught the town of Radzymin on August thirteenth, at 23:00 hours. In quest for the foe, they are not more distant than 15 versts from Praga. (...) The specialists of Warsaw would already be able to detect that their freedom is close. The upset in Warsaw is ready. Laborers request that the city be given over to the Red Army without a battle, taking steps to keep equipped warriors from leaving the city [for the front]. The White Poland is kicking the bucket". The leader of the Russian third Army, Vladimir Lazarevich, educated Tukhachevsky that "Poland is presently ablaze. Just a single more push is required and the Polish fracas will be finished". 

To counter the danger of a Russian leap forward, General Latinik requested General Jan Rządkowski to strike the town the next day with every accessible power. To fortify the strike, the eleventh Infantry Division (under Colonel Bolesław Jaźwiński) was drawn from the stores and dispatched to join the ambush which was booked for 05:00 hours the next morning. Notwithstanding, the Polish powers were a long way from adequate for the undertaking. Rządkowski contended that he had been guaranteed significant fortifications which did not arrive. The fight solidified Siberian Brigade was around then secured in the Modlin Fortress, in spite of the fact that the guaranteed mounted force units arrived—however without their ammo trains. 

The designs for the Polish strike must be changed because of surprising Russian activities. The Polish powers expected overwhelming resistance from somewhere around two Russian divisions. Be that as it may, in the first part of the day the Russian 21st Division continued its development along the Białystok– Warsaw street towards Marki and Warsaw, while the 27th began its walk towards Jabłonna. The 21st Division accomplished some early victories when its fifth and sixth Rifle Brigades drove the Poles once more from the Czarna River some toward the west. In any case, in the meantime it was propelling directly before Polish powers which were getting ready to strike Radzymin. At 10:15 hours the Polish 81st and 85th Infantry Regiments from the first Lithuanian-Belarusian Division attacked the left flank of the clueless Russians, proceeded with the Warsaw– Białystok street, and got through to the town. The assault was driven by Lieutenant Colonel Kazimierz Rybicki, who had actually seen the annihilation of the 46th Regiment the earlier day, on his day away from work. This time spirits were high and the Polish infantry progressed all together, with officers in the main line and the troopers singing Dąbrowski's Mazurka. By early afternoon the town was freed. 

The achievement did not keep going long, as the Russian 27th Rifle Division pivoted and landed at Radzymin in the nick of time for its 81st Brigade to drive the depleted Polish powers back towards the town of Słupno. Undermined by further assaults from Słupno and Wieliszew, the 85th Regiment withdrew in the wake of enduring overwhelming setbacks, including the leader of the first Battalion, Captain Ryszard Downar-Zapolski. This time the Soviet 81st Rifle Brigade (27th Rifle Division) sought after the Poles and figured out how to pierce Polish barriers close Wólka Radzymińska and Dąbkowizna, getting during that time line of safeguards, which were the last before as far as possible. The Polish base camp at Warsaw was "petrified to know about the total annihilation of the nineteenth [Lithuanian-Belarusian] Division", a report that luckily for the Poles ended up being false. The risk toward the northern flank was stopped, with overwhelming losses on the two sides, on account of the intercession of the division's leader Jan Rządkowski, just as Front boss Józef Haller, who landed on the war zone to by and by sort out a specially appointed line of protection west of Wólka Radzymińska, with Polish ordnance units shelling the propelling Russians with direct shoot. The Soviet development was ended, and this time mayhem in the Polish positions was maintained a strategic distance from, however again absence of fortifications behind the principle line of resistances demonstrated a significant issue. 

At night Generals Lucjan Żeligowski, Józef Haller, Jan Rządkowski and Franciszek Latinik met in Jabłonna and again in Struga to set up an arrangement for retaking Radzymin by and by. It was chosen that, since the Soviet 27th Division was impeded around Radzymin and had not continued its walk towards Jabłonna, the Polish tenth Infantry Division was never again required in that part, and rather could be utilized to accomplish a leap forward at Radzymin. The division was migrated to Nieporęt, where General Rządkowski found the mounted guns units that were accepted to have been decimated by the Russians the earlier day. A solitary force from the 28th "Kaniów Rifles" Regiment from the tenth Division, driven by first Lieutenant Stefan Pogonowski, was requested to settle in a woods close Wólka Radzymińska and arrange a snare. The remainder of the Polish powers were to begin a hard and fast strike at 05:00 hours the next morning, with General Żeligowski in order over the specially appointed corps. The powers amassed for the ambush had an ostensible quality of 17,000 infantry, 109 gunnery pieces, and 220 assault rifles. 

At night the fifth Army, working north of the Bug and Narew waterways with its base of activities in the Modlin Fortress, began a restricted counteroffensive with the point of decreasing the weight on the Polish powers at Radzymin. Terribly dwarfed, the fifth Army couldn't get through the Russian lines, and got stalled in serious battles along the Wkra stream. Nonetheless, albeit at first fruitless, the Polish assault kept the Soviet fifth, fifteenth and sixteenth Armies from strengthening the two divisions effectively dedicated to Radzymin. Just the fourth Red Army, the uttermost from the front line, working in the north along the East Prussian outskirt and moving towards Toruń, continued progressing practically unopposed. This anyway did not represent a prompt danger to the safeguards of Warsaw, as its development was at last stopped at the edges of Włocławek, and it was compelled to begin a hurried retreat eastwards. 

In the early long periods of August 15 the Russian powers continued their assaults on the Polish lines, meaning to get during that time line of protections to the territory of Nieporęt and Jabłonna. Notwithstanding, as they avoided a little backwoods outside Wólka Radzymińska, they were struck from the back by the first Battalion of the 28th Infantry Regiment, which had been disguised there before. At the same time, the rest of the 28th Regiment started a severely organized and irresolute assault from Nieporęt. Both Polish attacks were bloodily repulsed, with the setbacks including Lieutenant Pogonowski who was after death granted the Virtuti Militari decoration for his courage driving the charge, however they forced the Russians to withdraw to their underlying positions. 

At the point when the cutting edge balanced out, the Polish central command tossed every one of its stores into a counterattack. Beniaminów was fortified with the 29th Infantry Regiment. The Polish assault started around 05:30, following a 20-minute big guns blast. Before long the whole tenth Infantry Division began a push along the southern bank of the Bugonarew waterway so as to defeat the Russian powers from the north, while the first Lithuanian-Belarusian Division pushed legitimately towards the town. In spite of the fact that the Russian side had prevalent big guns and brought a few Austin-Putilov defensively covered autos, this time the Polish ambush was upheld by five Renault FT tanks and various flying machine. Notwithstanding experiencing mechanical disappointments, the tanks effectively got through the Russian lines, and the infantry of the 85th "Wilno Rifles" Regiment from the first Lithuanian-Belarusian Division tailed them into the town. After a short battle the Polish powers indeed controlled the town. Be that as it may, when it was taken, General Żeligowski chose to revamp his division and couldn't bolster the 85th Regiment with crisp powers. One more effective counterattack by the Russian 61st and 62nd Infantry Brigades constrained the Polish first Division to withdraw back to its underlying positions. 

In the meantime, on the northern flank, the tenth Division was considerably more fruitful. Rather than sitting tight for requests from General Żeligowski, the boss of the tenth Division, Lieutenant Colonel Wiktor Thommée, began a push along the southern bank of the Bugonarew. The 28th and 29th "Kaniów Rifles" Infantry Regiments figured out how to achieve the town of Mokre, on a little slope sitting above Radzymin and the Białystok-Warsaw street, straightforwardly behind the Russian lines. The Russians endeavored to drive the Poles again from that position, in any case fizzled. Their strike on the town of Wiktorów additionally finished in disappointment. Before long the Polish positions in Mokre were verified, and further fortified with the rest of the first Battalion, 28th Regiment. 

With the northern flank securely in Polish hands, General Lucjan Żeligowski requested his Lithuanian-Belarusian Division to finish the enclosure of Radzymin. The division achieved a position a couple of hundred meters from Radzymin by method for the town of Ciemne toward the south of the town. Dreading envelopment, the Soviets relinquished the town and pulled back east. A solitary organization from the 30th "Kaniów Rifles" Regiment entered Radzymin unopposed. The town was totally vacant; both the regular folks and the Russian warriors had fled, and one officer commented that "not a stray canine was abandoned in the demolished city". 

In spite of the fact that the fight was finished and Radzymin was secure, the Soviet powers kept on compromising the Polish northern flank. In the early long stretches of August 16 the Russians mounted one more strike on Radzymin, fortified by a few defensively covered autos and drove by and by the boss of the 27th Rifle Division, Vitovt Putna. Notwithstanding, at this point the spirit of the 27th Division was at that point broken, and the ambush was effectively obstructed by the Polish infantry and the three staying operational FT tanks. The protected autos pulled back when the Polish tanks opened flame, and the Russian infantry pursued. 

Other Russian powers were progressively fruitful toward the north of the town, where they figured out how to catch the town of Mokre from the 28th Regiment. The regiment counter-charged the town, yet was at first determined off. Be that as it may, around 80 bits of emplaced Polish cannons laid a 30-minute flood on the town. It was the best centralization of mounted guns discharge in the war up to that point, and tremendously affected the assurance of the Russian protectors. After the torrent finished Lieutenant Colonel Wiktor Thommée actually driven his powers in a blade charge; the regiment returned Mokre around early afternoon and the Russians fled. 

The whole thirteenth Red Army slowed down due to its thrashing at Radzymin. After that achievement the Poles gradually however relentlessly drove the Soviets back past the main line of barriers that had been overwhelm a few days prior. Before the finish of 16 August, the 28th and 30th Infantry Regiments kept an eye on the majority of the channel line along the Rządza River, close to the town of Dybów. Albeit at first the Russian direction needed to utilize the edges of Radzymin as a turn for a strategic withdrawal to the Radzymin– Brześć line, the next day the Soviet authority requested a full retreat towards Wyszków and later Grodno. In the interim, Piłsudski's fourth Army outmaneuvered the astounded Russians and went as far north as the left wing of Nikolai Sollogub's sixteenth Red Army, which around then was always constrained from the front by the tenth and fifteenth divisions. This made existing Russian arrangements out of date, and Polish powers began an interest that finished with the triumphant Battle of the Niemen River in September. Upon the arrival of Polish triumph the Soviets issued a publicity blurb in Moscow announcing: "Warsaw has fallen. With it the Poland of yesterday moved toward becoming history. It is only a legend now while reality of today is the red reality. Long live the Soviets! Long live the powerful Red Army!" 

The fight was a triumph for the Poles at both the strategic dimension (the clash of Radzymin itself) and the vital dimension (its job in the skirmish of Warsaw). Following a few days of consistent battling for the town of Radzymin and its prompt region, the Russian assault was repulsed and the Poles had the capacity to mount an effective counteroffensive, driving the Russian armed forces out of Poland and at last obliterating them totally. 

In any case, the direct of the Polish powers and their officers at Radzymin in the early piece of the fight has been scrutinized by students of history since the 1920s. It was noted by General Lucjan Żeligowski that the significance of the northern way to deal with Warsaw was ineffectively comprehended by the Polish leaders preceding the fight, and that the untested and moderately feeble tenth Division was picked for the errand of safeguarding Radzymin "out of sheer ineptitude". In his diaries he additionally intensely reprimanded the leaders of the division, whose "military ability and timeliness in completing requests was minimal more than incongruity". Other post-war creators contended that on August 13, when the primary Russian powers showed up before Radzymin, the first Army had all that could possibly be needed time to strengthen the feeble Polish powers there. Rather, it took a few days to recover what could have been held from the begin. 

In spite of the absence of vital energy in the Polish safeguard of Radzymin, it was one of the foundations of the general accomplishment in the Battle of Warsaw. Despite the fact that it was Piłsudski's Assault Group that crushed the Russians, the powers at Radzymin and Sikorski's fifth Army were in charge of halting them at the entryways of Warsaw. Żeligowski noted in his diaries that "Warsaw was spared on account of Polish triumphs at Mokra, Wólka Radzymińska and Radzymin". 

As one of the vital skirmishes of the war of 1920, the fight for Radzymin has been included in books, diaries and chronicled monographs. It was additionally depicted in the 2011 film "Clash of Warsaw 1920", despite the fact that the skirmish of Radzymin succession was shot generally in Piotrków Trybunalski. Since 1998 a re-order of the fight has been held every year on August 15 in Ossów and Radzymin, sorted out by different re-establishment gatherings and a nearby powiat organization.