Flying Eagle penny 

The Flying Eagle penny is a one-penny piece struck by the Mint of the United States as an example coin in 1856 and for course in 1857 and 1858. The coin was planned by Mint Chief Engraver James B. Longacre, with the hawk in flight dependent on crafted by Longacre's antecedent, Christian Gobrecht. 

By the mid 1850s, the vast penny (about the extent of a half dollar) being issued by the Mint was getting to be both disliked in business and costly to coin. In the wake of trying different things with different sizes and organizations, the Mint settled on an amalgam of 88% copper and 12% nickel for another, littler penny. After the Mint created designs with a 1856 date and offered them to lawmakers and authorities, Congress formally approved the new piece in February 1857. 

The new penny was issued in return for the ragged Spanish provincial silver coin that had circled in the U.S. up to that point, just as for its bigger antecedent. Such huge numbers of pennies were issued that they gagged business channels, particularly as they were not lawful delicate and nobody needed to take them. The bird configuration did not strike well, and was supplanted in 1859 by Longacre's Indian Head penny. 

The penny was the primary authority United States coin to be struck at the Philadelphia Mint in 1793. These pieces, today known as extensive pennies, were made of unadulterated copper and were about the extent of a half dollar. They were struck each year, with the exception of 1815 because of a deficiency of metal, yet were moderate to end up set up in business. Worn Spanish pilgrim silver pieces were then ordinarily utilized as cash all through the United States. At the time, both gold and silver were legitimate delicate there, yet copper coins were not; the government would not recover them or take them in installment of duties. 

The Mint at that point struck silver or gold in light of stores by those holding bullion, and made little benefit from those exchanges. By the 1840s, benefits, or seignorage, from adapting copper into pennies helped subsidize the Mint. In 1849, copper costs climbed pointedly, making the Department of the Treasury examine conceivable options in contrast to the vast one-penny pieces. The penny was disagreeable in exchange; as it was anything but a legitimate delicate, no one needed to take it, and banks and shippers regularly declined it. The penny was despised for its substantial size also. In 1837, the unpredictable New York scientist Lewis Feuchtwanger had explored different avenues regarding a littler penny estimate in making model coins as a major aspect of an arrangement to sell his amalgam (like base-metal German silver) to the administration for use in coinage. His pieces circled as tough occasions tokens in the subsidence long stretches of the late 1830s and mid 1840s. 

By 1850, it was never again gainful for the Mint to strike pennies, and on May 14, New York Senator Daniel S. Dickinson presented enactment for a penny made out of billon, copper with a little measure of silver. At the time, it was broadly felt that coins ought to contain a substantial extent of their assumed worth in metal. The coin would be annular; that is, it would have an opening in the center. The Mint struck trial pieces, and found that it was hard to discharge such pieces from the presses where they were struck, and that it was costly to recuperate the silver from the compound. Arrangements for a littler penny were dropped from the enactment that gave congressional endorsement for the three-penny piece in 1851. Numismatic student of history Walter Breen proposed that one factor in dismissing the holed coins was that they helped numerous to remember Chinese money coins with their negligible buying esteem. A drop in copper costs in 1851 and mid 1852 made the matter of a littler penny less dire at the Department of the Treasury, which managed Mint exercises. 

Copper costs resurged in late 1852 and into 1853 past the $0.40 per pound that the Mint saw as the make back the initial investment point for penny fabricate in the wake of thinking about the expense of creation; of copper made 42⅔ expansive pennies. In 1853, designs utilizing a base-metal compound were struck utilizing a quarter hawk front-side pass on, about the span of a dime. A portion of the proposed combinations contained the metal nickel. Likewise considered for use in the penny was "French bronze" (95% copper with the rest of and zinc) and different assortments of German silver. In his 1854 yearly report, Mint Director James Ross Snowden supported the issue of little, bronze pennies, just as the end of the half penny, which he portrayed as pointless in business. Various example pennies were struck in 1854 and 1855. These highlighted different structures, including a few portrayals of Liberty and two adjustments of work by the late Mint boss etcher Christian Gobrecht: one appearing situated Liberty, which Gobrecht had put on the silver coins during the 1830s, and another of a flying hawk, which Gobrecht had made dependent on a sketch by Titian Peale. 

In mid 1856, Snowden proposed enactment to enable him to issue a littler penny, however leaving the size and metallic structure up to him and Secretary of the Treasury James Guthrie. Under the arrangement, the new piece would be lawful delicate, up to ten pennies. It would be issued in return for the old Spanish silver as yet coursing in the United States. In the trade, the Spanish silver would be given full esteem (12½ pennies per genuine, or bit) when regularly such pieces exchanged at about a 20% markdown because of wear. The misfortune the legislature would take on the exchange would be paid for by the seignorage on the base-metal pieces. The new pennies would likewise be issued for the old pennies, and in return for a similar incentive fifty-fifty pennies—that division was to be ceased. The bill was presented in the Senate on March 25, 1856. The old penny weighed ; on April 16, the bill was corrected to accommodate a penny of in any event 95% copper weighing in any event and passed the Senate in that structure. 

While the enactment was being considered, Mint Melter and Refiner James Curtis Booth was directing tests on compounds that may be proper for the new penny. In July 1856, Snowden kept in touch with Guthrie, proposing a composite of 88% copper and 12% nickel as perfect and recommending corrections to the pending bill that would achieve this. Stall additionally kept in touch with Guthrie to help the composite; the two men proposed a weight of as advantageous as 80 pennies would parallel a troy pound (373 g), in spite of the fact that the avoirdupois pound (454 g) was all the more usually utilized for base metals. 

The Mint's main etcher, James B. Longacre, was told to get ready plans for example coins. At first, Longacre worked with Liberty head structures, for example, were regular at the time, yet Snowden asked that a flying falcon configuration be readied. This happened as Booth's investigations proceeded; the main penny designs with the flying hawk configuration were about the extent of a quarter. To advance the new compound, the Mint had 50 half pennies struck in it, and had them sent to Washington for Treasury authorities to show to authorities and congressmen. Toward the beginning of November 1856, Longacre arranged kicks the bucket in what might turn out to be the last plan, delineating a flying bird on the front and a wreathed category on the invert, in the size looked for by Booth. 

The Mint struck somewhere around a few hundred examples utilizing Longacre's flying hawk structure in the proposed sythesis. With an end goal to verify open acknowledgment of the new pieces, these were circulated to different congressmen and different authorities, at first in November 1856. Two hundred were sent to the House Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures, while four were given to President Franklin Pierce. Something like 634 examples were conveyed, and conceivably a few thousand; additional were accessible on solicitation. This was the beginning of the exceedingly collectable 1856 Flying Eagle penny, which is considered by numismatists as a feature of the Flying Eagle arrangement despite the fact that it was really an example or change piece, not an official mint piece, as congressional endorsement had not yet been allowed. Extra 1856 little pennies were later struck by Snowden for illegal deal, and to trade for pieces the Mint looked for its currency accumulation. 

In December 1856, Snowden kept in touch with Missouri Representative John S. Phelps, seeking after advancement with the enactment, and expressing that he was at that point "pushed on all hands, and from each quarter, for the new penny—actually, the open are on edge for its issue". At the point when the enactment, revised to incorporate the weight and compound the Mint had chosen, was bantered in the House of Representatives on December 24, it was contradicted by Tennessee Congressman George Washington Jones over the lawful delicate arrangement; Jones felt that under the Constitution's Contract Clause, just gold and silver ought to be made legitimate delicate. Phelps safeguarded the bill on the ground that Congress had the protected influence to control the estimation of cash, yet when the bill was brought back up to be considered on January 14, 1857, the legitimate delicate arrangement had been expelled. This time, the bill was restricted by New York Congressman Thomas R. Whitney, who questioned an arrangement in the bill that sanctioned the Mint's routine with regards to planning and striking awards charged by people in general, feeling that the administration ought not rival private medallists. The arrangement was expelled, and the bill passed the next day. The House form was then considered by the Senate, which discussed it on February 4, and passed it with a further correction permitting the recovery of the Spanish coins for at least two years. The House consented to this on February 18, and President Pierce marked the bill on the 21st. The demonstration made remote gold and silver coins no longer lawful delicate, yet Spanish dollars were redeemable at their ostensible incentive for a long time in return for the new copper-nickel pennies. The half penny was canceled. The new pieces would be a similar size (19 mm), however to some degree heavier, than pennies are today. 

Fully expecting the achievement of the enactment, the vast majority of the 333,456 extensive pennies struck in 1857 never left the Philadelphia Mint, and were later liquefied. Snowden bought another arrangement of rollers and other gear with the goal that the Mint could deliver its very own penny planchets, the first occasion when it had done as such in more than 50 years. In spite of the fact that the enactment was as yet multi day from definite entry, Snowden prescribed Longacre's structures to Guthrie on February 20. Guthrie endorsed them on the 24th, however he mentioned that the edge of the coin be made less sharp; Snowden guaranteed to consent. Flying Eagle pennies were struck start in April 1857 and were held pending authority discharge. The Mint put away the pieces pending aggregation of an adequate supply; in mid-May, Snowden informed Philadelphia papers that dissemination would start on May 25. 

Longacre's front of a hawk in flight depends on that of the Gobrecht dollar, struck in little amounts from 1836 to 1839. In spite of the fact that Gobrecht's model isn't known with assurance, a few sources express that the fledgling in flight depended on Peter the hawk, an agreeable feathered creature nourished by Mint laborers in the mid 1830s until it was made up for lost time in hardware and killed. The winged animal was full, is still shown at the Philadelphia Mint. 

In spite of its subordinate nature, Longacre's falcon has been broadly appreciated. As per craftsmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule in his book on U.S. coins, the flying hawk theme, when utilized during the 1830s, was "the first numismatic flying creature that could be said to get from nature as opposed to from provincial cutting or heraldry". Vermeule portrayed the Flying Eagle penny's substitution, the Indian Head penny, as "far less alluring to the eye than the Peale-Gobrecht flying hawk and its variations". Stone carver Augustus Saint-Gaudens, when charged in 1905 to give new plans to American coinage, tried to restore a flying falcon structure to the penny, keeping in touch with President Theodore Roosevelt, "I am utilizing a flying bird, a change of the gadget which was utilized on the penny of 1857. I had not seen that coin for a long time, and was so inspired by it that I thought whether did with certain changes, nothing better should be possible. It is by all chances the best plan on any American coin." Saint-Gaudens returned the flying hawk to American coinage, however his structure was utilized for the turn around of the twofold falcon instead of the penny. 

The wreath on the switch is likewise subsidiary, having been recently utilized on Longacre's Type II gold dollar of 1854, and the three-dollar bit of that year. It is made out of leaves of wheat, corn, cotton and tobacco, in this way incorporating produce related with both the North and the South. The cotton leaves are here and there said to be maple leaves; the two sorts are not disparate, and maple leaves are more broadly known than cotton leaves. An ear of corn is additionally obvious. 

The Philadelphia Mint discharged the new pennies to the general population on May 25, 1857. Fully expecting expansive well known interest, Mint specialists manufactured an impermanent wooden structure in the patio of the Philadelphia office. On the morning of the date of discharge, several individuals lined, one line for those trading Spanish silver for pennies, the other for those acquiring old copper pennies and half pennies. From 9 am, representatives paid out pennies for the old pieces; outside the Mint areas, early buyers sold the new pennies at a higher cost than expected. Snowden kept in touch with Guthrie, "the interest for them is enormous … we had close by at the beginning of today $30,000 worth, that is three million pieces. Almost the majority of this sum will be paid out today." The 1856 example turned out to be openly thought about the season of issuance, and had the open checking their pocket change; 1856 little pennies sold for as much as $2 by 1859. The open enthusiasm for the new pennies set off a mint piece gathering blast: notwithstanding looking for the uncommon 1856 penny, some attempted to gather sets of substantial pennies back to 1793, and discovered they would need to pay a premium for the rarer dates. 

The Mint experienced difficulty striking the new structure. This was because of the hard copper-nickel amalgam and the way that the hawk on one side of the piece was straightforwardly inverse pieces of the turn around plan; endeavors to draw out the structure all the more completely prompted expanded bite the dust breakage. Many Flying Eagle pennies show shortcomings, particularly at the bird's head and tail, which are inverse the wreath. In 1857, Snowden recommended the supplanting of the falcon with a head of Christopher Columbus. Longacre answered that as there had been complaints to proposition to put George Washington on the coinage, there would likewise be restriction to a Columbus plan. In spite of the challenges, the 17,450,000 Flying Eagle pennies struck at Philadelphia in 1857 comprised the best creation of a solitary coin in a year at a U.S. mint to that time. 

In 1858, the Mint attempted to lighten the breakage issue utilizing another variant of the penny with a shallower alleviation. This endeavor prompted the significant assortment of the arrangement, as coins of the updated variant have littler letters in the engravings than those struck before. The two assortments are about similarly normal, and were most likely struck next to each other for some period as the Mint spent more seasoned bites the dust. Endeavors to monitor kicks the bucket were the reasonable justification of another assortment, the 1858/7, as 1857-dated bites the dust were overstruck to enable them to be utilized in the new year. 

The Mint arranged example coins with an a lot littler hawk in 1858, which struck well, yet which authorities detested. Snowden coordinated Longacre to plan different examples that he could choose from for another piece to supplant the Flying Eagle penny as of January 1, 1859. The Mint created somewhere in the range of 60 and 100 arrangements of twelve examples demonstrating different plans; these were flowed to authorities and furthermore were unobtrusively sold by the Mint throughout the following quite a long while. Longacre's structure appearing wearing an Indian-style headress was embraced, with a wreath with lower alleviation for the turn around of the Indian Head penny, tackling the metal stream issues. On November 4, 1858, Snowden kept in touch with the Treasury Department, expressing that the Flying Eagle penny had demonstrated "not truly adequate to the all inclusive community" as they felt the winged animal was not consistent with life, and that the Native American plan would "giv[e] it the character of America". 

By September 1857, the volume of Spanish silver going to the Mint had been large to the point that Snowden surrendered having the capacity to pay for it just with pennies, approving installment with gold and silver coins. On March 3, 1859, the reclamation of the remote pieces was reached out for an extra two years. As business was stifled with the new pennies, Congress revoked this arrangement in July 1860, however Snowden proceeded with the training for over a year without approval from Congress. "Brokers Magazine" for October 1861 detailed the finish of the trade, and cited the Philadelphia "Press": "the expansive issue of the new nickel pennies has rendered them nearly as a lot of an aggravation as the old Spanish cash." According to Breen, "the remote silver coins had been legitimate delicate, receivable for a wide range of installments including postage stamps and some duties; the nickel pennies were definitely not. They immediately filled businesspeople's cashboxes to the prohibition of nearly everything else; they started to be lawfully declined in exchange." The excess was finished by the storing of all government coinage in the wake of the monetary surprise brought about by the Civil War. 

After the war, the stored Flying Eagle pennies returned dissemination. Many stayed there just a couple of years, being hauled out from among the new bronze pennies in Treasury Department reclamation programs during the 1870s—thirteen million copper-nickel pennies were resigned by trade for other base-metal coinage. By the 1880s, it was an irregularity available for use. The 2018 version of R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins" records the 1857, 1858 extensive letters, and 1858 little letters each at $30 in G-4 Good condition, the by least collectable evaluation (AG-3). The 1856 is $6,500 in that grade, ascending to $20,000 in uncirculated MS-63. The 1858/7 begins at $75 in G-4, ascending to $11,000 in MS-63. A 1856 penny in MS-66 condition sold at sale in January 2004 for $172,500. 

Illustrative notes 

References 

Book reference