Riven 

Riven is a riddle experience computer game and the spin-off of "Myst". Created by Cyan Worlds, it was at first distributed by Red Orb Entertainment, a division of Brøderbund. "Riven" was appropriated on five conservative plates and discharged on October 31, 1997, in North America; it was later discharged on a solitary DVD-ROM, with improved sound and a fourteen-minute "creation of" video. Notwithstanding the PC adaptations, "Riven" has been ported to a few different stages. 

The account of "Riven" is set following the occasions of "Myst". Having been safeguarded from the endeavors of his children, the principle non-player hero Atrus enrolls the assistance of the player character to free his significant other from his capacity hungry dad, Gehn. Dissimilar to "Myst", which occurred on a few universes known as Ages connected together by unique books, "Riven" happens for the most part on the Age of Riven, a world gradually coming apart because of Gehn's dangerous guideline. 

Improvement of "Riven" started before long "Myst" turned into a triumph, and spread over three years. With an end goal to make a visual style particular from that of "Myst", chief Robyn Miller and his sibling, maker Rand Miller selected previous "Aladdin" generation fashioner Richard Vander Wende as a co-executive. Brøderbund utilized a US$10 million promoting effort to announce the diversion's discharge. 

"Riven" was adulated by commentators, with the magazine "Salon" declaring that the diversion approaches the dimension of workmanship. Faultfinders emphatically noticed the riddles and vivid experience of the ongoing interaction, however distributions, for example, "Edge" felt that the idea of point-and-snap interactivity restricted the title vigorously. The smash hit round of 1997, "Riven" sold 1.5 million duplicates in a single year. After the amusement's discharge, Robyn Miller left Cyan to frame his own advancement studio, finishing the expert association of the two siblings. Rand remained at Cyan and kept on taking a shot at "Myst"- related items including "The Myst Reader" and the continuous rendered diversion "". The following section in the "Myst" arrangement, "", was created by Presto Studios and distributed by Ubisoft. 

Like its ancestor, "Riven" is a point and snap experience amusement played from a first-individual viewpoint. The player investigates vivid conditions portrayed through a substantial arrangement of PC created stills utilizing mouse clicks for development or to control questions inside reach. By working mechanical contraptions and translating codes and images found in the environment, the dubiously clarified objective can in the long run be come to. 

To explore the world, the player basically clicks toward the path they need to walk or turn. The cursor changes in appearance, contingent upon its situation on the screen and what it is drifting over, to demonstrate what impact clicking will have. For example, if the player positions the cursor hand close to the side of the screen, it might demonstrate a pointing finger, showing that clicking will turn the view toward that path. The cursor additionally changes in setting to demonstrate when players can drag or flip switches, or when certain things can be gotten and conveyed. Such things would then be able to be analyzed whenever, and either uncover signs to baffles or give data on the diversion's setting and story. Like "Myst", "Riven" has a discretionary strategy for route known as "Zip Mode", which enables players to jump to zones previously investigated, however may make them miss critical signs. 

"Riven" has more intricate and various riddles than its herald and is set in a bigger virtual world for players to investigate. Though in "Myst" the target of the amusement is to make a trip to various Ages to illuminate perplexes before coming back to a "center point Age", "Riven"s ongoing interaction happens on the five islands of the Age of Riven. Quite a bit of it comprises of understanding riddles to get to new zones of the islands, however players are additionally ready to investigate without satisfying targets. The volcanic scene delineated, with its lofty bluffs and pit lakes, is bestrewn with mechanical, Victorian-style relics, for example, lifts, funnels, switches and exciting ride like transports. To unravel the amusement, players must think about the reason and physical standards of these relics just as their job in the anecdotal culture. 

"Riven"s story proceeds with where "Myst" and its friend novel, "The Book of Atrus", left off. The player accept the job of the Stranger, the hero of the primary diversion and companion of Atrus (Rand Miller). Atrus knows the antiquated craft of making "connecting books", uncommonly composed books that fill in as gateways to different universes known as "Ages". Atrus needs the Stranger's assistance to free his better half, Catherine (Sheila Goold; voice by Rengin Altay), who is held prisoner in her home Age of Riven, which is gradually crumbling. Her captor is Gehn (John Keston), Atrus' manipulative dad and self-proclaimed leader of Riven. Thirty years sooner, Atrus and Catherine caught Gehn on Riven by expelling the majority of the connecting books that drove out of the Age; the absolute last book to be evacuated, connecting to the Age of Myst, was the one they held to escape Riven. In the conviction that it would be decimated, they let the book fall into the Star Fissure, a fracture driving out of the harmed Age of Riven into a baffling, space-like void. Catherine was later deceived into coming back to Riven by her children, Sirrus and Achenar, whereupon she was kidnapped by Gehn. In the end, the player found the safe Myst book, prompting the occasions in "Myst". 

Toward the start of "Riven", Atrus outfits the player with a device book — a catch that capacities as an exclusive jail, yet seems to be indistinguishable to a connecting book — and his own journal. This journal outlines the historical backdrop of occasions prompting the current circumstance; Atrus can't clarify top to bottom as he is occupied with revising the elucidating book of Riven, trying to moderate its weakening. The player must enter the Age with no chance to get of leaving, as Atrus can't hazard sending a genuine connecting book to Riven until Gehn is securely detained in case he use it to escape Riven. Teaching the player to catch Gehn in the snare book, discover Catherine, and afterward flag him, Atrus holds out the connection book that will transport the player to Riven. 

Once there, the player investigates the islands of Riven, in the end finding Catherine's jail. The player additionally goes to Tay, the Age of the Moiety (insubordinate Rivenese under the authority of Catherine who are endeavoring to end Gehn's overbearing standard), and the "233rd Age", Gehn's own haven, where the player meets Gehn himself. Gehn endeavors to persuade the player that his aims to modify D'ni (the development in charge of beginning the specialty of the connection books) were fair and that he looks for expiation for his past transgressions. On account of the rot of Riven's structure, the best way to plainly flag Atrus is to achieve an enormous unsettling influence in the Age's soundness — achieved by reviving the Star Fissure, which Gehn had shut. When it opens, Atrus promptly connections to Riven to research and meets the player at the very edge of the Fissure. Contingent upon the player's activities, the consummation of "Riven" differs. In the best closure, the player traps Gehn into the jail book and discharges Catherine. Atrus and Catherine thank the Stranger before connecting back to the Age of Myst. The Stranger at that point falls into the Star Fissure to be taken on the way back to his reality. The most exceedingly awful closure includes neither catching Gehn nor discharging Catherine, which permits Gehn to execute Atrus (and afterward the player) and departure from his detainment. Different endings incorporate catching Gehn without sparing Catherine, being caught in the jail book, or even passing. 

Cyan started take a shot at "Riven" in 1993, following "Myst"s discharge. Before advancement started, when even the name of the diversion was unsure, the siblings Robyn and Rand Miller said they needed a "characteristic stream" from the principal amusement to the spin-off. As "Myst" ended up being a mainstream and business achievement, the two engineers had the capacity to grow their four-man group to an a lot bigger team of architects, craftsmen, developers, and sound fashioners. Improvement spread over four years, and was an a lot bigger endeavor than for the main amusement; "Riven" had a financial plan of between US$5 and $10 million, in excess of multiple times the expense of creating "Myst". Preceding discharge, Atari Corporation were in chats with Sunsoft, who recently distributed "Myst" to the Sega Saturn in respects for a potential transformation of "Riven" to the Atari Jaguar that never appeared. 

The plan for "Riven" originated from a craving to make something else and more unique than the sentimental style of "Myst". At an early point, the diversion's reality was to be designated "Equiquay". The principal phase of advancement was to make the riddles, trying to incorporate them as easily as conceivable into the territories in the amusement. The Millers met their co-fashioner, Richard Vander Wende, at an exhibition of "Myst" for the Digital World Expo in Los Angeles. Vander Wende had recently worked for ILM, and at Disney as an originator for the enlivened component "Aladdin". As the third individual from "Riven"s applied group, Vander Wende wound up contributing what Robyn Miller portrayed as an "edgier" and corresponding vision, that made the amusement drastically not quite the same as its antecedent. 

At the season of "Riven"s improvement, distributer Brøderbund was confronting falling incomes as advancement costs rose. Two years into the task, Cyan still had nothing they could demonstrate them. Brøderbund's stock dropped from $60 an offer to $22 in 1996, in view of a deferral in the distributing of "Riven". The arrangement had been to transport the diversion in time for the 1996 Christmas season; "Riven" was at long last distributed on October 29, 1997. Despite the fact that "Riven"s deals were relied upon to be higher than some other amusement that Christmas season, Brøderbund propelled a $10 million showcasing effort and built up a retail advertising association with Toshiba America. Expectation for the amusement was high even among non-gamers, helped by electronic informal exchange and all around put media inclusion. 

As in "Myst", the topology of the islands was initially made as grayscale pictures, where splendor compared to height. In Softimage, these maps were transformed into the landscape models found in the diversion. The extensive island objects were broken separated to encourage proficient rendering, which expected them to be made utilizing polygonal geometry. Every single other article were displayed utilizing B-splines and NURBS. 

A large number of the surfaces were aggregated amid a three-day outing to Santa Fe, New Mexico. The craftsmen took several photographs of wood, adobe, sand, stucco and different materials, which were treated in Photoshop before being mapped onto the 3D geometry. Though numerous PC produced situations of the time wound up looking smooth, similar to plastic, the Millers and Vander Wende built up a progressively abrasive and endured structure, with eroded and matured components, to suggest reality. The craftsmen thought about how items would look and capacity in the event that they were genuine, where and how they would be worn, and made relating subtleties. While knock maps were every so often used to mimic geometry, even little subtleties, for example, screws were regularly independently displayed. 

Rendering was executed in Mental Ray, utilizing various hand crafted shaders to create exact lighting, water and scenes. Wireframes likewise filled in as a manual for model the foundations. Altogether "Riven" has more than three hours of video and right around five thousand pictures; rendering was a noteworthy bottleneck underway in spite of the utilization of 18 committed workstations. A few scenes comprised of a huge number of individual models and surfaces and in excess of a hundred virtual light sources. Stacking a solitary island model could take two hours. Runtime liveliness impacts were made by Mark DeForest, to include flying creepy crawlies and straightforward water swells. 

"Riven" consolidated the pre-rendered foundations with real to life film, so as to expand the player's submersion level. "Riven" was the principal diversion in which any of its architects had coordinated live performing artists, and Vander Wende was troubled about their utilization. Rand Miller needed to repeat his job of Atrus from "Myst", despite the fact that he detested acting. Every one of the on-screen characters were shot with a blue screen as a setting, which was expelled in after generation by chroma key, so the performers would mix into the virtual condition. True stairs, entryways and studio lights must be fastidiously situated on the live stage to coordinate their CG counterparts. A few successions were flawlessly cut together with transforming, to take into account halfway varieties because of the nonlinearity of the ongoing interaction. 

Robyn Miller made "Riven"s music, which was later bundled and discharged by Virgin Records as "Riven: The Soundtrack". Mill operator structured the liner notes and bundling, which included English interpretations of the language found in the diversion. While the music to "Myst" was, at first, just accessible via mail-request from Cyan, Virgin Records had purchased the rights to discharge it at first, inciting Miller to ensure that it could remain solitary in CD structure. The reduced circle was discharged on February 24, 1998, with 54 minutes of music. 

Mill operator built up three leitmotifs for the amusement's three focal characters, Atrus, Catherine, and Gehn. Gehn's topic is just heard in its total structure close to the finish of the amusement, however bits of the song can be heard all through Riven, featuring his control of the Age. Mill operator endeavored to give the condition a chance to manage the subsequent sound so as to make the music as vivid as could be expected under the circumstances. He mixed live instrumentation with synthesizers: "By blending and coordinating ordinary instrumentation, you can make an odd, fascinating state of mind," Miller said. At last, he needed the music of "Riven" to mirror the diversion itself, which he depicted as having "a well-known yet-bizarre feel to it." 

Mill operator depicted his greatest test recorded as a hard copy "Riven"s music as accommodating the straight, satisfying development of music with the nonlinearity of the ongoing interaction. As players can openly investigate all regions, Miller clarified in a meeting, "the music can't utter a word excessively explicit. On the off chance that it says something, on the off chance that it works in force and there begins to be a peak, and individuals are simply remaining in a room glancing around, and they're supposing 'What's happening in here? Is something going to hop out from behind me?' You can't have the essential pieces of music that you'd like to have, you can't have a fundamental structure. It's everything got the opportunity to be simply streaming, and keep on streaming." Allmusic pundit Stephen Thomas Erlewine contended that the soundtrack is "urgently barometrical", yet "needs definition", and that the music loses sway when isolated from the amusement. 

"Riven" was commonly emphatically gotten by faultfinders, with the PC form earning a normal pundit score of 83/100 at Metacritic. The diversion sold more than 1.5 million units inside a time of its discharge, and was the top rated round of 1997, in spite of having just been available for under three months. By 2001, over 4.5 million units had been sold. 

Jeff Segstack of GameSpot gave the amusement high stamps, clarifying that it is "a lackadaisical paced, comprehensive, rationally testing background. On the off chance that you appreciated "Myst", you'll altogether appreciate "Riven"." "PC Gaming World" expressed that the illustrations were the best they had found in any experience diversion. Laura Miller of "Salon" pronounced that "Workmanship [...] is the thing that "Riven" approaches," and applauded the ongoing interaction as having "an agile tastefulness that helps [her] to remember an amazingly built novel." The diversion's sound and illustrations were reliably commended. "Macworld"s Michael Gowan featured the amusement's "rich, engrossingly secretive world", and he contended that the nature of its narrating made "Riven" "more like a decent novel than a PC diversion." 

All things considered, a few productions criticized parts of "Riven". "PC Gaming World" felt that the ongoing interaction was excessively like the first "Myst", making "Riven" "a similar amusement with another title"; the magazine likewise condemned the negligible character connection. Gaming magazine "Edge" felt that despite the fact that "Riven" was a decent amusement, the lone environment and absence of versatility was relentlessly getting to be obsolete, as diversions like "Super Mario 64" yielded graphical constancy for an expansion in opportunity. They expressed "the inquiry is whether Cyan can join its nearly Tolkien-esque world-building abilities into an all the more bleeding edge amusement vehicle next time." Even long-term players of the "Myst" recreations, for example, Heidi Fournier of Adventure Gamers, felt that a couple of riddles were excessively troublesome; "PC and Video Games", in the interim, trusted that the story hints were excessively emblematic and insufficient, which made after the plot troublesome. 

In spite of the achievement of the amusement, the Miller siblings in the long run sought after different ventures. Robyn Miller stated: "I figure it would be a drawback to dependably, for the remainder of our lives, be making "Myst"- like ventures. [… ] We're going to change, advance and develop, much the same as any individual does in any way." Robyn would leave Cyan to shape another improvement organization called Land of Point; Vander Wende would likewise leave to seek after different undertakings. The following computer game section in the "Myst" establishment would be 2001's "", which was not created by Cyan nor distributed by Brøderbund. Presto Studios took over advancement; Ubisoft obtained Brøderbund's diversion library from The Learning Company and distributed the Myst continuations.