Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet! 

Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet! (discharged universally as They Say I'm a Monkey!) is a 2008 Indonesian movie coordinated by Djenar Maesa Ayu. Featuring Titi Rajo Bintang, Henidar Amroe, and Ray Sahetapi, it recounts to the biography of Adjeng, who was explicitly mishandled as a youngster by her mom's sweetheart. Shot over 18 days following quite a while of improvement, the film adjusted two of Ayu's short stories from her presentation collection of a similar name. Attributable to its low spending plan of Rp 620 million, its cast and team were generally beginners and understudies, albeit a few built up performing artists showed up at decreased rates. 

"Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" has been portrayed as "hostile to Sjuman" in view of the dissimilarity between Ayu's progressively close to home coordinating style and the social authenticity of her dad, Sjumandjaja. Albeit monetarily ineffective, the film was generally welcomed by pundits. It won five national-level honors and was screened at a few universal film celebrations. Two Indonesian distributions, "Beat" and "The Jakarta Post", chose it as among the best movies of 2008. 

Adjeng (Titi Rajo Bintang) lives alone in a loft paid for by her beau, a rich agent (Joko Anwar). An essayist of kids' accounts, she wishes to compose short stories for grown-ups; in this, she is tutored by Asmoro (Ray Sahetapy) – with whom she is additionally engaging in sexual relations. In the interim, Adjeng's mom (Henidar Amroe) handles different parts of her life, always calling her and making shock visits. This has driven Adjeng's companions, Venny (Ayu Dewi) and Andien (Fairuz Faisal), to prod her about her oppressive mother. 

At the point when Adjeng runs clubbing with her companions, she drinks excessively and heaves, later going out in a can. As she lies with her head on the seat she reviews that, as a kid (Nadya Romples), she had been compelled to eat vegetables she had beforehand heaved. Afterward, when Andien utilizes her loft for a one-night stand, Adjeng looks and reviews how she had watched her mom having intercourse with her darling (Bucek Depp), a man who had recently attacked Adjeng – a demonstration which isn't appeared. This foundation, just as her memories of life as a young person (played by Banyu Bening) at the home of her womanizing father (August Melasz) are worked into Adjeng's short story "Lintah" ("Leech"). 

At the point when Asmoro peruses the story, he says that it is farfetched and that perusers need a peak. In any case, Adjeng demands that the truth is unreasonable and that not all casualties of assault are happy to call the police. A few days after the fact, while they are lying in bed, Asmoro demonstrates Adjeng that "Lintah" had been distributed in "Kompas". Adjeng's mom, mindful of the story's personal nature, is enraged and, in the wake of setting off to Adjeng's loft, faults everything on Adjeng's dad deserting them. 

Upset, Adjeng goes out with Venny and Andien, however when the two start contending about parenthood Adjeng abandons them both in the road. She at that point goes to a bistro to drink with Asmoro, who comforts her. When she returns home she checks her messages, the greater part of which are about the short story. Venny and Andien, in the interim, come back to their families and think about the significance of youngsters. 

The next day, Asmoro sees the specialist, Adjeng's sweetheart, abandoning her loft, which places him in a foul temperament. He and Adjeng battle, and Asmoro nearly covers Adjeng with a pad before saying that they are through. As Adjeng lies on the bed, she reviews how her mom's darling assaulted her and how her mom killed him. As the telephone rings, Adjeng watches the general population from her past going about existence in a private complex, grins, and comes back to composing. 

The film was initially intended to be founded on the short story "Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" from Djenar Maesa Ayu's 2002 presentation, a fundamentally and economically effective short story collection of a similar name. Be that as it may, Djenar later put together the film with respect to "Lintah" ("Leech") and "Melukis Jendela" ("Painting the Window"), two different stories from the treasury. Ayu had initially not expected to film her accounts, yet concurred after she was drawn closer by a consortium who offered to finance her. She asked Indra Herlambang, an essayist cum-TV character, to enable her to compose the screenplay as she "never could compose stories with a plot", and she required him to keep her spurred. The two composed the screenplay over a time of two years, experiencing issues finding new financial specialists after the first ones dropped out. 

In 2004 Ayu started taking filmmaking classes to set herself up to direct the movie. She additionally watched a few movies coordinated by her dad, the executive Sjumandjaja, in anticipation of generation. Generation started in October 2006, with a portion of the movie crew – including craftsmanship chief Hardiyansah B. Yasin – attracted after Ayu met them at a bistro in South Jakarta and found that they were dynamic in the neighborhood outside the box film scene. The gathering helped gather the Rp 620 million (US$75,000) required for generation; as a cost-sparing measure, various group individuals were film understudies. 

A considerable lot of the jobs were composed in view of explicit on-screen characters, with throwing for different jobs advanced by listening in on others' conversations. Titi Rajo Bintang, an instructor at the Daya Kemang Institute of Art, was cast in the featuring job of Adjeng after Ayu and her then-spouse, Sri Aksana Sjuman (Ayu's sibling), persuaded her. At first she was awkward with a portion of her scenes and her absence of preparing, as this was her first film job. In any case, she got support from her better half, who disclosed to her that she should act expertly and that "in a kissing scene ... [her] body ought not dismiss it". The couple additionally gave the soundtrack to "Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!", including three unique songs – "When You Smile", "Sometime in the not so distant future", and "Love, Sadness and Happiness" – performed by Rajo Bintang. 

Display turned performer Henidar Amroe was picked to play Adjeng's mom; Ayu later said that the job had been composed in light of her. Albeit stressed over the sexual substance of the film, Amroe acknowledged the job, considering it an "insane" plot that "read like an outside motion picture". The youthful Adjeng was played by Ayu's little girl, Banyu Bening. A few of the set up performers cast, including Jajang C. Noer, Ray Sahetapy, and August Melasz, consented to show up in the film for not exactly their typical charge. Shooting occurred more than 18 days, in spite of the fact that 14 had initially been assigned. 

"Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" manages the delayed consequences of kid attack such that the Indonesian magazine "Beat" depicts as a "fascinating time control explore", loaded with flashbacks which unmistakably set up the time allotment in which scenes occur. As indicated by Wicaksono Adi, in his audit for "Kompas", Adjeng's composing is her treatment, as it involves steady recreation and deconstruction of her pained past; he sets this at last permits Adjeng to battle back against the expert figures who had vexed her since she was youthful. In a creation of narrative on the film, Ayu said that she had no ethical message or social analysis as a top priority while making the film, thinking about it rather a type of self-investigation. Conceding that the film could be perused as a scrutinize of savagery against ladies and youngsters, she said that she could identify a lady. 

Adi likewise observes a love– loathe connection among Adjeng and her mom, which results in Adjeng's promiscuity – a typical demonstration in the Sastra Wangi abstract development of which Ayu is viewed as a section. The connection among mother and little girl is intelligent of topics in the prior works "Pasir Berbisik" ("Whispering Sands"; 2001), by Nan Achnas, and "Eliana, Eliana" (2003), by Riri Riza. Be that as it may, not at all like the previously mentioned movies, "Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" did not finish with the little girl and mother on unique ways. The analyst Totot Indrarto, additionally composing for "Kompas", composed that Adjeng was the title "monkey" character of the film, being looked downward on by everybody around her; in any case, the individuals who judge her don't really know her, hence, as Indrarto would like to think, making them the "monkeys". 

An audit in "Rhythm" portrayed the film as "hostile to Sjuman" inferable from the distinctions in styles among dad and girl. Sjumandjaja's movies would in general fall under social authenticity, while Ayu's presentation had to a greater extent an individual, emblematic angle with a pinch of surrealism. The film does not demonstrate Adjeng's attack, rather symbolizing it by demonstrating a bloodsucker nourishing; in one case, when Adjeng is assaulted in a bath, losing her virginity, the scene is spoken to by dark red water and various parasites encouraging. 

"Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" got a wide discharge on 3 January 2008. Monetarily ineffective in the nation, the film was screened at a few global film celebrations, including the 2008 Singapore International Film Festival (SIFF), the 2008 Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival in Estonia, and the 2009 Asian Hot Shot Film Festival in Berlin. The film was discharged on DVD in Indonesia on 9 May 2008 by Jive! Gathering, in the wake of going through the oversight board in March. The DVD included English-language captions, English-and Indonesian-language releases of the source short stories, and an in the background narrative. 

The film got commonly positive surveys. Seno Joko Suyono, in an audit for "Rhythm", expressed that the stereotypical plot of family emergency turned out to be all the more intriguing with the presentation of sex; he likewise called the peak "sweet yet aggravating". Later in 2008 the magazine chose "Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" as the best neighborhood motion picture of 2008, composing that Ayu had taken to coordinating like "a fish that had since quite a while ago flopped on the dry ground and was at last come back to the ocean." Iskandar Liem, composing for "The Jakarta Post", likewise recorded the film as among the main ten of the year, nearby global works, for example, Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight" and another Indonesian film, Riri Riza's "Laskar Pelangi" ("The Rainbow Warriors"). He depicted the film as "undeterred in its severe genuineness and liquid in its visual moral story", inviting Ayu as "a defiant new voice" in Indonesia's film industry. 

Ening Nurjanah, a coordinator of the ladies themed movie celebration V, depicted Djenar as "a case of chief who can depict a tough lady in her movies", with the film "breaking new ground" in depicting ladies' sexuality. The Vietnamese-American performing artist Dustin Nguyen, who made a decision about the film at SIFF, considered the film sudden and "un-Indonesian", "well made, all around acted, yet [with] all the more a Western reasonableness. Lisabonar Rahman, composing for "Moving Stone Indonesia", commended Rajo Bintang's acting and the film's depiction of Adjeng's experience, on which she stated "the outflow of [the background] is amazing, keeping us confused from dread"; be that as it may, she found the sound quality insufficient. 

In his audit for "Kompas", Adi composed that Ayu had made a very much created and acted movie, a "great presentation for [Indonesia's] future chief", in spite of the fact that he considered the cinematography unequipped for completely communicating the character's mental torment. Indrarto depicted "Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" as intriguing in spite of specialized imperfections, containing a solid message that watchers ought not pass judgment on somebody or trouble them when they are probably not going to realize that individual's actual foundation. 

"Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" was assigned for two Golden Screen Awards at the 2008 Indonesian Movie Awards. It likewise gotten six Citra Award selections at the 2009 Indonesian Film Festival (IFF), winning three. Aria Kusumadewa's "Identitas" ("Identity"; 2009) bested "Mereka Bilang, Saya Monyet!" in Best Film and Best Director, while Joko Anwar's "Pintu Terlarang" ("Forbidden Door"; 2009) took Best Editing.