Bill McCann 

Lieutenant Colonel William Francis James McCann, (19 April 1892 – 14 December 1957) was an Australian trooper of World War I, an attorney, and a conspicuous figure in the military and ex-administration network of South Australia amid the interwar period. Brought up in Adelaide, he functioned as an educator before the war. He enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force as a private in 1914, and ascended through the positions to be appointed amid the Gallipoli crusade of 1915. In 1916– 1918 he battled on the Western Front in France and Belgium, was injured twice, and rose to the position of major. For his courage amid the war, he was made a Companion of the Distinguished Service Order and twice granted the Military Cross. After the war, he filled in as leader of the tenth Battalion until its disbandment in 1919. 

Returning home, McCann turned into an attorney and framed a lawful association with Victoria Cross beneficiary Arthur Blackburn. McCann was dynamic in restored servicemen's associations, as leader of the South Australian part of the Returned Sailors' and Soldiers' Imperial League from 1924 to 1931, and as a state VP from 1938 to 1949. He was an establishment individual from the Legacy Club of Adelaide, taking care of the wards of expired servicemen. His administration in the low maintenance Citizen Military Forces saw him achieve the position of lieutenant colonel and direction the 43rd Battalion somewhere in the range of 1927 and 1930. Named as state costs magistrate and agent Commonwealth costs official from 1938 to 1954; in 1946 an incendiarism assault on his house was connected to his anti– dark marketeering work in those jobs. In acknowledgment of his work with the ex-administration network, McCann was delegated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1935, and a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1956. 

William Francis James McCann was conceived at Glanville, outside Adelaide, South Australia, on 19 April 1892, to South Australian Railways motor driver John Francis McCann and his significant other Eliza, Francis. He went to different grade schools then Adelaide High School, and finished instructor preparing with the state Education Department in December 1913. He instructed in Ethelton, Malvern and Glanville preceding the flare-up of World War I. His pre-war military experience comprised of four years in the volunteer cadets while he was at school and taking an interest in the University of Adelaide Rifle Club amid his educator preparing. 

McCann enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) on 24 August 1914 at Morphettville, South Australia. He was assigned toward the South Australian-raised tenth Battalion, some portion of the third Brigade, as a private with the regimental number 405. Inside seven days he had been elevated to sergeant. The brigade set out for abroad in October, and cruised by means of Albany, Western Australia, to Egypt, arriving sooner than required December. While the power was preparing in Egypt, McCann was named as a detachment sergeant in the force's D Company. In the wake of finishing preparing, the third Brigade was assigned as the covering power for the arrival at Anzac Cove, Gallipoli, on 25 April 1915, as was the main detachment aground about 4:30 am. After four days McCann was named as organization sergeant major. Amid that period, the tenth Battalion endured setbacks of 13 officers and 453 men from the 29 officers and 921 men who landed. On 19 May the regiment repulsed a purposeful Turkish counter-assault against the arrival compel, after which it sunk into a daily schedule of pivoting through different positions in the line. His exceptional administration amid the period 6 May to 28 June picked up McCann a few notices in Australian and New Zealand Army Corps routine requests. In July, McCann and the vast majority of the brigade had a three-day lay on the island of Imbros, however were rapidly back in the channels at Anzac. McCann was dispatched a second lieutenant on 4 August, by which time almost 50% of the contingent had been emptied wiped out with looseness of the bowels. He was elevated to lieutenant on 14 November. McCann stayed at Anzac, filling in as legion knowledge and flagging officer until the unit was pulled back to the island of Lemnos in late November, trailed by departure to Egypt the next month. 

At the point when the majority of the AIF was exchanged toward the Western Front, McCann sent to France in late March 1916 as the exploring, killing and knowledge officer of his legion. Subsequent to landing in Marseilles, he instructed a composite gatekeeper of respect drawn from the ninth and tenth Battalions. On 16 April 1916, he was elevated to chief and was named as second-in-order of A Company. Amid the Battle of Pozières on 23 July, he instructed the lead organization of the legion when it entered a bomb (hand projectile) battle about the O.G.1 channel framework in help of the ninth Battalion. The Australian Official War Historian, Charles Bean, depicted his activities as pursues: According to McCann, his gathering was constrained back because of the absence of projectiles and the disappointment of different gatherings to stay in contact with his gathering. The reference for his Military Cross, granted for his activities at Pozières, read; "For obvious bravery in real life. He drove his organization in the assault, shelling the adversary back, and, despite overwhelming setbacks, squeezed forward until seriously injured by a bomb." 

McCann was the principal individual from the tenth Battalion to be granted the Military Cross, and was additionally the primary unit officer to get an honor in the field for a particular activity. The injury to his head had seriously broken his skull, yet he stayed at his post until he had announced the circumstance to the leader of the ninth Battalion. He was emptied to emergency clinic in England, and his honor was accounted for in the Adelaide "Promoter" paper on 29 September alongside a photo and brief subtleties of his administration. After he had recouped adequately, he went to an inauguration at Buckingham Palace on 4 October to get his Military Cross from King George V. That day, an individual tenth Battalion officer, Arthur Blackburn, got his Victoria Cross for his own behavior at Pozières that intently pursued those of McCann. McCann was therapeutically arranged to be repatriated to Australia on a medical clinic deliver, yet overlooked these requests and came back to his contingent in France in November. On landing, he was put in order of B Company. Experiencing disease, he was emptied in February 1917, and in the wake of recouping was sent to a preparation school for a month. He rejoined the regiment in March. 

The evening of 8 April 1917, as the Battle of Arras started, the tenth Battalion assaulted Louverval Wood, a station of the Hindenburg Line of German protections. McCann was injured in the neck amid the assault, and in the wake of having it swathed and being barely ready to talk, stayed with his troops for a few hours, and as indicated by the "Australian Dictionary of Biography", "was a motivation to his men". When the circumstance was clear, he detailed for therapeutic consideration and was emptied to medical clinic in England. Following a month and a half recovering, McCann rejoined his unit toward the finish of May, expecting direction of A Company. He stayed with the contingent all through the Battle of Passchendaele in Flanders from July to November 1917, including the Battle of the Menin Road Ridge in September, before being favored to a preparation legion in the United Kingdom in late December. He came back to his unit in June 1918. On 29 June, after the brigade had caught a segment of the German line utilizing "quiet entrance" strategies, McCann's organization was in the recently won positions when the Germans counter-assaulted and got between his propelled posts. He drove his organization signallers, delegates and hold unit forward into the hole. The Germans dropped their weapons, which incorporated an automatic rifle, and ran. 

Amid the tenth Battalion's catch of Merris in July, his organization's fruitful disjoining of the German lines of correspondence brought about the honor of a bar to McCann's Military Cross. The reference read: 

On 10 August, amid early battling in the Hundred Days Offensive, which started on 8 August 1918 with the Battle of Amiens, the tenth Battalion was entrusted with offering help to an assault driven by the ninth Battalion, which had endured critical losses as it assaulted close Lihons. Unfit to catch German positions in Crépey Wood, the ninth Battalion approached the tenth for help. As McCann told the most grounded organization of the tenth Battalion, he was sent forward. He drove A Company in clearing the wood, his sub-unit continuing just 15 setbacks in the battling, and catching 10 severely injured Germans. The ninth Battalion and McCann's organization set up posts in the wood. After a German flood fell on the recently won positions, McCann was visiting his posts along the northern edge of the wood when he saw 200 to 300 Germans drawing closer to assault. This counter-assault overran one of the four A Company posts, and one confined post pulled back. The German counter-assault additionally constrained the withdrawal of the ninth Battalion from the eastern edge of the wood. The two outstanding A Company posts kept battling. One, kept an eye on by McCann, one other officer and seven men, battled the Germans for 60 minutes. The Germans got into the post multiple times, and each time the Australians constrained them out. McCann and his gathering in the long run drove them off, murdering 90 of the adversary. McCann's organization endured 30 losses in the battling, yet their endeavors enabled the ninth Battalion to restore its posts along the eastern edge of the wood. The following morning, McCann's organization was exposed to a substantial gas barrage in Crépey Wood, and he was dispensed three tanks of the fifth Tank Brigade to clear the region north of his positions. Another German counter-assault created, and the foe got behind the Australian positions. McCann was fortified; at that point, gathering troops from the two his organization and the ninth Battalion and pushing ahead by "energetic activity and hard, confounded battling", he and others shut the hole in the cutting edge. For his activities at Crépey Wood, McCann was later made a Companion of the Distinguished Service Order, the second most noteworthy honor for demonstrations of bravery by officers. The reference read: 

The tenth Battalion was back in real life on 22– 23 August as the Allied development proceeded with north of Proyart. The tenth Battalion was in a supporting job securing the flank of the first Brigade. Learning of German positions in Luc Wood that were holding up the development, the leader, Lieutenant Colonel Maurice Wilder-Neligan, entrusted McCann, directing two organizations, to clear the zone. Alongside flanking troops, McCann verified the wood, catching 15 detainees and four automatic rifles, enabling the development to proceed. McCann briefly told the unit for seven days in late August before being elevated to transitory major on 23 September. The force saw its last activity of the war soon thereafter. McCann again incidentally instructed the contingent for seven days toward the beginning of October, and was substantively elevated to major on 21 October. Soon after this he went to a procedure and strategies course at the Staff College, Camberley, before coming back to the contingent in November, when he was delegated as unit second-in-direction. Toward the beginning of January 1919, McCann was delegated leader. He drove the tenth Battalion until its disbandment in March, and was referenced in Field Marshal Sir Douglas Haig's last despatch of 16 March 1919. Additionally in March, McCann drove a gathering of American delegates on a voyage through the combat area and, the next month, headed the third Brigade unforeseen in the Anzac Day walk through London. On 3 May he was contributed with his Distinguished Service Order and the bar to his Military Cross at Buckingham Palace. Soon thereafter he set out for Australia, touching base in Adelaide in June. He was admitted to Keswick Repatriation General Hospital on his arrival, and was released from the AIF on 8 September 1919. Two of McCann's siblings likewise served in the AIF, and one was executed in real life. McCann was issued with the 1914– 15 Star, British War Medal, and Victory Medal for his administration amid the war. 

McCann left the Education Department in November 1919, having turned his hand to horticulture the earlier month. He cultivated at Truro and Manoora yet was hampered by his war wounds, and surrendered these plans in August the next year. As per typical methodology, while serving in the AIF he had been named a privileged major in the peacetime armed force, the Citizen Military Forces (CMF). He was substantively elevated to study the CMF on 1 October 1920, on the Reserve of Officers List. McCann started concentrating as an articled representative in December 1920. He wedded Mildred Southcott on 20 August 1921; they had two children and a little girl. In 1921 he started a functioning relationship with the South Australian part of the Returned Sailors' and Soldiers' Imperial League of Australia (RSSILA), at first as a state VP. In this limit he was additionally an individual from the Soldier's Children's Education Board. 

In March 1922, McCann started examining law at the University of Adelaide. He was chosen leader of the state part of the RSSILA in 1924. McCann was an early promoter for the structure of the National War Memorial in Adelaide, protected the status of Anzac Day as an open occasion against dissents from the retail segment because of decreased shopping hours, and spoke to the interests of officer pioneers. He was admitted to the Bar on 25 July 1925, and went into organization with Arthur Blackburn, framing the law office Blackburn and McCann. On 19 May 1927, he exchanged from the Reserve of Officers List to the low maintenance tenth Battalion, and on 1 July was exchanged to the low maintenance 43rd Battalion as its boss, picking up advancement to lieutenant colonel on 1 December. In 1928, McCann was an establishment individual from the Legacy Club of Adelaide, set up to help the wards of perished ex-servicemen. At the point when the National War Memorial configuration was being concluded, McCann firmly bolstered including the names of every South Australian who were slaughtered in World War I; his proposal was consolidated in the plan. At the 1928 national gathering of the RSSILA, McCann forcefully scrutinized the protection arrangement of the Federal Government, especially subsidizing gave; "[d]efence has been brought down to such a depressed spot", he stated, "that it is presently a foolishness." 

McCann was a functioning individual from the Big Brother Movement in South Australia; this included supporting young men that had moved to Australia from the United Kingdom under the Child Migrant plan. He told the 43rd Battalion until July 1930 when he exchanged to the Unattached List, and proceeded as leader of the RSSILA until 1931, driving the RSSILA designation to the biennial meeting of the British Empire Service League in London in 1929. Coming back from the meeting and a voyage through the previous combat zones and war graveyards, McCann fought that World War I had not been advantageous, as huge misfortune had delivered little increase, a position that prompted open analysis. 

McCann disappeared from nonappearance from the state administration of the RSSILA to fruitlessly keep running for the incredibly negligible Division of Boothby as a Nationalist applicant in the 1929 government decision. His choice to run was censured in certain quarters as undermining the objective position of the RSSILA. His crusade was upheld by Senator Harold Edward Elliott, a Victorian who had initially met then-Sergeant McCann amid the Gallipoli battle and had been so awed with him that he had offered McCann a commission in his unit. McCann got 19,675 votes, involving some 44.4 percent of the count, against the Australian Labor Party occupant, John Price, who got 24,641 votes, or 55.6 percent. McCann's annihilation was a piece of an across the nation swing to the Labor Party that saw the Nationalist– Country alliance government lose office. He along these lines surrendered as state leader of the RSSILA, successful from before the decision. 

In 1930, McCann was assigned for the situation of national leader of the RSSILA, as a component of a South Australian push for inclination for returned servicemen in business matters. In the occasion, the sitting president was re-named and barely re-chose with help from the state parts of Queensland, New South Wales and Tasmania, and a making choice by the returning officer. In December 1930, McCann was again chosen leader of the state part of the RSSILA, yet resigned from the post the next year. In 1934, McCann was selected as the seat of the state government Industrial Board, which was in charge of government workers occupied with development. 

In mid 1935, McCann was named to act in the spot of Blackburn, who was currently the city coroner, amid the last's nonappearance on leave and different obligations. That year, McCann exchanged back to the CMF officers' save, and was designated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (Civil Division) for administrations to returned troopers and mariners. He additionally ran ineffectively for decision as the leader of the state part of the RSSILA, turned into an equity of the harmony, and was granted the King George V Silver Jubilee Medal. In 1938, McCann effectively kept running for race as a councilor in the City of Burnside, and was re-chosen as a state VP of the RSSILA, proceeding in this job until 1949. 

From 1938 to 1954 he was the state costs magistrate and agent Commonwealth costs chief. Following the flare-up of World War II, McCann quickly told an uncommon constabulary of men more than 45 – known as the South Australian Emergency National Defense League – and was associated with raising the RSSILA Volunteer Defense Corps, what might be compared to the British Home Guard. Amid the war, McCann was the executive of the state Fighting Forces Comfort Fund, which sent packages to troops serving abroad. In 1944, McCann was re-chosen as a Burnside councilor, however surrendered the next year. In 1946, his request as costs magistrate into dark marketeering brought about his house being intentionally set land. A man was therefore indicted for the wrongdoing and condemned to six years detainment with hard work. The next year, McCann was chosen the principal leader of the Tenth Battalion AIF Association, which joined the old tenth Battalion Club and the World War II 2/tenth Battalion Club. His better half, Mildred, kicked the bucket in 1948. In 1956 he was selected Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George for administrations to ex-servicemen. He kicked the bucket of coronary infection at Tusmore on 14 December 1957 and was covered at North Road Cemetery. The "Australian Dictionary of Biography" depicted him as "a capable speaker and a sharp debater with a charming and industrious identity".