Talk That Talk (Rihanna tune) 

"Talk That Talk" is a tune recorded by Barbadian artist Rihanna for her 2011 studio collection of a similar name. It includes a rap refrain by American rapper Jay-Z, who had recently teamed up with Rihanna on her tune "Umbrella" in 2007 and "Run This Town" in 2009. The tune was composed by Jay-Z, Ester Dean, Christopher Wallace, Anthony Best, Sean Combs, and Chucky Thompson together with the Norwegian generation couple StarGate. Def Jam Recordings adjusted the track to urban radio in the United States on January 17, 2012, as the third single from "Talk That Talk". It was discharged in France as a CD single on March 26. "Talk That Talk" is a hip jump tune with R&B thumps, unpleasant drums and grungy synths, and has a comparable style to Rihanna's 2010 single "Inconsiderate Boy". 

The single was assigned for a Grammy Award for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration at the 2013 function. The tune showed up on a few outlines around the world; it achieved number 31 on the US "Board" Hot 100, number 25 on the UK Singles Chart, and the best ten in Israel, Norway, and South Korea. It was ensured platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), indicating computerized downloads of more than one million duplicates in the US. Rihanna performed "Talk That Talk" on TV programs, for example, "The Jonathan Ross Show" and "Saturday Night Live", and included it on the set arrangements of the 2013 Diamonds and the 2014 The Monster Tour with Eminem. 

Before her 6th studio collection "Talk That Talk" was discharged in November 2011, Rihanna reported on her Twitter account that, aside from the tune "We Found Love" with Calvin Harris, the collection would have just a single other highlighted craftsman, despite the fact that she didn't make reference to the craftsman's name. Jay Brown, Rihanna's chief, disclosed that they liked to record autonomously instead of work together with different specialists. On November 8, Rihanna affirmed on Twitter that her coach, American rapper Jay-Z, would show up as a highlighted craftsman on the collection's title track. Dark colored said that the coordinated effort "happened naturally". 

"Talk That Talk" is the third real joint effort among Rihanna and Jay-Z, who had cooperated on "Umbrella" in 2007 and "Run This Town" in 2009. "Umbrella" was the lead single from Rihanna's 2007 collection "Great Girl Gone Bad" and topped the graphs in excess of ten nations, including the US "Board" Hot 100, on which it burned through seven continuous weeks at number one. "Run This Town", which likewise included rapper Kanye West, was discharged as the second single from Jay-Z's 2009 collection "The Blueprint 3". 

"Talk That Talk" was composed by Ester Dean, Jay-Z, StarGate, Anthony Best, Sean Combs, and Chucky Thompson, and created by StarGate. They had delivered Rihanna's 2010 hit singles "Just Girl (In the World)" and "What's My Name?" for her fifth collection "Boisterous". StarGate revealed to Norwegian site 730.no that it was their first cooperation with Jay-Z and said that they were happy with both the tune and every craftsman's commitment. "Talk That Talk" was recorded at Roc the Mic Studios and The Jungle City Studios in New York City, Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles, and The Hide Out Studios in London. StarGate, Miles Walker, and Mike Anderson filled in as the tune's chronicle engineers. Rihanna's vocals were recorded by Marcos Tovar and Kuk Harrell, who also created them, while Jordan "DJ Swivel" Young recorded Jay-Z's sections. Extra account of the melody was done in Sofitel Paris Le Faubourg and Savoy London inns. "Talk That Talk" was blended by Phil Tan and right hand Daniela Rivera at Ninja Beat Club Studios in Atlanta. Eriksen and Hermansen recorded the melody's instrumentation, and Tim Blacksmith and Danny D. were doled out as its official makers. 

In December 2011, Rihanna asked her fans on Twitter to suggest a tune from "Talk That Talk" for discharge as the third single. On January 10, 2012, she declared that the title track was picked and furthermore appeared the single's spread—a high contrast picture in which Rihanna is wearing "road punk/rockabilly garments" and squats against a divider. As indicated by Jazmine Gray of "Vibe" magazine, the vocalist has an equivocal outward appearance on the spread. On January 17, Def Jam Recordings adjusted "Talk That Talk" to urban contemporary radio stations in the United States. It was additionally sent to US contemporary hit and musical radios on February 14. On March 26, "Talk That Talk" was discharged in France as a CD single, which contained the collection form of the melody and the Chuckie Extended Remix of "We Found Love". 

"Talk That Talk" has a length of three minutes and twenty-nine seconds. "Time" magazine's Claire Suddath described it as an enthusiastic hip bounce track with a pop snare. It highlights R&B thumps, "hard drums", grungy synths, and an example of the melody "I Got a Story to Tell" by rapper The Notorious B.I.G.. 

Adrian Thrills from the "Day by day Mail" depicted the melody as "moderate and sultry". So also, Sam Lansky of MTV Buzzworthy thought that it was arousing and certain, and saw that Rihanna tallies when she sings the tune's melody. IGN's Chad Grischow composed that a "fluffy synth song" adds Rihanna's "hot supplication for cushion talk", which is supplemented by "bling-adoring rap from Jay-Z." Digital Spy's Robert Copsey felt that its riff is like Rihanna's 2010 single "Inconsiderate Boy". 

The melody starts with a rap refrain performed by Jay Z, whose lines include: "I talk grandiose cash, I boast homes/I sell out fields, I call that getting vault/Million dollar voice, came through telephone/We making a beeline for the top, in the event that you coming, please". He raps at a moderate pace and consolidates both two sided sayings and silly comments, including a sexual reference that Claire Suddath saw meant that Jay Z's delight on the melody: "[I] had it by her bladder, she resembles 'Goodness I gotta pee!'." Melissa Maerz from "Amusement Weekly" commented that he "even touts their fly set way of life on the title track, boasting that he can fly out to Pisa/Just to get some pizza." 

"Day by day Mirror" commentator Gavin Martin remarked that the melody has Rihanna "taking Beyoncé's bootylicious crown as well as her better half Jay Z for a spirited trade against sibilant drum breaks." Sputnikmusic's Steve M. felt that it could be a noteworthy hit on radio incompletely as a result of Jay Z's visitor rap. Reem Buhazza of "The National" also felt that "Talk That Talk", alongside "You da One" and "Roc Me Out", is a piece of "the triumphant blend of made-for-radio pop reasonableness". David Griffiths from 4Music observed the tune to urge and saw it as another fruitful coordinated effort among Rihanna and Jay-Z. Lansky from MTV Buzzworthy was not astounded that another joint effort between the two was a triumph. MTV News' Jocelyn Vena called it "huge and hard with simply enough brilliance" and felt that the melody examines sex more suitably than "Presumptuousness (Love It)"; in the last mentioned, Rihanna communicates her longing to engage in sexual relations while singing the verses "Suck my arrogance, lick my influence". 

Lewis Corner of "Computerized Spy" gave the melody four out of five stars and considered it a tempting, anthemic club tune. In an audit of "Talk That Talk", "Pitchfork"s Lindsay Zoladz composed that it is one of the collection's progressively cheerful melodies, despite the fact that it isn't in the same class as "Umbrella". Result of Sound's Chris Coplan discovered Jay Z's rap apathetic, however said that Rihanna is as passionate and put resources into her singing as she was on "Saturday Night Live". "Individuals" magazine's Chuck Arnold called the melody "another minute in the sun." Julianne Escobedo Shepherd of "Turn" believed that it is a joint effort that "does not go unnoticed". On the basic side, Priya Elan of "NME" composed that the tune is a "bet that doesn't satisfy". The single was selected for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration at the 2013 Grammy Awards. in any case, lost to "No Church in the Wild" (2012) by Jay-Z and Kanye West highlighting Frank Ocean and The-Dream. 

After the arrival of the collection, the melody graphed in numerous nations attributable to solid computerized deals. It appeared and crested at number 31 on the US "Bulletin" Hot 100 and sold 73,000 advanced duplicates, which was the most astounding presentation on the graph for that week. In the seven day stretch of February 4, 2012, "Talk That Talk" reemerged the diagram at number 100. It achieved number 36 in the seven day stretch of March 24. The tune likewise showed up on the R&B/Hip-Hop Songs diagram at number 63 in the issue dated January 28. It crested of number 12 and remained on the diagram for 21 weeks. It was positioned number 73 on the "Billboard"s year-end R&B/Hip-Hop Songs diagram. On the Pop Songs graph, the single appeared and crested at number 26 in the seven day stretch of April 7. It was guaranteed platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), meaning advanced downloads of 1 million duplicates in the United States. "Talk That Talk" appeared and crested at number 30 on the Canadian Hot 100 diagram. 

In Europe, after the arrival of the collection, the melody showed up on ten national outlines. In the United Kingdom, it appeared at number 25 on the Singles Chart, and achieved number seven on the R&B Chart. The tune made a main ten presentation on the Norwegian Singles Chart and outlined at number 11 on the Swiss Singles Chart. It additionally shown up in the Republic of Ireland, New Zealand, and Spain, and furthermore entered the main thirty in Scotland, France, and Denmark. After its discharge as a solitary, "Talk That Talk" entered the Australian Singles Chart at number 42 and topped at number 28 on February 19. It was affirmed platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for selling 70,000 computerized duplicates. Following the arrival of the collection, the melody appeared in South Korea on the Gaon International Chart at number 22 with offers of 14,207 computerized duplicates. The next week, it sold 27,169 additional duplicates and crested at number 9 on the diagram. 

Rihanna first performed "Talk That Talk" on the British syndicated program "The Jonathan Ross Show", which publicized on March 3, 2012. She performed without Jay Z and was likewise met. On May 5, Rihanna played out the melody on the American satire show "Saturday Night Live" as a major aspect of a mixture that incorporated the first break rendition of "Birthday Cake". In her execution, she wore an all-dark outfit with a monster cobweb as her background. She sang a short area of "Birthday Cake", which changed into "Talk That Talk", of which the last was performed completely. Rihanna and Jay Z performed "Talk That Talk" together at the 2012 BBC Radio 1's Hackney Weekend in London. The execution additionally highlighted their past coordinated efforts "Run This Town" and "Umbrella". In November, she played out the melody on the set rundown of her 777 Tour, a seven-day long special visit that upheld the arrival of her 2012 collection "Unashamed". "Talk That Talk" was likewise included on the set rundown of her 2013 Diamonds World Tour. Rihanna played out the tune on her joint visit with rapper Eminem, titled The Monster Tour in 2014. 

Credits are adjusted from the liner notes of "Talk That Talk". 

Areas 

Staff