Netley Abbey 

Netley Abbey is a destroyed late medieval religious community in the town of Netley close Southampton in Hampshire, England. The monastery was established in 1239 as a house for priests of the grave Cistercian request. Regardless of illustrious support, Netley was never rich, delivered no powerful researchers nor churchmen, and its about 300-year history was tranquil. The priests were best known to their neighbors for the liberal neighborliness they offered to voyagers ashore and ocean. 

In 1536, Netley Abbey was seized by Henry VIII of England amid the Dissolution of the Monasteries and the structures allowed to William Paulet, a rich Tudor government official, who changed over them into a house. The convent was utilized as a nation house until the start of the eighteenth century, after which it was relinquished and somewhat obliterated for structure materials. Therefore the remains turned into a vacation destination, and gave motivation to writers and specialists of the Romantic development. In the mid twentieth century the site was given to the country, and it is currently a Scheduled Ancient Monument, thought about by English Heritage. The broad remains comprise of the congregation, group structures, abbot's home, and pieces of the post-Dissolution chateau. Netley Abbey is a standout amongst the best safeguarded medieval Cistercian religious communities in southern England. 

Netley was brought about by the compelling Peter des Roches, who was Bishop of Winchester from 1205 until his passing in 1238; the monastery was established not long after his demise, in 1239. The organizer's contract demonstrates the name of the monastery as "the congregation of St Mary of Edwardstow", or the Latin "Ecclesia Sanctae Mariae de loco Sancti Edwardi" despite the fact that the title of the contract calls it "Letley"; the present name of Netley is probably gotten from this. The nunnery was one of a couple of religious communities which the minister planned as a dedication to himself; the other is La Clarté-Dieu in Saint-Paterne-Racan, France. Des Roches started to buy the grounds for Netley's underlying enrichment in around 1236, yet he passed on before the task was done and the establishment was finished by his agents. As indicated by the Chronicle of Waverley Abbey, the main priests touched base to settle the site on 25 July 1239 from neighboring Beaulieu Abbey, a year after the priest's demise. The reality of its author earlier demise before assignment of the enrichment was finished, put the nascent convent in a troublesome budgetary circumstance. It is felt that simply after the house was taken under the wing of Henry III, who ended up intrigued by it in the mid-1240s, was advance made on the structures. The King in the long run accepted the job of supporter in 1251. 

The products of regal support were shown by the development of an extensive church ( long), inherent the elegant French-affected Gothic style spearheaded by Henry's bricklayers at Westminster Abbey. The high caliber and expand nature of the congregation's enhancement, especially its moldings and tracery, demonstrate how the machine of regal support lead to a move far from the intentional somberness of the early Cistercian places of worship towards the greatness at that point considered fitting to a common church, for example, a house of prayer. Development of the congregation continued from east to west. The asylum and transepts were fabricated first to enable the priests to hold administrations, and the nave was finished after some time. It isn't known exactly when the structure work started, yet real blessings by King Henry of material timber and lead from Derbyshire in 1251 and 1252 demonstrate that a portion of the eastern pieces of the congregation, and presumably of the east shelter run as well, had by then achieved a propelled stage. The nearness of an establishment stone at the base of the southeast wharf of the intersection recorded "H. DI. GRA REX ANGE" (Latin for "Henry by the Grace of God King of the English") demonstrates that the establishments of the focal point of the congregation achieved ground level following 1251, the year Henry III formally turned into the monastery's benefactor. Taking numerous decades to finish, the congregation was presumably completed somewhere in the range of 1290 and 1320. Dating the different pieces of the structure depends dominatingly on expressive criteria. 

The congregation was cruciform fit as a fiddle, with vaulting and a square asylum and a low focal pinnacle containing ringers. It was aisled all through, with a couple of houses of prayer on the east side of every transept. There was no triforium, yet a thin display surmounted by a clerestory of triple lancet windows kept running over each sound of the arcade, as can be found in the enduring area in the south transept. The vaulting sprang straightforwardly from the highest point of the arcade. The divider at the eastern end of the asylum, most likely worked after 1260, had an expansive window which includes an upper rose and expand tracery; the passageway windows were basic matched lancets recessed inside a curve. In the nave, the south passageway had plain triple lancets set high in the divider to stay away from the house rooftop. The north passageway windows by differentiation had lavishly enriched cusped tracery, mirroring the adjustments in taste over the significant lot of development, and proposing this was among the last pieces of the congregation to be done, likely in the exceptionally late thirteenth or mid fourteenth hundreds of years. The west mass of the congregation additionally has an extensive window, the tracery of which was obliterated in a breakdown amid the eighteenth century. Enduring sections demonstrate that it was worked in a "more liberated and further developed style" than different pieces of the congregation, and recommend a date around the turn of the fourteenth century. 

Inside, the congregation was subdivided into a few territories. The high special raised area was against the east mass of the asylum, flanked by two littler raised areas as an afterthought dividers. Toward the west, under the pinnacle, were the priests' choir slows down where they sat amid administrations, and further west was a pulpitum or rood screen, which blocked access to the ceremonial zones of the congregation. In the nave, the lay siblings had their very own choir slows down and special stepped area for administrations. The priests of Netley kept up a timetable of administrations and supplication both day and night following the conventional accepted hours; a staircase in the south transept went up to the priests' residence, enabling them to helpful access to the night administrations. The lay siblings had their own passageway to the congregation at the west end through a secured display from their settlement. 

Not at all like different requests of priests who enabled parishioners and guests admission to the nave, the Cistercians formally saved their chapels exclusively for the utilization of the ascetic network. Others needed to adore in a different church in the convent grounds near the fundamental door. After some time this standard was loose to enable explorers to visit altars, as at Hailes Abbey with its relic of the Holy Blood, and to permit the development of tombs and chantries for supporters and well off sponsors of the house, as in the places of worship of different requests. Uncovered figure demonstrates that the congregation at Netley included various expand tombs and landmarks. 

The inside of the congregation was lavishly designed. The dividers were put and painted in white and maroon with geometric examples and lines intended to give the impression of ashlar workmanship. Design detail was likewise chosen in maroon. The floors were shrouded in polychrome encaustic tiles highlighting foliage, heraldic mammoths, and emblems including those of England, France, the Holy Roman Empire, Queen Eleanor of Castile, Richard of Cornwall and numerous amazing honorable families. The houses of prayer in the south transept had tiles with images of Edward the Confessor and the Virgin Mary. The windows of the congregation were loaded up with painted glass, six boards of which have been recuperated. They show scenes from the life of the Virgin Mary, the Crucifixion, priests, beasts and funny creatures. 

South of the congregation stands a house encompassed by scopes of structures on three sides, the congregation framing the fourth. As is known, the group was the core of the convent, where the priests invested the majority of their energy when not in chapel, occupied with study, duplicating books and the production of enlightened original copies. The priests' work areas were set in the north stroll of the shelter, and a pantry for books in current use was cut into the outside mass of the south transept. 

The east range, which was begun in the meantime as the congregation and likely took around 10 years to fabricate, contained a significant number of the nunnery's most vital rooms. The vaulted library and sacristy were on the ground floor, neighboring the congregation. Toward the south was the part house, where the considerations of the convent occurred and the priests met to execute business and to tune in to a day by day perusing of a section of the Rule of St Benedict. At Netley this was a heavenly loft isolated into three passageways with vaults springing from four segments; a stone seat went around the dividers for the priests to sit on, and the abbot's position of royalty was in the focal point of the east divider. The passage to the section house from the shelter is by means of an extravagantly shaped curved entryway, flanked on each side by a window of comparative size. The windows had ledges and segments of Purbeck Marble, the entire framing a great organization suitable to the second most essential space in the nunnery after the congregation. The windows on either side of the entryway would have been unglazed, in order to permit agents of the laybrothers (who were not individuals from part) to tune in to discusses. The part house was additionally the site of certain tombs, generally those of the abbots of a religious community. At the point when the room was uncovered, archeologists found dissipated human remains and proof of graves underneath the medieval floor level, showing that various entombments. 

The parlor lies south, a stark, barrel vaulted room minimal in excess of a way through the structure. Here the priests could talk without aggravating the quiet in the house, which Cistercian rules demanded. South of this runs a since quite a while ago vaulted corridor with a focal column of columns supporting the rooftop. This room was quite adjusted after some time and most likely filled a few needs amid the lifetime of the nunnery. At first, it might have filled in as the priests' day room and convenience for amateurs, however as time went on it might have been changed over into the misericord where the priests—at first just the wiped out, yet by the later medieval times the entire cloister—could eat meat dishes not regularly permitted in the primary eating lobby. 

The priests' residence was on the top floor of the east range, a long stay with a shrill rooftop (the sign of which can even now be seen on the transept divider) which ran the length of the structure. This was entered by two staircases: the day stair went down into the shelter in the south-east corner; the night stair drove into the south transept of the congregation to enable the priests to get effectively from bed to choir around evening time. At first the residence was an open lobby, with the priests' beds set along the dividers, one under every one of the little, cut like windows. Amid the fourteenth century, when perspectives on the need of resting in a similar space together for the basic life changed, the residence at Netley would, as at different houses, have been isolated into areas with wooden dividers to give each priest his very own private region, each initiating a focal passage. The treasury, a minor vaulted room, was at the north end of the quarters, preumably situated for security during the evening. 

Another huge structure lies across at the south end of the east range. Its lower level comprises of a vaulted lobby furnished with an amazing thirteenth century hooded chimney and its very own garderobe. It isn't clear what this chamber was utilized for, yet it might have been the ascetic hospital—provided that this is true, it was a most bizarre, maybe extraordinary, course of action. Ordinarily in a medieval Cistercian religious community a hospital with its very own kitchens, house of prayer and auxiliary structures would have been found east of the principle structures around a second, littler group, yet at Netley these appear to be missing. Up until now, unearthings have not uncovered whether Netley had a different clinic complex. 

The upper floor of this structure was the reredorter or lavatory. It is an extensive live with an entryway advantageously driving into the priests' quarters. The slows down were in the south divider and the gushing dropped into an underground stream which keeps running in a vaulted section underneath the structure. 

Toward the west of the reredorter square was the rich, a room where the priests' wine (some of it direct from the lord's basements at Southampton) and brew were put away. Unearthings around there have uncovered fragmentary remains which might be a piece of a different kitchen for the more extravagant eating routine permitted to the inhabitants of the hospital. 

Amid the Tudor transformation of the monastery to a private house the south range was widely revamped, and just the north mass of the medieval structure remains, which makes following the religious format troublesome. Going east to west, first came the day stair, at that point the warming house where the public flame consumed continually to enable the priests to warm themselves after extended periods of concentrate in the unheated group. The room was most likely vaulted and had its incredible chimney on the west divider to enable warmth to ascend to the refectory or eating corridor adjacent. All things considered, as at the incomparable Cistercian house Fountains Abbey, the chamber over the warming house was the muniment room, where the convent's contracts, records and title deeds, just as those of nearby rulers, were kept. 

The refectory anticipated south from the focal point of the range, as was regular in Cistercian religious communities. This is presently totally decimated put something aside for the north divider, in spite of the fact that the establishments endure underground and have been unearthed. It was a long corridor with a dais for the abbot and critical visitors at the south end. There was a podium in the west divider to enable a priest to peruse to the network amid the dinner. The kitchen lies west; it had a focal chimney, as was Cistercian custom, and was set to enable nourishment to be served through lids both to the choir priests' refectory and to the different feasting corridor for the lay siblings on the west side. 

The west range at Netley is little and does not run the full length of the west side of the house. It is isolated in two by the first principle access to the monastery, with an external parlor where the priests could meet guests. North of this on the ground floor were basements for sustenance stockpiling, and toward the south was the lay siblings' refectory. The upper floor, come to by a stair from the order, was the quarters for the lay siblings. Netley was a late establishment, worked when the lay siblings were a declining some portion of the Cistercian economy, and it is likely that they were less in number, consequently the little size of the settlement required. When the west range was finished in the fourteenth century they were quickly vanishing, and had everything except evaporated before the century's over. Amid the late fourteenth and fifteenth hundreds of years most Cistercian houses exploited the huge territory of the religious community at that point left unfilled and changed over the lay siblings' quarters to new employments. At certain houses, for example, Sawley Abbey in Lancashire, a progression of agreeable chambers for the utilization of religious authorities or visitors were constructed; somewhere else, for example, Hailes Abbey in Gloucestershire, the west range was transformed into a private abiding of extraordinary style for the abbot. The remains of the west range at Netley are too fragmentary to be in any way certain about their motivation in the last piece of the medieval period. 

Every one of the structures around the house were done in the fourteenth century. There were along these lines few noteworthy basic changes amid the devout period beside the re-vaulting of the south transept of the congregation toward the finish of the fifteenth century. It is likely, in any case, that there were numerous interior changes to coordinate the rising ways of life amid the later Middle Ages (as observed at Cleeve Abbey in Somerset) that have left no proof on the enduring remains. 

A stone structure toward the east of the primary complex is thought to have been the abbot's home. It contains two dimensions of vaulted lofts comprising of two lobbies, bedchambers, a private house of prayer and administration rooms. The upper dimension was come to by an outer staircase, which enabled this floor to be utilized freely if necessary. 

The focal center of the religious community was encompassed by a region containing an external (open) patio and an internal (private) yard, gardens, horse shelters, guesthouses for explorers, stables, fishponds, the home homestead and modern structures. The site was guarded by a high bank and canal, some portion of which stays east of the convent. Passageway was carefully constrained by an external and internal gatehouse. A house of prayer, known as the (Latin for "church outside the doors") was set by the external gatehouse for the utilization of explorers and the neighborhood populace. Of the area structures, just the abbot's home, the channel and the fishponds have left unmistakable remains. 

Netley's new water was provided by two reservoir conduits which kept running for a few miles east and west of the monastery, up into the zones of current Southampton and Eastleigh. The remaining parts of the eastern reservoir conduit, presently known as Tickleford Gully, can be seen in Wentworth Gardens, Southampton. 

Henry III added to the blessing left by Peter des Roches, giving farmland, urban property in Southampton and somewhere else, and otherworldly incomes from places of worship. By 1291, tax collection returns demonstrate that the monastery had a reasonable yearly income of £81, an agreeable pay. Nonetheless, in the blink of an eye subsequently a time of terrible administration brought about the nunnery collecting considerable obligations, and it was soon practically bankrupt. In 1328 the legislature was compelled to select an executive, John of Mere, to address the emergency. Regardless of constraining the abbot to apply incomes to obligation reimbursement and to sell a considerable lot of the homes, the activity was just mostly effective. After ten years the monastery was again speaking to the ruler for help with an appalling monetary circumstance. The priests accused their issues for the expense of giving friendliness to the numerous explorers via ocean, and the lord's mariners who arrived at the nunnery. The ruler gave some little concedes empowering the convent to beat its challenges however the property deals implied that the nunnery's salary never recuperated and it sunk into what has been portrayed as respectable neediness. 

In any case, Netley remained a much regarded establishment by its neighbors until a mind-blowing finish as a religious community. It was not known for grant, riches, or specific intensity, however it was very respected for its liberality to voyagers and mariners, and for the sincere lives ("by Raporte of good Religious discussion") driven by its priests. The abbot was brought on numerous events to sit in Parliament with individual prelates in the House of Lords as one of the Lords Spiritual. Enduring reports propose the monastery had a serene and embarrassment free residential life. 

It's anything but a one of a kind case among English medieval religious communities that nothing has made due of what probably been various books claimed by the house all things considered or in the keeping of individual priests. These would incorporate somewhere around a little library with scriptural writings, otherworldly works and maybe a few books on useful subjects, remembering that the administration of the convent plant would have been a significant test. Besides, the festival of the sacrament for a vast piece of the day and night would require writings for the distinctive members, who as priests were generally not observers but rather dynamic members, some of them with specific jobs. 

Current grant has recognized a solitary book as having had a place with Netley Abbey; it is presently monitored as Arundel Ms. 69 in the British Library, London. The volume has an engraving, included in the fifteenth century folio 265v: "Codex iste pertinet promotion domum sancte Marie de Netteley" ("This codex (for example a book not a parchment) has a place with the place of Saint Mary of Netteley"). The volume itself is a Latin composition executed in the thirteenth century, a duplicate of Roger of Hoveden's "Chronica" ("Chronicles"). Roger (kicked the bucket c. 1201) was an English history specialist of the rules of Henry II and Richard I especially essential for his record of the years 1148-1170. Little is known in insight concerning his life, yet he may have been a minister and was a squire to Henry II, and went with Richard I to the Holy Land on the Third Crusade and filled in as a nearby equity in the north of England, and all the more for the most part as an arbitrator between the crown and different nobles and ascetic houses. 

In 1535 the monastery's pay was evaluated in the "Valor Ecclesiasticus," Henry VIII's general review of Church accounts before the loot, at £160 net, £100 net, which implied the next year that it went under the terms of the First Suppression Act, Henry's underlying move in the Dissolution of the Monasteries. Toward the start of the next year, the lord's chiefs, Sir James Worsley, John Paulet, George Paulet and William Berners, conveyed a report to the legislature on the cloisters of Hampshire which gives a preview of Netley on the eve of the Dissolution. The magistrates noticed that Netley was possessed by seven priests, every one of them clerics, and the convent was: 

Notwithstanding the priests, Netley was home to 29 servants and authorities of the nunnery, in addition to two Franciscan ministers of the severe Observant piece of that request who had been put into the abbot's guardianship by the lord, apparently to restrict his religious approaches. The regal officers likewise discovered plate and gems (these were unquestionably questions for love, for example, reliquaries or crosses) in the treasury worth £43, "trimmings" worth £39, and farming produce and creatures worth £103. The convent's obligations were moderate at £42. 

Abbot Thomas Stevens and his seven priests were compelled to surrender their home to the lord in the late spring of 1536. Abbot Thomas Stevens and six of his brethren—the seventh picked to leave and turn into a mainstream cleric—crossed Southampton Water to join their mom place of Beaulieu. Abbot Stevens was named Abbot of Beaulieu in 1536 and regulated it for a long time until Beaulieu thus was compelled to surrender to the lord in April 1538. The priests got annuities after the fall of Beaulieu; Abbot Thomas finished his days as treasurer of Salisbury Cathedral, and kicked the bucket in 1550. 

Following the disintegration of Netley, on 3 August 1536, King Henry allowed the convent structures and a portion of its homes to Sir William Paulet, his Lord Treasurer and in this way Marquess of Winchester. When he dominated, Sir William began the way toward transforming the nunnery into a royal residence reasonable for a standout amongst the most vital lawmakers in England. He changed over the nave of the congregation into his incredible lobby, kitchens and administration structures, the transepts and intersection turned into a progression of extravagant condos for his own utilization, the presbytery was held as the house of prayer of the chateau. The priests' quarters turned into the long exhibition of the house and the lavatory square turned into a few fantastic chambers. He obliterated the south range and refectory and manufactured another one with a focal turreted gatehouse to give the proper seigneurial accentuation required for an exemplary Tudor yard house. He in like manner decimated the order strolls to make a focal patio for his home and put an expansive wellspring in the middle. The region structures were annihilated to make formal gardens and patios. 

His possible successor William Paulet, fourth Marquess of Winchester (c.1560-1629) of Basing House, Hampshire, on experiencing monetary troubles, sold Basing and Hound in 1602 to Edward Seymour, first Earl of Hertford (1539-1621), of Tottenham House in Wiltshire, who utilized it as a habitation, and passed on there in 1621. His possible relative William Seymour, third Duke of Somerset (1652-1671) kicked the bucket matured 19 without descendants when his title gone by law to his beneficiary male yet his unentailed bequests including Netley and Hound, passed top his sister Elizabeth Seymour, spouse of Thomas Bruce, second Earl of Ailesbury (1656-1741), who sold Netley in 1676 to Henry Somerset, third Marquess of Worcester (1629-1700), later Duke of Beaufort. 

Theophilus Hastings, seventh Earl of Huntingdon, possessed the convent until the end of the seventeenth century. 

Around 1700, Netley Abbey came under the control of Sir Berkeley Lucy (likewise spelled Sir "Bartlet") who chose in 1704 to crush the at this point unfashionable house so as to sell the materials. Sir Berkeley made a concurrence with a Southampton manufacturer, Mr Walter Taylor, to bring down the previous church. Notwithstanding, over the span of the decimation, the contractual worker was slaughtered by the fall of tracery from the west window of the congregation and the plan was ended. 

The monastery was in this way deserted and permitted to rot. During the 1760s Thomas Dummer, who claimed bequests in the zone, moved the north transept to his home at Cranbury Park close Winchester where it tends to be still be viewed as an indiscretion in the greenery enclosures of the house (at ). 

Continuously 50% of the eighteenth century, the convent, by then in part roofless and congested with trees and ivy, had turned into a well known ruin that pulled in the consideration of specialists, playwrights and writers. In the nineteenth century, Netley turned into a mainstream vacation spot (the author Jane Austen was among the individuals who visited) and steps were taken to save the remnants. Archeological unearthings coordinated by Charles Pink and Reverend Edmund Kell occurred in 1860. Amid a similar period the proprietors chose to expel a large number of the Tudor augmentations to the structure to make a progressively medieval feel to the site, bringing about the loss of much proof of the monastery's post-Dissolution story. 

In 1922, the monastery was passed into state care by the then proprietor, Tankerville Chamberlayne, once M.P. for Southampton. Preservation and archeological work on the nunnery has proceeded. 

Not long after the nunnery had been permitted to fall into ruin, it started to draw in the consideration of craftsmen and authors, and was a mainstream subject all through the eighteenth and nineteenth hundreds of years. In 1755, the curator Horace Walpole applauded the remnants in his letters following a visit with the artist Thomas Gray, asserting they were "so, not the vestiges of Netley, however of Paradise". In 1764, George Keate expressed "The Ruins of Netley Abbey, A lyric", which demonstrated a sentimental valuation for the remains and evoked compassion toward the existence some time ago drove there by the priests. He introduced his ballad with an ardent request for the safeguarding of the remaining parts. 

Keate was trailed by other sentimental writers including William Sotheby ("Ode, Netley Abbey, Midnight", 1790). Sotheby's perspective on the monastery was gothic; he people groups the vestiges with unearthly parades and spooky Cistercians. Nor was he the just one; in 1795 Richard Warner composed a potboiler entitled "Netley Abbey, a Gothic Story" in two volumes, including skullduggery at the nunnery amid the medieval times. Dull deeds before the Dissolution likewise showed up in the area of Richard Harris Barham's "Ingoldsby Legends" (1837– 1845) covering Netley. This unpredictable parody makes jokes about the medieval church and the priests (whom he blames for having walled up a blundering cloister adherent in one of the vaults and guaranteeing God's vengeance upon them) and the travelers who swarmed contemporary Netley, while in the meantime appearing of the magnificence of the vestiges. 

"Netley Abbey, an Operatic Farce", by William Pearce, was first performed in 1794 at Covent Garden. The arrangement of the primary creation included an expound mockup of the convent ruins found in the twilight. 

The soonest enduring portrayal of the convent is by the etchers Samuel and Nathaniel Buck, who had practical experience in tourist spots and extraordinary remnants. Their etching (1733) demonstrates the congregation of the monastery much as it is today, except for the high vault of the south transept still present. The image has remarkable blunders and was unmistakably done from memory and harsh portrayals. The most celebrated craftsman to paint the remains was John Constable, whose 1833 painting of the west end of the congregation demonstrates it among trees. 

The guest today will discover the shell of the congregation and ascetic structures around the group in addition to the abbot's home. Little of the post-Dissolution house remains beside the south range, establishments, adjustments to the medieval structure in red Tudor block and hints of the formal greenhouses. In many spots the monastery stands near its unique stature. The sacristy/library, the south transept churches, the treasury, the reredorter undercroft and the lower floor of the abbot's home still have their vaults unblemished. Medieval heraldic polychrome tiles found on the site can be found in the sacristy, and Henry III's establishment stone stays in the congregation. The nunnery ruins are set in lush parkland toward the west of the town of Netley and comprise the most total enduring Cistercian religious community in southern England. The site is kept up by English Heritage, and is available to people in general. Netley is an Ancient Monument secured by law. 

Amid the late spring months the monastery is every so often host to occasions, for example, outdoors theater and was the site of a flashmob wedding on 25 June 2011. 

Netley Abbey was shut to people in general in June 2018 because of wellbeing concerns. English Heritage has taken the choice subsequent to platform set up in the nave for protection work was found to "miss the mark" regarding anticipated norms. 

Throughout the years a few legends have grown up around the nunnery, the best authenticated of which is that of Walter Taylor, the developer contracted to decimate the congregation. Legend has it that before beginning the work he was cautioned in a fantasy that he would be rebuffed in the event that he submitted heresy by harming the structure. The story is related by the eighteenth century savant Browne Walters: 

Another nearby legend expresses that amid the Dissolution of the Monasteries the convent's fortune was covered up down a mystery burrow with a solitary priest to monitor it. After numerous long stretches of looking through a fortune seeker called Slown is said to have entered an underground entry he had found just to restore a couple of minutes after the fact shouting, "for the sake of God, obstruct," before dropping dead. 

The narrative of the pious devotee walled up in a little room related in Richard Barham's "The Ingoldsby Legends" was a production of the creator and has no premise actually or authentic fables, as the creator himself concedes with a grin in his notes to the sonnet, crediting his story to one James Harrison: