South Park: The Stick of Truth 

South Park: The Stick of Truth is a 2014 pretending computer game created by Obsidian Entertainment in a joint effort with South Park Digital Studios and distributed by Ubisoft. In view of the American grown-up energized TV arrangement "South Park", the amusement pursues the New Kid, who has moved to the eponymous town and winds up associated with an epic pretend dream war including people, wizards, and mythical beings, who are battling for control of the almighty Stick of Truth. Their diversion rapidly raises wild and carries them into strife with outsiders, Nazi zombies, and little persons, compromising the whole town with demolition. 

The amusement is played from a 2.5D, third-individual point of view duplicating the tasteful of the TV arrangement. The New Kid can openly investigate the town of South Park, associating with characters and undertaking journeys, and getting to new regions by advancing through the primary story. Choosing one of four character prime examples, Fighter, Thief, Mage, and Jew, each offering explicit capacities, the New Kid and a supporting gathering of characters utilize an assortment of scuffle, extended, and mysterious fart assaults to battle with their foes. 

Advancement started in 2009 after "South Park" makers Trey Parker and Matt Stone moved toward Obsidian about making a pretending diversion intended to look precisely like the TV arrangement. Parker and Stone were included all through the amusement's generation: they composed its content, counseled on the structure, and as in the TV program they voiced a considerable lot of the characters. "The Stick of Truth"s creation was fierce; after the chapter 11 of the first distributer, THQ, the rights to the amusement were gained by Ubisoft in mid 2013, and its discharge date was delayed a few times from its underlying date in March 2013 to its inevitable discharge in March 2014, for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360. 

"The Stick of Truth" was liable to oversight in certain locales due to its substance, which incorporates premature births and Nazi symbolism; Parker and Stone supplanted the scenes with point by point clarifications of what happens in every scene. The amusement was discharged to positive audits, which commended the comedic content, visual style, and loyalty to the source material. It got analysis for an absence of testing battle and specialized issues that hindered or blocked advancement. A spin-off, "", was discharged in October 2017, and "The Stick of Truth" was re-discharged in February 2018, for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and on Nintendo Switch in September 2018. 

"South Park: The Stick of Truth" is a pretending computer game that is seen from a 2.5D, third-individual point of view. The player controls the New Kid as he investigates the anecdotal Colorado town of South Park. The player can unreservedly move around the town albeit a few zones stay blocked off until explicit focuses in the story are come to. Remarkable characters from the arrangement—including Cartman, Butters, Stan, and Kyle—join the New Kid's gathering and go with him on his journeys, however just a single character can be dynamic whenever. The diversion includes a quick travel framework, enabling the player to approach the character Timmy to rapidly transport them to some other visited quick travel station. Toward the start of the diversion, the player chooses one of four character originals; the Fighter, Thief, Mage (which speak to standard dream types), and the Jew. The Jew class represents considerable authority in "Jew-jitsu" and long-go assaults. Each class has explicit capacities; shield and weapons are not constrained by class, enabling a Mage to concentrate on scuffle assaults like a Fighter. 

The New Kid and his partners have an assortment of skirmish, ran, and enchantment assaults. Experience focuses remunerated for finishing undertakings and winning fights enable the New Kid to step up, opening new capacities and redesigns, for example, expanding the quantity of adversaries an assault hits or the measure of harm caused. Enchantment is spoken to by the characters' capacity to flatulate; diverse farts are utilized to achieve explicit undertakings. For instance, the "Container A-Spell" enables the player to toss a fart to collaborate with an inaccessible item, the "Nagasaki" crushes bars, and the "Subtle Squeaker" can be tossed to make a sound that occupies foes. Assaults can be expanded with farts if the player has enough otherworldly vitality. 

The player approaches unlockable capacities that can open new ways of investigation, for example, contracting to get to little regions like vents, teleportation which enables the player to achieve generally inaccessible stages, and farts which trigger a blast that massacres close-by foes when joined with a bare fire. Activities submitted against adversaries outside of fight influences them in battle; the player or rival who strikes first to trigger a battle will have the primary turn in fight. Battle happens in a fight region separate from the open diversion world. Fights use turn-based ongoing interaction and each character takes a swing to assault or guard before respecting the following character. 

Amid the player's turn, a spiral wheel posting the accessible optionsclass-based essential skirmish assaults, uncommon assaults, since quite a while ago run assaults, and backing itemsappears. Essential assaults are utilized to hit unarmored adversaries and wear out shields; overwhelming assaults debilitate heavily clad foes. A blazing symbol shows that assaults or squares can be upgraded to deliver more damage,or relieve approaching assaults all the more successfully. Every unique assault costs a set measure of "Intensity Points" or "PP" (articulated peepee) to actuate. Just a single gathering part can join the player in fight. Certain characters, for example, Tuong Lu Kim, Mr Hankey, Jesus, and Mr. Slave can be called amid fight to convey an amazing assault equipped for vanquishing a few foes at the same time; Jesus splashes harming gunfire, while Mr. Slave presses an adversary into his rectum, driving his partners off. 

One help thing can be utilized each turn, including things that reestablish wellbeing or give advantageous status impacts that improve the character's capacities. Weapons and defensive layer can be improved utilizing discretionary "tie ons, for example, counterfeit vampire teeth, bubble gum, or a Jewpacabra hook. These things can make adversaries drain and lose wellbeing, debilitate foe shield, help player wellbeing or take wellbeing from rivals, and appall enemies to make them "netted out" and cause them to upchuck. Moreover, the "tie ons" can set rivals ablaze, shock them, or stop them. A few adversaries are resistant to at least one of these impacts. Foes can divert certain assaults totally; those in a riposte position will redirect any skirmish assault, requiring the utilization of extended weapons, while those in reflect position will avoid went weapons. 

The player is urged to investigate the more extensive amusement world to discover Chinpokomon toys or new companions who are added to the character's Facebook page. Gathering companions enables the player to open livens that for all time improve the New Kid's measurements, giving additional harm or protection from negative impacts. The character's Facebook page likewise fills in as the diversion's primary menu, containing the stock and a journey diary. "The Stick of Truth" includes a few smaller than expected diversions, including pooing by over and again tapping a catch that remunerates the player with defecation that can be tossed at foes to trigger the "earned out" impact, playing out a fetus removal, and utilizing a butt-centric test. A portion of these scenes are missing from certain forms of the diversion due to control. 

"South Park: The Stick of Truth" is set in the anecdotal town South Park in the Colorado Rocky Mountains. The primary character, whom the player controls, is the New Kidnicknamed "Douchebag"a quiet hero who has as of late moved to the town. Get to know the nearby young men, he winds up associated with an epic pretending dream diversion highlighting wizards and warriors doing combating for control of the Stick of Truth, a twig that has boundless power. 

The people, driven by Wizard King Cartman, make their home in the Kingdom of Kupa Keep, an alternative camp implicit Cartman's terrace; among their number are paladin Butters, hoodlum Craig, Clyde, minister Token, Tweek, and Kennya young man who dresses as a princess. The people's opponents are the drow mythical beings, who live in the elven kingdom in the lawn of their pioneer, High Jew Elf Kyle; they likewise incorporate the warrior Stan and Jimmy the minstrel. The young men direct their diversion all through the town, the encompassing backwoods, and even into Canada (spoke to as a pixelated overhead 16-bit RPG). Areas from the show, including South Park Elementary, South Park Mall, the Bijou Cinema, City Wok eatery, and Tweek Bros. Café, are highlighted in the diversion. 

"The Stick of Truth" includes the accompanying recorded "South Park" characters: Stan's dad Randy Marsh, teacher Mr. Battalion, Jesus, school advisor Mr. Mackey, previous United States Vice-President Al Gore, the sadomasochism-cherishing Mr. Slave, conscious piece of poop Mr. Hankey, City Wok eatery proprietor Tuong Lu Kim, Stan's uncle Jimbo, Mayor McDaniels, Priest Maxi, Skeeter, Canadian VIPs Terrance and Phillip, the Underpants Gnomes, the Goth kids, the Ginger children, the Crab People; the Christmas Critters, and neighborhood young men Timmy, Scott Malkinson, and Kevin Stoley. 

The New Kid has moved with his folks to South Park to get away from his overlooked past. He rapidly aligns with Butters, Princess Kenny and their pioneer Cartman. Nicknamed "Douche", the New Kid is acquainted with the desired Stick of Truth. Presently, the mythical people assault Kupa Keep and take the Stick. Cartman expels Clyde from the gathering for neglecting to shield the Stick from the mythical people. With the assistance of Cartman's best warriors, Douchebag recuperates the Stick from Jimmy. That night, Douchebag and a few town occupants are kidnapped by outsiders. Douche gets away from his repression with the assistance of Stan's dad, Randy, and accidents the outsider ship into the town's shopping center. 

Before breakfast, the UFO crash site has been closed by the administration, who has put out a main story that guarantees a Taco Bell is being fabricated. Douche visits Kupa Keep and discovers that the Stick has again been stolen by the mythical people. Cartman and Kyle task Douchebag with selecting the Goth kids for their particular sides, each asserting that different has the Stick. Randy consents to help Douchebag select the Goths after Douchebag invades the accident site and finds that administration operators are plotting to explode the town so as to annihilate an outsider goo discharged from the ship. The goo transforms living animals into Adolf Hitler-esque Nazi Zombies; a tainted individual breaks government regulation, releasing the infection on South Park. 

That night, Cartman or Kyle (subject to which character the player pursues) drives his side against the other at the school. Here, the youngsters discover that Clyde stole the Stick as retribution for his expulsion. Clyde energizes turncoats from the people and mythical beings, and utilizations the outsider goo to make a multitude of Nazi Zombies. The people and mythical beings consolidate to contradict Clyde however there are too few to even think about fighting him. Afterward, Gnomes take Douchebag's underwear; in the wake of vanquishing them, Douchebag gains the capacity to change estimate voluntarily. 

Out of distress, Douchebag is advised to welcome the young ladies to play. They consent to join after Douchebag invades a premature birth center and goes crosswise over Canada to find which of their companions is spreading tattle. Flanked by the young ladies, kindergarten privateers, and "Star Trek" job players, the people and mythical beings assault Clyde's dull pinnacle. Randy arrives and uncovers that the administration specialists have planted an atomic gadget in Mr. Slave's butt to explode South Park, constraining Douchebag to shrivel and enter Mr. Slave to incapacitate the bomb. In the wake of leaving Mr. Slave, Douchebag at long last faces Clyde and is compelled to battle a revived Nazi Zombie Chef; Chef is vanquished. Clyde chooses he isn't playing any more and Cartman kicks him from the pinnacle. 

The administration specialists arrive, uncovering that Douchebag remained in isolation to escape them in view of his capacity to rapidly make companions on informal communities, for example, Facebook, which the administration needed to use for its own finishes. Learning of the Stick's alleged power, the main operator takes it and deals with Douchebag to enable him to utilize it. Douche cannot however Princess Kenny double-crosses the gathering, utilizes the Stick to battle them and taints himself with the Nazi Zombie infection. Unfit to vanquish Nazi Zombie Princess Kenny, Cartman advises Douchebag to disrupt their hallowed norm by flatulating on Kenny's balls, which he does. The subsequent blast massacres Kenny and fixes the town of the Nazi Zombie infection. In the epilog as South Park is reconstructed, the gathering recovers the Stick of Truth; they choose its capacity is unreasonably extraordinary for any individual to hold and toss it into Stark's Pond. 

Improvement of "South Park: The Stick of Truth" took four years, starting in 2009 when "South Park" co-makers Trey Parker and Matt Stone reached Obsidian Entertainment to examine their craving to make a "South Park" diversion. Parker, a fanatic of Obsidian recreations, including "" (2010), needed to make a pretending diversion, a kind which he and Stone had delighted in since their childhoods. Parker and Stone demanded that the diversion must imitate the show's visual style. Parker's unique idea was for a "South Park" form of the 2011 pretending dream amusement "", and he assessed the primary content he delivered to be 500 pages in length. The South Park Digital Studios group energized an idea of the amusement's opening scene to demonstrate what they needed to achieve with Obsidian as far as appearance and ongoing interaction mechanics. While the arrangement had enlivened a few authorized amusements, for example, "South Park" (1998) and "South Park Rally" (1999), Parker and Stone were not associated with these recreations' advancement and later condemned the titles' quality. Negative response to those recreations made the pair defensive of their property and prompted their more prominent contribution on "The Stick of Truth"; they denied a few solicitations to permit the arrangement for new pursuits. 

Stone and Parker worked intimately with Obsidian on the task, at times having a few hour gatherings more than four back to back days. They worked with Obsidian until about fourteen days before the amusement was sent. Their inclusion reached out past innovative info; their organization at first financed the amusement, trusting that a diversion dependent on the disputable TV program would battle to get budgetary help from distributers without them setting limitations on the substance to make it progressively attractive. The underlying financing was proposed to enable Obsidian to grow enough of the amusement to demonstrate an increasingly total idea to potential distributers. In December 2011, THQ declared that they would work with Obsidian on "South Park: The Game", as it was then known. This organization formed into a distributing course of action after "South Park" proprietor Viacom, having become careful about computer games, cut its subsidizing. Obsidian knew when it marked with THQ that the last was encountering monetary challenges. 

In March 2012, Microsoft dropped Obsidian's up and coming Xbox One anticipate codenamed "North Carolina" following seven months of improvement, bringing about the cutback of somewhere in the range of 20 and 30 workers, including individuals from the "Stick of Truth" group. In May 2012, the diversion's last title was reported. In December 2012, THQ petitioned for part 11 liquidation in the wake of enduring a few item discharge disappointments. "The Stick of Truth" stayed on timetable as THQ attempted to utilize the chapter 11 period to rebuild and restore its business to benefit, yet the organization neglected to discover a purchaser and a Delaware court requested that THQ was worth more if its advantages were sold independently. 

The rights to "The Stick of Truth" were sold in late December 2012; Obsidian was not made mindful of the deal until the bartering was reported. South Park Digital Studios documented a protest to the closeout, expressing that THQ did not have the expert to sell the distributing rights and that THQ had been allowed elite utilization of explicit "South Park" trademarks and copyrights. South Park Digital likewise contended that regardless of whether the rights were sold, THQ would in any case owe them and that they held the alternative of recovering all components of the amusement and "South Park" related manifestations. THQ mentioned that the court overrule South Park Digital, expressing that their rights were restrictive and in this manner transferable. On January 24, 2013, the United States liquidation court endorsed the closeout of THQ's benefits, including "The Stick of Truth". 

The rights were purchased by Ubisoft for . Inside three weeks they had chosen that the amusement required noteworthy changes, pushing its discharge go back by a half year to March 2014. Parker and Stone, with contribution from a Ubisoft inventive specialist, inferred that their unique vision would take excessively long and would be too exorbitant to even think about producing. In a 2014 meeting, Obsidian pioneer Feargus Urquhart said he couldn't remark on changes that were made after Ubisoft's contribution. "South Park: The Stick of Truth" was formally discharged to assembling on February 12, 2014. Following its discharge, Stone said that the work associated with making the amusement was substantially more than he and Parker had foreseen. He stated, "I'll [admit] to the way that we retooled stuff that we didn't care for and we chipped away at the amusement longer than other individuals would've preferred us to". 

Amid early dialogs with Obsidian, Parker and Stone were determined that the diversion ought to reliably reproduce the show's remarkable 2D-style visuals, which depend on pattern liveliness. Obsidian gave verifications of idea that they could accomplish the "South Park" look; Stone and Parker were happy with this. The show is energized utilizing Autodesk Maya, yet Obsidian created the diversion resources and activitys in Adobe Flash. "Skyrim" was the amusement's underlying impact and further motivation originated from the 1994 pretending diversion "Terrestrial". Parker and Stone said that the mixed 2D/3D visuals of "Paper Mario" and the quiet hero Link from "The Legend of Zelda" arrangement likewise given motivation to the structure. The characters' outfits and classes are taken from the 2002 "South Park" scene "The Return of the Fellowship of the Ring to the Two Towers". Obsidian made different dream styled things, defensive layer, and weapons however Parker and Stone guided them to "make it crappier" to make the feeling that the kids had found or made the items themselves; weapons comprised of golf clubs, hammers, suction container bolts and wooden swords, while wraparounds, broiler glove gloves, and towels worn as capes filled in as dress. "South Park" studios furnished Obsidian with access to the show's full chronicle of workmanship resources, enabling Obsidian to incorporate beforehand unused thoughts, for example, disposed of Chinpokomon plans. Performing artists from the show gave voice work, and Obsidian was offered access to "South Park"s sound assets, including audio effects, music, and the show's author Jamie Dunlap. 

Portraying the composition of a parody content for an amusement in which lines of exchange might be heard more than once and jokes could seem dated, Stone stated: 

We compose jokes, and the jokes are interesting. With a diversion, the fourth, fifth, 6th, 80th, 100 millionth time you've seen that joke it ends up not entertaining, at that point you lose confidence in it, and afterward you question it, and you go round this passionate circle ... We've constantly loved new prepared stuff somewhat better in any case, with a computer game, it doesn't work that way. In any case, the diversion isn't only a gathering of amusing "South Park" scenes, ideally it's more than that. 

Like the show, "The Stick of Truth" parodies political and social issues including premature birth, race relations, butt-centric tests, illicit drug use, sex, extraordinary viciousness, and destitution. Inventive advisor Jordan Thomas stated, "The manner in which we took a gander at [humor] was if this minute was a hot catch for the group of onlookers, should we exacerbate it, on the grounds that [Stone and Parker] love to push limits and their default reaction was unquestionably not to withdraw, however the extremely sound offset was, would we be able to make it funnierand the appropriate response was frequently yes". 

The diversion experienced a few changes amid its advancement. While the last amusement highlights four playable character types (Fighter, Thief, Mage, and Jew), an early form included five playable classes: Paladin, Wizard, Rogue, Adventurer, and Jew. The last was portrayed as a hybrid of a Monk and a Paladin, that is "high hazard, high reward" and most grounded when nearest to death. The amusement had included different foes and areas, including vampire kids who were battled in a burial ground and church, radicals, a mission to recuperate Cartman's doll from the Ginger youngsters, and manager battles against an extensive, winged beast, and big name Paris Hiltonher primary assault being known as the "vag impact". The Crab People had a bigger job and imparted a peaceful area to the Underpants Gnomesonly one Crab Person shows up in the last gameand Mr Hankey and his family lived in a vast, Christmas-themed town which turned into a little house in the town's sewers. Urquhart later said that when improvement started, computer games were less ensured by the right to speak freely laws than other media, confining the substance that could be incorporated into "The Stick of Truth". While under THQ's distributing bargain, the engineers arranged that the Xbox 360 variant would bolster the comfort's info gadget, Kinect, empowering players to give characters voice directions, insult adversaries, and affront Cartmanto which the character would react. Selective Xbox 360 downloadable substance (DLC) including the "Mysterion Superhero" pack and "Great Times with Weapons" packs each highlighting an extraordinary weapon, outfit, and unique assault, and three story-based crusade extensions was reported. These highlights were absent in the Ubisoft discharge. 

"South Park: The Stick of Truth" was discharged in North America on March 4, 2014, for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles, and Microsoft Windows. It was discharged on March 6 in Australia and on March 7 in Europe. The amusement had been planned for discharge on March 5, 2013, however this was deferred two months by then-distributer THQ. After THQ declared financial insolvency in January 2013, Ubisoft obtained the rights to distribute the amusement and did not indicate a discharge date. By May 2013, Ubisoft had affirmed that it would be discharged that year after it was precluded from their up and coming diversions discharge plan. On September 26, 2013, Ubisoft reported that "The Stick of Truth" would be discharged in December 2013, however in October 2013 the diversion's discharge was again deferred until March 2014. The diversion was planned for discharge on March 6, 2014 in Germany and Austria, yet it was postponed after the limited rendition of the amusement was found to contain Nazi references. Nearby the Steam variant of the diversion, "The Stick of Truth" got an advanced download discharge for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on June 13, 2016. The reassure adaptations were just accessible as a free pre-request motivating force to clients who pre-requested its spin-off, "The Fractured But Whole". An independent physical and computerized download was discharged on for February 13, 2018, for PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. A Nintendo Switch form, accessible as a computerized download, was discharged on September 25, 2018. 

An authority's version called the "Fabulous Wizard Edition" containing the diversion, a 6-inch figure of Grand Wizard Cartman made by Kidrobot, a guide of the South Park kingdom, and "A definitive Fellowship" DLC was made accessible. "A definitive Fellowship" content incorporates four outfits with various capacities; the Necromancer Sorcerer outfit gives expanded shoot harm, the Rogue Assassin outfit remunerates the player with additional cash, the Ranger Elf outfit raises weapon harm, and the Holy Defender outfit builds protection. Extra substance incorporated the "Super Samurai Spaceman" pack containing three outfits; the Superhero ensemble gives a buff toward the beginning of fight, the Samurai ensemble gives a buff on vanquishing an adversary, and the Spaceman outfit gives a cautious shield. 

In November and December 2013, the "South Park" TV arrangement included "The day after Thanksgiving" set of three of episodes"Black Friday", "A Song of Ass and Fire", and "Titties and Dragons"which was an account prequel to the diversion and highlighted the characters destroying outfits and acting jobs like those in the amusement. The scenes caricaturized the diversion's long improvement; in "The day after Thanksgiving" Cartman advises Kyle not to "pre-request an amusement that a few butt nuggets in California haven't got done with making yet", alluding to California-based Obsidian, while "Titties and Dragons" finishes up with a commercial reporting the diversion's discharge date joined by Butters pronouncing his distrust. Talking about "The day after Thanksgiving", IGN said that it "felt like a sneak look" of the diversion and if nothing else, was "great advertising" in light of the amusement's various postponements. 

In the blink of an eye before the amusement's discharge, Ubisoft declared that it would deliberately edit seven scenes, considering it a "showcase choice made by Ubisoft EMEA" and not a reaction to include from blue pencils. PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 renditions were influenced in European regions, the Middle East, Africa, and Russia, while the Microsoft Windows form stayed uncensored. The oversight influenced all configurations in Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Germany, Austria, and Taiwan. The North American discharge was the main form that was uncensored on all configurations. The German rendition was explicitly controlled in view of the utilization of Nazi and Hitler-related symbolism, including swastikas and Nazi salutes, which are illicit in that nation. A representative for the European computer game substance rating framework Pan European Game Information (PEGI) affirmed that the uncensored adaptation had been submitted and endorsed for discharge with a 18 rating, which means the diversion would be worthy for individuals more than eighteen years old. Ubisoft resubmitted the blue-penciled adaptation without contribution from PEGI; this variant was passed with a 18-rating. 

The scenes Ubisoft evacuated delineate butt-centric examining by outsiders and the player-character playing out a premature birth. In their place, the diversion shows a still picture of a statue grasping its face, with an unequivocal portrayal of occasions delineated in the scene. In Australia, similar scenes were evacuated in light of the fact that the Australian Classification Board would not rate the amusement for discharge because of the delineation of sexual violencespecifically the kid player-character being exposed to butt-centric examining and the intelligent fetus removal scene. Like the European form, these scenes were supplanted with a placeholder card with a clarification of what was expelled on a foundation picture of a koala crying. 

Talking about the circumstance, Stone said he had been told changes were required for the diversion to be discharged and that he and Parker embedded the placeholder pictures so the restriction would not be covered up. He considered the control a twofold standard that the pair opposed, and said he felt it didn't destroy the amusement and the cards enabled them to taunt the changes. A post-discharge client made diversion adjustment was discharged for the Microsoft Windows form that crippled the control. 

"South Park: The Stick of Truth" got positive audits from faultfinders. Conglomerating survey site Metacritic gives a score of 85 out of 100 from 48 commentators for the Microsoft Windows adaptation, 85 out of 100 from 31 pundits for the PlayStation 3 form, and 82 out of 100 from 33 faultfinders for the Xbox 360 rendition. 

The amusement was viewed as an effective adjustment of authorized material to a computer game, with faultfinders depicting it as a standout amongst the most devoted computer game adjustments ever, to such an extent that moving the player-character resembled strolling on the arrangement of the show. GamesRadar said that "The Stick of Truth" was to "South Park" as "" was to the "Batman" establishment as far as adoration to the source material while breaking new ground in computer games. They applauded the "open-world South Park to investigate, with a strong 12– 14 hours of inside jokes, darken references, and cleverness that pulls from 17 TV seasons of social analysis and hostile funniness." "PC and Video Games" said that the amusement contained such a significant number of references to the show's history that it made "" seem scanty. Destructoid said that the capacity to stroll around the definite town gave a feeling of wonderment like investigating The Simpsons main residence in "". The visual interpretation was featured as a huge part of the diversion's prosperity, seeming undefined from a scene of the show and giving a reliable tasteful that stayed loyal to the arrangement while being unique to gaming. A few analysts said that the craftsmanship style was incidentally hindering, clouding items and prompts, and that redundant utilization of activitys became stale through the span of the diversion. "PC and Video Games" said that Obsidian had constructed a diversion world that appeared as if it had dependably existed. 

Commentators reliably featured its comedic accomplishment. "Diversion Informer" said it is as often as possible humorous, positioning it among the best comedic recreations at any point discharged. IGN applauded "The Stick of Truth" for its clever and savvy parody of the pretending kind, while others said that just as being reliably interesting, the diversion was appropriately uproarious, stunning, provocative, self-destroying, and intrepid in its longing to insult. Numerous commentators concurred that a great part of the substance was all the more engaging "South Park" fans; a few jokes are lost on the uninitiated however others said that enough setting was accommodated most jokes to be amusing paying little heed to players' commonality with the source material. IGN said that it is the diversion "South Park" fans have constantly needed, yet a few analysts said that without the "South Park" permit, the amusement's shallowness would be increasingly self-evident. 

Battle got a spellbound reaction; faultfinders on the other hand called the fights profound and fulfilling or shallow and monotonous. Analysts believed the battle mechanics to be shortsighted while taking into consideration complex strategies, and others said that the necessity to effectively safeguard against foe assaults and improve offense kept battles locks in. Others likewise commended the battle however believed the specialists to be powerful and expand, introducing a strong pretending battle framework disguised under the purposefully oversimplified visuals. A few analysts said that an absence of profundity made battle bit by bit become tedious; they said that notwithstanding when battle is clever and drawing in, before the finish of the amusement the fights can wind up schedule. Joystiq expressed that barrier was more fascinating than offense since it depended on time-touchy responses to innovative foe assaults, for example, Al Gore giving an introduction. Destructoid said there are excessively few forces accessible for offense for the amusement to stay intriguing for long. GameSpot discovered battle was excessively simple and ailing in test in light of a wealth of enhancement things, for example, wellbeing packs that were discovered more every now and again than they were utilized, and amazing capacities that immediately quelled rivals. Others dissented, expressing that the assortment offered in battle, for example, character capacities, partners, weapons, reinforcement, and updates, guaranteed it generally felt fun. The impacts of the improvements were now and then viewed as confounding, and commonly depending on basically preparing the most elevated amount thing accessible. Joystiq said the unique characters that can be brought amid fight were outrageous as far as power and excitement esteem. 

IGN said that the distinction between character classes, for example, Thief and Jew were disappointingly insignificant, offering little assortment or motivator to replay as another class. IGN additionally said a few missions and side journeys were dreary, and were raised by their setting instead of their quality, while the analyst thought the ecological riddles were a cunning choice for dodging battle and were sufficiently uncommon to be charming when accessible. In any case, GameSpot said the riddles felt scripted and straightforward. Commentators said that a large number of the interactivity capacities and controls were inadequately clarified, making them hard to enact; others were condemning of inordinate stacking times after entering new areas and moderate menus, for example, the Facebook board. 

Amid the principal seven day stretch of offers in the United Kingdom, "South Park: The Stick of Truth" turned into the top of the line diversion on every single accessible organization (as far as boxed deals), supplanting "Hoodlum". The Xbox 360 adaptation represented 53% of offers, trailed by the PlayStation 3 (41%), and Microsoft Windows (6%). In its second week, deals fell 47% and the amusement dropped to third place behind "Titanfall" and "Dull Souls II". "South Park: The Stick of Truth" was the top-selling diversion on the advanced dispersion stage Steam between March 2 and 15, 2014. It was the third top of the line round of March 2014, behind "Titanfall" and "Criminal", and the thirty-first smash hit physical round of 2014. 

In North America, "South Park: The Stick of Truth" was the third top of the line physical round of March 2014, behind "Titanfall" and "Scandalous Second Son". Computerized circulation represented 25% of the diversion's business, making it Ubisoft's most downloaded title at the time. It was the ninth top of the line downloadable round of 2014 on the PlayStation Store. In May 2015, Ubisoft affirmed that the amusement had sold 1.6 million duplicates as of March 2015. As of February 2016, Ubisoft had delivered 5 million duplicates of the amusement. 

At the 2012 Game Critics Awards, "The Stick of Truth" was named the "Best Role-Playing Game". At the 2014 National Academy of Video Game Trade Reviewers (NAVGTR) grants the diversion got grants for "Writing in a Comedy", "Movement" in the creative class, and best non-unique pretending amusement. It additionally gotten assignments for "Round of the Year", "Unique Light Mix Score (Franchise)" and "Audio effects". Parker's multi-character voice work won him the honor for "Execution in a Comedy, Supporting"; Stone was likewise designated. At the 2014 Golden Joystick Awards, "The Stick of Truth" got three selections for "Round of the Year", "Best Storytelling", and "Best Visual Design". At the debut Game Awards occasion, Trey Parker won for "Best Performance" for his various jobs, and the amusement got two designations for "Best Role-Playing Game", and "Best Narrative". At the 2015 South by Southwest celebration, the amusement got the "Greatness in Convergence" grant for accomplishments in adjusting material from another stimulation medium. 

IGN recorded it as the 50th-best round of the contemporary reassure age, and Giant Bomb named it the "Best Surprise" of 2014 for conquering its advancement issues. Shacknews and "Money related Post" named it the seventh-best round of 2014, while "The Guardian" named it as the twelfth best. Kotaku recorded Dunlap's score as a standout amongst the best of the year, saying that it was "a great flippant "Skyrim" knockoff that caught splendid musicality." In 2017, IGN recorded the pixellated Canada region at number 98, on its rundown of the Top 100 Unforgettable Video Game Moments, and "PC Gamer" named it a standout amongst the best pretending rounds ever. an In 2018, "Diversion Informer" named it the 82nd-best RPG ever, expressing "in the realm of authorized computer games, few titles emerge as outstanding or deserving of the source material." 

In March 2014, Stone said that he and Parker were available to making a continuation, contingent upon the gathering for "The Stick of Truth". A continuation, "South Park: The Fractured yet Whole", was declared in June 2015. The diversion was created by Ubisoft San Francisco, supplanting Obsidian Entertainment, for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Microsoft Windows. The spin-off was discharged worldwide on October 17, 2017 to by and large positive audits. In it, the player again controls the New Kid, joining the offspring of South Park as they pretend superheroes.