The Last of Us 

The Last of Us is an activity experience survival ghastliness computer game created by Naughty Dog and distributed by Sony Computer Entertainment. It was discharged for the PlayStation 3 worldwide on June 14, 2013. Players control Joel, a bootlegger entrusted with escorting an adolescent young lady, Ellie, over a dystopian United States. "The Last of Us" is played from a third-individual point of view. Players use guns and ad libbed weapons, and can utilize stealth to shield against unfriendly people and savage animals contaminated by a transformed strain of the "Cordyceps" parasite. In the online multiplayer mode, up to eight players take part in agreeable and focused ongoing interaction. 

Advancement of "The Last of Us" started in 2009, not long after the arrival of Naughty Dog's past amusement, "". The connection among Joel and Ellie turned into the focal point of the diversion, with every single other component created around it. Performing artists Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson depicted Joel and Ellie individually through voice and movement catch, and helped inventive executive Neil Druckmann with the improvement of the characters and story. The first score was made and performed by Gustavo Santaolalla. 

Following its declaration in December 2011, "The Last of Us" was generally foreseen. Upon discharge, it got basic recognition, with commendation coordinated at its account, interactivity, visual and sound plan, portrayal, and delineation of female characters. "The Last of Us" ended up a standout amongst the top of the line recreations on the PlayStation 3, just as a standout amongst the top of the line computer games ever. Selling over 1.3 million units in its first week and 17 million by April 2018, it won year-end honors, including different Game of the Year grants from a few gaming productions, commentators, and diversion grant services, making it a standout amongst the most granted recreations ever, and is viewed as one of the best computer games at any point made. 

After the diversion's discharge, Naughty Dog discharged a few downloadable substance increments. "" includes a solitary player battle following Ellie and her closest companion Riley. An upgraded version of the first amusement, "The Last of Us Remastered", was discharged for the PlayStation 4 in July 2014. A spin-off, "The Last of Us Part II", was reported in December 2016. 

"The Last of Us" is an activity experience survival awfulness amusement played from a third-individual point of view. The player navigates crosswise over dystopian situations, for example, towns, structures, backwoods and sewers to propel the story. The player can utilize guns, ad libbed weapons, and stealth to safeguard against unfriendly people and inhuman animals tainted by a changed strain of the "Cordyceps" organism. For the greater part of the amusement, the player assumes responsibility for Joel, a man entrusted with escorting a young lady, Ellie, over the United States; Ellie and different partners are constrained by the man-made consciousness. The player likewise controls Ellie all through the diversion's winter section. 

In battle, the player can utilize long-extend weapons, for example, rifles, shotguns, and quits, run weapons, for example, handguns and short-surged shotgun. The player can rummage restricted use skirmish weapons, for example, channels and homerun sticks, and toss jugs and blocks to divert, daze, or assault foes. The player can update weapons at workbenches utilizing gathered things. Hardware, for example, wellbeing units and Molotov mixed drinks can be found or made utilizing gathered things. Qualities, for example, the wellbeing meter and creating pace can be overhauled by gathering pills and therapeutic plants. Wellbeing can be energized using wellbeing packs. 

Despite the fact that the player can assault foes legitimately, they can likewise utilize stealth to assault undetected or sneak by them. "Listen Mode" enables the player to find foes through an increased feeling of hearing and spatial mindfulness, demonstrated as layouts unmistakable through dividers and items. In the dynamic spread framework, the player can squat behind impediments to pick up a strategic favorable position amid battle. The amusement highlights periods without battle, frequently including discussion between the characters. The player can fathom straightforward riddles, for example, utilizing gliding beds to move Ellie, who is unfit to swim, crosswise over waterways, and utilizing stepping stools or dumpsters to achieve higher territories. Story collectibles, for example, notes, maps and funnies, can be rummaged and saw in the rucksack menu. 

The diversion includes a man-made reasoning framework by which threatening human adversaries respond to battle. On the off chance that foes find the player, they may seek shelter or call for help, and can exploit the player when they are diverted, out of ammo, or in a battle. Player colleagues, for example, Ellie, can aid battle by tossing objects at dangers to stagger them, reporting the area of inconspicuous foes, or utilizing a blade and gun to assault adversaries. 

The online multiplayer permits up to eight players to take part in aggressive interactivity in amusements of different single-player settings. The amusement highlights three multiplayer diversion types: Supply Raid and Survivors are both group deathmatches, with the last barring the capacity to respawn; Interrogation highlights groups exploring the area of the adversary group's lockbox, and the first to catch such lockbox wins. In each mode, players select a group—Hunters (a gathering of antagonistic survivors) or Fireflies (a progressive local army gathering)— and keep their faction alive by gathering supplies amid matches. Each match is equivalent to one day; by enduring twelve "weeks", players have finished an adventure and can re-select their Faction. Murdering adversaries, resuscitating partners, and creating things gain the player parts that can be changed over to provisions; parts can likewise be searched from foes' bodies. Players can convey greater hardware by winning focuses as their family's provisions develop. Players can interface the diversion to their Facebook account, which modifies group individuals' names and faces to coordinate the players' Facebook companions. Players can redo their characters with caps, caps, covers, and symbols. 

In September 2013, an episode of a freak "Cordyceps" parasite assaults the United States, changing its human hosts into forceful animals known as the Infected. In suburbia of Austin, Texas, Joel (Troy Baker) escapes the turmoil with his sibling Tommy (Jeffrey Pierce) and little girl Sarah (Hana Hayes). As they escape, Sarah is shot by a fighter and bites the dust in Joel's arms. After twenty years, human progress has been demolished by the contamination. Survivors live in vigorously policed isolate zones, autonomous settlements, and traveling gatherings. Joel fills in as a runner with his accomplice Tess (Annie Wersching) in the isolate zone in the North End of Boston, Massachusetts. They chase down Robert (Robin Atkin Downes), an underground market vendor, to recoup a stolen weapons store. Before Tess slaughters him, Robert uncovers that he exchanged the store with the Fireflies, a dissident civilian army contradicting the isolate zone experts. 

The pioneer of the Fireflies, Marlene (Merle Dandridge), guarantees to twofold their store as an end-result of carrying a high school young lady, Ellie (Ashley Johnson), to Fireflies covering up in the Massachusetts State House outside the isolate zone. Joel, Tess, and Ellie escape in the night, however after an experience with a watch, they find Ellie is contaminated. Full contamination ordinarily happens in less than two days, yet Ellie claims she was tainted three weeks prior and that her insusceptibility may prompt a fix. The trio advance toward their goal through swarms of the contaminated, yet find that the Fireflies there have been slaughtered. Tess uncovers she has been nibbled by a contaminated and, putting stock in Ellie's significance, penances herself against seeking after fighters so Joel and Ellie can get away. Joel chooses to discover Tommy, a previous Firefly, with the expectation that he can find the rest of the Fireflies. With the assistance of Bill (W. Baron Brown), a dealer who owes Joel some help, they get a working vehicle. Crashing into Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Joel and Ellie are trapped by scoundrels and their vehicle is destroyed. They partner with two siblings, Henry (Brandon Scott) and Sam (Nadji Jeter). After they get away from the city, Sam is nibbled by a contaminated however conceals it from the gathering. As his disease grabs hold, Sam assaults Ellie, however Henry shoots him dead and ends it all out of misery. 

In the fall, Joel and Ellie at long last discover Tommy in Jackson, Wyoming, where he has collected a braced settlement almost a hydroelectric dam with his significant other Maria (Ashley Scott). Joel chooses to leave Ellie with Tommy, yet after she goes up against him about Sarah, he chooses to let her stay with him. Tommy guides them to a Fireflies enclave at the University of Eastern Colorado. They discover the college relinquished, yet discover that the Fireflies have moved to a medical clinic in Salt Lake City, Utah. A short time later, the two are assaulted by criminals and Joel is seriously injured while getting away. 

Amid the winter, Ellie and Joel cover in the mountains. Joel is on the precarious edge of death and depends on Ellie to think about him. Chasing for sustenance, Ellie experiences David (Nolan North) and James (Reuben Langdon), scroungers willing to exchange medication for nourishment; in spite of at first seeming well disposed and agreeable, David turns antagonistic in the wake of uncovering the college criminals were a piece of his gathering. Ellie figures out how to lead David's gathering far from Joel, however is in the long run caught; David means to enroll her into his man-eater gathering. Denying the offer, she escapes in the wake of murdering James, however David corners her in a consuming eatery. In the mean time, Joel recuperates from his injuries and embarks to discover Ellie. He comes to Ellie as she executes David and separates crying; Joel comforts her before they escape. 

In the spring, Joel and Ellie touch base in Salt Lake City. Ellie is rendered oblivious after nearly suffocating, before they are caught by a Firefly watch. In the emergency clinic, Marlene discloses to Joel that Ellie is being set up for medical procedure: in anticipation of delivering an immunization for the disease, the Fireflies must expel the contaminated part of Ellie's mind, which will execute her. Reluctant to let Ellie pass on, Joel fights his way to the working room and conveys the oblivious Ellie to the parking structure. He is stood up to by Marlene, whom he shoots and murders to keep the Fireflies from seeking after them. On the drive out of the city, Joel guarantees that the Fireflies had discovered numerous other resistant individuals however were unfit to make a fix, and that they have quit attempting. On the edges of Tommy's settlement, Ellie uncovers that and communicates her survivor blame. At her request, Joel swears his tale about the Fireflies is valid. 

Underhanded Dog started building up "The Last of Us" in 2009, after the arrival of "". Without precedent for the organization's history, Naughty Dog split into two groups; while one group created "" (2011), the other started chip away at "The Last of Us". Executive Bruce Straley and imaginative chief Neil Druckmann drove the group in charge of building up "The Last of Us". 

Druckmann sees "The Last of Us" as a story about growing up, in which Ellie adjusts to survival in the wake of investing energy with Joel, just as an investigation of how ready a dad is to spare his kid. A noteworthy theme of the diversion is that "life goes on"; this is introduced in a scene in which Joel and Ellie find a crowd of giraffes, which idea craftsman John Sweeney disclosed was intended to "reignite [Ellie's] desire forever", after her enduring after her experience with David. The Infected, a center idea of the diversion, were propelled by a section of the BBC nature narrative "Planet Earth" (2006), which highlighted the "Cordyceps" organisms. Despite the fact that the organisms for the most part taint creepy crawlies, assuming responsibility for their engine capacities and constraining them to help develop the growth, the amusement investigates the idea of the parasite advancing and contaminating people, and the immediate aftereffects of a flare-up of this disease. 

The connection among Joel and Ellie was the focal point of the diversion; every single other component were created around it. Troy Baker and Ashley Johnson were given a role as Joel and Ellie, individually, and gave voice and movement catch exhibitions. Bread cook and Johnson added to the improvement of the characters; for instance, Baker persuaded Druckmann that Joel would think about Tess because of his forlornness, and Johnson persuaded Druckmann that Ellie ought to be more grounded and increasingly protective. Ellie's physical appearance was likewise updated all through improvement to make her look progressively like Johnson. The diversion's different characters additionally experienced changes. The character Tess was initially expected to be the primary enemy of "The Last of Us", yet the group thought that it was hard to trust her intentions. The sexuality of the character Bill was initially left dubious in the content, however later modified to additionally mirror his homosexuality. 

"The Last of Us" includes a unique score created essentially by Gustavo Santaolalla, alongside structures by Andrew Buresh, Anthony Caruso, and Jonathan Mayer. Known for his moderate arrangements, Santaolalla was reached from the get-go being developed. He utilized different instruments to form the score, including some that he was new to, giving a feeling of risk and honesty. This moderate methodology was likewise taken with the diversion's sound and workmanship structure. The sound of the Infected was one of the main assignments amid improvement; the group tried different things with the sound so as to accomplish the most ideal work. To accomplish the sound of the Clicker, they employed voice performer Misty Lee, who gave a sound that sound lead Phillip Kovats depicted as starting in the "back of the throat". The workmanship division accepting different bits of work as motivation, for example, Robert Polidori's photos following Hurricane Katrina, which were utilized as a source of perspective moment that structuring the overwhelmed regions of Pittsburgh. The craftsmanship division were compelled to consult for things that they wished to incorporate, because of the solid contrasting suppositions of the group amid advancement. Eventually, the group settled on a harmony among straightforwardness and detail; while Straley and Druckmann favored the previous, the workmanship group favored the last mentioned. The diversion's opening credits were created by Sony's San Diego Studio. 

The group made new motors to fulfill their requirements for the amusement. The man-made reasoning was made to organize with players; the expansion of Ellie as man-made brainpower was a noteworthy supporter of the motor. The lighting motor was additionally re-made to join delicate light, in which the daylight leaks in through spaces and reflects off surfaces. The interactivity acquainted trouble with the group, as they felt that each technician required intensive examination. The diversion's UI configuration likewise experienced different cycles all through improvement. 

"The Last of Us" was declared on December 10, 2011, at the Spike Video Game Awards, close by its presentation trailer and an official public statement recognizing a portion of the diversion's highlights. The declaration touched off far reaching expectation inside the gaming business, which columnists owed to Naughty Dog's notoriety. The amusement missed its unique anticipated discharge date of May 7, 2013, and was pushed to June 14, 2013 worldwide for further cleaning. To advance pre-request deals, Naughty Dog teamed up with a few retailers to furnish exceptional versions of the amusement with additional substance. 

Downloadable substance (DLC) for the diversion was discharged after its dispatch. The diversion's Season Pass incorporates access to all DLC, just as some extra capacities, and the narrative "Grounded: Making The Last of Us"; the narrative was discharged online in February 2014. Two DLC packs were incorporated with a portion of the diversion's exceptional versions and were accessible upon discharge. The "Sights and Sounds Pack" incorporated the soundtrack, a dynamic topic for the PlayStation 3 home screen, and two symbols. The "Survival Pack" highlighted extra skins for the player following the finishing of the crusade, and in-amusement cash, just as reward experience indicates and early access adjustable things for the diversion's multiplayer. "Deserted Territories Map Pack", discharged on October 15, 2013, included four new multiplayer maps, in view of areas in the diversion's story. "Bad dream Bundle", discharged on November 5, 2013, included an accumulation of ten head things, nine of which are accessible to buy independently. 

"" includes a solitary player battle which fills in as a prequel to the fundamental storyline, highlighting Ellie and her companion Riley. It was discharged on February 14, 2014 as DLC and on May 12, 2015 as an independent extension pack. A third group was discharged on May 6, 2014, highlighting five separate DLC: "Grounded" added another trouble to the fundamental diversion and "Left Behind"; "Recovered Territories Map Pack" included new multiplayer maps; "Proficient Survival Skills Bundle" and "Situational Survival Skills Bundle" included eight new multiplayer abilities; and "Survivalist Weapon Bundle" included four new weapons. The "Coarseness and Gear Bundle", which included new headgear things, veils and signals, was discharged on August 5, 2014. A "Round of the Year Edition" containing all downloadable substance was discharged in Europe on November 11, 2014. 

On April 9, 2014, Sony reported "The Last of Us Remastered", an upgraded rendition of the amusement for the PlayStation 4. It was discharged on July 29, 2014 in North America. "Remastered" highlights improved illustrations and rendering redesigns, including expanded draw separate, an updated battle repairman, and higher edge rate. Different upgrades incorporate propelled sound choices, a sound critique, and a Photo Mode. It incorporates the recently discharged downloadable substance, including "Left Behind" and some multiplayer maps. The advancement group intended to make a "genuine" remaster, keeping up the "center understanding" and significant story and ongoing interaction components. 

"The Last of Us" got basic praise. Audit aggregator site Metacritic determined a normal score of 95 out of 100, designating "all inclusive approval", in view of 98 surveys. It is the fifth-most elevated evaluated PlayStation 3 diversion on Metacritic. Analysts lauded the character improvement, story and subtext, visual and sound structure, and delineation of female and LGBT characters. The diversion is viewed as a standout amongst the most noteworthy titles of the seventh era of computer games, and has been incorporated among the best computer games ever. Colin Moriarty of IGN called "The Last of Us" "a magnum opus" and "PlayStation 3's best restrictive", and "Edge" thought of it as "the most arresting, candidly full story-driven epic" of the comfort age. Oli Welsh of "Eurogamer" composed that it is "an encouraging sign" for the survival awfulness kind; Andy Kelly of "PC and Video Games" pronounced it "Insidious Dog's best minute". 

Kelly of "PC and Video Games" found the story noteworthy, and IGN's Moriarty named it one of the diversion's champion highlights. "PlayStation Official Magazine"s David Meikleham composed that the pacing added to the improvement of the story, expressing that there is "a genuine feeling of time slipped by and venture went along at all times", Jim Sterling commended the amusement's emotional minutes. Richard Mitchell of Joystiq found that the account improved the character connections. 

The characters—especially the connection among Joel and Ellie—got praise. Matt Helgeson of "Amusement Informer" composed that the relationship felt recognizable, naming it "powerful" and "well-drawn". "Eurogamer"s Welsh composed that the characters were created with "genuine tolerance and ability", valuing their enthusiastic esteem, and Joystiq's Mitchell found the relationship "certified" and passionate. "PlayStation Official Magazine"s Meikleham named Joel and Ellie the best characters of any PlayStation 3 diversion, while IGN's Moriarty recognized it as a feature of the amusement. Kelly of "PC and Video Games" named the characters "lavishly painted", feeling put resources into their accounts. Philip Kollar of "Polygon" felt that Ellie was trustworthy, making it simpler to build up an association with her, and that the connection between the characters was helped by the diversion's discretionary discussions. The character exhibitions additionally gotten commendation, with "Edge" and "Eurogamer"s Welsh taking note of that the content improved therefore. 

Numerous analysts found the amusement's battle an invigorating contrast from different recreations. "Amusement Informer"s Helgeson valued the helplessness amid battles, while Kelly of "PC and Video Games" delighted in the assortment in moving toward the battle. IGN's Moriarty felt that the making framework helped the battle, and that the last added to the account's passionate esteem, including that foes feel "human". Joystiq's Mitchell repeated comparative remarks, expressing that the battle "heaps demise upon death staring Joel in the face". Welsh of "Eurogamer" found the emotional and compromising experiences added emphatically to the interactivity. Tom Mc Shea of GameSpot composed that the man-made brainpower adversely influenced the battle, with foes regularly overlooking players' partners. "Polygon"s Kollar felt that the battle was out of line, particularly when battling the Infected. 

The diversion's visual highlights were complimented by numerous commentators. The workmanship configuration was praised as "exceptional" by "PC and Video Games" Kelly, and "stunning" by "Eurogamer"s Welsh. Interestingly, Mc Shea of GameSpot distinguished the visual portrayal of the dystopian world was "ordinary", having been depicted different occasions already. The amusement's illustrations have been much of the time named by pundits as the best for a PlayStation 3 diversion, with Helgeson of "Diversion Informer" naming them "unmatched in support gaming" and Moriarty of IGN expressing that they add to the authenticity. Destructoid's Sterling composed that diversion was outwardly noteworthy yet that specialized issues, for example, some "sloppy and fundamental" surfaces found right off the bat in the amusement, left a negative effect on the visuals. 

The world and conditions of the amusement drew approval from numerous commentators. Kelly of "PC and Video Games" expressed that the conditions are "expansive, nitty gritty, and covered with privileged insights", including that "The Last of Us" "veils" its linearity effectively. "Edge" rehashed comparative comments, composing that the dimension configuration serves the story properly. Helgeson of "Amusement Informer" composed that the world "adequately and perfectly [conveys] the depression" of the story. IGN's Moriarty valued the additional structure components put around the diversion world, for example, the shrouded notes and letters. 

Analysts lauded the utilization of sound in "The Last of Us". "Eurogamer"s Welsh felt that the sound plan was altogether superior to in different diversions, while "Amusement Informer"s Helgeson named it "stunning". Mc Shea of GameSpot expressed that the sound added with the impact of the interactivity, especially when avoiding adversaries. Kelly of "PC and Video Games" found that the natural sound emphatically affected ongoing interaction, and that Gustavo Santaolalla's score was "scanty and sensitive". Both "Amusement Informer"s Helgeson and Destructoid's Sterling called the score "frequenting", with the last finding that it supplements the ongoing interaction. 

The realistic portrayal of brutality in "The Last of Us" created significant editorial from commentators. Engadget author Ben Gilbert found the diversion's industrious spotlight on battle was "a vital abhorrence to lead the amusement's delicate hero team to wellbeing", rather than being utilized as a strategy to accomplish goals. "Kotaku"s Kirk Hamilton composed that the savagery was "overwhelming, weighty and vital", instead of needless. USGamer's Anthony John Agnello composed that the amusement reliably strengthens the pessimism related with brutality, deliberately making players feel awkward while in vicious battle. He expressed that the passings inside the diversion were not pointless or unjustified, making the story all the more dominant. Kelly of "PC and Video Games" expressed that, in spite of the "unimaginably severe" battle, the savagery never felt needless. "Eurogamer"s Welsh reverberated comparative comments, expressing that the viciousness isn't "desensitized or careless". Matt Helgeson of "Amusement Informer" saw that the diversion's viciousness prompts players scrutinizing the ethical quality of their decisions. Joystiq's Mitchell composed that the viciousness is "intended to be awkward", expressing that it adds to Joel's character. Before the arrival of the amusement, Keith Stuart of "The Guardian" composed that the worthiness of the savagery would rely upon its setting inside the diversion. 

Numerous commentators examined the amusement's delineation of female characters. Jason Killingsworth of "Edge" lauded its absence of sexualized female characters, composing that it "offers an invigorating antitoxin to the sexism and backward sex demeanors of most blockbuster videogames". "Eurogamer"s Ellie Gibson applauded Ellie as "here and there solid, some of the time powerless, yet never a prosaism". She felt that Ellie is at first settled as a "maiden in trouble", however that this idea is subverted. GameSpot's Carolyn Petit applauded the female characters as ethically tangled and thoughtful, however composed that sexual orientation in computer games ought to be assessed "dependent on their real merits, not in connection to different diversions". Chris Suellentrop of "The New York Times" recognized that Ellie was an amiable and "once in a while ground-breaking" character, however contended that "The Last of Us" is "really the tale of Joel", expressing that it's "another computer game by men, for men and about men". "The Last of Us" was additionally lauded for its portrayal of LGBT characters. Sam Einhorn of GayGamer.net felt that the disclosure of Bill's sexuality "added to his character ... without truly tokenizing him". American association GLAAD named Bill a standout amongst the "most charming new LGBT characters of 2013", calling him "profoundly imperfect yet completely remarkable". A kiss between two female characters in "Left Behind" was met with positive responses. 

Inside seven days of its discharge, "The Last of Us" sold over 1.3 million units, turning into the greatest computer game dispatch of 2013 at the time. Three weeks after its discharge, the amusement sold over 3.4 million units, and was esteemed the greatest dispatch of a unique diversion since 2011's "L.A. Noire" and the quickest selling PlayStation 3 round of 2013 at the time. The diversion turned into the top of the line advanced discharge on PlayStation Store for PlayStation 3, however numerical deals figures were not uncovered; this record was later beaten by "Amazing Theft Auto V". "The Last of Us" at last turned into the tenth top rated round of 2013. By August 2014, the diversion had sold eight million duplicates: seven million on PlayStation 3 and one million on PlayStation 4. By April 2018, the amusement sold 17 million duplicates crosswise over the two consoles. It is the third top of the line PlayStation 3 round ever. In the United Kingdom, the amusement stayed on the diagrams for six successive weeks, coordinating records set by multi-stage titles. Inside 48 hours of its discharge, "The Last of Us" created more than the £3 million earned by "Man of Steel" in a similar period. The amusement additionally bested the outlines in the United States, France, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Denmark, Spain, and Japan. 

"The Last of Us" is a standout amongst the most granted rounds ever, prevailing upon 240 Game of the Year grants. Before its discharge, it got various honors for its sneak peaks at E3. It was survey aggregators Metacritic and GameRankings' second-most noteworthy evaluated for the year 2013, behind "Terrific Theft Auto V". The amusement showed up on a multi year-end arrangements of the best rounds of 2013, accepting successes from the 41st Annie Awards, "The A.V. Club", the British Academy Video Games Awards, Canada.com, "Day by day Mirror", "The Daily Telegraph", Destructoid, the seventeenth Annual DICE Awards, "The Escapist", GamesRadar, GameTrailers, the fourteenth Annual Developers Choice Awards, Game Revolution, Giant Bomb, "Great Game", "Bad-to-the-bone Gamer", IGN, IGN Australia, "Universal Business Times", "Kotaku", National Academy of Video Game Trade Reviewers, VG247, VideoGamer.com. It was likewise named the Best PlayStation Game by GameSpot, GameTrailers, "Bad-to-the-bone Gamer", and IGN. Devious Dog won Studio of the Year and Best Developer from "The Daily Telegraph", "Edge", the Golden Joystick Awards, "In-your-face Gamer", and the 2013 Spike VGX. 

Dough puncher and Johnson got different designations for their exhibitions; Baker won honors from "No-nonsense Gamer" and the 2013 Spike VGX, while Johnson won honors at the British Academy Video Games Awards, DICE Awards, VGX 2013, and from "The Daily Telegraph". The amusement's story additionally gotten honors at the British Academy Video Games Awards, the DICE Awards, the Game Developers Choice Awards, the Golden Joystick Awards, and the Writers Guild of America Awards, and from GameTrailers, Giant Bomb, "In-your-face Gamer", and IGN. The sound plan and music got grants at the DICE Awards, the Inside Gaming Awards, and from IGN. The amusement's graphical and aesthetic structure likewise won honors from Destructoid, the DICE Awards, the Golden Joystick Awards, and IGN. 

"The Last of Us" was granted Outstanding Innovation in Gaming at the DICE Awards, and Best Third Person Shooter from GameTrailers. The amusement got Best New IP from "Bad-to-the-bone Gamer", Best Newcomer at the Golden Joystick Awards, and Best Debut from Giant Bomb. It got Best Overall Sound, Best PlayStation 3 Multiplayer, and Best Action-Adventure Game on PlayStation 3, and generally speaking getting it done of 2013 Awards. It likewise won Best Action-Adventure Game at the British Academy Video Games Awards, and "The Escapist", just as Best Action Game from "No-nonsense Gamer" and Adventure Game of the Year at the DICE Awards. 

A four-issue comic book miniseries, titled "", was distributed by Dark Horse Comics from April to July 2013. Composed by Druckmann and shown by Faith Erin Hicks, the funnies fill in as a prequel to the amusement, chronicling the adventure of a more youthful Ellie and Riley. On July 28, 2014, the cast of the diversion played out a live perusing of chosen scenes in Santa Monica, California, with unrecorded music by Santaolalla. The execution was facilitated and coordinated by Druckmann, with designs by Alex Hobbs. 

On March 6, 2014, Sony declared that Screen Gems will appropriate a film adjustment of "The Last of Us", composed by Druckmann and delivered by Sam Raimi. By January 2015, Druckmann had composed the content's second draft, and played out a read-through with certain on-screen characters. Next to no work happened following this, as Druckmann expressed in April 2016 that the film had entered advancement damnation. In November 2016, Raimi expressed that the film was at a halt after Sony had a conflict with Druckmann. On-screen character Maisie Williams communicated excitement in playing Ellie, and was in converses with both Druckmann and Raimi to play the job. 

In February 2014, Druckmann said Naughty Dog were thinking about a spin-off however expected to discover a story "extremely worth telling, and that is not rehashing itself". In September 2015, Druckmann expressed that a little group had started constructing models, however moved improvement to "", discharged in May 2016. 

Sony reported "The Last of Us Part II" at the PlayStation Experience occasion on December 3, 2016. The story happens around five years after the main amusement; Ellie and Joel return, with players controlling Ellie. Santaolalla will come back to make the music, and Druckmann will come back to compose the story close by Halley Gross. Straley won't return as amusement executive.