Simeon I of Bulgaria 

Simeon (additionally Symeon) I the Great (, transliterated "Simeon I Veliki" ) administered over Bulgaria from 893 to 927, amid the First Bulgarian Empire. Simeon's fruitful battles against the Byzantines, Magyars and Serbs drove Bulgaria to its most prominent regional extension consistently, making it the most dominant state in contemporary Eastern Europe. His rule was additionally a time of unmatched social thriving and illumination later considered the Golden Age of Bulgarian culture. 

Amid Simeon's standard, Bulgaria spread over a domain between the Aegean, the Adriatic and the Black Sea. The recently autonomous Bulgarian Orthodox Church turned into the primary new patriarchate other than the Pentarchy, and Bulgarian Glagolitic and Cyrillic interpretations of Christian writings spread everywhere throughout the Slavic universe of the time. It was at the Preslav Literary School during the 890s that the Cyrillic letters in order was created. Partially through his rule, Simeon expected the title of Emperor ("Tsar"), having preceding that been styled Prince ("Knyaz"). 

Simeon was conceived in 864 or 865, as the third child of Knyaz Boris I of Krum's administration. As Boris was the ruler who Christianized Bulgaria in 865, Simeon was a Christian for his entire life. Since his oldest sibling Vladimir was assigned beneficiary to the Bulgarian position of royalty, Boris expected Simeon to turn into a high-positioning pastor, perhaps Bulgarian ecclesiastical overseer, and sent him to the main University of Constantinople to get religious instruction when he was thirteen or fourteen. He accepting the name Simeon as a beginner in a religious community in Constantinople. Amid the decade (ca. 878– 888) he spent in the Byzantine capital, he got great instruction and concentrated the talk of Demosthenes and Aristotle. He likewise learned familiar Greek, to the degree that he was alluded to as "the half-Greek" in Byzantine accounts. He is conjectured to have been guided by Patriarch Photios I of Constantinople, yet this isn't bolstered by any source. 

Around 888, Simeon came back to Bulgaria and settled at the recently settled imperial cloister of Preslav "at the mouth of the Tiča", where, under the direction of Naum of Preslav, he occupied with dynamic interpretation of critical religious works from Greek to Medieval Bulgarian (Currently alluded to as Church Slavonic), supported by different understudies from Constantinople. In the interim, Vladimir had succeeded Boris, who had withdrawn to a religious community, as leader of Bulgaria. Vladimir endeavored to reintroduce agnosticism in the realm and potentially marked an enemy of Byzantine settlement with Arnulf of Carinthia, driving Boris to reemerge political life. Boris had Vladimir detained and blinded, and afterward designated Simeon as the new ruler. This was done at a get together in Preslav which additionally broadcasted Bulgarian as the main language of state and church and moved the Bulgarian capital from Pliska to Preslav, to all the more likely concrete the ongoing change. It isn't known why Boris did not put his second child, Gavril, on the position of authority, yet rather favored Simeon. 

With Simeon on the position of royalty, the durable harmony with the Byzantine Empire built up by his dad was going to end. A contention emerged when Byzantine Emperor Leo VI the Wise, purportedly acting under strain from his courtesan Zoe Zaoutzaina and her dad Stylianos Zaoutzes, moved the commercial center for Bulgarian products from Constantinople to Thessaloniki, where the Bulgarian traders were vigorously saddled. The Bulgarians looked for assurance by Simeon, who thus whined to Leo. Be that as it may, the Byzantine ruler overlooked his government office. 

Compelled to make a move, in the fall of 894 Simeon attacked the Byzantine Empire from the north, meeting with little restriction because of the convergence of most Byzantine powers in eastern Anatolia to counter Arab intrusions. Educated of the Bulgarian hostile, the astonished Leo sent a military comprising of sentries and other military units from the funding to end Simeon, however his troops were directed some place in the topic of Macedonia. The Bulgarians took the majority of the Khazar hired fighter watchmen detainees and slaughtered numerous archons, including the military's leader. In any case, rather than proceeding with his development to the Byzantine capital, Simeon rapidly pulled back his troops to confront a Magyar attack from the north. These occasions were later called "the principal exchange war in medieval Europe" by Bulgarian students of history. 

Unfit to successfully react to the Bulgarian crusade because of the commitment of their powers against the Arabs, the Byzantines persuaded the Magyars to assault Bulgaria, promising to transport them over the Danube utilizing the Byzantine naval force. Leo VI may have likewise finished up a concurrence with Arnulf to ensure that the Franks did not bolster Simeon against the Magyars. What's more, the capable officer Nikephoros Phokas was gotten back to from southern Italy to lead a different armed force against Bulgaria in 895 with the unimportant aim to overawe the Bulgarians. Simeon, unconscious of the risk from the north, raced to meet Phokas' powers, however the two armed forces did not take part in a battle. Rather, the Byzantines offered harmony, educating him of both the Byzantine foot and oceanic crusade, however purposefully did not advise him of the arranged Magyar assault. Simeon did not confide in the emissary and, in the wake of sending him to jail, requested the Byzantine naval force's course into the Danube cut off with ropes and chains, planning to hold it until he had managed Phokas. 

In spite of the issues they experienced due to the fencing, the Byzantines at last figured out how to ship the Magyar powers driven by Árpád's child Liüntika over the Danube, conceivably close present day Galaţi, and helped them in looting the close-by Bulgarian terrains. Once advised of the unexpected intrusion, Simeon traveled north to stop the Magyars, abandoning a portion of his troops at the southern outskirt to keep a conceivable assault by Phokas. Simeon's two experiences with the foe in Northern Dobruja brought about Magyar triumphs, constraining him to withdraw to Drǎstǎr. In the wake of ravaging quite a bit of Bulgaria and coming to Preslav, the Magyars came back to their territories, however not before Simeon had closed a peace negotiation with Byzantium towards the mid year of 895. A total harmony was deferred, as Leo VI required the arrival of the Byzantine prisoners from the Trade War. 

Having managed the weight from the Magyars and the Byzantines, Simeon was allowed to design a battle against the Magyars searching for reprisal. He arranged a joint power with the Magyars' eastern neighbors, the Pechenegs, and detained the Byzantine emissary Leo Choirosphaktes so as to postpone the arrival of the prisoners until after the crusade against the Magyars. This would enable him to renegotiate the harmony conditions to support him. In a trade of letters with the emissary, Simeon would not discharge the hostages and disparaged Leo VI's prophetic capacities. 

Utilizing a Magyar intrusion in the grounds of the neighboring Slavs in 896 as a "casus belli", Simeon headed against the Magyars together with his Pecheneg partners, crushing them totally in the Battle of Southern Buh and making them leave Etelköz everlastingly and settle in Pannonia. Following the thrashing of the Magyars, Simeon at long last discharged the Byzantine detainees in return for Bulgarians caught in 895. 

Asserting that not the sum total of what detainees had been discharged, Simeon by and by attacked Byzantium in the mid year of 896, making a beeline for Constantinople. He was met in Thrace by a quickly amassed Byzantine armed force, however destroyed the Byzantine powers in the Battle of Bulgarophygon (at present day Babaeski, Turkey). Equipping Arab prisoners and sending them to battle with the Bulgarians as a urgent measure, Leo VI figured out how to repulse the Bulgarians from Constantinople, which they had assaulted. The war finished with a harmony bargain which formally endured until around Leo VI's passing in 912 and under which Byzantium was obliged to pay Bulgaria a yearly tribute. Under the settlement, the Byzantines likewise surrendered a zone between the Black Sea and Strandža to the Bulgarian Empire. In the interim, Simeon had additionally forced his position over Serbia as an end-result of perceiving Petar Gojniković as their ruler. 

Simeon regularly disregarded the harmony bargain with Byzantium, assaulting and vanquishing A byzantine area on a few events, for example, in 904, when the Bulgarian attacks were utilized by Arabs driven by the Byzantine maverick Leo of Tripoli to attempt a sea crusade and catch Thessaloniki. After the Arabs looted the city, it was an obvious objective for Bulgaria and the adjacent Slavic clans. So as to discourage Simeon from catching the city and populating it with Slavs, Leo VI was compelled to make further regional concessions to the Bulgarians in the cutting edge district of Macedonia. With the arrangement of 904, all Slavic-possessed grounds in present day southern Macedonia and southern Albania were surrendered to the Bulgarian Empire, with the marginal running somewhere in the range of 20 kilometers north of Thessaloniki. 

The passing of Leo VI on 11 May 912 and the promotion of his baby child Constantine VII under the direction of Leo's sibling Alexander, who ousted Leo's significant other Zoe from the castle, established an extraordinary open door for Simeon to endeavor another battle against Constantinople, the triumph of which remained an incredible fantasy. In the spring of 913, Simeon's agents, who had touched base in Constantinople to reestablish the tranquility of 896, were sent away by Alexander, who would not pay the yearly tribute, asking Simeon to plan for war. 

Before Simeon could assault, Alexander kicked the bucket on 6 June 913, leaving the realm in the hands of a regime gathering headed by Patriarch Nicholas Mystikos. Numerous occupants of Constantinople did not perceive the youthful ruler and rather bolstered the actor Constantine Doukas, which, exacerbated by rebellions in southern Italy and the arranged Arab attack in eastern Anatolia, was all further bolstering Simeon's good fortune. Nicholas Mystikos endeavored to dishearten Simeon from attacking Byzantium in a long arrangement of arguing letters, yet the Bulgarian ruler by and by assaulted in full power in late July or August 913, achieving Constantinople with no genuine obstruction. 

The disorder in Constantinople had stopped after the homicide of the actor Constantine Doukas, be that as it may, and a legislature had immediately been shaped with Patriarch Nicholas in charge. This encouraged Simeon to raise his attack and enter harmony arrangements, to the delight of the Byzantines. The extended dealings brought about the installment of the unfulfilled obligations of Byzantine tribute, the guarantee that Constantine VII would wed one of Simeon's little girls, and, in particular, Simeon's authentic acknowledgment as Emperor of the Bulgarians by Patriarch Nicholas in the Blachernae Palace. 

Soon after Simeon visited Constantinople, Constantine's mom Zoe came back to the castle on the request of the youthful ruler and quickly continued to take out the officials. Through a plot, she figured out how to expect control in February 914, basically expelling Patriarch Nicholas from the administration, abandoning and clouding his acknowledgment of Simeon's royal title, and dismissing the arranged marriage of her child to one of Simeon's girls. Simeon needed to turn to war to accomplish his objectives. He attacked Thrace in the mid year of 914 and caught Adrianople. Zoe rushed to send Simeon various exhibits so as to appease him, and she figured out how to persuade him to surrender back Adrianople and pull back his military. In the next years, Simeon's powers were occupied with the northwestern Byzantine areas, around Drač (Durrës) and Thessaloniki, however did not make a move against Constantinople. 

By 917, Simeon was getting ready for one more war against Byzantium. He endeavored to close an enemy of Byzantine association with the Pechenegs, however his emissaries couldn't coordinate the money related assets of the Byzantines, who prevailing with regards to outbidding them. The Byzantines brought forth an expansive scale crusade against Bulgaria and furthermore endeavored to induce the Serbian Prince Petar Gojniković to assault the Bulgarians with Magyar help. 

In 917, an especially solid Byzantine armed force driven by Leo Phokas the Elder, child of Nikephoros Phokas, attacked Bulgaria joined by the Byzantine naval force under the order of Romanos Lekapenos, which cruised to the Bulgarian Black Sea ports. In transit to Mesembria (Nesebǎr), where they should be fortified by troops transported by the naval force, Phokas' powers ceased to rest close to the waterway of Acheloos, not a long way from the port of Anchialos (Pomorie). When educated of the intrusion, Simeon raced to block the Byzantines, and assaulted them from the close-by slopes while they were resting confused. In the Battle of Acheloos of 20 August 917, one of the biggest in medieval history, the Bulgarians totally directed the Byzantines and executed huge numbers of their leaders, in spite of the fact that Phokas figured out how to escape to Mesembria. Decades later, Leo the Deacon would compose that "heaps of bones can at present be seen today at the waterway Acheloos, where the escaping armed force of the Byzantines was then scandalously killed". 

The arranged Pecheneg assault from the north additionally flopped, as the Pechenegs fought with chief naval officer Lekapenos, who wouldn't transport them over the Danube to help the fundamental Byzantine armed force. The Byzantines were not supported by Serbs and Magyars either: the Magyars were occupied with Western Europe as Frankish partners, and the Serbs under Petar Gojniković were hesitant to assault Bulgaria since Michael of Zahumlje, a partner of Bulgaria, had advised Simeon of their arrangements. 

Simeon's military immediately lined up the triumph of Acheloos with another achievement. The Bulgarians sent to interest the remainders of the Byzantine armed force moved toward Constantinople and experienced Byzantine powers under Leo Phokas, who had come back to the capital, at the town of Katasyrtai in the prompt vicinity of Constantinople. The Bulgarian regiments assaulted and again vanquished the Byzantines, devastating a portion of their last units before coming back to Bulgaria. 

Following that crusade, Simeon tried to rebuff the Serbian ruler Petar Gojniković who had endeavored to deceive him by finishing up a collusion with the Byzantines. Simeon sent a military driven by two of his authorities, Theodore Sigrica and Marmais, to Serbia. The two figured out how to induce Petar to go to an individual gathering, amid which he was enchained and stole away to Bulgaria, where he kicked the bucket in a prison. Simeon put Pavle Branović, preceding that an outcast in Bulgaria, on the Serbian position of authority, accordingly reestablishing the Bulgarian impact in Serbia for some time. 

In the mean time, the Byzantine military disappointments constrained another difference in government in Constantinople: the chief naval officer Romanos Lekapenos supplanted Zoe as official of the youthful Constantine VII in 919, driving her once more into a religious circle. Romanos promised his little girl Helena Lekapene to Constantine and progressed to the position of co-ruler in December 920, viably accepting the administration of the realm, which was to a great extent what Simeon had wanted to do. 

No longer ready to move to the Byzantine honored position by strategic methods, the rankled Simeon by and by needed to take up arms to force his will. Somewhere in the range of 920 and 922, Bulgaria expanded its weight on Byzantium, battling in the west through Thessaly achieving the Isthmus of Corinth and in the east in Thrace, coming to and crossing the Dardanelles to lay attack on the town of Lampsacus. Simeon's powers showed up before Constantinople in 921, when they requested the statement of Romanos and caught Adrianople, and 922, when they were successful at Pigae, consumed a great part of the Golden Horn and seized Bizye. Meanwhile, the Byzantines endeavored to touch off Serbia against Simeon, however he substituted Pavle with Zaharije Pribisavljević, a previous exile at Constantinople that he had caught. 

Frantic to vanquish Constantinople, Simeon arranged an extensive battle in 924 and sent agents to the Fatimid caliph Ubayd Allah al-Mahdi Billah, who had an amazing naval force which Simeon required. The caliph concurred and sent his own delegates back with the Bulgarians to organize the union. In any case, the agents were caught by the Byzantines at Calabria. Romanos offered harmony to the Arabs, enhancing this idea with liberal blessings, and demolished their association with Bulgaria. 

In Serbia, Zaharije was influenced by the Byzantines to rebel against Simeon. Zaharije was bolstered by numerous Bulgarians depleted from Simeon's unlimited battles against Byzantium. The Bulgarian head sent his troops under Sigrica and Marmais, however they were directed and the two authorities guillotined, which constrained Simeon to finish up a cease-fire with Byzantium so as to focus on the concealment of the uprising. Simeon sent a military driven by Časlav Klonimirović in 924 to dismiss Zaharije. He was fruitful, as Zaharije fled to Croatia. After this triumph, the Serbian honorability was welcome to come to Bulgaria and bow to the new Prince. Be that as it may, he didn't show up at the alleged gathering and every one of them were executed. Bulgaria added Serbia legitimately. 

In the mid year of 924, Simeon by the by touched base at Constantinople and requested to see the patriarch and the head. He speaked with Romanos on the Golden Horn on 9 September 924 and masterminded a détente, as indicated by which Byzantium would pay Bulgaria a yearly assessment, yet would be surrendered back certain urban communities on the Black Sea coast. Amid the meeting of the two rulers, two falcons are said to have met in the skies above and after that to have separated, one of them flying over Constantinople and the other making a beeline for Thrace, as an indication of the hopelessness of the two rulers. In his portrayal of this gathering, Theophanes Continuatus specifies that "the two "emperors"... bantered", which may show recharged Byzantine acknowledgment of Simeon's magnificent cases. 

Undoubtedly after (or conceivably at the season of) Patriarch Nicholas' demise in 925, Simeon raised the status of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church to a patriarchate. This might be connected to Simeon's conciliatory relations with the Papacy somewhere in the range of 924 and 926, amid which he requested and got Pope John X's acknowledgment of his title as "Sovereign of the Romans", really equivalent to the Byzantine ruler, and perhaps the affirmation of a male centric poise for the leader of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. 

In 926, Simeon's troops under Alogobotur attacked Croatia, at the time a Byzantine partner, however were totally vanquished by the military of King Tomislav in the Battle of the Bosnian Highlands. Dreading a Bulgarian reprisal, Tomislav acknowledged to desert his association with Byzantium and make tranquility based on "business as usual", consulted by the ecclesiastical legate Madalbert. In the most recent months of his life, Simeon arranged for another contention with Constantinople notwithstanding Romanos' frantic supplications for harmony. 

On 27 May 927, Simeon kicked the bucket of heart disappointment in his royal residence in Preslav. Byzantine writers attach his demise to a legend, as indicated by which Romanos executed a statue which was Simeon's lifeless twofold, and he kicked the bucket at that very hour. 

He was prevailing by his child Peter I, with George Sursubul, the new ruler's maternal uncle, at first going about as an official. As a major aspect of the harmony bargain marked in October 927 and fortified by Peter's marriage to Maria (Eirene), Romanos' granddaughter, the current outskirts were affirmed, just like the Bulgarian ruler's royal nobility and the leader of the Bulgarian Church's man centric status. 

Amid Simeon's rule, Bulgaria achieved its social apogee, turning into the abstract and otherworldly focal point of Slavic Europe. In this regard, Simeon proceeded with his dad Boris' strategy of setting up and spreading Slavic culture and pulling in noted researchers and authors inside Bulgaria's outskirts. It was in the Preslav Literary School and Ohrid Literary School, established under Boris, that the principle scholarly work in Bulgaria was concentrated amid the reign of Simeon in the new Cyrillic letter set which was created there. 

The late ninth and mid tenth century establish the soonest and most gainful time of medieval Bulgarian writing. Having spent his initial a very long time in Constantinople, Simeon acquainted Byzantine culture with the Bulgarian court, yet wiped out its assimilative impact by methods for military power and religious self-rule. The devotees of Cyril and Methodius, among whom Clement of Ohrid, Naum and Constantine of Preslav, proceeded with their instructive work in Bulgaria, effectively interpreting Christian writings, for example, the Bible and crafted by John Chrysostom, Basil of Caesarea, Cyril of Alexandria, Gregory of Nazianzus, Athanasius of Alexandria, just as notable accounts, for example, these of John Malalas and George Hamartolus, to Bulgarian. The rule of Simeon likewise saw the generation of various unique religious and common works, for example, John Exarch's "Six Days" ("Šestodnev"), Constantine of Preslav's "Sequential Prayer" and "Declaration of the Holy Gospels", and Černorizec Hrabǎr's "An Account of Letters". Simeon's very own commitment to this artistic blooming was adulated by his counterparts, for instance in the "Recognition to Tsar Simeon" saved in the "Zlatostruj" gathering and "Simeon's Collection", to which the tsar by and by composed an addendum. 

Simeon transformed the new Bulgarian capital Preslav into a glorious religious and social focus, expected more as a showcase of his domain's prime and as an imperial home than as a military post. With its in excess of twenty cross-domed houses of worship and various religious communities, its amazing regal royal residence and the Golden (or Round) Church, Preslav was a genuine royal capital. The improvement of Bulgarian craftsmanship in the period is exhibited by a fired symbol of Theodore Stratelates and the Preslav-style outlined earthenware production. 

Simeon was hitched twice. By his first spouse, whose personality is obscure, Simeon had a child called Michael. Conceivably on the grounds that his mom was of substandard birth, he was avoided from the progression and sent to a religious community. 

By his second spouse, the sister of the compelling honorable George Sursubul, he had three children: Peter, who prevailing as Emperor of Bulgaria in 927 and ruled until 969; Ivan, who ineffectively planned against Peter in 929 and afterward fled to Byzantium; and Benjamin (Bajan), who, as per Lombard history specialist Liutprand of Cremona, "had the ability to change himself all of a sudden into a wolf or other peculiar creature". 

Simeon additionally had a few little girls, including one who was orchestrated to wed Constantine VII in 913. The marriage was abrogated by Constantine's mom Zoe once she had come back to the court. 

Tsar Simeon I has stayed among the most exceptionally esteemed Bulgarian chronicled figures, as demonstrated by famous vote in the "Velikite Bǎlgari" (a turn off of "100 Greatest Britons") TV program, which in February 2007 set him fourth among the best Bulgarians ever. Simeon the Great has been routinely included in fiction. Bulgarian national author Ivan Vazov committed a youngsters' devoted ballad to him, "Tsar Simeon", and it was later masterminded as a melody, "Kray Bosfora šum se vdiga" ("A Clamor Rises by the Bosphorus"). An eleven-scene show arrangement taped in 1984, "Zlatniyat vek" ("The Golden Age"), retells the tale of Simeon's rule. In the arrangement, the tsar is played by Marius Donkin. A recorded show play called "Tsar Simeon Veliki — Zlatniyat vek" delivered by Stefan Staychev, executive of the Silistra Theater, debuted in December 2006. Ivan Samokovliev stars in the piece of Simeon. 

The composition, "The Bulgarian Tsar Simeon" is a piece of the 20-canvas work by Alfons Mucha, "The Slav Epic". 

The last Bulgarian ruler, Simeon Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, was named after Simeon I. A brand of astounding grape rakija, "Vehicle Simeon Veliki", likewise bears his name, and an Antarctic crest on Livingston Island of the South Shetland Islands was named Simeon Peak in his respect by the Antarctic Place-names Commission. 

</div>