Amir Hamzah 

Tengku Amir Hamzah (Jawi: ; 28 February 1911 – 20 March 1946) was an Indonesian artist and National Hero of Indonesia. Naturally introduced to a Malay distinguished family in the Sultanate of Langkat in North Sumatra, he was taught in both Sumatra and Java. While going to senior secondary school in Surakarta around 1930, the adolescent ended up included with the patriot development and experienced passionate feelings for a Javanese classmate, Ilik Sundari. Indeed, even after Amir proceeded with his examinations in legitimate school in Batavia (presently Jakarta) the two stayed close, possibly isolating in 1937 when Amir was reviewed to Sumatra to wed the sultan's girl and take on obligations of the court. Despite the fact that discontent with his marriage, he satisfied his elegant obligations. After Indonesia broadcasted its freedom in 1945, he filled in as the administration's delegate in Langkat. The next year he was slaughtered in a communist transformation driven by the Communist Party of Indonesia and covered in a mass grave. 

Amir started composing verse while still a young person: however his works are undated, the soonest are thought to have been composed when he initially headed out to Java. Drawing impacts from his very own Malay culture and Islam, just as from Christianity and Eastern writing, Amir composed 50 sonnets, 18 bits of melodious exposition, and various different works, including a few interpretations. In 1932 he helped to establish the abstract magazine "Poedjangga Baroe". After his arrival to Sumatra, he quit composing. The majority of his sonnets were distributed in two accumulations, "Nyanyi Sunyi" (1937) and "Buah Rindu" (1941), first in "Poedjangga Baroe" at that point as remain solitary books. 

Ballads by Amir manage the subjects of affection and religion and his verse frequently mirrors a profound inward clash. His style, utilizing both Malay and Javanese words and developing customary structures, was impacted by the requirement for mood and meter, just as imagery identified with specific terms. His prior works manage a feeling of aching and both sensual and romanticized love, though his later works have a more profound religious significance. Of his two accumulations, "Nyanyi Sunyi" is viewed as the most created. Amir has been known as the "Lord of the Poedjangga Baroe-time Poets" and the main universal class Indonesian artist from before the Indonesian National Revolution. 

Amir was conceived as Tengkoe Amir Hamzah Pangeran Indra Poetera in Tanjung Pura, Langkat, North Sumatra, the most youthful child of Vice Sultan Tengku Muhammad Adil and his third spouse Tengku Mahjiwa. Through his dad, he was identified with the Sultan of Langkat, Machmud. Sources differ over his date of birth. The date formally perceived by the Indonesian government is 28 February 1911, a date Amir utilized for an amazing duration. In any case, his senior sibling Abdullah Hod expresses that the artist was conceived on 11 February 1911. Amir later took the name of his granddad, Teungku Hamzah, as a second name; in this way, he was alluded to as Amir Hamzah. Despite the fact that an offspring of honorability, he would frequently connect with non-nobles. 

It is realized that Amir was educated in Islamic standards, for example, Qu'ran perusing, "fiqh", and "tawhid", and learned at the Azizi Mosque in Tanjung Pura since early on. He remained a passionate Muslim for an incredible duration. Sources differ on the period in which he finished his formal investigations. A few sources, including the Indonesian government's Language Center, express that he began school in 1916, while the biographer M. Lah Husny puts what's to come artist's first year of formal tutoring as 1918. At the Dutch-language grade school where Amir previously contemplated, he started composing and got great imprints; in her life story of him, Nh. Dini composes that Amir was nicknamed "more established sibling" ("abang") by his colleagues as he was a lot taller than them. 

In 1924 or 1925, Amir moved on from the school in Langkat and moved to Medan to learn at the "Meer Uitgebreid Lager Onderwijs" (MULO; center school) there. Subsequent to finishing his investigations approximately two years after the fact, he entered a formal association with his cousin from his mom's side, Aja (additionally Aje) Bun. Husny composes that the two were masterminded to be hitched by their folks, while Dini gives the relationship a role as a pledge to be constantly unwavering. As his folks allowed him to complete his investigations in Java, Amir moved to the pilgrim capital at Batavia (presently Jakarta) to finish his examinations. 

Alone on board the "Plancus", Amir made the three-day vessel excursion to Java. After landing at Batavia, he selected at a Christian MULO there, where he finished his last year of middle school. Anthony H. Johns of Australian National University composes that he adapted some Christian ideas and qualities. Additionally in Batavia, Amir ended up included with the social association Jong Sumatera. Amid this period, the young fellow composed his first sonnets. Husny credits a few to his shock after he found that Aja Bun had been hitched to another man without Amir's knowing (the two never talked again), while Dini recommends that the sonnet "Tinggallah" was composed not long after he boarded the "Plancus", while he was aching after his folks. 

After a concise come back to Sumatra, Amir proceeded to a Boedi Oetomo-worked "Algemene Middelbare School" (AMS; senior secondary school) in Surakarta, Central Java, where he contemplated eastern writing and dialects, including Javanese, Sanskrit, and Arabic. Leaning toward isolation to the clamor of the quarters, Amir boarded at an exclusive home of a Surakartan occupant. Later he met a few future authors, including Armijn Pane and Achdiat Karta Mihardja; they before long observed him to be an agreeable and tireless understudy with complete notes and a flawless room (sheets collapsed so well, Mihardja later reviewed, that a "lost fly could have effectively slid over them"), yet additionally a sentimental inclined to speculation contemplatively underneath the lamplight and confining himself from his colleagues. 

In Surakarta Amir joined the patriot development. He would meet with individual Sumatrans and talk about the social predicament of the Malay archipelago's masses under Dutch frontier rule. Despite the fact that most taught youth at the time favored utilizing Dutch, he demanded speaking Malay. In 1930 Amir moved toward becoming leader of the Surakartan part of the Indonesia Muda (Young Indonesians), conveying a discourse at the 1930 Youth Congress and filling in as an editorial manager of the association's magazine "Garuda Merapi". At school he additionally met Ilik Sundari, a Javanese lady about his age with whom he began to look all starry eyed at. Sundari, the little girl of Raden Mas Kusumodihardjo, was one of only a handful couple of female understudies at the school, and her house was almost one of those in which Amir boarded. As indicated by Dini, the two developed nearer, Amir educating Sundari Arabic and Sundari showing him Javanese. They were before long gathering each day, chatting on an assortment of themes. 

Amir's mom kicked the bucket in 1931, and his dad the year in the wake of, implying that his training could never again be subsidized. After his AMS thinks about finished up, he needed to keep on learning at a graduate school in Batavia. All things considered, he kept in touch with his sibling, Jakfar, who organized the rest of his investigations to be paid for by the Sultan. In 1932 Amir had the capacity to come back to Batavia and start his legitimate investigations, occupying low maintenance work as an instructor. At first, his association with Sundari was proceeded through letters, however she soon proceeded with her examinations in Lembang, a city a lot nearer than Surakarta; this enabled the two to meet furtively – when Sundari's folks had found their relationship, Amir and Sundari had been illegal from meeting. 

This year Amir's initial two ballads, "Sunyi" ("Silent") and "Mabuk..." ("Nauseous..."), were distributed in the March version of the magazine "Timboel". His other eight works distributed in 1932 incorporated a "syair" in view of the "Hikayat Hang Tuah", three different sonnets, two bits of expressive exposition, and two short stories; the lyrics were again distributed in "Timboel", while the writing was incorporated into the magazine "Pandji Poestaka". Around September 1932 Armijn Pane, upon the urgings of Sutan Takdir Alisjahbana, proofreader of "Memadjoekan Sastera" ("Advancing Literature", the artistic area of "Pandji Poestaka"), welcomed Amir to enable them to set up a free abstract magazine. Amir acknowledged, and was entrusted with composing letters to request entries; an aggregate of fifty letters were sent to noted authors, including forty sent to supporters of "Memadjoekan Sastera". Following a while of arrangements, the underlying release was distributed in July 1933, under the title "Poedjangga Baroe". The new magazine was left under the article control of Armijn and Alisjahbana, while Amir distributed practically the majority of his ensuing compositions there. 

In mid-1933 Amir was reviewed to Langkat, where the Sultan educated him of two conditions which he needed to satisfy to proceed with his investigations: be a tireless understudy and desert the autonomy development. Regardless of the Sultan's objection, Amir turned out to be all the more intensely associated with the patriot development, bringing him under expanding Dutch examination. He kept on distributing in "Poedjangga Baroe", including a progression of five articles on Eastern literary works from June to December 1934 and an interpretation of the "Bhagavad Gita" from 1933 to 1935. His lawful examinations, notwithstanding, were postponed, and by 1937 he had still not graduated. 

The Dutch, worried about Amir's nationalistic propensities, persuaded the Sultan to send him back to Langkat, a request which the juvenile artist was unfit to can't. In 1937, Amir, together with two of the Sultan's vassals entrusted with escorting him, boarded the "Opten Noort" from Tanjung Priok and came back to Sumatra. After touching base in Langkat, he was educated that he was to be hitched to the Sultan's oldest little girl, Tengku Puteri Kamiliah, a lady he had scarcely met. Before the wedding Amir came back to Batavia to confront his last exam – and have one final gathering with Sundari. A little while later he came back to Langkat, where he and Kamiliah were hitched in an extreme function. His cousin, Tengku Burhan, later expressed that Amir's impassion all through the seven-day occasion was because of his reasoning of Sundari. 

Presently a sovereign ("pangeran"), Amir was given the title Tengku Pangeran Indra Putera. He lived with Kamiliah in their own home. Apparently, she was a dedicated and cherishing spouse, and in 1939 the couple had their single youngster, a girl named Tengku Tahura. As per Dini, Amir affirmed to Kamiliah that he would never cherish her as he had Sundari and that he felt committed to wed her, something which Kamiliah purportedly acknowledged. The writer held a collection with his Javanese sweetheart's photos at home and would regularly seclude himself from his family, out to lunch. As a sovereign of Langkat, Amir turned into a court official, dealing with regulatory and lawful issues, and now and again making a decision about criminal cases. He once spoke to the sultanate at the burial service of Pakubuwono X in Java – Amir's last outing to the island. 

Despite the fact that Amir had little correspondence with his companions in Java, his poems – a large portion of which had been written in Java – kept on being distributed in "Poedjangga Baroe". His first verse accumulation, "Nyanyi Sunyi" ("Songs of Silence"), was distributed in the magazine's November 1937 release. About two years after the fact, in June 1939, the magazine distributed a gathering of lyrics Amir had deciphered, entitled "Setanggi Timur" ("Incense from the East"). In June 1941 his last gathering, "Buah Rindu" ("Fruits of Longing"), was distributed. All were later republished as remain solitary books. A last book, "Sastera Melayu Lama dan Raja-Rajanya" ("Old Malay Literature and its Kings"), was distributed in Medan in 1942; this depended on a radio discourse Amir had conveyed. 

After the German intrusion of the Netherlands in 1940, the legislature of the Indies started getting ready for a conceivable Japanese attack. In Langkat, a Home Guard, or "Stadswacht", division was built up to shield Tanjung Pura, in Langkat. Amir and his cousin Tengku Harun were in control; the respectability, trusted by the general people, was chosen to guarantee simpler enlistment of everyday citizens. At the point when the attack turned into a reality in mid 1942, Amir was one of the troopers sent to Medan to shield it. He and the other Dutch-united powers were immediately caught by the Japanese. He was held as a wartime captive until 1943, when impact from the Sultan enabled him to be discharged. All through the rest of the occupation, which endured until 1945, Amir was utilized as a radio pundit and edit in Medan. In his situation as sovereign, he was entrusted with gathering rice to bolster the Japanese occupation armed force. 

After Indonesia announced its freedom on 17 August 1945, the sum of Sumatra was pronounced an "accepted" some portion of the nation. The focal government built up Teuku Muhammad Hasan as the island's first senator, and on 29 October 1945 Hasan chose Amir as the administration delegate in Langkat (later compared to official), with his office at Binjai. Amir acknowledged the position promptly, along these lines taking care of various undertakings set by the focal government, including introducing the principal nearby division of the People's Safety Army ("Tentara Keamanan Rakjat"; the antecedent to the Indonesian Army) opening gatherings of different neighborhood offices of national ideological groups, and advancing education – especially Latin-letters in order proficiency. 

The progressing Indonesian National Revolution, with different fights in Java, implied that the recently settled republic was unsteady. In mid 1946, gossipy tidbits spread in Langkat that Amir had been seen feasting with agents of the returning Dutch government, and there was developing distress inside the general masses. On 7 March 1946, amid a communist unrest driven by groups of the Communist Party of Indonesia, a gathering staunchly against feudalism and the respectability, Amir's capacity was taken from him and he was captured; Kamiliah and Tahura got away. Together with different individuals from the Langkat respectability, he was sent to a Communist-held ranch at Kuala Begumit, some outside of Binjai. Later declaration proposes that the prisoners were attempted by their captors, compelled to burrow gaps, and tormented. 

Amir's last bit of composing, a section from his 1941 ballad "Buah Rindu", was later found in his cell: 

On the morning of 20 March 1946, Amir was slaughtered with 26 other individuals and covered in a mass grave which the prisoners had burrowed; a few of his kin were additionally murdered in the upheaval. After it was subdued by patriot powers, the upset's heads were addressed by a group driven by Amir Sjarifuddin and Adnan Kapau Gani: they are accounted for to have over and again asked "Where is Amir Hamzah?" amid the examination. In 1948 the grave at Kuala Begumit was uncovered and the remaining parts recognized by relatives; Amir's bones were distinguished inferable from a missing false tooth. In November 1949 his body was reinterred at the Azizi Mosque in Tanjung Pura, Langkat. 

Amir was brought up in a court setting, where he spoke Malay until it had "become his fragile living creature and blood". Since early on he was presented to oral and stated "pantuns" and "syair", both tuning in and improvisationally making his own. Similarly as with his dad before him, Amir delighted in customary writings, for example, "Hikayat Hang Tuah", "Syair Siti Zubaidah", and "Hikayat Panca Tanderan". He would tune in to these when they were perused in open functions, and as a grown-up he kept a substantial accumulation of such messages, however these were devastated amid the socialist unrest. 

All through his formal instruction Amir read works of Arabic, Persian, and Hindu writing. He was likewise affected by works from other Eastern nations: ballads interpreted in "Setanggi Timur", for example, incorporate works by Omar Khayyám (Persia), Du Fu (China), Fukuda Chiyo-ni (Japan), and Rabindranath Tagore (India). These works were not perused in the first, yet from Dutch interpretations. The abstract commentator Muhammad Balfas composes that, in contrast to his counterparts, Amir drew little impact from works and the neo-sentimental Dutch artists, the "Tachtigers"; Johns arrives at a similar resolution. The Australian abstract researcher Keith Foulcher, in any case, noticing that the artist cited Willem Kloos' "Lenteavond" in his article on "pantuns", recommends that Amir was all around likely impacted by the "Tachtigers". 

Numerous journalists have remarked on Amir's impact from Islamic principle. The Indonesian scholarly documentarian H.B. Jassin and the writer Arief Bagus Prasetyo, among others, contend that Amir was a simply conventional Muslim and that it appeared in his work. Prasetyo contends this was apparent in his treatment of God; he doesn't see God as his equivalent, a topic found underway of such Sufi artists as Hamzah Fansuri, yet as the ace to Amir's hireling. Johns composes that, however he was not a spiritualist, Amir was likewise not a simply reverential essayist, rather advancing a type of "Islamic Humanism". Others, for example, the Dutch researcher of Indonesian writing A. Teeuw and the Indonesian researcher of writing Abdul Hadi WM, observe Amir to be impacted by Sufism. Aprinus Salam of Gadjah Mada University, of a similar position, focuses to the examples where Hamzah regards God as a darling as demonstrative of Sufi impact. At last, the artist Chairil Anwar composed that Amir's "Nyanyi Sunyi" could be named "darken verse" as perusers can't comprehend the works without earlier learning of Malay history and Islam. 

A few endeavors have likewise been made to associate Amir's attempts to a Christian point of view. In breaking down "Padamu Jua", the Indonesian faultfinder Bakri Siregar recommends that a few impacts from the Christian Bible are obvious, indicating a few parts of the ballad that would appear to help such a view, including the portrayal of a human God (not permitted in customary Islam) and the possibility of an envious God. He composes that the idea of an envious God isn't found in Islam, however is in the Bible, refering to and . In another lyric, "Permainanmu", Hamzah utilizes the sentence "Kau keraskan kalbunya" (You solidify his heart); Jassin attracts a parallel to God solidifying the Pharaoh's heart in the Book of Exodus. 

Jassin composes that Amir's ballads were likewise affected by his adoration for at least one ladies, in "Buah Rindu" alluded to as "Tedja" and "Sendari-Dewi"; he opines that the lady or ladies are never named as Amir's affection for them is the key. Husny composes that something like nine of the works in "Buah Rindu" were enlivened by his aching for Aja Bun, depicting a feeling of dissatisfaction after their commitment was canceled. With respect to book's three-section devotion, "to the sad Greater Indonesia/to the fiery debris of the Mother-Queen/and to the feet of the Sendari-Goddess", Mihardja composes that Sundari was promptly unmistakable to any of Amir's cohorts; he thinks of her as the writer's motivation as "Laura to Petrarch, Mathilde to Jacques Perk". The faultfinder Zuber Usman discovers Sundari's impact on "Nyanyi Sunyi" too, proposing his separating from her drove Amir closer to God, a feeling Dini echoes. The interpreter Burton Raffel interfaces a couplet toward the finish of the book, perusing "" ("A blossom coasting in a free bunch of hair/Gave birth to my sad lyrics") as a shout to an illegal love. Dini credits Amir's adoration for Sundari for his continuous utilization of Javanese terms in his composition. 

Through and through Amir composed fifty ballads, eighteen bits of melodious writing, twelve articles, four short stories, three verse accumulations, and one unique book. He likewise deciphered forty-four sonnets, one bit of melodious composition, and one book; these interpretations, Johns composes, by and large reflected subjects essential in his unique work. 

By far most of Amir's compositions were distributed in "Poedjangga Baroe", albeit some prior ones were distributed in "Timboel" and "Pandji Poestaka". None of his inventive works are dated, and there is no accord with respect to when singular lyrics were composed. In any case, there is an accord that the works incorporated into "Nyanyi Sunyi" were composed after those incorporated into "Buah Rindu", in spite of the last being distributed last. Johns composes that the lyrics in the accumulations have all the earmarks of being orchestrated in sequential request; he indicates the different degrees of development Amir appeared as his composition created. 

Jassin composes that Amir kept up a Malay character all through his works, regardless of going to schools kept running by Europeans. Not at all like crafted by his peers Alisjahbana or Sanusi Pane, his sonnets did exclude images of an Europeanised advancement, for example, power, trains, phones, and motors, permitting "the common Malay world to indicate completely". Eventually, when perusing Amir's lyrics "in our creative energy we don't see a man in jeans, a coat, and tie, yet an adolescent in conventional Malay attire". Mihardja takes note of that Amir composed his works when the majority of their colleagues, and numerous artists somewhere else, were "pouring their hearts or musings" in Dutch, or, if "ready to free themselves from the shackles of Dutch", in a nearby language. 

Amir's work frequently managed love (both sensual and glorified), with religious impacts appearing a large number of his sonnets. Supernatural quality is imperative in a significant number of his works, and his verse regularly mirrors a profound inward clash. In something like one of his short stories, he reprimanded the conventional perspective on respectability and "subverts the customary portrayal of female characters". There are a few topical contrasts between his two unique verse accumulations, examined further beneath. 

"Nyanyi Sunyi", Amir's first verse accumulation, was distributed in the November 1937 issue of "Poedjangga Baroe", at that point as an independent book by Poestaka Rakjat in 1938. It comprises of twenty-four titled pieces and an untitled quatrain, including Hamzah's best-known lyric, "Padamu Jua". Jassin groups eight of these functions as melodious writing, with the staying thirteen as customary lyrics. In spite of the fact that it is his originally distributed accumulation, in view of the very much created nature of the sonnets inside, general accord is that the works in "Buah Rindu" were composed prior. The writer Laurens Koster Bohang considers the ballads incorporated into "Nyanyi Sunyi" as having been composed somewhere in the range of 1933 and 1937, while Teeuw dates the sonnets to 1936 and 1937. 

Readings of "Nyanyi Sunyi" have would in general spotlight on religious feelings. As indicated by Balfas, religion and God are inescapable all through the accumulation, starting with its first lyric "Padamu Jua". In it, Jassin composes, Amir demonstrates a sentiment of disappointment over his very own absence of intensity and dissents God's completeness, however appears to be mindful of his own littleness before God, going about as a manikin for God's will. Teeuw abridges that Amir perceives that he would not exist if God did not. Jassin finds that the subject of religion is implied as a getaway from the artist's common distresses. Johns, notwithstanding, recommends that at last Amir discovers little comfort in God, as he "didn't have the extraordinary confidence which can make an incredible penance, and undauntedly acknowledge the results"; rather, he appears to lament his decision to go to Sumatra and afterward rebels against God. 

Amir's second verse accumulation, "Buah Rindu", was distributed in the June 1941 issue of "Poedjangga Baroe", at that point as an independent book by Poestaka Rakjat soon thereafter. It comprises of twenty-five titled pieces and an untitled quatrain; one, "Buah Rindu", comprises of four sections, while another, "Bonda", comprises of two. No less than eleven of the works had recently been distributed, either in "Timboel" or in "Pandji Poestaka". This accumulation however distributed after "Nyanyi Sunyi", is commonly considered to have been composed before. The sonnets in "Buah Rindu" date to the period somewhere in the range of 1928 and 1935, Amir's first years in Java; the gathering allows the two years, also the area of composing as Jakarta– Solo (Surakarta)– Jakarta. 

Teeuw composes that this gathering is joined by a subject of yearning, which Jassin develops: aching for his mom, aching for his darlings (both the one in Sumatra and the one in Java), and aching for his country. All are alluded to as "kekasih" ("darling") thusly. These longings, Teeuw composes, are not normal for the religious hints of "Nyanyi Sunyi", being all the more common and grounded as a general rule. Jassin takes note of another topical refinement between the two: dissimilar to "Nyanyi Sunyi", with its unmistakable delineation of one god, "Buah Rindu" unequivocally advances a few gods, including the Hindu divine beings Shiva and Parvati and dynamic ones like the god and goddess of adoration. 

Amir's lingual authority was impacted by the requirement for mood and meter, just as imagery identified with specific terms. This cautious lingual authority underlined basic words as the essential unit and incidental employments of similar sounding word usage and sound similarity. At last he is more liberated in his language use than conventional writers: Jennifer Lindsay and Ying Tan feature his "verbal imagination", infusing a "luxuriousness of articulation, a resonant of sound and signifying" into his verse. Siregar composes that the outcome is "a wonderful wit". Teeuw composes that Amir had a total comprehension of the qualities and shortcomings of Malay, blending eastern and western impacts, while Johns composes that his "virtuoso as an artist lay in his exceptional capacity to restore the wore out coals of Malay verse, and to implant into the structures and rich vocabulary of conventional Malay a surprising and clear freshness and life." 

The selection of words depends intensely on old Malay terms which saw minimal contemporary use. Amir additionally gets vigorously from other Indonesian dialects, especially Javanese and Sundanese; the impacts are progressively prevalent in "Nyanyi Sunyi". Accordingly, early printings of "Nyanyi Sunyi" and "Buah Rindu" were joined by references clarifying these words. Teeuw composes that the sonnets incorporated various prosaisms basic in "pantuns" which would not be comprehended by outside perusers. As per the interpreter John M. Echols, Amir was an author of extraordinary affectability who was "not a productive essayist but rather his exposition and verse are on an exceptionally abnormal state, however troublesome perusing notwithstanding for Indonesians." Echols credits Amir with a recovery of the Malay language, breathing new life into Malay writing during the 1930s. 

Basically, Amir's initial works are very not quite the same as his later ones. The works gathered in "Buah Rindu" by and large pursued the customary "pantun" and "syair" style of quatrains with tail rhymes, incorporating numerous with rhyming couplets; a few works, be that as it may, joined the two, or had extra lines or a greater number of words than generally worthy, bringing about an alternate musicality. Despite the fact that these early works were not as point by point as Amir's later works, Teeuw composes that they reflected the writer's authority of the language and his drive to compose ballads. Works in this collection rehashed terms of bitterness, for example, "menangis" (cry), "duka" (despondency), "rindu" (aching), and "air mata" (tears), just as words, for example, "cinta" (love), "asmara" (enthusiasm), and "merantau" (meander). 

When Amir composed the works later assembled in "Nyanyi Sunyi," his style had moved. Never again did he limit himself to the customary structures, however rather he investigated diverse potential outcomes: eight of his works moved toward expressive writing in structure. Anwar portrayed his forerunner's utilization of language in the gathering as spotless and unadulterated, with "minimalistically fierce, sharp, but then short" sentences which withdrew from the "ruinous power" of extravagant conventional Malay verse. 

Amir has gotten broad acknowledgment from the Indonesian government, starting with acknowledgment from the legislature of North Sumatra not long after his demise. In 1969 he was allowed both a Satya Lencana Kebudayaan (Satya Lencana Award for Culture) and Piagam Anugerah Seni (Art Prize). In 1975 he was proclaimed a National Hero of Indonesia. A recreation center named after him, Taman Amir Hamzah, is found in Jakarta close to the National Monument. A mosque in Taman Ismail Marzuki, opened to people in general in 1977, is additionally named after him. A few avenues are named after Amir, incorporating into Medan, Mataram, and Surabaya. 

Teeuw considers Amir the main universal class Indonesian artist from before the Indonesian National Revolution. Anwar composed that the artist was the "summit of the "Pudjangga Baru" development", considering "Nyanyi Sunyi" to have been a "brilliant light he [Amir] shone on the new dialect"; notwithstanding, Anwar detested "Buah Rindu", thinking of it as excessively traditional. Balfas depicts Amir's functions as "the best abstract items to outperform their time". Hamzah's work, especially "Padamu Jua", is educated in Indonesian schools. His œuvre was likewise one of the motivations for Afrizal Malna's 1992 postmodern stage play "Biografi Yanti setelah 12 Menit" ("Biography of Yanti After 12 Minutes"). 

Jassin has considered Amir the "Lord of the Pudjangga Baru-time Poets", a name he utilized as the title of his book on the writer. In shutting his book, Jassin composes: