Mit Fried und Freud ich fahr dahin, BWV 125 

Johann Sebastian Bach created the cantata ' (; With harmony and satisfaction I leave), ', for use in a Lutheran administration. He created this chorale cantata in Leipzig in 1725 for the blowout for the Purification of Mary which is commended on 2 February and is otherwise called Candlemas. The cantata depends on Martin Luther's 1524 song "", and frames some portion of Bach's chorale cantata cycle, written to give Sundays and banquet days of the ceremonial year with cantatas dependent on a related Lutheran psalm. 

The gospel for the blowout day, the introduction of Jesus at the Temple, incorporates Simeon's canticle , which Luther reworded in his song, giving an uncommonly close connection of the psalm and the formal event. Bach had utilized single stanzas of the psalm in his initial burial service cantata , and in cantatas of his first Leipzig cycle. 

In the configuration of the chorale cantata cycle, an obscure librettist held the first and the remainder of Luther's four stanzas, while he reworded the internal stanzas. In this cantata, he likewise utilized the first content of the second stanza, sprinkled with his words, as the third development, a recitative, after he reworded similar thoughts for the second development, an aria. The librettist determined content for two additional developments from Luther's third stanza. Bach organized the cantata in six developments, surrounding four developments for soloists by a chorale rhapsody and an end chorale. He scored the work for three vocal soloists, a four-section choir, and a Baroque group comprising of horn, flauto traverso, oboe, oboe d'amore, strings and basso continuo. The opening ensemble has been contrasted with the opening development of Bach's "St Matthew Passion". In the third development, Bach sets the single lines from the song's second stanza uniquely in contrast to the editorial in the librettist's words, however brings together the two components by a ceaseless "theme of happiness" in the backup. 

In 1723, Bach was selected as "Thomaskantor" (executive of chapel music) in Leipzig. He was utilized by the town of Leipzig to this position, which made him in charge of the music at four holy places and for the preparation and training of young men singing in the "Thomanerchor". Cantata music must be accommodated two noteworthy chapels, Thomaskirche (St. Thomas) and Nikolaikirche (St. Nicholas), less difficult church music for two others, Neue Kirche (New Church) and Peterskirche (St. Diminish). 

Bach got down to business amidst the ceremonial year, on the main Sunday after Trinity. In Leipzig, cantata music was normal on Sundays and on gala days, with the exception of amid the "quiet periods" ("tempus clausum") of Advent and Lent. In his initial a year in office, Bach chose to create new works for practically all ceremonial occasions. These works ended up known as his first cantata cycle. The year after, he proceeded with that exertion, making a cycle out of chorale cantatas, with every cantata dependent on one Lutheran psalm, including "Mit Fried und Freud ich fahr dahin", for these events. The selection of psalms to use in the arrangement of chorale cantatas was presumably made by the desires of a nearby pastor, who put together the decision with respect to the endorsed readings and his arrangements for messages. 

In the sixteenth century Martin Luther, the Protestant reformer, underscored the significance of psalm singing in chapel gatherings and at home, writing numerous songs, including "Mit Fried und Freud ich fahr dahin". 

Bach made an early chorale cantata on a psalm by Luther, "Christ slack in Todes Banden", BWV 4, presumably in 1707. Amid his chorale cantata cycle, Bach utilized a psalm by Luther as the reason for a cantata on nine events. Moreover, he performed "Christ slack in Todes Banden" again amid that cycle. 

The accompanying table demonstrates the cantatas that Bach performed on songs by Luther amid the chorala cantata cycle, containing nine new creations and the rehashed execution of the Easter cantata. The primary segment holds the cantata number, with a connection, to the article about it, the accompanying section holds the psalm of a similar name, on which it is based. The third section demonstrates the ritualistic event, and the fourth the date of the execution, which is the main execution for everything except the Easter cantata. 

Bach utilized Luther's psalms in different works amid his profession. He had included "" before in a cantata for Advent, "Alles, was von Gott geboren", BWV 80a, which he revised as a chorale cantata for Reformation Day (BWV 80). He at long last made , for the Fourth Sunday after Epiphany in 1735. 

Bach pursued a particular structure for the majority of the cantatas in this cycle. He veered off from utilizing the strophic psalm content and tune in all stanzas ("per omnes versus"), as he had in . Rather, he held the first content and tune just in the external stanzas, regularly regarding the first as a chorale capriccio and the last as a four-section chorale setting, while the internal stanzas were revamped by a librettist as the reason for recitatives and arias, frequently with music free of the song tune. Andreas Stübel (1653– 1725), a previous superintendent of the "Thomasschule", may have been this librettist. 

Amid Bach's time in Leipzig, three Marian blowouts were watched and observed: Annunciation (25 March), Visitation (2 July) and Purification (2 February). The endorsed readings for the Feast of the Purification, (German: ), were from the Book of Malachi's, "the Lord will go to his sanctuary" (), and the Gospel of Luke's variant of the sanitization of Mary and the introduction of Jesus at the Temple, which incorporates Simeon's canticle (). 

At the point when Luther composed his psalm on Simeon's canticle ("With harmony and satisfaction I withdraw in God's will"), he committed one stanza to every one of the four sections of the scriptural content. The main stanza examines quiet acknowledgment of death (), the second gives as a purpose behind that the gathering with the Savior (), the third is centered around Christ's arrival for all individuals (), the fourth observes the Second Coming as a light for the rapscallion and magnificence for Israel (). The lines are of various length, with a meter of 8.4.8.4.7.7, focusing on single articulations in the short lines. 

The tune previously showed up in 1524 in Johann Walter's choral hymn book . Luther composed critique on his song: 

Bach originally utilized the psalm as a component of his initial memorial service cantata (), the alto singing the primary stanza, compared to a bass arioso, "Heute wirst du mit mir im Paradies sein". He came back to it twice for his first Leipzig cantata cycle. The primary stanza was the reason for his cantata for the sixteenth Sunday after Trinity of 1723, , alongside the main stanza of the memorial service psalm "" in the opening development for tenor. The second event was in 1724, in the Purification cantata, , which he shut with the fourth and last stanza, "". 

For "Mit Fried und Freud ich fahr dahin", a librettist held the first and the last stanza and reworded the two inward stanzas to four developments. The second development, in view of Luther's second stanza, is centered around Simeon's viewpoint as a methods for how to envision one's very own demise. The third development intertwines Luther's finished content with a free recitative. The Bach researcher Klaus Hofmann noticed that the librettist had space to include his very own content since Luther's song is somewhat short. The mention to "light for the pagan" from the gospel and the psalm alludes to "He that believeth and is purified through water will be spared" (). Luther's third stanza frames the reason for the fourth and fifth developments. The fourth development alludes to Paul's instructing about the beauty of God, ("Whom God hath put forward to be an appeasement through confidence in his blood, to pronounce his uprightness for the abatement of sins that are past, through the restraint of God") (). It proclaims the Lutheran educating of legitimization "by elegance alone through confidence alone in light of Christ alone" much more unmistakably than Luther's melody. 

Bach drove the main execution with the "Thomanerchor" toward the beginning of the day administration at the Nikolaikirche on 2 February 1725, and repeated it in the vesper administration in the Thomaskirche, as was common in Leipzig on high occasions. Bach performed it no less than once again after 1735. 

Bach organized the cantata in six developments. The first and last are set for choir as a chorale capriccio and an end chorale. They outline substituting recitatives and arias with the content masterminded by the librettist. Bach scored the work for three vocal soloists (alto (A), tenor (T) and bass (B)), a four-section choir, and a Baroque instrumental gathering: horn to help the chorale tune sung by the soprano in the external developments, flauto traverso (Ft), oboe (Ob), oboe d'amore (Oa), two violins (Vl), viola (Va), and basso continuo (Bc). The cover sheet of the first parts peruses: "Festo Purificat: Mari[ae]/Mit Fried und Freud ich fahr dahin and so on/â/4 Voc:/Travers:/Hautbois d' Amour/2 Violini/Viola/con/Continuo/di/Sign:/JS. Bach". The length of the cantata is given as around 24 minutes. 

In the accompanying table of the developments, the scoring pursues the Neue Bach-Ausgabe. The keys and time marks are taken from the book by Bach researcher Alfred Dürr, utilizing the image for normal time (4/4). The instruments are appeared for winds and strings, while the continuo, playing all through, isn't appeared. 

The opening tune, "" (With harmony and euphoria I leave in God's will), starts with a concertante ritornello, in which the flute and the oboe play contradicted to the strings. A theme in triplets has initial a jump of a fifth, identified with the principal interim of the chorale tune. The fifth and the triplet movement rule the whole development. 

The soprano sings the in long notes. Hofmann takes note of that the Dorian mode inside the instrumental concerto in E minor includes a "marginally bygone flavor". The turn down the volume take an interest in the instrumental themes for lines 1, 2, 3 and 5, however lines 4 and 6 are dealt with in an unexpected way. In understanding to the content, "sanft und stille" (quiet and calm) and "der Tod ist mein Schlaf worden" (demise has turned into my rest), they are performed delicately (piano), in homophony, chromatic, and adjusting to inaccessible keys. Dürr takes note of the development's "incredibly thick, exceptionally expressive surface" with themes free from the psalm tune yet got from its start. The Bach researcher Richard D. P. Jones sees that the development foretells , the opening chorale of Bach's St Matthew Passion, in key, 12/8 meter and "much else". 

The alto aria, "" (Even with broken eyes, I will search for You, my adoring Savior.), is a Sarabande with moderate specked rhythms. The vocal line is joined by the flute and oboe d'amore, on an establishment of rehashed notes in the continuo, stamped "legato". The expression "" (broken eyes) is envisioned by a broken vocal line, woodwind and oboe d'amore play dabbed cadence to the "practically trembling declamation" of the voice. Hofmann takes note of the development's "feelings of melancholy and grievance", while Dürr states: "Rich suspension appoggiaturas, and different trimmings uncover that an expressive translation of this development lay especially near the arranger's heart." 

The bass recitative starts with an idea of the librettist, "" (O wonder, that a heart before the substance hated tomb, and even the agony of death does not draw back!). The content proceeds with the start of the psalm's second stanza."" (Christ, God's actual child, does this, the cherishing Savior). The example of remark and unique is held all through the development in a half and half content that holds in single lines the total content of the second stanza: 

Bach sets the components recitative and chorale in an unexpected way, rendering the librettist's content in "musically free phrasing of recitative", and the chorale as arioso. He binds together the development by a ceaseless theme in the strings, called by Dürr, which "dependably shows a fundamental mind-set of bliss". The chorale tune is unadorned yet for the last line, "" (in death and furthermore in passing on), where the music is stretched out by two measures and shaded in chromatic and rich ornamentation, and the strings stop to play the consistent theme and go with in "peaceful notes". 

The tenor and bass two part harmony "" (A unimaginable light fills the whole circle of the earth), is centered around the light referenced by Simeon, communicated in an upbeat state of mind. The Hofmann takes note of: "The fun loving character is appeared by the all-inclusive, hovering coloratura on the word 'Kreis' ('circle' or 'sphere'), and the florid audio cue of proclamation and reaction unfurls to the words 'Es schallet kräftig stronghold und fortress' (Powerfully there rings out on numerous occasions.)" Jones remarks that the trio sonata of two violins and continuo which goes with the voices "in its life and familiarity maybe speaks to the incredible, persistent sound to which the content alludes." 

The alto communicates in a secco recitative "" (O uncreated crowd of goodness), which Hofmann calls a "brief religious investigation". 

The end chorale, "" (He is the salvation and the favored light), is a four-section setting of the psalm tune. 

The horn, the flute (an octave higher), the oboe and the principal violin all fortify the soprano part, the second violin the alto, and the viola the tenor. 

Jones condenses in his book "The Creative Development of Johann Sebastian Bach": "The uncommonly high caliber of the music may mirror Bach's reaction to the perfect expert of the Nunc dimittis, interceded by the loved originator of the Lutheran Church." 

The signature score is lost, its last archived proprietor being Christian Friedrich Penzel, one of Bach's last understudies and a copyist of his works. The first parts are kept in the Bach-Archiv Leipzig. They were replicated from the lost signature score by four copyists, three of them known by name, including the arranger. A lot of three copy parts is kept in the Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin – Preußischer Kulturbesitz as D-B Mus. ms. Bach St 384, Faszikel 1. They were duplicated by five copyists, of which three are known by name: Christian Gottlob Meißner, Wilhelm Friedemann Bach and Johann Andreas Kuhnau. The set has a cover sheet and parts for violin I and II, and continuo. 

The score for the principal development was first distributed by Anton Diabelli around 1835 with a Latin content, "Da pacem nobis Domine". The cantata was initially distributed in 1878 as in volume 26 of the Bach-Gesellschaft Ausgabe (BGA), altered by Alfred Dörffel. The New Bach Edition (Neue Bach-Ausgabe, NBA) distributed the score in 1994, altered by Uwe Wolf, with the basic editorial distributed that year. 

A basic release was distributed by Breitkopf, altered by Eva-Maria Hodel. Another was distributed via Carus in 2008, altered by Wolfram Enßlin, which additionally gave a singable English adaptation. 

The determination is taken from the posting on the Bach Cantatas Website. Instrumental gatherings playing period instruments in verifiably educated exhibitions are featured green under the header "". 

"General" 

"Books" 

"Diaries" 

"Online sources"