Banner of Singapore 

The national banner of Singapore was received in 1959, the year Singapore ended up self-administering inside the British Empire. It was reconfirmed as the national banner when the republic picked up autonomy on 9 August 1965. Before its autonomy, it was the main state banner in Malaysia not to have a 1:2 proportion. The plan is a flat bicolour of red above white, overlaid in the canton (upper-left quadrant) by a white sickle moon confronting a pentagon of five little white five-pointed stars. The components of the banner signify a youthful country on the ascendant, widespread fraternity and balance, and national goals. 

Vessels adrift don't utilize the national banner as an ensign. Trader vessels and joy make fly a common ensign of red accused in white of a variation of the bow and stars symbol in the middle. Non-military government vessels, for example, coast monitor ships fly a state ensign of blue with the national banner in the canton, accused of an eight-pointed red and white compass ascended in the lower fly. Maritime warships fly a maritime ensign like the state ensign, however in white with a red compass rose insignia. 

Standards characterized by the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Act administer the utilization and show of the national banner. These have been loose to enable natives to fly the banner from vehicles amid national occasions and from homes whenever of the year. 

Singapore was under British standard in the nineteenth century, having been amalgamated into the Straits Settlements together with Malacca and Penang. The banner that was utilized to speak to the Settlements was a British Blue Ensign containing three gold crowns—one for every settlement—isolated by a red reversed pall, which takes after an altered Y. 

The Settlement of Singapore had no different banner, despite the fact that the city was conceded an escutcheon which included a lion in 1911. Amid the control of Singapore by the Japanese amid the Second World War, the Japanese national banner was utilized ashore by the military and amid open occasions. Not long after the Second World War, Singapore turned into an autonomous Crown province and embraced its very own banner. It was altered from the Straits Settlements banner to lessen the quantity of crowns from three to one. 

Singapore ended up self-administering inside the British Empire on 3 June 1959. A half year later, upon the establishment of the new "Yang di-Pertuan Negara" (head of state) on 3 December 1959, the national banner was formally received, alongside the state emblem and the national song of devotion "Majulah Singapura" ("Onward Singapore"). At that point Deputy Prime Minister Toh Chin Chye examined the formation of the national banner in a 1989 meeting: 

The structure of the banner was finished in two months by a board of trustees headed by Toh. He at first needed the banner's whole foundation to be red, yet the Cabinet ruled against this, as red was viewed as an arousing point for socialism. As per a record given by Lee Kuan Yew, the Chinese populace needed five stars, which were displayed off the banner of the People's Republic of China and the Muslim populace needed a bow moon. Both of these images were joined to make the national banner of Singapore. 

On 30 November 1959, the Singapore State Arms and Flag and National Anthem Ordinance 1959 was passed to control the utilization and show of the State Arms and State Flag and the execution of the National Anthem. While introducing the movement to the Legislative Assembly of Singapore on 11 November 1959, Sinnathamby Rajaratnam, the Minister for Culture, expressed: "National banners, peak and song of praise express emblematically the expectations and goals of a people... The ownership of a national banner and peak is, for a people, representative of sense of pride." 

In September 1962, the general population of Singapore casted a ballot to join the Federation of Malaysia. The procedure was finished on 16 September 1963, when the Malaysian banner was raised on Singapore by Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew. The Singapore banner was reconfirmed as the national banner when Singapore turned out to be completely free from Malaysia on 9 August 1965. 

The Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules characterize the banner's creation and the imagery of its components: red symbolizes "all inclusive fellowship and equity of man", and white, "swarming and everlasting immaculateness and ideals". The waxing bow moon "speaks to a youthful country on the ascendant". The five stars "represent the country's goals of majority rule government, harmony, advancement, equity and balance". Amid the second 50% of the twentieth century, the star and bow image came to be perceived as an image of Islam, and Singapore's banner came to be found in this setting by the country's Muslim activists. Singapore and Nepal are the main non-Muslim countries to have a sickle moon in their national banners, and alongside Brazil, the main two nations incompletely or totally situated in northern side of the equator to include the Southern Cross on its banner. 

The proportion of the banner is two units high by three units wide. For the assembling of banners, the Government of Singapore expressed that the shade of red utilized on the banner is Pantone 032. As indicated by rules distributed by the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts (MICA), the banner might be duplicated in any size and showed whatsoever occasions, however it must be in its predefined extents and hues. MICA suggests the sizes , and . The material that is prescribed for the national banner is hitting fleece. 

Until 2004, the banner was utilized solely on or before structures claimed by the administration, services, statutory sheets and instructive foundations on an all year premise. The banner must be flown by people and non-legislative associations amid the period of August to stamp the nation's national day on 9 August. Amid the National Day festivities period (1 July – 30 September), rules administering the flying of the national banner outside structures are loose. The banner might be shown on any vehicle (other than a funeral wagon), vessel or air ship, and might be joined as a major aspect of any ensemble or clothing, insofar as this is done in a conscious way. 

These confinements on people and non-administrative associations were loose in 2004 to enable the banner to be flown all year under specific conditions. An announcement from the Ministry of Information and the Arts (presently MICA, the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts) said that "[t]he national banner, national hymn and Singapore lion head... are our most obvious images of our sway, pride and respect" and encouraged Singaporeans to utilize those "revitalizing" images to "relate to the country". 

No method of reasoning was accommodated the changes, in spite of the fact that BBC News journalists noticed that the legislature had as of late been endeavoring to rally enthusiastic notion hosed by financial issues. (In 2003, joblessness in Singapore achieved a 17-year-high of 5.9%, and the extreme intense respiratory disorder (SARS) plague in East Asia genuinely influenced the island's vacationer exchange, making Singapore Airlines languish a monetary misfortune over the first run through in its history.) 

Following solicitations by Singaporeans, rules for the utilization of the banner were additionally expanded in 2006 to give occupants an assortment of chances to express their devotion to Singapore amid National Day festivities, for example, the National Day Parade. MICA allowed them to show the banner on vehicles and on themselves or things with negligible limitations, from the center of July to the finish of August for a time for testing. The period was reached out in 2007 to three months from July to September. 

Singaporean natives, government and non-administrative associations may show or fly the national banner during the time to recognize themselves with the country, and particularly urged to do as such amid events of national festival or national criticalness. Non-Singaporean organizations and associations are additionally permitted to show the banner consistently. The utilization and show of the banner is represented by Part III of the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules made under the "Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Act". It is an offense to purposely repudiate indicated arrangements of the Singapore Arms and Flag and National Anthem Rules; the punishment is a fine not surpassing S$1,000. 

The Singaporean government manages that no individual may treat the national banner with disregard, for example, enabling the banner to contact the ground. The banner must not be shown underneath some other banner, seal or item; plunged in salute to someone or something; or showed or conveyed level or on a level plane, however in every case on high and free. 

Inside Singapore, the national banner overshadows every single other banner, subject to worldwide practice. All things considered, when it is shown or flown with different banners, it must be in a place of respect; that is, it ought to be situated, where down to earth, either over every single other banner or, whenever showed next to each other with different banners on a similar dimension, to one side of different banners (as observed by an individual confronting the banners). At the point when the banner is brought or conveyed up in a parade with different banners, it must be done as such before different banners in a solitary record, or on the privilege as observed by the leading figures if the banners are conveyed one next to the other (i.e., on the left as observed by the watcher). The leading figure must convey the banner high on his or her correct shoulder. 

At the point when the banner is shown on a stage or stage, it must be over all enrichments and be behind or more any individual talking from the stage or stage. In the event that it is shown from a staff remaining on the stage or stage, it must be on the correct side of the individual talking from the stage or stage. At long last, when the banner is hung, it must be hung against a vertical divider or other vertical level surface, with the sickle and stars on the upper left position as observed by any onlooker confronting the banner and the divider or surface. 

At the point when the banner is shown outside a structure, it will be shown on or before the structure just from a flagpole. On the off chance that the banner is flown around evening time, it ought to be legitimately lit up. The banner must not be shown on any engine vehicle with the exception of on one in which the President of Singapore or any Government serve is going on authority business. The banner may not be shown on any private vessel or air ship. 

No individual may utilize or apply the banner or any picture of it for any business purposes or as a feature of any outfitting, beautification, covering or repository, aside from in such conditions as might be affirmed (by MICA) in which there is no lack of regard for the banner. Further, it isn't allowed to utilize the banner as a feature of any trademark, or to deliver or show any banner which bears any illustrations or word superimposed on the structure of the national banner. The banner or any picture of it might likewise not be utilized or connected as or as a major aspect of any outfit or clothing. 

The Government may request the banner to be brought down to half-pole in case of the demise of an imperative individual or for national grieving. No individual is allowed to utilize the banner at any private burial service function. Be that as it may, the national banner can be hung on a pine box amid a military or state burial service. No individual may show any banner that is harmed or messy. Any exhausted or harmed banner ought to be stuffed into a fixed dark rubbish sack before being discarded and not left noticeable in dustbins. 

Singaporeans are urged to show the national banner outside their homes amid National Day festivities, and occupants' boards, especially those of open lodging domains, frequently orchestrate co-ordinated shows. Notwithstanding, a few Singaporeans decay to do as such as they partner it with the People's Action Party, the decision party in Parliament, instead of with the country. Amid the period starting 1 July and completion on 30 September of every year, any individual may, without the requirement for the endorsement of the Minister under section (4), join the Flag or a picture thereof as a feature of any outfit or clothing aside from that he will do as such in a way that does not offer ascent to any insolence to the Flag. 

On National Day in 2007 at the Padang, 8,667 volunteers holding up red and white umbrellas framed the biggest ever portrayal of Singapore's banner at an occasion composed by Young NTUC, an adolescent development related with the National Trades Union Congress. 

Outside the National Day festivities period, the national banner of Singapore is flown from all structures lodging government and government-related divisions, for example, military establishments, town halls, workplaces, and instructive foundations. An image of the banner is generally found in every study hall, and schools lead services toward the start of the school day at which the national banner is raised , the national song of devotion is sung and the national vow is taken. 

The national banner is now and again flown by Singapore-enlisted vessels, in spite of the fact that this is viewed as off base, thusly vessels are required to raise appropriate national hues either when entering or leaving port. The ensign is red and accused of a circle encasing a bow surmounted by five stars around, all in white. The national banner isn't utilized by coast protect boats and military warships; the two classes of boats have their very own particular ensigns. 

The Singapore Government makes declarations with respect to the bringing of the banner down to half-pole in case of a demise of an imperative personage or grieving influencing the country. The banner has been flown at half-pole amid the memorial services of previous presidents and senior legislators, and on 9 January 2005 as a sign of regard for the individuals who died in the 2004 Asian tidal wave catastrophe. 

Singaporean writer Lim Su Chong formed a melody in 1969 entitled "Five Stars Arising" which took the components of the national banner as its topic. The verses of the tune talk about another moon, five stars and another banner "emerging out of the stormy ocean". The moon is "[y]outhful and splendid and bearing expectation, and serene as can be", every one of the stars is "a light to control our direction; a light for all to see" and the banner is "[c]rimson as the blood of all humankind, yet white and unadulterated and free". The tune is regularly sung amid National Day festivities. 

In January 2003, Singaporean craftsman Justin Lee Chee Kong was counteracted by the Media Development Authority (MDA) from displaying a sketch entitled "Twofold Happiness—A Fantasy in Red", which comprised of a picture of the Singapore banner with different red pictures of the Chinese characters for twofold joy. The move was made in light of the fact that "the National Flag is a national image and no words or designs ought to be superimposed on it". 

Lee revealed that the work was just a presentation of one's affection for their nation and a declaration of bliss at Singapore's prosperity, and in a press articulation, he asked that the piece be "treated as a masterful and complimentary understanding of a national symbol". At the point when met by "The New Paper", he said "I know as a native that we are not permitted to do it, however this is workmanship and I am a craftsman." He likewise grumbled about twofold guidelines as a Chinese craftsman, Gu Wen Da, had as of late displayed a national banner made of hair at the Esplanade - Theaters on the Bay. Lee felt the utilization of hair to make the country's banner implied that the banner was in the wrong hues, and was offensive. 

Likewise in 2003, The Rolling Stones performed in Singapore as a component of their 2002/2003 Licks World Tour. At the principal execution, there were two inflatable dolls in front of an audience. Both of the dolls had banners put in their groin region; one had the Rolling Stones logo and the other had a Singapore banner. In view of the illicit utilization of the state banner, and because of a paranoid fear of managing the administration, the dolls and the banners were expelled from the second show by the coordinator. 

In August 2007, a Singaporean bar, Loof, sent an electronic direct mailer (e-flyer) to something like 1,500 individuals on its mailing list highlighting a nearby shot of the groin of a female model wearing a red bathing suit or pair of undies bearing the sickle and five stars of the national banner. This was done as a component of the bar's exposure battle for its National Day occasions. As per Loof's showcasing supervisor, "[T]he promotion was unquestionably not implied as an affront to the nation or anybody. I trust that the promotion will be taken in the soul of diversion and fun." 

A dominant part of individuals surveyed by "The New Paper" felt the notice was discourteous and in awful taste. MICA said that the promotion did not break the law as it just repeated a few parts of the banner—it didn't, for instance, join the banner's red and white foundation together. Nonetheless, K.U. Menon, executive of MICA's National Resilience Division, stated: "MICA does not empower such promotions which treat the national banner with insolence. [...] Symbols ought to be treated with some proportion of nobility and we trust Loof will pull back the advertisement all alone activity." 

In November 2010, amid the Asian Games held in China, the Singaporean men's water polo group's swimsuit went under debate for improperly showing components of the Singaporean Flag. Faultfinders esteemed the article of clothing annoying and a humiliation to the nation, with the bow moon situated in the focal point of the brief, legitimately over the groin zone. The piece of clothing had been structured by the group itself however had not gotten earlier endorsement from the Ministry of Information, Communications and the Arts. In any case, even after the discussion became visible, the group was as yet ready to keep wearing it as rivalry rules did not allow changing a group's uniform halfway through the Games. The group was contrite over the botch and guaranteed to change the structure after that challenge. 

Notwithstanding the national banner and ensigns, there are different banners utilized for authority purposes.