Léal Souvenir 

Léal Souvenir (otherwise called Timotheus or Portrait of a Man) is a little oil-on-oak board representation by the Early Netherlandish painter Jan van Eyck, dated 1432. The sitter has not been distinguished, yet his exceptionally singular highlights propose an authentic individual as opposed to the theoretical perfect normal at the time in northern Renaissance likeness; his slight and unassuming middle is stood out from a complex outward appearance. His highlights have been depicted as "plain and natural", yet astute and internal looking. Various workmanship students of history, including Erwin Panofsky, have recognized distress in his demeanor. The sitter was clearly sufficiently critical an individual from the Burgundian duke Philip the Good's circle that his court painter depicted him. 

The man sits before an impersonation parapet with three arrangements of painted engravings, each rendered to look as though etched or scratched into stone. Van Eyck did not have full direction of either traditional Greek or Latin and made mistakes, so readings by present day researchers differ. The primary engraving is in Greek and appears to spell "TYΜ.ωΘΕΟC", which has not been attractively deciphered but rather has driven some to title the work "Timotheus". The center peruses in French ""Leal Souvenir"" ("Loyal Memory") and demonstrates that the picture is an after death remembrance. The third records van Eyck's mark and the date of execution. The nineteenth century workmanship student of history Hippolyte Fierens-Gevaert recognized the lettering "TYΜ.ωΘΕΟC" with the Greek performer Timotheus of Miletus. Panofsky made a similar inference, taking out different Greeks bearing the name Timothy; they were of religious or military foundation, callings that don't coordinate the regular citizen dress of the sitter. Panofsky trusted the man was most likely an exceptionally put artist in Philip's court. 

Later research centers around the legalistic wording in one of the engravings, recommending to some that he was somehow or another associated with the legitimate calling, or a representative of Philip the Good. The board was procured in 1857 by the National Gallery, London, where it is on changeless presentation. 

"Léal Souvenir" is one of the soonest enduring instances of common picture in medieval European workmanship and one of the most punctual surviving unidealised portrayals. This is evident in its authenticity and intense perception of the subtleties of the man's ordinary appearance. Van Eyck worked in the early Renaissance custom and spearheaded the control of oil paint. Oil permitted smooth translucent surfaces, could be connected over a scope of thicknesses and was manipulable while wet, which permitted unquestionably more inconspicuous detail than accessible to past ages of painters. 

The parapet overwhelms the picture, and his head appears to be larger than usual contrasted with his chest area. Some workmanship history specialists theorize this is an aftereffect of van Eyck's then inability; it was just his second known representation. Meiss guesses that van Eyck may have "los[t] control of [the] plan in general by reveling his dumbfounding virtuosity." 

The rotted parapet enables van Eyck to show his aptitude at mirroring stone etching and scarring, and demonstrates the impact of traditional Roman funerary workmanship, especially stone remembrances. The parapet gives the work gravitas, the chips and breaks passing on a feeling of the revered, or, as indicated by craftsmanship history specialist Elisabeth Dhanens, a feeling of the "delicacy of life or of memory itself". 

The man is situated inside an unclear restricted space and set against a level dark foundation. Ordinarily for vanEyck, the head is vast in connection to the middle. He is wearing ordinarily Burgundian design, with a red robe and a green fleece escort with a bourrelet and cornette hanging forward. The hood is cut with hide, secured with two catches, and reaches out to the parapet. His correct hand may hold the finish of the cornette. Neither the state of his head nor his facial highlights compare to contemporary standard sorts, not to mention ordinances of perfect magnificence. The sitter has all the earmarks of being uncovered, despite the fact that there are some black out hints of reasonable hair, driving Erwin Panofsky to infer that his "face is as 'Nordic' as his dress is Burgundian." Though he has neither eyebrows nor stubble, he has eyelashes that are accepted to have been included by a nineteenth century restorer. Van Eyck's cool perception of the man's restricted shoulders, tightened lips, and meager eyebrows reaches out to itemizing the dampness on his blue eyes. 

Dissimilar to Rogier van der Weyden, who gave particularly close consideration to detail in the rendering of his models' fingers, to vanEyck hands were frequently something of an untimely idea. They are conventionally rendered, don't contain much detail and may have been a later workshop expansion. However they are fundamentally the same as those of the sitter in his 1435 "Picture of Baudouin de Lannoy". The man holds a look over that may be an authoritative archive, letter, or flyer. In his initial pictures, vanEyck's sitters are frequently demonstrated holding objects characteristic of their calling. The parchment contains six lines of messy composition. The condensings are progressively conspicuous and appear to be in Latin, yet might be vernacular. 

Light tumbles from the left, leaving hints of shadow in favor of the man's face, a gadget regularly found in vanEyck's initial representations. He is energetic, and his face has a delicate beefiness accomplished through shallow bends and streaming, agreeable brushstrokes, giving the presence of a casual, warm, and open identity, which Meiss portrays as bringing out a nearly "Rembrandtesque warmth and compassion". The sitter isn't attractive; he has a flattish face, a squat yet pointed nose, and noticeable cheekbones that may, as indicated by Panofsky, have a place with a "Flemish worker". Dhanens portrays him as having a genuine articulation. 

Various craftsmanship students of history have noticed the evident logical inconsistency between the man's plain looks and confounding articulation. Meiss portrays him as "plain and rural", and finds a likeness between his fairly conventional face and various figures in the lower parts of the "Love of the Lamb" board in the "Ghent Altarpiece". Concurring with Panofsky, he watches an "attentiveness on the high, wrinkled temple, visionary power in the fantastic yet watchful gazes, [and] a considerable quality of enthusiasm in the wide, firm mouth". As per Panofsky, the man's face isn't that of a learned person, yet he identifies a meditative and forlorn nature, "the essence of one who feels and delivers as opposed to watches and dismembers". 

The parapet has three flat lines of engravings; on the upper and lower lines is littler lettering that is frequently not obvious in proliferations. In spots, the Greek characters are misty and have been liable to much theory by workmanship history specialists, not least because of vanEyck's occasionally whimsical spelling and abnormal dispersing. 

The top lettering is in chalk white and Greek content that peruses . The last character is purposely disguised by a chip in the impersonation stone, a touch portrayed by Panofsky as a "terminal prosper". This makes the significance of the engraving hard to observe. A general accord among workmanship students of history is that the last character is a square C or sigma sign. 

Eastlake's interpretation is commonly acknowledged. Its likelihood being a variation of "Timothy" has been limited, as that word was not utilized in Northern Europe before the Reformation. There is no Germanic name that may infer a humanistic impersonation of a Greek word, so craftsmanship students of history have tried to distinguish the man from Greek history or legend. Albeit some have proposed certain Athenian and Syrian officers, these have been limited as the sitter isn't wearing military attire. Holy person Timothy, first Bishop of Ephesus and a partner of Saint Paul, has been recommended however wiped out as the man isn't dressed as a high pastor. 

The bigger center engraving is in French, utilizing a twelfth century content. It peruses "" ("Loyal Remembrance", or "Devoted Souvenir"), and is painted to give the feeling that it was cut into the parapet. In 1927 Hippolyte Fierens Gevaert set forward Timotheus of Miletus, a Greek performer and dithyrambic artist brought into the world 446. Gevaert held that the picture was a recognition of a court craftsman who had as of late kicked the bucket and that the established reference was proposed to compliment his memory. Panofsky to a great extent ran with this situation in 1949. He guessed that the sitter was the praised artist Gilles Binchois, by 1430 a standard at St. Donatian's Cathedral, Bruges. Campbell is distrustful, disavowing that the sitter "isn't dressed as a priest". Different speculations incorporate that the man was a Greek or Lucchese trader, Henry the Navigator, Jean deCroÿ or, more uncertain, that it is a self-picture. In spite of the fact that there is much difference, it is likely that he was a local French speaker, and a legal official, writer, or individual from the "Compagnie du Chapel Vert" ("Society of the Green Hat") at Tournai. Dhanens rejects the hypothesis that the man was an artist on the premise that vanEyck would have made this unequivocal, depicting him holding a gadget or token obviously symbolizing music. She presumes that he is a bookkeeper or legal counselor holding a legitimate or money related report. 

From the initial two engravings, the board is commonly acknowledged as an after death representation. Roman gravestones frequently demonstrated a portrayal of the expired behind a parapet with a cut engraving, and vanEyck may have known about these from movements to France. The lower engraving peruses "Actu[m] an[n]o d[omi]ni.1432.10.die ocobris.a.ioh[anne] de Eyck" ("These are done in the time of our Lord 1432 on the tenth day of October by Jan vanEyck"). Campbell sees that the stating of this all-encompassing mark is shockingly reminiscent of legalese, and that vanEyck is by all accounts fortifying that the man was a lawful expert, who may have worked for the Dukes of Burgundy. Jacques Paviot takes note of that it is written in the Gothic cursive content "bastarda", at that point supported by the legitimate calling. In either case, despite the fact that he isn't terrifically dressed and is most likely an individual from the working class, he more likely than not been exceptionally respected in Philip's court, given that such pictures seldom portrayed non-nobles. 

The board comprises of a solitary oak board, chop vertically down near the painted surface. It has a little unpainted zone at the upper left. The help's encasing was likely changed in the nineteenth century; today four of the eight backings are fixed to the edges of the inside fringes, framing inward moldings. The other four go about as internal pins. The varnish is seriously corrupted, with key zones of paint and ground either evacuated or overpainted. Infrared photography of the turn around uncovers hints of short vertical bring forth and underdrawings, yet no insight with regards to the personality of the sitter. Its ground is generally chalk-based; the colors are overwhelmingly blacks, red lake, and blues. The last representation contrasts from numerous points of view from the underdrawing – the fingers are shorter, the correct thumb and the parapet are lower, and the correct arm once stretched out over a bigger region. In the last representation, the ear is raised, and the parchment consumes a bigger pictorial space. Examination of the color demonstrates that the substance of his face is painted with whites and vermilion, and followed with grays, blacks, blues, and some ultramarine over a red-lake coat. 

The representation isn't especially all around protected. There are yellowish layers of coating over the face, most likely later increments. The varnishes have debased and lost their unique hues. The board has experienced various unfavorable retouchings. In certain occasions, these have changed the sitter's appearance, most particularly the evacuation of strands of reasonable hair underneath the escort. It has continued auxiliary harm, particularly to the marble on the turn around. The National Gallery fixed some "slight wounds" when it came into their ownership in 1857. Campbell noticed various endeavors by later restorers were flawed and "rather distorting", including touchings to the man's noses and eyelashes, and the tip of his nose. There is a yellowish coating over the eyes that is by all accounts either harm or overpaint. The board is stained in general and experiences matured and declined varnishes that make the first shades hard to observe. 

The depiction was generally replicated and imitated amid the 15thcentury. Close contemporary copper proliferations are known from Bergamo and Turin. Petrus Christus obtained the illusionistic cutting on the parapet for his 1446 "Picture of a Carthusian". A 1449– 1450 picture of Marco Barbarigo credited to a devotee of vanEyck is additionally vigorously obliged to "Léal Souvenir" in that it is likewise bizarrely tall and thin, with a substantial space over the sitter's head. 

The depiction is first recorded in the notes of Charles Eastlake, the National Gallery's gatherer and later executive, in 1857, the year it was gained. He makes reference to that it had been in the ownership of the Scottish scene painter Karl Ross (1816– 1858) "preceding 1854". In the same way as other of vanEyck's works and those of the Early Netherlandish painters when all is said in done, the depiction's provenance is dim before the 19thcentury. At the point when the National Gallery was confirming attribution, the two copper generations were noted. The first was found by Eastlake in the accumulation of the Lochis group of Bergamo in Italy, the second in Turin, having a place with Count Castellane Harrach and depicted as littler than the first, and "exceptionally feeble". Both are presently lost. 

Ink markings on the marble invert demonstrate a little cross that may record a dealer's imprint or symbol. In spite of the fact that it is inadequate and no distinguishing proof has been made, W.H.J. Weale identified the characteristic of "an early Italian, most likely Venetian proprietor". An early provenance in Italy would not infer that the man originated from that nation; vanEyck's works were frequently acquired by authorities from that locale.