The American Bible Challenge 

The American Bible Challenge is a scriptural themed American TV diversion show made by Game Show Network. The arrangement is facilitated by entertainer Jeff Foxworthy, with gospel performer Kirk Franklin joining Foxworthy as co-host and broadcaster in the second season. The arrangement appeared on August 23, 2012. 

Each period of the arrangement is played as a nine-scene competition with six scenes of opening rounds, two semi-finals, and a last. Each opening round begins with three groups of three contenders responding to inquiries regarding the Bible. The groups at that point choose their most grounded candidates to respond to inquiries independent from anyone else with no help from their partners. After this piece of the round, the third-set group is disposed of and the two most noteworthy scoring groups contend in a last round with the scores being reset to zero. The rest of the groups answer whatever number inquiries effectively as could be expected under the circumstances inside one moment, and the most astounding scoring group from this round successes a $20,000 prize which is given to the group's selected philanthropy. The triumphant group at that point advances to a semi-last diversion against two other winning groups; the triumphant group from this amusement advances to a last diversion where the fabulous prize is raised to $100,000. In this manner, the group that successes the season-long competition acquires an aggregate of $140,000 for their philanthropy. 

The show turned into the most elevated appraised unique program in the historical backdrop of Game Show Network. In 2014, "The American Bible Challenge" got two assignments at the 41st Daytime Emmy Awards: one for the arrangement as Outstanding Game Show and the other for Foxworthy as Outstanding Game Show Host; they lost to "Danger!" and Steve Harvey (host of "Family Feud") individually. 

To start the amusement, a classification is uncovered, and the three groups of three hopefuls are made various decision inquiries under that class, with each inquiry having four conceivable answers. The contender who hums in with the right answer acquires the separate group 10; an inaccurate answer loses 10, and opens up the inquiry to different groups. Candidates must hold up until after the host peruses the whole inquiry (counting the decisions) to buzz in. 

Each group at that point takes an interest in a physical trick that includes groups utilizing normal family things to respond to inquiries regarding scriptural figures. For instance, in the amusement Stick a Fork In It, the groups must answer the inquiry by utilizing a spoon to sling a fork into one of a few glasses marked with various conceivable answers. Where groups contend separately, each group is given 60 seconds; infrequent recreations where groups contend in the meantime are either untimed (with the primary group to finish the diversion winning) or played in 90 seconds. In all cases, the group that successes the trick gets 20 points; if there should arise an occurrence of a tie, every one of the groups engaged with the tie gets the focuses. The following round, entitled Kirk's Righteous Remix, highlights Grammy Award– victor Kirk Franklin and a choir singing melodies identifying with different books of the Bible. Each group is then given one inquiry dependent on a declared subject worth 30 points; no punishment is surveyed for an off base answer. 

The groups at that point put their most grounded separate candidates aside for the last round of fundamental ongoing interaction, entitled The Chosen Three. These contenders move to a zone behind the groups, and can't partake in this round. The host at that point asks each group, thusly, an inquiry dependent on a declared class. Each inquiry in this round is worth 50, with no punishment evaluated for an inaccurate answer. Just the two challengers remaining at the platform may give and respond to the inquiry. Two inquiries are asked to each group in this round. In the Chosen Three round, the challengers who were put beside the past round independent at their platform, with their colleagues remaining in the territory behind them. The host asks every competitor, thusly, an inquiry with six conceivable answers, three of which are right. The competitors at that point make three determinations without meeting with the remainder of their particular groups. Every individual right answer is worth 100, along these lines, an aggregate of 300 points are accessible to each group in this round. The two groups with the most astounding absolute scores advance to the last round, while the third-place group is disposed of and leaves with $2,500 for their philanthropy. 

Before the last round of standard interactivity, entitled The Final Revelation, the two groups' scores from the fundamental amusement are disposed of. The host declares the class for the last round, and gives each group a duplicate of the Bible. The groups at that point move to a behind the stage region, and are allowed as long as ten minutes to contemplate the Bible for data dependent on that classification. In season two, while behind the stage, the groups likewise have the choice to utilize the YouVersion versatile application of the Bible on an electronic tablet alongside their physical duplicate of the Bible. 

After the ten minutes, the main group goes ahead stage, while the second group is set in a sound-verification stall. The host at that point asks the group inquiries from the reported class. Each inquiry is given, in turn, to one player, who can't deliberate with partners. The two groups play a similar arrangement of inquiries. Each group has an aggregate of 60 seconds to address whatever number inquiries as could be expected under the circumstances, and the group that responds to more inquiries effectively wins $20,000 for their philanthropy; the sprinters up win $5,000 for their philanthropy. Groups that success this round development to a semi-last diversion; the champs of that scene advance to the season finale, where the group that successes this round successes $100,000 for their philanthropy just as all rewards from past scenes. 

Promptly following the first round in season two, each group got an opportunity to procure 25 extra focuses. Prior to the show, an inquiry was asked to 100 YouVersion clients (for example "Would you somewhat quick for 40 days or eat sustenance for 40 years?"). An inquiry with three conceivable decisions was then gotten some information about the level of individuals who replied (for example "What rate said they would prefer to quick for 40 days than eat nourishment for 40 years?"). Amid the break, each group composed their answer on a tablet PC, and each group that presented the right answer earned 25 points. This round was expelled from the amusement in the third season and supplanted with another opening round-style diversion played for ± 10 points an inquiry. 

Following the second round in season one, groups needed to pick the fanciful stanza from three genuine Bible stanzas. Since scoring was disappointingly low, this round was disposed of in later shows. 

The arrangement started advancement with generation staff moving toward Troy Schmidt, a minister at First Baptist Church in Windermere, Florida, to fill in as both an author and an advisor for the show. One of Schmidt's underlying jobs was to be an "on-camera Bible master" for the arrangement, one of numerous parts of the pilot scene that a test group of onlookers rejected, and one with which Schmidt himself later conceded he was not happy. In light of the early analysis from the test group of onlookers, Game Show Network (GSN) took a six-week time span to acquire a few new staff individuals and roll out different improvements to the show's configuration. 

After these progressions were made, the test group of onlookers turned out to be progressively keen to the arrangement, and GSN declared its advancement to people in general at a forthright introduction in New York City on March 21, 2012, for the system's up and coming programming. At this point, a pilot scene had just been shot; which was facilitated by American stand-up entertainer and TV character Jeff Foxworthy. At the point when originally inquired as to whether he was keen on facilitating the show, Foxworthy was reluctant; he consented to take on the job in the wake of discovering that challengers would play for philanthropy instead of all alone benefit. Throwing for the arrangement was held in different urban communities from May to June 2012. On July 7, 2012, GSN affirmed the show would debut on August 23, 2012, close by the debut of "Beat the Chefs". 

The primary period of "The American Bible Challenge" debuted its first of nine scenes on August 23, 2012. A crowd of people of 1.730 million watchers watched the presentation scene, making it GSN's most elevated evaluated unique program in its history. Altogether, when joined with a rerun of the scene later that night, the show got over 2.3 million watchers (1.730 million at 8:00 pm; 571,000 at 11:00 pm) throughout the evening. On October 18, 2012, Team Judson's Legacy, comprising of wedded couple Drake and Christina Levasheff of Irvine, California and their companion Dean Bobar, were delegated victors of the debut season's competition, winning a sum of $140,000 for Hunter's Hope, a leukodystrophy philanthropy, picked to pay tribute to the Levasheffs' child, Judson, who had passed on in 2007 generally beginning Krabbe illness. Before the finish of the principal season, the arrangement had turned into GSN's best unique program regularly, earning an aggregate of more than 13 million all out watchers. 

A second nine-scene period of the arrangement was reported on October 9, 2012. GSN promoted that tryouts would be held across the country in November and December, and that the season would likewise highlight the expansion of Franklin to the arrangement. The second season debuted on GSN March 21, appearing to 1.152 million watchers. On May 23, 2013, Team Wagner Warriors, comprising of siblings Joshua, Jesse and Daniel Wagner from Owasso and Tulsa, Oklahoma, were delegated bosses of the second season, winning an aggregate of $140,000 for Wagner Ministries International, a minister association established by their dad. A part of the rewards was utilized for Wagner Ministries' inclusion in the "One Nation One Day" fervent occasion in Honduras in July 2013. 

On August 8, 2013, GSN reported designs to recharge "The American Bible Challenge" for a third season, with both Foxworthy and Franklin returning as hosts. The third season by and by comprised of nine scenes, which started airing May 22, 2014. On July 17, 2014, Team Bible Belts, comprising of Jonathan King, Matt Phipps and Brad Harris from Otway, Ohio, were delegated as the third season's heroes, winning a complete $140,000 for Kicks for Jesus, a charitable which consolidates Bible examination and taekwondo. While GSN never dropped the arrangement, the third season remains the latest season to air given the absence of creation and arrangement declarations since 2014. 

David Hinckley of the "New York Daily News" gave "The American Bible Challenge" a positive survey, saying, "Any individual who knows even a little about the Bible will be unfit to oppose playing along and coordinating answers with the groups on the screen." Neil Genzlinger of "The New York Times" was additionally satisfied, calling the show "nothing if not generous, sending even the losing groups home with a bit of something for their philanthropies. A soul of cooperative attitude wins." Hank Stuever of "The Washington Post" was basic, calling the arrangement "similarly as dull as it sounds," and contending that "exhaustion" could be distinguished in Foxworthy's facilitating. Rebecca Cusey of Patheos prescribed the arrangement for Christians specifically, saying, "Those that accept the Bible as the expression of God will appreciate this show." Additionally, Bounce TV communicated energy while declaring their procurement of the arrangement in 2013; organize head working officer Jonathan Katz remarked, "We are sure that the communicated debuts of "The American Bible Challenge" and "Catch 21" will add fuel to Bounce TV's soaring development." 

The arrangement was regarded with two Emmy Award assignments at the 41st Daytime Emmy Awards in 2014. The arrangement got a designation for Outstanding Game Show, while Foxworthy got one for Outstanding Game Show Host. Both the show and Foxworthy lost to "Danger!" and Steve Harvey of "Family Feud" separately. 

With an end goal to advance the show's second season, Schmidt discharged an investigation book entitled "The American Bible Challenge: A Daily Reader, Volume 1" in 2013. The book highlights nine weeks worth of study and questions recently observed on the show. Every day presents an alternate exercise and section of Christian sacred writing, with five inquiries being solicited toward the end from the day's exercise. An online Bible investigation was additionally propelled on GSN's site toward the beginning of the second season. Notwithstanding the Bible examinations, GSN discharged a versatile diversion dependent on the show for Facebook, iOS gadgets, and Android gadgets in 2012, while Talicor discharged a table game dependent on the arrangement in 2014.