Bruce Castle 

Bruce Castle (some time ago the Lordship House) is a Grade I recorded sixteenth century home in Lordship Lane, Tottenham, London. It is named after the House of Bruce who earlier claimed the arrive on which it is fabricated. Accepted to remain on the site of a prior structure, about which little is known, the present house is one of the most seasoned enduring English block houses. It was rebuilt in the seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth hundreds of years. 

The house has been home to Sir William Compton, the Barons Coleraine and Sir Rowland Hill, among others. In the wake of filling in as a school amid the nineteenth century, when a vast augmentation was worked toward the west, it was changed over into a historical center investigating the historical backdrop of the zones currently comprising London Borough of Haringey and, on the quality of its association with Sir Rowland Hill, the historical backdrop of the Royal Mail. The structure additionally houses the documents of the London Borough of Haringey. Since 1892 the grounds have been an open park, Tottenham's most established. 

The name "Bruce Castle" is gotten from the House of Bruce, who had truly possessed 33% of the estate of Tottenham. In any case, there was no château in the territory, and it is improbable that the family lived close-by. Upon his increase to the Scottish position of royalty in 1306, Robert I of Scotland relinquished his territories in England, incorporating the Bruce possessions in Tottenham, finishing the association between the Bruce family and the region. The previous Bruce land in Tottenham was allowed to Richard Spigurnell and Thomas Hethe. 

The three pieces of the house of Tottenham were joined in the mid fifteenth century under the Gedeney family and have stayed joined since. In every early record, the structure is alluded to as the "Lordship House". The name "Bruce Castle" first seems to have been received by Henry Hare, second Baron Coleraine (1635– 1708), in spite of the fact that Daniel Lysons guesses in "The Environs of London" (1795) the name's utilization dates to the late thirteenth century. 

A separated, round and hollow Tudor pinnacle stands promptly toward the southwest of the house, and is commonly viewed as the most punctual piece of the structure; in any case, Lysons trusts it to have been a later expansion. The pinnacle is worked of nearby red block, and is tall, with dividers thick. In 2006, unearthings uncovered that it proceeds for some separation underneath the present ground level. It was depicted in 1829 as being over a profound well, and being utilized as a dairy. 

Sources differ on the house's underlying development date, and no records make due of its development. There is some archeological proof dating portions of the structure to the fifteenth century; William Robinson's "History and Antiquities of the Parish of Tottenham" (1840) proposes a date of around 1514, in spite of the fact that the Royal Commission on Historic Monuments ascribes it to the late sixteenth century. Nikolaus Pevsner theorizes the front may have framed piece of a yard place of which the rest of vanished. 

The Grade I manor's key veneer has been significantly redesigned. The house is made of red block with ashlar quoining and the chief exterior, ended by symmetrical coordinating coves, has tall paned windows. The house and disconnected pinnacle are among the most punctual employments of block as the main structure material for an English house. 

Henry Hare, second Baron Coleraine (1635– 1708) supervised a generous renovating of the house in 1684, and a significant part of the current south veneer dates from that time. The end narrows were elevated, and the focal yard was revamped with stone quoins and pilasters, a balustraded top and a little pinnacle and vault. An arrangement from 1684 demonstrates the lobby in the house's middle, with administration rooms toward the west and the fundamental parlor toward the east. On the primary floor, the lounge area was over the corridor, the fundamental bedchamber over the kitchen, and a woman's chamber over the patio. 

In the mid eighteenth century Henry Hare, third Baron Coleraine (1694– 1749) administered a redesigning of the north of the house, that additional a scope of rooms toward the north and the Coleraine escutcheon to the pediment of the north exterior. In the late eighteenth century, under the responsibility for Townsend, the restricted east exterior of the house was rebuilt into a passage front, and given the presence of a run of the mill Georgian house. In the meantime, the south front's gabled lofts were evacuated, giving the house's southern height its present appearance. A stock of the house made in 1789 in anticipation of its deal recorded a corridor, cantina, drawing room, lounge area and breakfast parlor on the ground floor, with a library and pool room on the principal floor. 

In the mid nineteenth century, the house's west wing was crushed, abandoning it with the lopsided appearance it holds today. The house was changed over into a school, and in 1870 a three-story expansion was worked in the Gothic Revival style toward the northwest of the house. 

The 2006 unearthings by the Museum of London revealed the chalk establishments of a prior structure on the site, of which nothing is known. Court moves of 1742 allude to the fix of a drawbridge, inferring that the structure at that point had a channel. A 1911 archeological diary made passing reference to "the ongoing leveling of the channel". 

It is by and large trusted the house's first proprietor was Sir William Compton, Groom of the Stool to Henry VIII and one of the period's unmistakable squires, who obtained the estate of Tottenham in 1514. Notwithstanding, there is no proof of Compton's living in the house, and there is some proof the structure dates to a later period. 

The most punctual known reference to the structure dates from 1516, when Henry VIII met his sister Margaret, Queen of Scots, at "Maister Compton's House close to Tottenham". The Comptons possessed the structure all through the sixteenth century, however few records of the family or the structure endure. 

In the mid seventeenth century, Richard Sackville, third Earl of Dorset and Lady Anne Clifford possessed the house. Sackville kept running up high obligations through betting and excessive spending; the house (at that point still called "The Lordship House") was rented to Thomas Peniston. Peniston's significant other, Martha, little girl of Sir Thomas Temple was said to be the Earl of Dorset's special lady. The house was later sold to well off Norfolk landowner Hugh Hare. 

Hugh Hare (1606– 1667) had acquired a lot of cash from his incredible uncle Sir Nicholas Hare, Master of the Rolls. On the demise of his dad, his mom had remarried Henry Montagu, first Earl of Manchester, permitting the youthful Hugh Hare to rise quickly in Court and groups of friends. He wedded Montagu's little girl by his first marriage and bought the estate of Tottenham, including the Lordship House, in 1625, and was honored as Baron Coleraine presently. 

As he was intently connected with the court of Charles I, Hare's fortunes went into decay amid the English Civil War. His château at Longford and his home in Totteridge were seized by Parliamentary powers, and returned upon the Restoration in a serious condition of dilapidation. Records of Tottenham from the period are presently lost, and the possession and state of the Lordship House amid the Commonwealth of England are obscure. Hugh Hare passed on at his home in Totteridge in 1667, having stifled to death on a bone eating turkey while chuckling and drinking, and was prevailing by his child Henry Hare, second Baron Coleraine. 

Henry Hare (1635– 1708) settled at the Lordship House, renaming it Bruce Castle to pay tribute to the region's noteworthy association with the House of Bruce. Bunny was a prominent student of history and creator of the primary history of Tottenham. He grew up at the Hare family house at Totteridge, and it isn't known when he moved to Tottenham. At the season of the introduction of his first youngster, Hugh, in 1668, the family were all the while living in Totteridge, while when of the demise of his first spouse Constantia, in 1680, the family were living in Bruce Castle. As indicated by Hare, Constantia was covered in All Hallows Church in Tottenham. Be that as it may, the ward register for the period is finished and makes no notice of her demise or internment. 

Following the passing of Constantia, Hare wedded Sarah Alston. They had been occupied with 1661, yet she had rather hitched John Seymour, fourth Duke of Somerset. There is proof that amid Sarah's marriage to Seymour and Hare's marriage to Constantia, a cozy relationship was supported between them. 

The house was significantly renovated in 1684, after Henry Hare's marriage to the matron Duchess of Somerset, and a great part of the current south veneer dates from this time. The exterior's focal pinnacle with a belvedere is a theme of the English Renaissance of the late sixteenth/mid seventeenth hundreds of years. Hatfield House, additionally near London, had a comparative focal pinnacle developed in 1611, as does Blickling Hall in Norfolk, constructed around 1616. 

Despite the fact that sources, for example, Pegram theorize that Constantia ended it all notwithstanding a proceeded with connection among Hare and the Duchess of Somerset, little is thought about her life and the conditions of her initial passing, and her phantom supposedly frequents the palace. 

The most punctual recorded reference to the apparition showed up in 1858—right around two hundred years after her demise—in the "Tottenham and Edmonton Advertiser". 

The legend has now been to a great extent overlooked, and there have been no revealed sightings of the apparition as of late. 

Sarah Hare kicked the bucket in 1692 and was covered in Westminster Abbey, and Hare in 1708, to be prevailing by his grandson Henry Hare, third Baron Coleraine. Henry Hare was a main collector, living just quickly at Bruce Castle between extensive voyages through Europe. 

The house was redesigned again under the third Baron Coleraine's proprietorship. An additional scope of rooms was added toward the north, and the pediment of the north front ornamented with a substantial layer of the Coleraine arms. 

Bunny's marriage was not fulfilled, and following an undertaking with a French lady, Rosa du Plessis, du Plessis bore him his single kid, a girl named Henrietta Rosa Peregrina, conceived in France in 1745. Rabbit passed on in 1749 leaving his homes to the four-year-old Henrietta, yet her case was rejected inferable from her French nationality. After numerous long periods of legitimate difficulties, the domains, including Bruce Castle, were conceded to her significant other James Townsend, whom she had hitched at age 18. 

James Townsend was a main resident of the day. He filled in as a judge, was Member of Parliament for West Looe, and in 1772 progressed toward becoming Lord Mayor of London, while Henrietta was a noticeable craftsman, huge numbers of whose etchings of eighteenth century Tottenham get by in the Bruce Castle Museum. 

After 1764, under the responsibility for Townsend, the house was rebuilt once more. The limited east front was rebuilt into a passage front, and given the presence of a regular Georgian house, while the gabled storage rooms on the south front were expelled, giving the south exterior the appearance it has today. 

James and Henrietta Townsend's child, Henry Hare Townsend, demonstrated little enthusiasm for the zone or in the customary job of the Lord of the Manor. In the wake of renting the house to a progression of occupants, the house and grounds were sold in 1792 to Thomas Smith of Gray's Inn as a nation home. 

John Eardley Wilmot (c. 1749 – 23 June 1815) was Member of Parliament for Tiverton (1776– 1784) and Coventry (1784– 1796), and in 1783 drove the Parliamentary Commission researching the occasions that prompted the American Revolution. He likewise drove the handling of pay claims, and the supply of fundamental lodging and arrangements, for the 60,000 Loyalist exiles who landed in England after the freedom of the United States. 

Following the start of the French Revolution in 1789, a second flood of displaced people touched base in England. Despite the fact that the British government did not offer them sorted out alleviation, Wilmot, in relationship with William Wilberforce, Edmund Burke and George Nugent-Temple-Grenville, first Marquess of Buckingham, established "Wilmot's Committee", which raised assets to give convenience and nourishment, and discovered work for outcasts from France, extensive quantities of whom settled in the Tottenham territory. 

In 1804, Wilmot resigned from open life and moved to Bruce Castle to compose his journals of the American Revolution and his job in the examinations of its causes and outcomes. They were distributed in the blink of an eye before his demise in 1815. After Wilmot's passing, London vendor John Ede acquired the house and its grounds, and decimated the structure's west wing. 

Slope and his siblings had assumed control over the administration of their dad's school in Birmingham in 1819, which opened a branch at Bruce Castle in 1827, with Rowland Hill as Headmaster. The school was kept running along radical lines motivated by Hill's companions Thomas Paine, Richard Price and Joseph Priestley; all instructing was on the rule that the educator's job is to ingrain the longing to learn, not to bestow certainties, whipping was annulled and affirmed transgressions were attempted by a court of understudies, while the school showed a radical (for the time) educational modules including unknown dialects, science and building. Among different students, the school showed the children of numerous London-based ambassadors, especially from the recently free countries of South America, and the children of figuring pioneer Charles Babbage. 

In 1839 Rowland Hill, who had composed a compelling proposition on postal change, was selected as leader of the General Post Office (where he presented the world's first postage stamps), leaving the school in the hands of his more youthful sibling Arthur Hill. 

Amid the time of the School's activity, the character of the territory had changed to the point of being indistinguishable. Verifiably, Tottenham had comprised of four towns on Ermine Street (later the A10 street), encompassed by marshland and farmland. The development of the Northern and Eastern Railway in 1840, with stations at Tottenham Hale and Marsh Lane (later Northumberland Park), made driving from Tottenham to focal London doable out of the blue (yet by a roaming eight-mile course by means of Stratford, more than twofold the separation of the immediate street course), just as giving direct associations with the Port of London. In 1872 the Great Eastern Railway opened an immediate line from Enfield to Liverpool Street station, including a station at Bruce Grove, near Bruce Castle; the railroad gave sponsored laborers' charges to enable poor suburbanites to live in Tottenham and drive to work in focal London. As a noteworthy rail center point, Tottenham developed into a huge private and mechanical zone; before the finish of the nineteenth century, the main staying undeveloped regions were simply the grounds of Bruce Castle, and the waterlogged floodplains of the River Lea at Tottenham Marshes and of the River Moselle at Broadwater Farm. 

In 1877 Birkbeck Hill resigned from the post of superintendent, finishing his family's relationship with the school. The school shut in 1891, and Tottenham Council obtained the house and grounds. The grounds of the house were opened to general society as Bruce Castle Park in June 1892, the main open park in Tottenham. The house opened to the general population as Bruce Castle Museum in 1906. 

Bruce Castle was among the structures referenced in John Abraham Heraud's 1820 Spenserian epic, "Tottenham", a sentimental delineation of the life of Robert the Bruce: 

Bruce Castle is currently a gallery, holding the chronicles of the London Borough of Haringey, and lodging a lasting presentation on the past, present and fate of Haringey and its forerunner districts, and transitory shows on the historical backdrop of the region. Different shows incorporate a presentation on Rowland Hill and postal history, a critical gathering of early photography, an accumulation of notable manorial records and court moves identified with the region, and one of only a handful couple of duplicates accessible for open perusing of the "Goads Opus", the total history of Tottenham Hotspur. In 1949, the structure was Grade I recorded; the round pinnacle was independently Grade I recorded in the meantime, and the seventeenth century southern and western limit dividers of the recreation center were Grade II recorded in 1974. In 1969 the château ended up home to the regimental historical center of the Middlesex Regiment whose accumulation was therefore exchanged to the National Army Museum. 

In July 2006 a noteworthy network archeological delve was composed in the grounds by the Museum of London Archeological Archive and Research Center, as a component of the century festivities of the opening of Bruce Castle Museum, in which expansive quantities of neighborhood adolescents partook. Just as huge amounts of disposed of regular articles, the chalk establishments of what has all the earmarks of being a prior house on the site were found. 

In 2012 the open grounds at Bruce Castle were utilized for PARK ART in Haringey, some portion of the ward's social Olympiad offer for 2012. Up Projects, in organization with Haringey Council and supported by Arts Council England, dispatched Ben Long to make "Lion Scaffolding Sculpture", a nine-meter tall traditional lion on a plinth that was developed from developer's framework. The stupendous model, made for the front yard of Bruce Castle Museum, referenced the customary paradigm of the superb lion regularly found in the grounds of stately homes, yet in addition the heraldic symbol of Robert the Bruce, hence thinking about the legacy of the structure. Work in situ more than about a month, the manufacture turned into a durational exhibition, featuring the job that work and work play in the advancement of any imaginative or inventive interest.