Topics in Maya Angelou's self-portrayals 

The topics incorporated in African-American essayist Maya Angelou's seven collections of memoirs incorporate bigotry, character, family, and travel. Angelou (1928– 2014) is best known for her first collection of memoirs, the widely praised "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" (1969). The remainder of the books in her arrangement are "Assemble in My Name" (1974), "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas" (1976), "The Heart of a Woman" (1981), "Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes" (1986), "A Song Flung Up to Heaven" (2002), and "Mother and Me and Mom" (2013). 

Starting with "Confined Bird" and consummation with her last collection of memoirs, Angelou utilized the representation of a flying creature, which spoke to Angelou's repression coming about because of bigotry and gloom, attempting to get away from its enclosure, as portrayed in the Paul Laurence Dunbar lyric "Compassion". Angelou's personal histories can be set in the African-American writing custom of political dissent. Their solidarity underscored one of Angelou's focal topics: the bad form of bigotry and how to battle it. As indicated by researcher Pierre A. Walker, the majority of Angelou's books portrayed "a grouping of exercises about opposing bigot abuse". Throughout her collections of memoirs, her perspectives about Black-white connections changed and she figured out how to acknowledge distinctive perspectives. Angelou's subject of personality was built up from the earliest starting point of her collections of memoirs, with the opening lines in "Confined Bird", and like other female essayists in the late 1960s and mid 1970s, she utilized the life account to rethink methods for expounding on ladies' lives and characters in a male-overwhelmed society. Her unique objective was to expound on the lives of Black ladies in America, yet it developed in her later volumes to archive the high points and low points of her life. 

The subject of family and family connections—from the character-characterizing background of Angelou's folks' relinquishment in "Confined Bird" to her associations with her child, spouses, companions, and darlings—are imperative in every last bit of her books. As in American personal history for the most part and in African-American life account explicitly, which has its underlying foundations in the slave story, travel is another essential topic in Angelou's self-portrayals. Researcher Yolanda M. Manora called the movement theme in Angelou's collections of memoirs, starting in "Confined Bird", "a focal allegory for a clairvoyant versatility". Angelou's life accounts "extend time and spot", from Arkansas to Africa and back to the US, and length just about forty years, starting from the beginning of World War II to the death of Martin Luther King, Jr. 

The subjects enveloping Angelou's seven collections of memoirs incorporate bigotry, character, family, and travel. She is best known for her first life account, the widely praised "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" (1969). Angelou did not state "Confined Bird" with the expectation of composing a progression of collections of memoirs; faultfinders have "made a decision about the resulting life accounts in light of the first". Her arrangement additionally incorporates" Gather Together in My Name" (1974), "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas" (1976), "The Heart of a Woman", (1981), "Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes" (1986), "A Song Flung Up to Heaven" (2002), and "Mother and Me and Mom" (2013). Angelou's collections of memoirs have a particular style, and "stretch after some time and spot", from Arkansas to Africa and back to the U.S. They occur from the beginnings of World War II to the death of Martin Luther King, Jr. 

As indicated by researcher Mary Jane Lupton, Angelou's collections of memoirs have been portrayed as self-portraying fiction, yet Lupton deviates, expressing that they adjust to the class' standard structure: they are composed by a solitary creator, they are ordered, and they contain components of character, method, and topic. Angelou's utilization of subjects, particularly that of bigotry, associates every one of the seven life accounts. One of her objectives, starting with "Confined Bird", was to join "natural solidarity" into them, and the occasions she depicted were rambling, made like a progression of short stories, and were put to stress the subjects of her books. 

Angelou utilized the allegory of a fledgling attempting to get away from its confine depicted in the Paul Laurence Dunbar ballad "Compassion" all through every last bit of her life accounts; she utilized the representation in the titles of both "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings" and her 6th self-portrayal "A Song Flung Up to Heaven". Like components inside a jail account, the confined flying creature spoke to Angelou's repression coming about because of prejudice and persecution. This representation likewise conjured the "assumed logical inconsistency of the feathered creature singing amidst its battle". Despite the fact that analyst Hilton Als saw that Angelou's observer of the abhorrence in her general public, as coordinated towards Black ladies, formed Angelou's young life and educated her perspectives into adulthood., researcher Lynn Z. Blossom stated that Angelou's self-portrayals and addresses, which she called "running in tone from energetically entertaining to sharply satiric", have picked up a deferential and eager reaction from the overall population and commentators. 

Analyst Daisy Aldan of "World Literature Today" scrutinized Angelou for harboring "a devotee antagonistic vibe communicated toward every single white individuals", however author Lyman B. Hagen dissented, expressing that like Angelou's companion and coach Langston Hughes, Angelou clarified and lit up the state of African Americans, however without distancing her perusers of any race. Additionally as indicated by Hagen, Angelou advanced the significance of diligent work, a typical subject in slave stories, all through the entirety of her personal histories, so as to break the African-American generalization of sluggishness. Her portrayal of the solid and firm Black people group of Stamps exhibited how African Americans have subverted oppressive foundations to withstand prejudice. Angelou developed from longing that she could end up white in "Confined Bird" to being "compelled to fight with her obscurity". 

Commentator Pierre A. Walker set Angelou's collections of memoirs in the African-American writing convention of political challenge written in the years following the American Civil Rights Movement. He stressed that the solidarity of Angelou's personal histories underscored one of her focal subjects: the shamefulness of bigotry and how to battle it. Angelou's accounts, starting with "Confined Bird", comprised of "a grouping of exercises about opposing supremacist mistreatment". This grouping drove Angelou, as the hero, from "vulnerable fury and anger to types of unpretentious obstruction, lastly to out and out and dynamic dissent" all through each of the seven of her collections of memoirs. Angelou changed her perspectives over the span of her collections of memoirs about Black-white connections and figured out how to acknowledge diverse perspectives. It was changes by they way she respected race, and her perspectives on white individuals, that furnished Angelou with opportunity. As indicated by Hagen, one of Angelou's subjects was that people will in general be more indistinguishable than various. 

Angelou's objective, start with "Confined Bird", was to "come clean about the lives of dark ladies". Like her different life accounts, she depicted her living courses of action, how she adapted inside the setting of a bigger white society, and the manners in which that her story happened inside that unique situation. Faultfinder Selwyn Cudjoe expressed that in Angelou's second life account, "Assemble in My Name", Angelou was worried about the inquiries of what it intended to be a Black female in the U.S., yet centers upon herself at one point ever, in the years promptly following World War II. The book started with a preface portraying the disarray and bafflement of the African-American people group amid that time, which coordinated the distanced and divided nature of the principle character's life. As indicated by pundit Dolly A. McPherson, African Americans were guaranteed another racial request that never emerged. Angelou likewise thoroughly analyzes how she and her grandma managed prejudice; Angelou with rebellion and the logical take of her grandma, who had discovered that resistance was risky. 

In Angelou's third life account "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas", in which she wedded a white man, she came into close contact with whites out of the blue—whites altogether different from the bigot individuals she experienced in her youth. She found that her generalizations of whites were created to shield herself from their cold-bloodedness and detachment. As McPherson specified, "Adapted by prior encounters, Angelou questions everybody, particularly whites. By and by, she is more than once astounded by the generosity and altruism of numerous whites she meets, and, in this manner, her doubts start to mollify into comprehension". Cudjoe composed that in "Singin' and Swingin"', Angelou viably illustrated "the sacredness of the African American personhood", just as her very own firmly watched safeguard of it. With the end goal for her to have any constructive associations with whites and individuals of different races; in any case, McPherson demanded that Angelou "must analyze and dispose of her cliché sees about Whites". 

Researcher Lyman B. Hagen concurred and indicated out that Angelou had rethink her waiting partialities when looked with the more extensive world brimming with whites. The accounts she tells in "Singin' and Swingin"' contain "solid strong explanations that pass on immovably her resentment and wrath about dark relocation". For instance, when she wedded Tosh Angelos, against her mom's recommendation and wishes, she encountered negative responses from others. In spite of the fact that Tosh treated her and Guy well toward the start of their marriage, he immediately tired of their relationship and she felt objectified and sold out by another white man. Angelou moved between the white and Black universes, both characterizing herself as an individual from her locale and experiencing whites in "an a lot more full, increasingly sexy way". She depicted the pressure she encountered, as a Black female performer, working in the white-commanded universe of the 1950s. Her impression of connections among Blacks and whites must be continually adjusted, in spite of the dispositions and thoughts regarding whites she gained from her mom and grandma. Angelou's sentiments about race and bigotry were irresolute, despite the fact that the majority of her encounters with whites were certain amid this time. 

Angelou's fourth collection of memoirs, "The Heart of a Woman", opened with Angelou and her child Guy living in an exploratory cooperative with whites, trying to take an interest in the new receptiveness among Blacks and whites. She was not totally alright with the course of action, be that as it may; as Lupton called attention to, Angelou was as yet skeptical of whites and never named or depicted the characters of her flat mates. Generally, Angelou had the capacity to uninhibitedly associate with whites in this book, yet she every so often experienced preference like before scenes, similar to when she required the help of white companions to lease a home in an isolated neighborhood. Lupton expressed that contrasted with her different books, Angelou had come "far" from her associations with whites and individuals of different races. She stayed suspicious of white nonconformists, yet wrote about Dr. Martin Luther King's good faith about race relations and other positive connections with whites. Angelou proceeded, nonetheless, her prosecution of th white power structure and her challenges against racial bad form that had been a subject all through the entirety of her books. Rather than offering arrangements, in any case, she just gave an account of, responded to, and sensationalized occasions. 

Angelou turned out to be more "politicized" in "The Heart of Woman", and built up another feeling of Black personality. McPherson contended that even Angelou's choice to leave the entertainment biz was political, and viewed this book as "a social and social history of Black Americans" amid the late 1950s and mid 1960s. Angelou considered herself to be a history specialist of both the Civil Rights Movement and the Black scholarly development of the time. She turned out to be more pulled in to the reasons for Black aggressors, both in the U.S. furthermore, in Africa, to the point of going into an association with South African opportunity warrior Vusumzi Make, and turned out to be progressively dedicated to activism. She turned into a functioning political dissident amid this period, however she didn't consider herself in that way. Rather, the emphasis was on herself, and she utilized the self-portraying structure to exhibit how the Civil Rights Movement affected one individual associated with it. As indicated by Hagen, her commitments to social equality as a pledge drive and SCLC coordinator were fruitful and successful. 

As indicated by Lupton, "Angelou's investigation of her African and African-American personalities" was an essential topic in her fifth life account" All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes". The collusions and associations with those she met in Ghana added to Angelou's personality and development. Her encounters as an ostracize helped her grapple with her own and verifiable past, and before the finish of the book she was prepared to come back to America with a more profound comprehension of both the African and American pieces of her character. McPherson called Angelou's parallels and associations among Africa and America her "twofold awareness", which added to her comprehension of herself. 

In "Voyaging Shoes", Angelou had the capacity to perceive likenesses among African and African-American culture; as Lupton put it, the "blue melodies, yells, and accounts" she has grown up with in America "reverberation the rhythms of West Africa". Marcia Ann Gillespie and her associates, writing in "A Glorious Celebration", the book distributed in 2008 for Angelou's 80th birthday celebration, concurred, expressing that Angelou perceived the associations among African and American Black societies, including the youngsters' amusements, the fables, the spoken and non-verbal dialects, the nourishment, sensibilities, and conduct. She associated the conduct of numerous African mother figures, particularly their liberality, with her grandma's activities. In a standout amongst the most huge segments of "Voyaging Shoes", Angelou related an experience with a West African lady who perceived her, based on her appearance, as an individual from the Bambara gathering of West Africa. These and different encounters in Ghana showed Angelou's development, as a mother ready to relinquish her grown-up child, as a lady no longer needy upon a man, and as an American ready to "see the foundations of her character" and how they influenced her identity. 

Likewise in "Voyaging Shoes", Angelou grappled with her troublesome past, both as a relative of Africans taken coercively to America as slaves and as an African America who had encountered bigotry. As she told a questioner, she conveyed her child to Ghana to shield him from the negative impacts of prejudice since she didn't think he had the devices to withstand them. Without precedent for their lives, she and Guy did not "feel compromised by racial detest" in Ghana. The subject of bigotry was as yet an essential topic in "Voyaging Shoes", yet she has developed in the manner in which she managed it. As Hagen expressed, Angelou was "not yet prepared to hurl off the stings of bias, however resistance and even a specific comprehension can be seen". This was shown in Angelou's treatment of the "destructive association of Africans in slave-exchanging", something that has regularly been ignored or distorted by other Black scholars. Angelou was shown an essential exercise battling bigotry by Malcolm X, who contrasted it with a mountain in which everybody's endeavors was expected to conquer it. 

Angelou found out about herself and about bigotry all through "Voyaging Shoes", notwithstanding amid her concise voyage through Venice and Berlin for the recovery of "The Blacks", the play by Jean Genet that Angelou had initially performed in 1961; rejoining with the play's unique cast, she resuscitated her energy for African-American culture and qualities, "placing them into point of view" as she contrasted them and Germany's history of racial preference and military hostility. The verbal savagery of the society stories shared amid her lunch get-together with her German hosts and Israeli companion was as critical to Angelou as physical viciousness, to the point that she turned out to be sick. Angelou's involvement with dictatorship in Italy, her exhibitions with "'The Blacks" cast, and the notices of the holocaust in Germany, "help[ed] shape and expand her always showing signs of change vision" in regards to racial bias, cleared up her view of African Americans, and "add to her recovering herself and her advancement as a native of the world". 

The topic of character was built up from the earliest starting point of Angelou's arrangement of collections of memoirs, with the opening lines in "Confined Bird", which "foresee Angelou's personal venture: to compose the narrative of the creating dark female subject by sharing the story of one Southern Black young lady's getting to be". Angelou and other female essayists in the late 1960s and mid 1970s utilized the collection of memoirs to reconsider methods for expounding on ladies' lives and characters in a male-overwhelmed society. Women's activist researcher Maria Lauret has made an association between Angelou's collections of memoirs, which Lauret called "fictions of subjectivity" and "women's activist first-individual accounts", with anecdotal first-individual stories, (for example, "The Women's Room" by Marilyn French and "The Golden Notebook" by Doris Lessing) composed amid a similar period. The two classes utilized the storyteller as hero and utilized "the figment of quality in their method of implication". Researcher Yolanda M. Manora concurred, expressing that Angelou broke generalizations of African-American ladies by portraying these pictures and generalizations, and afterward refuting them, which set the phase for Angelou's character advancement in her later personal histories. 

Angelou, as a lady, showed the arrangement of her own social personality all through her accounts. Angelou introduced herself as a good example for African-American ladies by reproducing the Black lady's picture all through her collections of memoirs, and has utilized her numerous jobs, manifestations, and characters to interface the layers of mistreatment with her own history. Angelou's subjects of the person's quality and capacity to defeat showed up all through Angelou's collections of memoirs too. The ladies Angelou displayed in her personal histories, particularly "Confined Bird", affected the lady Angelou progressed toward becoming. As per Manora, three characters in "Confined Bird", Angelou's mom Vivian, her grandma Annie Henderson, and Mrs. Blooms (who helps Angelou discover her voice again after her assault), teamed up to "structure a set of three which fills in as the basic framework in which the kid is supported and continued amid her adventure through Southern Black girlhood". 

Angelou's unique objective was to expound on the lives of Black ladies in America, however her objective advanced in her later volumes to record the good and bad times of her own life. Angelou's life accounts had a similar structure: an authentic outline of the spots she was living in at the time and how she adapted inside the setting of a bigger white society, just as the manners in which that her story happened inside that specific situation. Angelou, particularly in her third personal history, "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas", effectively exhibited the trustworthiness of the African-American character as she encountered increasingly constructive collaborations with whites. In Angelou's second volume, "Assemble in My Name", Angelou was worried about what it intended to be a Black female in the U.S., yet she centered upon herself at one point ever. Author Selwyn Cudjoe said in regards to her second self-portrayal: "It is nearly as if the occurrences in the content were essentially 'assembled' under the name of Maya Angelou". 

As per researcher Dolly McPherson, the subject of family and family connections, which she called "family relationship worries", in Angelou's books starts with "a distraction with the conventional family unit", in spite of Angelou's understanding of being deserted by her folks in "Confined Bird". In the long run, be that as it may, Angelou's idea of family grows to the more distant family in which "trust is the way to a showcase of connection concerns". Researcher Mary Jane Lupton demands that the idea of family should be comprehended in light of Maya and Bailey's relocation. Angelou's depiction of close familial connections, for example, her associations with her folks and child (which Lupton called "the mother-kid design") was the main bringing together subject that associated every last bit of her life accounts. Parenthood was a subject that associated the majority of Angelou's personal histories, explicitly her encounters as a single parent, a girl, and a granddaughter. Lupton trusted that Angelou's plot development and character advancement were affected by this mother/youngster theme found in crafted by Harlem Renaissance writer Jessie Fauset. 

Researcher Yolanda M. Manora demanded that three ladies in "Confined Bird"— the "hybridized mother" of Angelou's grandma, her mom, and her companion Mrs. Blooms—encouraged her how to be a mother to her child Guy. In spite of the fact that Angelou's grandma kicked the bucket right off the bat in the arrangement, in her third collection of memoirs "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas", Angelou cited her multiple occasions all through the arrangement. Angelou's craving for security for Guy drove her to wed Tosh Angelos in "Singin' and Swingin"', and drove huge numbers of her choices, work decisions, and sentimental connections. Researcher Siphokazi Koyana expressed that because of Angelou's race and financial foundation, her "experience of parenthood is indistinguishably entwined with work". As indicated by Koyana, "... Black parenthood dependably incorporated work". Angelou's not insignificant rundown of occupations authenticated the difficulties, particularly in her second personal history "Assemble in My Name", she looked as a working adolescent mother, which regularly drove Angelou to "fast and simple" choices. Koyana expressed that it was not until Angelou had the capacity to exploit openings, for example, her job in "Porgy and Bess", when she had the capacity to completely bolster her and Guy, and an incredible nature and her commitment to society improved. It was unimaginable, in any case, for Angelou to end up fruitful without her more distant family to give childcare to her; for instance, she left Guy being taken care of by his grandma disregarding the contention and blame she encountered subsequently (something Koyana demanded was forced on her by the bigger society), an example built up in "Confined Bird" by her very own mom when she left Angelou and her sibling under the watchful eye of Angelou's grandma. 

Dark ladies autobiographers like Angelou have exposed the generalizations of African-American moms of "raiser and female authority" and have introduced them as having progressively innovative and fulfilling jobs. As per researcher Sondra O'Neale, Angelou's self-portrayals exhibited Black ladies uniquely in contrast to their scholarly depictions up to that time. O'Neale kept up that "no Black lady in the realm of Angelou's books are failures", and that Angelou was the third era of astute and clever ladies who conquered the hindrances of bigotry and abuse. Koyana perceived that Angelou delineated ladies, and what Koyana called Angelou's "womanist hypotheses", in a period of social progress, and that her books portrayed one Black lady's endeavors to make and keep up a solid confidence. Angelou's encounters as a regular workers single parent tested customary and Western perspectives of ladies and family life, including the family unit structure. Angelou portrayed societal powers that in the end extended to the white family, and that Angelou's systems of monetary survival and encounters of family structure empowered Black families to endure financially. 

Travel is a typical topic in American personal history all in all; as McPherson expressed, it is something of a national fantasy to Americans as a people. This was likewise the situation for African-American personal history, which was found in and created of the slave account. Like the stories that concentrated on the authors' scan for opportunity from servitude, current African-American autobiographers like Angelou tried to build up "a credible self" and the opportunity to discover it in their locale. Researcher Yolanda M. Manora called the movement theme in Angelou's life accounts "smoothness". This smoothness started in "Confined Bird" and was an allegory for her mental developments and development brought about by her dislodging and injury all through the book, something Manora expressed Angelou needed to escape so as to rise above it. As Hagen expressed, Angelou organized "Confined Bird" into three sections: landing, visit, and flight, with both geographic and mental viewpoints. 

As McPherson expressed, "The adventure to a far off objective, the arrival home, and the journey which includes the voyage out, accomplishment, and return are average examples in Black collection of memoirs." For Angelou, this mission took her from her youth and immaturity, as depicted in her initial two books, into the grown-up world. The setting in Angelou's initial two life accounts was constrained to three spots (Arkansas, Missouri, and California), however the "setting tears open" in "Singin' and Swingin' and Gettin' Merry Like Christmas" to incorporate Europe as she went with her "Porgy and Bess" organization. McPherson saw Angelou's third personal history as "a bright voyage through Angelou's twenties", from early years set apart by dissatisfactions and mortification, into the more extensive world—to the white world and to the universal network. This period portrayed "long periods of happiness", just as the beginning of Angelou's extraordinary achievement and satisfaction as a performer. Lupton expressed that Angelou's movement story in "Singin' and Swingin'," which took up around 40 percent of the book, gave the book its sorted out structure. Angelou's perceptions about race, sexual orientation, and class made the book in excess of a basic travel account. As a Black American, her movements around the globe place her in contact with numerous nationalities and classes, extended her encounters past her well-known hover of network and family, and confused her understandings of race relations. 

Angelou kept on extending the settings of her collections of memoirs in her consequent volumes. "The Heart of a Woman" had three essential settings—the San Francisco Bay Area, New York City, and Egypt—and two optional ones—London and Accra. Lupton expressed that like the majority of Angelou's books, the structure of "The Heart of a Woman" depended on a voyage. Angelou accentuated the topic of development by opening the book with an otherworldly ("The ole ark's a moverin'"), expressing, "That old profound could have been the signature tune of the United States in 1957". This otherworldly, which contained a reference to Noah's ark, exhibited Angelou as a kind of Noah and showed her otherworldliness. Angelou additionally referenced Allen Ginsberg and "On the Road", the 1951 novel by Jack Kerouac, in this way interfacing her own voyage and vulnerability about the future with the adventures of artistic figures. Despite the fact that the reason Angelou headed out to Africa is a possible fizzled relationship, she made an association with the mainland, both in this book and in the one that tails it, "Every one of God's Children Need Traveling Shoes". As Lupton expressed, "Africa is the site of her development". Angelou's time in Africa made her increasingly mindful of her African roots. Lupton demanded, be that as it may, that despite the fact that Angelou adventures to numerous spots in the book, the most critical adventure she depicted is "a voyage into oneself". 

The movement theme is a common subject in "Voyaging Shoes", as prove in the book's title, however Angelou's essential inspiration in living in Africa, as she told questioner George Plimpton in 1990, was "endeavoring to return home". Angelou not just related her own adventure of an African-American lady hunting down a home, however the voyages of other Black ostracizes at the time, whom McPherson contrasted with the portrayals of white exiles in Europe during the 1920s by Ernest Hemingway and Henry James. Angelou's issues were settled toward the finish of "Voyaging Shoes" when she chose to come back to America. She considered her takeoff a "second leave-taking", and contrasted it with the last time she left her child with his grandma in "Singin' and Swingin'" when he was a youngster, and to the constrained takeoff from Africa by her progenitors. As Lupton states, "Angelou's voyage from Africa back to America is in sure ways a rehashing of the authentic stage known as mid-entry, when slaves were ruthlessly transported in boats from West Africa to the alleged New World". Despite the fact that Angelou's 6th collection of memoirs "A Song Flung Up to Heaven" occurred in her nation of origin, the movement theme proceeded. Commentator Patricia Elam portrayed "Melody" as a "venture through a credible and masterful life".