Shah Rukh Khan 

Shah Rukh Khan (conceived Shahrukh Khan; 2 November 1965), likewise known by the initialism SRK, is an Indian on-screen character, film maker, and TV character. Alluded to in the media as the "Badshah of Bollywood", "Ruler of Bollywood" and "Lord Khan", he has showed up in excess of 80 Bollywood movies, and earned various honors, including 14 Filmfare Awards. For his commitments to film, the Government of India regarded him with the Padma Shri, and the Government of France granted him both the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres and the Légion d'honneur. Khan has a critical following in Asia and the Indian diaspora around the world. As far as crowd size and salary, he has been portrayed as a standout amongst the best film stars on the planet. 

Khan started his profession with appearances in a few TV arrangement in the late 1980s. He made his Bollywood debut in 1992 with "Deewana". Right off the bat in his vocation, Khan was perceived for depicting awful jobs in the movies "Darr" (1993), "Baazigar" (1993) and "Anjaam" (1994). He at that point rose to noticeable quality in the wake of featuring in a progression of sentimental movies, including "Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge" (1995), "Dil To Pagal Hai" (1997), "Kuch Hota Hai" (1998), "Mohabbatein" (2000) and "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." (2001). Khan earned basic praise for his depiction of a heavy drinker in "Devdas" (2002), a NASA researcher in "Swades" (2004), a hockey mentor in "Chak De! India" (2007) and a man with Asperger disorder in "My Name Is Khan" (2010). His most noteworthy earning films incorporate the rom-com "Chennai Express" (2013), the heist parody "Upbeat New Year" (2014), the activity film "Dilwale" (2015), and the wrongdoing film "Raees" (2017). A significant number of his movies show subjects of Indian national personality and associations with diaspora networks, or sexual orientation, racial, social and religious contrasts and complaints. 

Starting at 2015, Khan is co-director of the film creation organization Red Chillies Entertainment and its backups, and is the co-proprietor of the Indian Premier League cricket group Kolkata Knight Riders. He is a regular TV moderator and stage show entertainer. The media regularly mark him as "Brand SRK" due to his numerous support and enterprise adventures. Khan's magnanimous undertakings have given medicinal services and debacle help, and he was regarded with UNESCO's Pyramide con Marni grant in 2011 for his help of youngsters' training and the World Economic Forum's Crystal Award in 2018 for his administration in advocating ladies' and kids' rights in India. He routinely includes in postings of the most persuasive individuals in Indian culture, and in 2008, "Newsweek" named him one of their fifty most influential individuals on the planet. 

Khan was conceived on 2 November 1965 into a Muslim family in New Delhi. He went through the initial five years of his life in Mangalore, where his maternal granddad, Ifthikar Ahmed, filled in as the central designer of the port during the 1960s. As indicated by Khan, his fatherly granddad, Jan Muhammad, an ethnic Pashtun, was from Afghanistan. Khan's dad, Meer Taj Mohammed Khan, was an Indian autonomy lobbyist in Peshawar, British India (present-day Pakistan). Starting at 2010, Khan's fatherly family was all the while living in the Shah Wali Qataal region of Peshawar's Qissa Khawani Bazaar. Meer was an adherent of Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, and partnered with the All Indian National Congress. He moved to New Delhi in 1948 after the parcel of India. Khan's mom, Lateef Fatima, was the girl of a senior government engineer. His folks were hitched in 1959. Khan portrayed himself on Twitter as "half Hyderabadi (mother), half Pathan (father), [and] some Kashmiri (grandma)". His fatherly cousins in Peshawar guarantee that the family is of Hindkowan inception from Kashmir, not Pashtun, and furthermore repudiate the case that his granddad was from Afghanistan. 

Khan experienced childhood in the Rajendra Nagar neighborhood of Delhi. His dad had a few business adventures including an eatery, and the family carried on with a working class life in leased condos. Khan went to St. Columba's School in focal Delhi where he exceeded expectations in his investigations and in games, for example, hockey and football, and got the school's most astounding honor, the Sword of Honor. At first Khan sought to seek after a vocation in games, anyway inferable from shoulder damage in his initial years implied that he could never again play. Rather, in his childhood, he acted in stage plays and got acclaim for his impersonations of Bollywood performing artists, of which his top picks were Dilip Kumar, Amitabh Bachchan, and Mumtaz. One of his beloved companions and acting accomplices was Amrita Singh, who turned into a Bollywood on-screen character. Khan selected at Hansraj College (1985– 88) to win his four year certification in Economics, however invested quite a bit of his energy at Delhi's Theater Action Group (TAG), where he contemplated acting under the mentorship of theater chief Barry John. After Hansraj, he started concentrating for a graduate degree in Mass Communications at Jamia Millia Islamia, yet left to seek after his acting vocation. He additionally went to the National School of Drama in Delhi amid his initial vocation in Bollywood. His dad passed on of disease in 1981, and his mom kicked the bucket in 1991 from inconveniences of diabetes. After the passing of their folks, his more seasoned sister, Shahnaz Lalarukh, conceived in 1960, fell into a discouraged state and Khan assumed on the liability of thinking about her. Shahnaz keeps on living with her sibling and his family in their Mumbai chateau. 

Despite the fact that Khan was given the original name Shahrukh Khan, he lean towards his name to be composed as Shah Rukh Khan, and is generally alluded to by the abbreviation SRK. He wedded Gauri Chibber, a Punjabi Hindu, in a customary Hindu wedding function on 25 October 1991, following a six-year romance. They have a child Aryan (brought into the world 1997) and a little girl Suhana (brought into the world 2000). In 2013, they moved toward becoming guardians of a third youngster, a child named AbRam, who was brought into the world through a surrogate mother. The two his senior kids have communicated enthusiasm for entering media outlets; Khan has expressed that Aryan, who is considering movie at the USC School of Cinematic Arts in California, tries to turn into an author chief, while Suhana, who filled in as right hand executive for Khan's film "Zero" (2018), will likewise enlist to ponder acting in the United States for advanced education. As indicated by Khan, while he firmly has confidence in Islam, he likewise values his significant other's religion. His kids pursue the two religions; at home the Qur'an is arranged alongside the Hindu divinities. 

Khan's initially featuring job was in Lekh Tandon's TV arrangement "Dil Dariya", which started shooting in 1988, yet creation postpones prompted the 1989 arrangement "Fauji" turning into his TV debut. In the arrangement, which portrayed a practical take a gander at the preparation of armed force cadets, he assumed the main job of Abhimanyu Rai. This prompted further appearances in Aziz Mirza's TV arrangement "Carnival" (1989– 90) and Mani Kaul's miniseries "Imbecile" (1991). Khan likewise played minor parts in the serials "Umeed" (1989) and "Wagle Ki Duniya" (1988– 90), and in the English-language TV film "In Which Annie Gives It Those Ones" (1989). His appearances in these serials drove commentators to contrast his look and acting style and those of the film on-screen character Dilip Kumar, yet Khan was not inspired by film acting at the time, feeling that he was bad enough. 

Khan changed his choice to act in movies in April 1991, refering to it as an approach to get away from the melancholy of his mom's passing. He moved from Delhi to Mumbai to seek after a full-time vocation in Bollywood, and was immediately marked to four movies. His first offer was for Hema Malini's directorial debut "Dil Aashna Hai", and by June, he had begun his first shoot. His film debut was in "Deewana", which was discharged in June 1992. In it he featured close by Divya Bharti as the second male lead behind Rishi Kapoor. "Deewana" turned into a film industry hit and propelled Khan's Bollywood vocation; he earned the Filmfare Best Male Debut Award for his execution. Likewise discharged in 1992 were Khan's first movies as the male lead, "Chamatkar", "Dil Aashna Hai", and the satire "Raju Ban Gaya Gentleman", which was his first of numerous joint efforts with the performing artist Juhi Chawla. His underlying film jobs saw him play characters who showed vitality and excitement. As indicated by Arnab Ray of "Day by day News and Analysis", Khan brought another sort of going about as he might have been "sliding down stairs on a section of ice, cartwheeling, somersaulting, lips trembling, eyes trembling, conveying to the screen the sort of physical energy ... instinctive, serious, deranged one minute and cloyingly innocent the following." 

Among his 1993 discharges, Khan accumulated the most thankfulness for depicting abhorrent jobs in two film industry hits: an over the top sweetheart in "Darr", and a killer in "Baazigar". "Darr" denoted the first of Khan's numerous joint efforts with producer Yash Chopra and his organization Yash Raj Films. Khan's stammering and the utilization of the expression "I adore you, K-k-k-Kiran" were mainstream with gatherings of people. For "Darr" he got an assignment for the Filmfare Award for Best Performance in a Negative Role, otherwise called the Best Villain Award, yet lost to Paresh Rawal for "Sir". "Baazigar", in which Khan played an equivocal vindicator who kills his sweetheart, stunned Indian crowds with a sudden infringement of the standard Bollywood recipe. In "The Cambridge Companion to Modern Indian Culture", Sonal Khullar called the character "the quintessential screw-up". His execution in "Baazigar", which would be his first of numerous appearances with on-screen character Kajol, won Khan his first Filmfare Award for Best Actor. In 2003, the "Reference book of Hindi Cinema" expressed that Khan "resisted the picture of the customary saint in both these movies and made his very own form of the revisionist legend". Likewise in 1993, Khan played out a bare scene with Deepa Sahi in "Maya Memsaab", despite the fact that pieces of it were controlled by the Central Board of Film Certification. The resulting debate provoked him to shun such scenes in future jobs. 

In 1994, Khan played an affection struck artist in Kundan Shah's parody dramatization film "Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa" inverse Deepak Tijori and Suchitra Krishnamurthy, which he later declared was his most loved job. His execution earned him a Filmfare Critics Award for Best Performance, and in a review survey from 2004, Sukanya Verma of Rediff.com alluded to it as Khan's best execution, saying "He is unconstrained, powerless, innocent, naughty and acting straight from the heart." Also in 1994, Khan won the Filmfare Best Villain Award for his job as an over the top darling in "Anjaam", co-featuring Madhuri Dixit and Deepak Tijori. At the time, assuming opposing jobs was viewed as dangerous to a main man's vocation in Bollywood. Beam in this manner credited Khan for taking "crazy dangers" and "driving the envelope" by playing such characters, through which he set up his vocation in Bollywood. The executive Mukul S. Anand called him "the new substance of the business" at the time. 

Khan featured in seven movies in 1995, the first was Rakesh Roshan's exaggerated spine chiller "Karan Arjun". Co-featuring Salman Khan and Kajol, it turned into the second-most noteworthy netting film of the year in India. His most critical discharge that year was Aditya Chopra's directorial debut, the sentiment "Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge", in which he played a youthful Non-inhabitant Indian (NRI) who begins to look all starry eyed at Kajol's character amid a trek crosswise over Europe. Khan was at first hesitant to depict the job of a darling, however this film is acknowledged with setting up him as a "sentimental legend". Commended by the two pundits and people in general, it turned into the year's most noteworthy netting generation in India and abroad and was proclaimed an "unequaled blockbuster" by Box Office India, with a gross of over around the world. It is the longest-running film ever of film; it is as yet appearing at the Maratha Mandir theater in Mumbai after over 1000 weeks starting at mid 2015. The film won ten Filmfare Awards, including the second of Khan's Best Actor Awards. The executive and pundit Raja Sen stated, "Khan gives a remarkable exhibition, reclassifying the darling for the 1990s with extraordinary panache. He's cool and saucy, yet true enough to speak to the [audience]. The execution itself is, similar to the best in the business, played all around ok to seem to be easy, as non-acting." 

In 1996, every one of the four of Khan's discharges flopped fundamentally and economically, yet the next year, his featuring job inverse Aditya Pancholi and Juhi Chawla in Aziz Mirza's rom-com "Yes Boss" earned him honors that incorporated a Filmfare Best Actor assignment. Later in 1997, he featured in Subhash Ghai's diasporic-themed social show "Pardes", depicting Arjun, a performer confronting an ethical issue. "India Today" refers to it as one of the main significant Bollywood pictures to prevail in the United States. 

Khan's last arrival of 1997 was every second coordinated effort with Yash Chopra in the famous melodic sentiment "Dil To Pagal Hai". He depicted Rahul, a phase executive got in an adoration triangle between Madhuri Dixit and Karisma Kapoor. The film and his execution met with basic recognition, winning Khan his third Best Actor Award at Filmfare. 

Khan played out the lead job in three movies and showed up in 1998. In his first arrival of the year, he assumed a twofold job inverse Juhi Chawla and Sonali Bendre in Mahesh Bhatt's activity satire "Copy", the first of his numerous joint efforts with Yash Johar's generation organization Dharma Productions. The film was not generally welcomed, yet "India Today" praised Khan for his fiery execution. That year, Khan won basic acclaim for his execution as an All India Radio reporter who builds up a fascination for a strange psychological militant (Manisha Koirala) in "Dil Se..", the third portion of Mani Ratnam's set of three of dread movies. In his last arrival of the year, he depicted an understudy in Karan Johar's sentiment "Kuch Hota Hai", in which he was associated with an adoration triangle alongside Kajol and Rani Mukerji. The author Anjana Motihar Chandra has alluded to the image as "the" blockbuster of the 1990s, a "pot-pourri of sentiment, satire, and diversion." Khan won the Best Actor grant at the Filmfare Awards function for the second successive year, in spite of the fact that he and a few pundits trusted his execution to have been dominated by that of Kajol. 

The jobs in this period of his vocation, and the arrangement of rom-coms and family shows that pursued, earned Khan broad worship from gatherings of people, especially youngsters, and as per creator Anupama Chopra, set up him as a symbol of sentiment in India. He kept on having incessant expert relationship with Yash Chopra, Aditya Chopra, and Karan Johar, who shaped his picture and made him into a hotshot. Khan turned into a sentimental driving man without ever really kissing any of his co-stars, in spite of the fact that he defied this norm in 2012, after solid asking by Yash Chopra. 

Khan's solitary discharge in 1999 was "Baadshah", in which he featured inverse Twinkle Khanna. Despite the fact that the film failed to meet expectations in the cinema world, it earned him a Filmfare Award assignment for Best Performance in a Comic Role, which he lost to Govinda for "Haseena Maan Jaayegi". Khan turned into a maker in 1999 of every a joint effort with the performer Juhi Chawla and the chief Aziz Mirza for a creation organization called Dreamz Unlimited. The organization's first creation, "Phir Bhi Dil Hai Hindustani" (2000), featuring Khan and Chawla, was a business disappointment. It was discharged multi week after "Kaho Naa... Pyaar Hai", featuring Hrithik Roshan, at that point a newcomer, who pundits accepted dominated Khan. Swapna Mitter of Rediff.com talked about Khan's anticipated peculiarities, saying "To be perfectly honest, it's about time that he developed his demonstration a bit." Khan completed a supporting job in Kamal Hassan's "Hello Ram" (2000), which was made at the same time in Tamil and Hindi. He accordingly made his Tamil introduction by assuming the job of an excavator named Amjad Khan. He performed for nothing out of pocket as he needed to work with Kamal Haasan. On Khan's execution, T. Krithika Reddy of "The Hindu" stated, "Shah Rukh Khan, as normal thinks of a flawless act." 

In 2001, Dreamz Unlimited endeavored a rebound with Khan depicting the title job in Santosh Sivan's authentic epic "Aśoka", an incompletely fictionalized record of the life of ruler Ashoka. The film was screened at the Venice Film Festival and the 2001 Toronto International Film Festival to a positive reaction, however it performed inadequately at Indian box workplaces. As misfortunes kept on mounting for the generation organization, Khan was compelled to close srkworld.com, an organization that he had begun alongside Dreamz Unlimited. In December 2001, Khan endured spinal damage while playing out an activity arrangement for an uncommon appearance in Krishna Vamsi's "". He was in this manner determined to have a prolapsed plate, and endeavored numerous elective treatments. None of these gave a changeless answer for the damage, which caused him extreme agony while shooting a few of his movies. By the start of 2003, his condition had intensified to the point that he needed to experience front cervical discectomy and combination medical procedure at Wellington Hospital, London. Khan continued shooting in June 2003, however he diminished his remaining task at hand and the quantity of film jobs he acknowledged yearly. 

Victories amid this time included Aditya Chopra's "Mohabbatein" (2000), and Karan Johar's family dramatization "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." (2001), which Khan refers to as a defining moment in his profession. The two movies co-featured Amitabh Bachchan as a tyrant figure, and displayed ideological battles between the two men. Khan's exhibitions in the movies were met with wide open thankfulness, and he was granted his second Filmfare Critics Award for Best Actor for "Mohabbatein". "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." remained the top-netting Indian creation ever in the abroad market for the following five years. 

In 2002, Khan assumed the title job as a defiant alcoholic inverse Aishwarya Rai in Sanjay Leela Bhansali's period sentiment "Devdas". At an expense of over , it was the most costly Bollywood film at any point set aside a few minutes, yet recuperated its expenses, procuring around the world. The film earned various honors including 10 Filmfare Awards, with Best Actor for Khan, and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Not in the English Language. Khan next featured in "Kal Ho Naa Ho" (2003), a satire show composed by Karan Johar and set in New York City, which turned into the second-most elevated earning film locally and the top-netting Bollywood film in outer markets that year. Co-featuring with Jaya Bachchan, Saif Ali Khan, and Preity Zinta, Khan got basic commendation for his depiction of Aman Mathur, a man with a deadly coronary illness, with pundits adulating his enthusiastic effect upon groups of onlookers. Strife broke out among Khan and different accomplices of Dreamz Unlimited over the inability to cast Juhi Chawla in their 2003 generation of Aziz Mirza's "Chalte", and they went separate ways, in spite of the film's prosperity. 

2004 was a fundamentally and financially effective year for Khan. He changed Dreamz Unlimited into Red Chillies Entertainment, including his better half Gauri as a maker. In the organization's first creation, he featured in Farah Khan's directorial debut, the activity parody masala movie "Primary Hoon Na". A fictionalized record of India– Pakistan relations, it was seen by certain analysts as a cognizant exertion to move far from the cliché depiction of Pakistan as the consistent scoundrel. Khan at that point played an Indian Air Force pilot who begins to look all starry eyed at a Pakistani lady (Preity Zinta) in Yash Chopra's sentiment film "Veer-Zaara", which was screened at the 55th Berlin Film Festival to basic recognition. It was the most elevated procuring film of 2004 in India, with an overall gross of over , and "Principle Hoon Na" was the second-most elevated worker with . 

In his last arrival of 2004, Khan featured as a NASA researcher who energetically comes back to India to revive his underlying foundations in Ashutosh Gowariker's social show "Swades" (signifying "Country"), which turned into the principal Indian picture to be shot inside the NASA inquire about focus at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. 

Film researcher Stephen Teo alludes to the image for instance of "Bollywoodised authenticity", showing an amazing quality in ordinary account and group of onlookers desire in Hindi film. In December 2013, "The Times of India" revealed that Khan discovered shooting the image such a sincerely overpowering and groundbreaking knowledge that he had still not seen the film. Derek Elley of "Assortment" discovered Khan's execution "disrupting" as "a smug ostracize resolved to convey Western qualities to poor Indian laborers", yet a few film commentators, including Jitesh Pillai, trusted it to have been his best acting to date. He was named for the Filmfare Best Actor Award for each of the three of his 2004 discharges and in the long run won the honor for "Swades". "Filmfare" later incorporated his execution in the 2010 issue of Bollywood's "Main 80 Iconic Performances". 

In 2005, Khan featured in Amol Palekar's dream show, "Paheli". The film was India's accommodation for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 79th Academy Awards. He later teamed up with Karan Johar for the third time in the melodic sentimental dramatization "Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna" (2006), the account of two despondently hitched individuals in New York City who start extramarital issues. The film, which highlighted a group cast including Amitabh Bachchan, Preity Zinta, Abhishek Bachchan, Rani Mukerji and Kirron Kher, rose as India's most astounding netting film in the abroad market, procuring more than around the world. The two his jobs in "Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna" and the activity film "Wear", a revamp of the 1978 film of a similar name, earned Khan Best Actor assignments at the Filmfare Awards, in spite of his execution as the main character in "Wear" being contrarily contrasted with that of Amitabh Bachchan in the first film. 

In 2007, Khan depicted a disrespected hockey player who mentors the Indian ladies' national hockey group to World Cup achievement in Yash Raj Films' semi-anecdotal "Chak De! India". Bhaichand Patel takes note of that Khan, who had extensive experience with the game playing for his college's hockey group, basically depicted himself as a "cosmopolitan, liberal, Indian Muslim". Faring admirably in the two India and abroad, Khan collected another Filmfare Award for Best Actor for his execution, which Rajeev Masand of CNN-IBN considers to have been "with no of his ordinary trappings, with no of his trademark idiosyncrasies", depicting Kabir Khan "like a genuine fragile living creature and-blood individual". "Filmfare" incorporated his execution in their 2010 issue of the "Best 80 Iconic Performances". Around the same time, Khan featured 

close by Arjun Rampal, Deepika Padukone and Shreyas Talpade in Farah Khan's resurrection acting "Om Shanti Om", depicting a 1970s junior artiste who is renewed as a 2000s time genius. The film turned into the most noteworthy netting Indian movie of 2007, both locally and abroad. "Om Shanti Om" earned Khan his second assignment of the year for Best Actor at Filmfare. Khalid Mohammed from "Hindustan Times" expressed, "the endeavor has a place with Shah Rukh Khan, who handles satire, high show and activity with his mark stylespontaneous and instinctively canny". 

Khan teamed up for the third time with Aditya Chopra on the sentimental show "Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi" (2008) inverse Anushka Sharma, around then a newcomer. He played Surinder Sahni, a modest man with low confidence, whose affection for his young organized spouse (Sharma) makes him change himself into Raj, a disorderly modify conscience. Rachel Saltz of "The New York Times" trusted the double job to have been "customized" for Khan, allowing him the chance to show his gifts, albeit Deep Contractor from "Epilog" thought Khan showed more noteworthy quality in the job of Surinder and shortcoming in the job of monolog-inclined Raj. In December 2008, Khan endured shoulder damage while taping a little job in Mudassar Aziz's "Dulha Mil Gaya". He experienced broad physiotherapy sessions at the time yet the torment left him practically stable and he had arthroscopic medical procedure in February 2009. He played out an all-inclusive, exceptional appearance in the 2009 film "Billu", playing Bollywood genius Sahir Khana fictionalized variant of himself, wherein he performed melodic thing numbers with on-screen characters Kareena Kapoor, Priyanka Chopra, and Deepika Padukone. As leader of the film's creation organization, Red Chillies, Khan decided to change the title of the film from "Billu Barber" to "Billu" after beauticians the nation over grumbled that "hair stylist" was deprecatory. The organization concealed the culpable word on bulletins that had just been introduced with the first title. 

In the wake of declining the job that therefore went to Anil Kapoor in Danny Boyle's "Slumdog Millionaire" (2008), Khan started shooting "My Name Is Khan" (2010), his fourth coordinated effort with executive Karan Johar and his 6th with Kajol. The film depends on a genuine story and set against the setting of impression of Islam after the 11 September assaults. Khan plays Rizwan Khan, a Muslim experiencing mellow Asperger disorder who sets out on a voyage crosswise over America to meet the nation's leader, in a job that film researcher Stephen Teo sees as an "image of self-assured rasa values" and another case of Khan speaking to NRI personality in worldwide Bollywood. To give a precise depiction of a sufferer without slander, Khan went through a while investigating his job by perusing books, watching recordings and conversing with individuals influenced by the condition. Upon discharge, "My Name is Khan" ended up one of the most noteworthy netting Bollywood movies ever outside India, and earned Khan his eighth Filmfare Award for Best Actor, equalling the record for the most successes in the classification with performer Dilip Kumar. Jay Wesissberg from "Assortment" noticed how Khan depicted the Asperger's sufferer with "turned away eyes, springy advances, [and] faltered redundancies of retained writings", trusting it to have been a "champion act beyond any doubt to get the Autism Society's gold seal of endorsement". 

In 2011, Khan featured nearby Arjun Rampal and Kareena Kapoor in Anubhav Sinha's sci-fi hero film "Ra.One", his first work in this class, out of consideration for his kids. The film pursues the account of a London-based videogame architect who makes a contemptible character who escapes into this present reality. It was charged as Bollywood's most costly generation; it had an expected spending plan of . In spite of negative media inclusion of the's film industry execution, "Ra.One" was a money related accomplishment with a gross of . The film, and Khan's depiction of a double job, got blended audits; while most pundits adulated his execution as the mechanical hero G, however they scrutinized his depiction of the videogame originator Shekhar. Khan's second arrival of 2011 was "Wear 2", a continuation of "Wear" (2006). To plan for his job, Khan practiced broadly and performed the greater part of the tricks himself. His execution earned him certain audits from faultfinders; Nikhat Kazmi of "The Times of India" stated, "Shah Rukh stays in direction and never loses his decent footing, neither through the sensational arrangements nor through the activity cuts". The year's most elevated netting Bollywood generation abroad, it was displayed at the 62nd Berlin International Film Festival. 

Khan's solitary discharge in 2012 was Yash Chopra's last picture, the show "Hit Tak Hai Jaan", which saw him by and by in a sentimental job, featuring inverse Katrina Kaif and Anushka Sharma. CNN-IBN considered the general execution by Khan to have been one of his best to date, yet trusted that Khan's first screen kiss of his profession with Katrina Kaif, twenty years his lesser, was a cumbersome one. "Hit Tak Hai Jaan" was a moderate monetary achievement procuring over around the world. The film was exhibited at the 2012 Marrakech International Film Festival in Morocco, alongside "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham...", "Veer-Zaara", and "Wear 2". At the accompanying Zee Cine Awards, Khan played out a tribute to the late Yash Chopra alongside Kaif, Sharma, and a few of Chopra's other past courageous women. 

In 2013, Khan featured in Rohit Shetty's activity satire "Chennai Express" for Red Chillies Entertainment, a film which earned blended basic surveys and a considerable measure of analysis for its apparent criticism of South Indian culture, in spite of the fact that the film incorporated a tribute to Tamil film star Rajinikanth. The commentator Khalid Mohamed believed that Khan exaggerated in the film and scrutinized him for "re-rendering each old trap in the acting book". In spite of the analysis, the film broke many film industry records for Hindi movies in the two India and abroad, outperforming "3 Idiots" to quickly turn into the most noteworthy earning Bollywood film ever, with a gross of nearly in overall ticket deals. On 7 March 2013a day before International Women's Day"The Times of India" detailed that Khan had mentioned another tradition with the name of his lead female co-stars showing up over his very own in the credits. He guaranteed that the ladies throughout his life, including his co-stars, have been the purpose behind his prosperity. In 2014, the performing artist was highlighted in Farah Khan's troupe parody "Cheerful New Year", which co-featured Deepika Padukone, Abhishek Bachchan and Boman Irani; his third joint effort with the executive. Despite the fact that Khan's unidimensional character was reprimanded, the film turned into a noteworthy business achievement netting around the world. 

Khan next showed up nearby Kajol, Varun Dhawan and Kriti Sanon in Rohit Shetty's satire dramatization "Dilwale" (2015). The film collected negative audits, however it was monetarily beneficial with a gross of . Namrata Joshi of "The Hindu" remarked, "With "Dilwale", Rohit Shetty turns out badly regardless of much that he had available to him, including a power-pressed cast and maker". Joshi additionally felt that the endeavor to repackage Khan and Kajol had exploded backward. He at that point took on double pieces of a hotshot and his doppelgänger fan in Maneesh Sharma's spine chiller "Fan" (2016). Diminish Bradshaw of "The Guardian" believed the film to be "debilitating, peculiar yet watchable" and suspected that Khan was apropos "unpleasant" as the over the top admirer. The film failed to meet expectations in the cinematic world, and exchange columnists credited this inability to the film's non-adjustment to standard recipe. Soon thereafter, Khan depicted the supporting piece of a specialist a yearning for cinematographer (played by Alia Bhatt) in Gauri Shinde's transitioning film "Dear Zindagi". 

In Rahul Dholakia's wrongdoing show film "Raees" (2017), Khan assumed the piece of the main enemy of heroa peddler turned mobster in 1980s Gujarat. In a run of the mill blended audit, Pratim D. Gupta of "The Telegraph" believed Khan's execution to be "conflicting, serious and control stuffed on occasion, yet frequently slipping abnormal into his standard blend of stock idiosyncrasies". Financially, the film was an unobtrusive achievement, procuring about around the world. Khan came back to the sentimental classification with the job of a vacationer manage who goes gaga for a voyager (played by Anushka Sharma) in Imtiaz Ali's "Poke Harry Met Sejal" (2017). Composing for "Mint", Uday Bhatia censured Khan's blending with Sharma, 22 years his lesser, composing that Khan had performed "comparable motions of adoration decades prior to on-screen characters his own age". The film ended up being a film industry flop. Khan next rejoined with Sharma and Katrina Kaif in Aanand L Rai's parody show "Zero" (2018), in which he played Bauua Singh, a midget associated with an affection triangle. The movie got blended surveys with commendation coordinated to Khan's execution. Composing for "Hindustan Times", Raja Sen lauded his "commanding execution and gigantic vitality" and Anna M. M. Vetticad of "Firstpost" considered him an "astounding fit" for the job for permitting his "normally enthusiastic identity, comic planning and appeal to take off". Financially, it neglected to progress admirably. As indicated by a Box Office India report, Khan's fame was affected by his movies neglecting to progress admirably. 

Khan co-created three movies from 1999 to 2003 as an establishing individual from the association Dreamz Unlimited. After the association was broken down, he and Gauri rebuilt the organization as Red Chillies Entertainment, which incorporates divisions managing film and TV creation, special visualizations, and promoting. Starting at 2015, the organization has created or co-delivered no less than nine movies. Either Khan or Gauri are normally given creation credits, and he has showed up in a large portion of the movies, either in the number one spot job, or in a visitor appearance. Khan was associated with a few parts of the creation of "Ra.One" (2011). Beside acting, he created the film, volunteered to compose the comfort amusement content, named for it, administered its specialized improvement, and composed the computerized funnies dependent on the film's characters. Khan has periodically done playback singing for his movies. In "Josh" (2000) he sang the well known tune "Apun Bola Tu Meri Laila". He additionally sang in "Wear" (2006) and "Poke Tak Hai Jaan" (2012). For "Dependably Kabhi" (2011), which was created by Red Chillies, Khan took an interest in the expressive piece. 

Notwithstanding his initial TV sequential appearances, Khan has facilitated various broadcast entertainment ceremonies, including the Filmfare, Zee Cine, and Screen Awards. In 2007, he substituted Amitabh Bachchan for one season as the host of "Kaun Banega Crorepati", the Indian rendition of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?", and after a year, Khan started facilitating "Kya Aap Paanchvi Pass Se Tez Hain?", the Indian variant of "Would you say you are Smarter Than a fifth Grader?". In 2011, he came back to TV, showing up on Imagine TV's "", the Indian variant of "Crash"; scenes highlighting Khan were shot at the Yash Raj Studios in Mumbai. In spite of his prior TV tying down employments, "Zor Ka Jhatka: Total Wipeout" performed ineffectively. It broadcast for just a single season and turned into the most minimal evaluated show facilitated by a Bollywood star. In 2017, Khan started facilitating "TED Talks India Nayi Soch", a syndicated program created by TED Conferences, LLC which began disclosed on STAR Plus. 

Khan is an incessant stage entertainer and has taken an interest in a few world visits and shows. In 1997, he performed in Asha Bhosle's Moments in Time show in Malaysia, and restored the next year to perform with Karisma Kapoor for the Shahrukh– Karisma: Live in Malaysia show. That year, he took an interest in The Awesome Foursome world visit over the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States alongside Juhi Chawla, Akshay Kumar and Kajol, and continued the visit in Malaysia the next year. In 2002, Khan highlighted with Amitabh Bachchan, Aamir Khan, Preity Zinta, and Aishwarya Rai in the show From India With Love at Manchester's Old Trafford and London's Hyde Park; the occasion was gone to by more than 100,000 people. Khan performed close by Rani Mukherji, Arjun Rampal and Ishaa Koppikar in a 2010 show at the Army Stadium in Dhaka, Bangladesh. The following year he joined Shahid Kapoor and Priyanka Chopra in the Friendship Concert, commending 150 years of India– South Africa kinship in Durban, South Africa. 

Khan began a relationship with the "Enticements" arrangement of show visits by singing, moving, and performing dramas close by Arjun Rampal, Priyanka Chopra, and other Bollywood stars in Temptations 2004, a phase demonstrate that visited 22 venues over the world. The show played to 15,000 spectators at Dubai's Festival City Arena. In 2008, Khan set up Temptation Reloaded, a progression of shows that visited a few nations, including the Netherlands. Another visit was held with Bipasha Basu and others in 2012 in Jakarta, and in 2013 another arrangement of shows visited Auckland, Perth and Sydney. In 2014, Khan performed in SLAM! The Tour in the US, Canada, and London, and furthermore facilitated the Indian debut of the live ability appear, Got Talent World Stage Live. 

In 2008, Khan, in organization with Juhi Chawla and her significant other Jay Mehta, procured possession rights for the establishment speaking to Kolkata in the Twenty20 cricket competition Indian Premier League (IPL) for , and named the group Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR). , KKR was one of the most extravagant groups in the IPL, with a brand estimation of . The group performed ineffectively on the field amid the initial three years. Their execution improved after some time, and they turned into the victors without precedent for 2012 and rehashed the accomplishment in 2014. The Knight Riders hold the record for the longest series of wins by any Indian group in T20s (14). 

Khan performed close by Sunidhi Chauhan and Shriya Saran at the opening service of the IPL 2011 season, where they moved to Tamil melodies. He showed up again in 2013 close by Katrina Kaif, Deepika Padukone and Pitbull. In May 2012, the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) restricted him from the Wankhede Stadium for a long time for getting into a contention with the security staff after a match among KKR and the Mumbai Indians. Khan had, notwithstanding, expressed that he acted simply after youngsters, including his little girl, were being "mistreated" by the security staff and that the authorities were amazingly overbearing and forceful in their conduct, he had been mishandled with common revolting remark. Later MCA authorities had blamed him for being flushed in one form of the story, hitting the gatekeeper and of totally strangely mishandling a female supporter of Mumbai Indians after the match in another adaptation of the story, which Khan had kept up it was done to help their activity and for modest exposure. Wankhede monitor later negated MCA authorities' case and said Shah Rukh Khan had not hit him. Khan later apologized to his fans after his group won the last match. MCA disavowed the boycott in 2015 and in 2016, Mumbai Police educated that no 'cognisable offense' was made out against Khan and they had arrived at the resolution that Shah Rukh Khan was not flushed and did not utilize damaging language before minors at the Wankhede Stadium in 2012. 

Shah Rukh Khan gets a lot of media inclusion in India, and is regularly alluded to as "Lord Khan", "The Baadshah of Bollywood", or "The King of Bollywood". Anupama Chopra refers to him as an "ever present VIP", with a few movies per year, continually running TV promotions, print advertisements, and monstrous bulletins coating the boulevards of Indian urban communities. He is the object of an occasionally over the top after, with a fan base evaluated to surpass one billion. "Newsweek" named Khan as one of their fifty most influential individuals comprehensively in 2008 and called him "the world's greatest motion picture star". In 2011 he was proclaimed "the greatest motion picture star you've never heard of...perhaps the world's greatest film star, period" by Steven Zeitchik of the "Los Angeles Times" and has been known as the world's greatest motion picture star in other universal news sources. As per a notoriety study, 3.2 billion individuals around the globe know Shah Rukh Khan, more than who realize Tom Cruise. Khan is one of the wealthiest big names in India, beating the "Forbes" India's "VIP 100 rundown" in 2012, 2013 and 2015. His riches has been evaluated at US$400– 600 million. Khan claims a few properties in India and abroad, incorporating a loft in London, and an estate on the Palm Jumeirah in Dubai. 

Khan as often as possible shows up on postings of the most prevalent, trendy and compelling individuals in India. He has consistently included among the main ten on "The Times of India"s rundown of the 50 most attractive men in India, and in a 2007 survey by the magazine "Eastern Eye" he was named the hottest man in Asia. Khan is frequently alluded to as "Brand SRK" by media associations on account of his many image underwriting and business adventures. He is one of the most generously compensated Bollywood endorsers and a standout amongst the most unmistakable superstars in TV promoting, with up to a six percent offer of the TV notice showcase. Khan has embraced brands including Pepsi, Nokia, Hyundai, Dish TV, D'decor, LUX and TAG Heuer. Books have been distributed about him, and his ubiquity has been archived in a few verifiable movies, including the two-section narrative "The Inner and Outer World of Shah Rukh Khan" (2005), and the Discovery Travel and Living station's ten-section miniseries "Living with a SuperstarShah Rukh Khan" (2010). In 2007, Khan turned into the third Indian performer to have his wax statue introduced at London's Madame Tussauds exhibition hall, after Aishwarya Rai and Amitabh Bachchan. Extra forms of the statue were introduced at Madame Tussauds' galleries in Los Angeles, Hong Kong, New York and Washington. 

Khan has been brand minister of different administrative crusades, including Pulse Polio and the National AIDS Control Organization. He is an individual from the governing body of the Make-A-Wish Foundation in India, and in 2011 he was designated by UNOPS as the principal worldwide envoy of the Water Supply and Sanitation Collaborative Council. He has recorded a progression of open administration declarations supporting great wellbeing and appropriate nourishment, and joined India's Health Ministry and UNICEF in an across the country kid vaccination crusade. In 2011, he got UNESCO's Pyramide con Marni grant for his altruistic promise to give training to youngsters, turning into the principal Indian to win the honor. In 2014, Khan turned into the diplomat for Interpol's crusade "Turn Back Crime". In 2015, Khan got a favored degree from the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. In 2018, Khan was regarded by the World Economic Forum with their yearly Crystal Award for his initiative in advocating kids' and ladies' rights in India. 

Khan is a standout amongst the most brightened Bollywood performing artists. He has gotten 14 Filmfare Awards from 30 nominations and exceptional honors, including eight for Best Actor; he is tied for the most in the classification with Dilip Kumar. Khan has won the Filmfare Best Actor grant for "Baazigar" (1993), "Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge" (1995), "Dil To Pagal Hai" (1997), "Kuch Hota Hai" (1998), "Devdas" (2002), "Swades" (2004), "Chak De! India" (2007) and "My Name Is Khan" (2010). On occasion, he has gathered upwards of three of the five all out Filmfare Best Actor selections. In spite of the fact that he has never won a National Film Award, he was granted the Padma Shri by the Government of India in 2005. The Government of France has granted him both the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres (2007), and its most elevated regular citizen respect, the Légion d'honneur (2014).