No. 1 Squadron RAAF 

No. 1 Squadron is a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) squadron headquartered at RAAF Base Amberley, Queensland. Constrained by No. 82 Wing, it is furnished with Boeing F/A-18F Super Hornet multi-job contenders. The squadron was framed under the Australian Flying Corps in 1916 and saw activity in the Sinai and Palestine Campaigns amid World War I. It flew out of date Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2s, B.E.12s, Martinsyde G.100s and G.102s, just as Airco DH.6s, Bristol Scouts and Nieuport 17s, before re-outfitting with the R.E.8 in October 1917 lastly the Bristol Fighter in December. Its boss in 1917– 18 was Major Richard Williams, later known as the "Father of the RAAF". Disbanded in 1919, No. 1 Squadron was re-framed on paper as a major aspect of the RAAF in 1922, and restored as an operational unit three years after the fact. 

Amid World War II, the squadron flew Lockheed Hudson planes in the Malayan and Dutch East Indies battles, enduring serious misfortunes before being decreased to unit in 1942. It was re-framed with Bristol Beauforts the next year, and re-outfitted with de Havilland Mosquitos in 1945 for further activities in the Dutch East Indies. Diminished to unit yet again after the war finished, No. 1 Squadron was restored at Amberley in 1948 as an Avro Lincoln overwhelming plane unit. From 1950 to 1958 it was situated in Singapore, flying missions amid the Malayan Emergency, where it endured the worst part of the Commonwealth air battle against socialist guerillas. When it came back to Australia it re-furnished with English Electric Canberra stream planes. It worked McDonald Douglas F-4E Phantom IIs rented from the USAF from 1970 to 1973, as a stop-hole pending conveyance of the General Dynamics F-111C swing-wing plane. The F-111 stayed in administration for a long time until supplanted by the Super Hornet in 2010. In 2014– 15, and again in 2017, a unit of Super Hornets was conveyed to the Middle East as a component of Australia's commitment to the military mediation against ISIL. 

No. 1 Squadron is situated at RAAF Base Amberley, Queensland, and constrained by No. 82 Wing, which is a piece of Air Combat Group. Its central goal obligations incorporate aerial and air-to-surface battle. The squadron is nicknamed the "Battling First". The blazon of its peak is "the Australian Kookaburra in a plunging position superimposed on the cross of Jerusalem", which symbolizes the Victoria Cross-winning activity of No. 1 Squadron pilot Frank McNamara in Palestine amid World War I. The unit saying is "Videmus Agamus" (""We see and we strike""). 

The squadron works Boeing F/A-18F Super Hornet multi-job contenders, the first entered administration in March 2010. Nicknamed the "Rhino", its missions incorporate air prevalence, contender escort, land strike, sea strike, close air backing, and observation. The Super Hornet is bigger than the "work of art" McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet worked by the RAAF, conveys more arms, and has a more noteworthy fuel limit. It is fitted with a 20 mm gun and can be outfitted with aerial and against transportation rockets, just as an assortment of air-to-ground bombs and rockets. Flown by a group of two, a pilot and an air battle officer (ACO), it is fit for connecting with focuses noticeable all around and superficially all the while. It very well may be refueled in trip by the RAAF's Airbus KC-30A Multi Role Tanker Transports. The Super Hornets are adjusted at the working dimension by No. 1 Squadron specialized staff; heavier support is directed by Boeing Defense Australia and different contractual workers. 

No. 1 Squadron was built up as a unit of the Australian Flying Corps (AFC) at Point Cook, Victoria, in January 1916 under the order of Lieutenant Colonel E.H. Reynolds. With a supplement of 28 officers, 195 aviators, no flying machine and small preparing, it cruised for Egypt in mid-March 1916, touching base at Suez a month later. There it went under the control of the fifth Wing of the Royal Flying Corps (RFC). Subsequent to preparing in England and Egypt, the unit was proclaimed operational at its new base camp in Heliopolis on 12 June, when it took over air ship having a place with No. 17 Squadron RFC. Its three flights were, be that as it may, working in separation at various bases in the Sinai Desert, and the squadron did not rejoin until December. Flying crude and inadequately equipped Royal Aircraft Factory B.E.2 two-situate biplanes, its essential jobs amid this time of the Sinai Campaign were surveillance—including airborne photography—and big guns spotting for the British Army. No. 1 Squadron pilots appended to No. 14 Squadron RFC partook in the Battle of Romani in July and August. In September and October, B and C Flights, driven by Captains Oswald Watt and Richard Williams separately, embraced besieging and observation missions in help of the Australian Light Horse in northern Sinai. 

On 12 September 1916, the British started to allude to No. 1 Squadron as No. 67 (Australian) Squadron RFC. This training proceeded until January 1918, when the unit formally wound up known as No. 1 Squadron AFC. The connection among aviators and ground team was less formal than in British units; squadron individuals reviewed that "The CO is the special case who is ever called 'sir and that officers did not request "saluting and remaining to consideration and such decay". The unit got the first of a few Martinsyde G.100 single-situate contenders to increase the B.E.2s on 16 October; albeit thought about outdated, the "Tinsyde" was considerably quicker than the B.E.2, and outfitted with forward-discharging automatic weapons. Presently before the squadron participated in a besieging strike against Beersheba on 11 November, Lieutenant Lawrence Wackett figured out how to fix an assault rifle to the top plane of one of the B.E.2s, utilizing a mount he structured himself. Each flight was additionally alloted a Bristol Scout starting in December, however it also was out of date and under-controlled, and the squadron stopped working the sort inside three months. Other more established models issued to the unit incorporated the Airco DH.6, Martinsyde G.102 and Nieuport 17. On 17 December, the squadron's flights were at long last united at one base, Mustabig. 

Walk 1917 saw the heaviest besieging effort completed by the squadron to date; shy of its customary weapons, the pilots extemporized by dropping howitzer shells on Turkish powers along the Gaza– Beersheba line. Amid one such mission on 20 March, Lieutenant Frank McNamara earned the Victoria Cross for finding his Martinsyde in the desert under foe fire and safeguarding an individual pilot whose B.E.2 had been constrained down. On 26 March, No. 1 Squadron partook in the First Battle of Gaza; it endured its first battle demise the following day, when one of its B.E.2s was assaulted by a German Rumpler. The unit took an interest in the Second Battle of Gaza on 19 April; like its antecedent, the assault was a disappointment for the Allies. Williams, later known as the "Father of the RAAF", expected direction of the squadron in May. Two B.E.12s were conveyed that month; like the Martinsydes, they were equipped with a forward-terminating automatic rifle and utilized as escorts for the B.E.2s. By June, mechanical issues brought about by sweltering summer climate and the risk from new German Albatros scouts were rendering the B.E.2s to a great extent ineffectual, and Williams critically mentioned more current models. Present day airplane were in the long run conveyed, first the Royal Aircraft Factory R.E.8 in October, and after that the Bristol F.2 Fighter in December. "Presently out of the blue," composed Williams, "following 17 months in the field we had flying machine with which we could manage our adversary noticeable all around." 

No. 1 Squadron joined the 40th (Army) Wing of the RFC's Palestine Brigade on 5 October 1917. On 22 and 24 November, the squadron bombarded Bireh town amid the Battle of Jerusalem. The first of its 29 affirmed airborne triumphs, over an Albatros, happened on 3 January 1918. By the end of the month, its supplement of flying machine included five B.E.2s, five Martinsydes, two R.E.8s, and nine Bristol Fighters. The squadron bolstered the Capture of Jericho in February 1918. It did air assaults and surveyed before the First Transjordan assault on Amman in March and preceding the Second Transjordan assault on Shunet Nimrin and Es Salt a month later; it additionally flew observation missions amid the development to and battling close Es Salt and Jisr ed Damieh. Before the finish of March, it was outfitted with 18 Bristol Fighters, which had supplanted the various kinds. Just as attempted hostile tasks, the Bristol Fighters served in the photograph surveillance job. Amid the most recent seven day stretch of April 1918, the squadron pushed its base ahead from Mejdel to another aerodrome outside Ramleh. Williams surrendered order in June to take over 40th Wing. 

Starting in August 1918, individuals from No. 1 Squadron, including one of its pros, Lieutenant Ross Smith, were joined to Colonel T.E. Lawrence's Arab armed force to ensure it against German bombarding. In September, the squadron started working a Handley Page 0/100, the main Allied substantial plane in the Middle East and the main twin-engined flying machine flown by the AFC. That month it joined the Bristol Fighters in the last hostile of the Palestinian Campaign, the Battle of Armageddon, exacting what the Australian authority history portrayed as "discount annihilation" on the Turkish Seventh Army. By October, the Bristol Fighters had pushed ahead from Ramleh to Haifa and by the center of the month were required to watch and observe an outstandingly wide zone of nation, once in a while between , flying over Rayak, Homs, Beirut, Tripoli, Hama, Aleppo, Killis and Alexandretta. They besieged the German aerodromes at Rayak, where 32 German machines had been either surrendered or copied, on 2 October. On 19 October, the principal German flying machine was found noticeable all around since battling about Deraa in mid-September, only preceding the Battle of Sharon. Smith and another pilot constrained a DFW two-seater to arrive, and devastated it on the ground by terminating a Very light into the air ship after the German pilot and onlooker had moved to wellbeing. In the wake of the 31 October peace negotiation with Turkey, the squadron migrated to Ramleh in December, and after that in February 1919 to Kantara. There its individuals were actually farewelled by General Sir Edmund Allenby, who praised them for accomplishing "total amazingness of the air ... a factor of fundamental significance" to the Allied crusade. 

No. 1 Squadron came back to Australia on 5 March 1919, and was disbanded. In 1921, the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) was built up as a different part of the military, and on 1 January 1922, the squadron was re-framed on paper. Its arranged quality, endorsed by the Air Board in December 1921, was three officers and five aviators, working four Airco DH.9s. Subsidizing issues for the youngster Air Force brought about the disbandment on 1 July of No. 1 Squadron and different units built up in the meantime, their air ship and staff rather framing a solitary squadron of six flights under the control of No. 1 Flying Training School (No. 1 FTS) at Point Cook. No. 1 Squadron was reactivated as an operational unit of the RAAF save, known as the Citizen Air Force (CAF), at Point Cook on 1 July 1925. Its boss was Flight Lieutenant Harry Cobby. 

Like No. 3 Squadron, shaped that day at Point Cook however exchanged to RAAF Richmond, New South Wales, after three weeks, No. 1 Squadron was a multi-reason or "composite" unit made up of three flights, every one of which had an alternate job and included four flying machine: A Flight worked DH.9s for armed force collaboration, B Flight worked Royal Aircraft Factory S.E.5 contenders, and C Flight worked DH.9A planes. 33% of the squadron's supplement of 27 officers and 169 pilots was Permanent Air Force (PAF), and the rest CAF. No. 1 Squadron moved from Point Cook to adjacent RAAF Laverton on 1 January 1928. The RAAF resigned its S.E.5s that year, and in 1929 took conveyance of Westland Wapiti broadly useful airplane to supplant its DH.9s and DH.9As. Through the between war years, No. 1 Squadron attempted different undertakings including common guide, flood and bushfire help, inquiry and salvage, ethereal overviews, and flying demonstration exhibits. In October 1930, a de Havilland DH.60 Moth appended to the unit directed Australia's first yield tidying task, at the command of the Victorian Forestry Commission. 

RAAF squadrons started receiving particular jobs in the mid 1930s, No. 1 Squadron getting to be No. 1 Single-Engined Bomber Squadron. By November 1935 it was comprised of two flights of recently conveyed Hawker Demon contender aircraft, and one of Wapitis. In December 1935 it was expanded by No. 1 FTS's Fighter Squadron and its six Bristol Bulldogs, which were redesignated contender aircraft. Nos. 21 and 22 (Cadre) Squadrons were shaped on 20 April 1936 at Laverton and Richmond, separately, retaining the CAF staff of Nos. 1 and 3 Squadrons, which progressed toward becoming PAF units. That day, No. 1 Squadron was renamed No. 1 (Fighter Bomber) Squadron. This revamping briefly exposed No. 1 Squadron of the majority of its air ship, leaving just A Flight, with four Bulldogs and a Wapiti, in activity. The Wapiti was exchanged to No. 1 FTS in July, and before the month's over the squadron's supplement of air ship remained at four Bulldogs and one Moth. 

No. 1 Squadron started accepting new Demons in November 1936. In January 1937, it surrendered its Bulldogs to No. 21 Squadron, which was to hold them until they could be exchanged to the destined to-be-shaped No. 2 Squadron. Before the finish of February, No. 1 Squadron's quality was 12 Demons and one Moth, 11 officers and 108 aviators. The unit was redesignated No. 1 (Bomber) Squadron in August 1937. Towards the year's end, it was tormented by a few Demon mishaps, bringing about a progression of request and a survey of RAAF systems in 1938 by Marshal of the RAF Sir Edward Ellington; the supposed Ellington Report and its analysis of air wellbeing principles prompted the expulsion of Air Vice-Marshal Richard Williams from his situation as Chief of the Air Staff, which he had held since the arrangement of the Air Force. No. 1 Squadron got the RAAF's initial three CAC Wirraways on 10 July 1939. As the probability of war expanded, the squadron's job was modified to join surveillance just as bombarding, bringing about the exchange out everything being equal and Wirraways and the move in from different units of nine Avro Ansons on 28– 29 August 1939; toward the month's end its work force contained nine officers and 122 pilots. 

Following the flare-up of World War II, No. 1 Squadron's Ansons were entrusted with sea watch and guard escort obligations. In 1940, the squadron turned into the RAAF's debut Lockheed Hudson unit; it got its first Hudson on 30 March, and before the finish of May had exchanged out the remainder of its Ansons and was working 11 of the new airplane. Conveyed to Malaya to direct sea observation, No. 1 Squadron touched base at Sembawang, Singapore, on 4 July 1940. It moved to RAF Kota Bharu, close to the Malaya– Thailand outskirt, in August 1941. Two days before the assault on Malaya, its Hudsons recognized the Japanese intrusion armada be that as it may, given vulnerability about the boats' goal and directions to maintain a strategic distance from hostile activities until assaults were a made against agreeable area, Air Chief Marshal Sir Robert Brooke-Popham did not enable the escort to be bombarded. Soon after 12 pm, nearby time, the evening of 7/8 December, the Japanese power began arriving on the shorelines at Kota Bharu, near the runway, and from about 02:00, No. 1 Squadron propelled a progression of strikes on the Japanese powers, turning into the main air ship to make an assault in the Pacific War. The Hudsons sank a Japanese transport dispatch, the IJN "Awazisan Maru", and harmed two additional vehicles, the "Ayatosan Maru" and "Sakura Maru", for the loss of two Hudsons, an hour prior to the assault on Pearl Harbor. Before the day's over, Japanese ground powers had progressed to the edges of the landing strip, constraining the squadron's staying airworthy flying machine to be emptied to Kuantan, and from that point back to Singapore. 

By Christmas Eve 1941, No. 1 Squadron had five functional airplane. Together with No. 8 Squadron RAAF, additionally outfitted with Hudsons, it was entrusted with oceanic watches toward the east of Singapore. On 26 January 1942, two of the squadron's Hudsons recognized a Japanese guard heading for Endau, on the east shoreline of Malaya. It was chosen to assault the guard with all conceivable quality, including four Hudsons from No. 1 Squadron and five from No. 8 Squadron, together with out of date Vickers Vildebeest and Fairey Albacore biplanes of Nos. 36 and 100 Squadrons RAF, and with what little warrior escort could be found. The escort was emphatically protected by Japanese contenders, and albeit every one of the nine Hudsons came back to Singapore, a few were gravely shot up. The remainder of the strike compel did not toll also; 11 Vildebeests, two Albacores, two Hudsons (of No. 62 Squadron RAF) and three contenders were lost. Before the month's over, No. 1 Squadron had pulled back to landing strip P.2 on Sumatra, alongside a few other Commonwealth units including No. 8 Squadron. It kept on assaulting Japanese bases in Malaya and caravans in the Dutch East Indies, moving to Semplak, Java, in mid-February. At Semplak it assumed control over the Hudsons of No. 8 Squadron and No. 62 Squadron RAF, giving it a quality of 25 flying machine; at one phase it was to be renumbered as a RAF squadron, yet this never happened. Vigorously dwarfed by Japanese air units, which attacked Allied bases without any potential repercussions, No. 1 Squadron endured overwhelming misfortunes and was requested to pull back its four outstanding Hudsons to Australia on 2 March 1942, disbanding before long. Albeit 120 of the squadron's staff were emptied from Java, 160 men including the boss, Wing Commander Davis, were unfit to escape and were taken prisoner by the Japanese; not exactly half endure imprisonment. 

No. 1 Squadron was re-framed with Bristol Beauforts on 1 December 1943 at Menangle, New South Wales. By March 1944 it had conveyed to Gould, Northern Territory, where it was constrained by No. 79 Wing under North-Western Area Command. Its quality toward the start of the month was somewhere in the range of 350 officers and men, and 19 Beauforts. The squadron started observation tasks on 20 March, and attempted its first shelling mission on 4 April against Lautem, East Timor. It assaulted different focuses in Timor amid May, losing two air ship. Having attempted 82 fights in July, the Beauforts focused on sea observation from August, utilizing air-to-surface radar amid activities from Gould and Gove. After re-furnishing with Mosquito contender planes at Kingaroy, Queensland, in January 1945, the squadron conveyed to Morotai in May and after that Labuan Island in June– July. Presently part of No. 86 (Attack) Wing, it flew just a couple of missions before the finish of the war, losing one Mosquito. No. 1 Squadron came back to Australia in December 1945 and was disbanded at Narromine, New South Wales, on 7 August 1946. 

No. 1 Squadron was re-framed as a substantial aircraft unit on 23 February 1948, when No. 12 Squadron was re-assigned. Working Avro Lincolns, it was based at RAAF Station Amberley, Queensland, where it shaped piece of No. 82 (Bomber) Wing. The wing's flying machine were adjusted by No. 482 (Maintenance) Squadron. From July 1950 to July 1958—for the initial more than two years under the protection of No. 90 (Composite) Wing—it was situated in Singapore, flying missions against socialist guerrillas amid the Malayan Emergency. Entrusted by RAF Air Headquarters Malaya, the Lincolns by and large directed territory bombarding missions, just as strikes against pinpoint targets. They worked independently and in developments, now and again working together with RAF aircraft, and frequently strafed focuses with their automatic weapons and 20 mm gun in the wake of dropping arms. The Lincolns were viewed as appropriate to the battle, inferable from their range and capacity to fly at low speeds to look for focuses, just as their capability and substantial bomb load. Not fighting with hostile to air ship fire, they flew chiefly by day, however No. 1 Squadron additionally worked by night, the main Commonwealth unit to do as such. 

The squadron completed its own everyday upkeep in Malaya; the Lincolns were pivoted back to Australia for significant work. Its unique supplement of six flying machine was expanded to eight after the British Air Ministry mentioned in February 1951 that Australia increase its plane power to incompletely counterbalance the inescapable withdrawal of the RAF's Lincolns to Bomber Command in Europe. The squadron was granted the Gloucester Cup for capability in 1950– 51 and 1954– 55. It endured no losses amid the crusade however two of its flying machine were discounted: one that overshot the runway at Tengah in November 1951, and another that collided with the ocean off Johore subsequent to striking trees on departure in January 1957. 

In spite of the fact that the first reason for the bombarding effort in Malaya was to slaughter whatever number radicals as could be expected under the circumstances, the difficulty of accomplishing this in activities over thick wilderness brought about a move towards irritating and disheartening the socialists, driving them out of their bases and into zones held by Commonwealth ground troops. Activity Kingly Pile, which included two fights by No. 1 Squadron and one by English Electric Canberra stream planes of No. 12 Squadron RAF on 21 February 1956, was considered the best of the in excess of 4,000 missions led by the Lincolns, murdering something like 14 socialist troops. When it was pulled back to Australia in July 1958, the squadron had dropped more than 14,000 tons of bombs—85 percent of the complete conveyed by Commonwealth powers amid the Emergency. Its administration was perceived with the introduction of a Squadron Standard by the Commander-in-Chief Far East Air Force, Air Marshal The Earl of Brandon. Until 2014, the Malayan Emergency had denoted the last event that the unit partook in battle activities. 

No. 1 Squadron re-furnished with Canberra Mk.20s in the wake of coming back to Australia. The RAAF's first fly plane, the Canberra was subsonic however had long range and was exceedingly flexibility. It had been secured mostly for its ability to convey atomic weapons, an arms choice the legislature genuinely pondered however never procured. At first the Canberra's visualized mission profile was medium-to-high-elevation territory bombarding yet its crude bombsight and light burden made this a questionable suggestion, and by mid-1961 teams were preparing in low-level armed force participation strategies. No. 1 Squadron was granted progressive Gloucester Cups for its capability in 1959– 60 and 1960– 61. As of January 1962, its quality was eight flying machine and 53 work force, including 18 officers. The unit successfully stopped activities in 1968, to start changing over to the General Dynamics F-111C supersonic plane, which was relied upon to enter administration soon a while later. Officially dubious inferable from its heightening cost, the F-111 program was vigorously deferred via airworthiness concerns identified with its swing-wing innovation. In September 1970, as an interval measure while anticipating conveyance of the F-111, No. 1 Squadron surrendered its Canberras for rented McDonnell Douglas F-4E Phantoms, which it worked until June 1973. In spite of the fact that the Phantom had a multi-job ability, the RAAF utilized it as a strike flying machine to keep up similarity with the proposed F-111 mission profile. One of No. 1 Squadron's Phantoms was lost with its group of two in June 1971, the main fatalities and structure loss of the 24 airplane rented to the RAAF. In spite of the fact that not as complex an air ship as the F-111, the Phantom was a critical development over the Canberra, and very much respected by its Australian teams. 

No. 82 Wing acknowledged its first F-111Cs in June 1973. The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Charles Read, requested that the new airplane be flown with incredible alert at first, well inside operational breaking points, to limit the likelihood of further harm to its notoriety through early wearing down. No. 1 Squadron was relegated 12 of the underlying 24 air ship conveyed. It was No. 82 Wing's lead strike drive, while No. 6 Squadron was principally entrusted with team change preparing. The wing utilized a unified overhauling routine, whereby all airplane and support staff were held by No. 482 Squadron, which discharged the F-111s in accordance with Nos. 1 and 6 Squadrons' joint flying system. In February 1981, obligation regarding working dimension overhauling of the F-111s was exchanged to the flying squadrons, which out of the blue assumed direct responsibility for their F-111s. No. 482 Squadron kept on giving middle of the road level overhauling, while real redesigns and complex support were done by No. 3 Aircraft Depot. These two associations converged in 1992 to shape No. 501 Wing, which gave over substantial upkeep of the F-111 to Boeing Australia in 2001. Somewhere in the range of 1977 and 1993, the RAAF lost seven F-111Cs in accidents. Three of the mishaps included airplane flown by No. 1 Squadron: in August 1979, January 1986 and September 1993, the last two executing both group individuals. In July 1996, No. 1 Squadron assumed liability for ethereal surveillance utilizing uncommonly altered RF-111Cs recently worked by No. 6 Squadron. This gave No. 1 Squadron five mission types: land strike, sea strike, close air support, long-extend air safeguard, and observation. In May 1999 the unit was again granted the Gloucester Cup for capability. 

Alongside its progressive variable-clear wings, the F-111 was furnished with territory following radar and a departure module that enabled the whole cockpit to be casted off in a crisis, rather than individual launch seats. Its top speed was Mach 2.5 and its battle range gave it the capacity of achieving focuses in Indonesia from bases in northern Australia. Upon conveyance in 1973 it was fitted with simple aeronautics and could just drop unguided ("moronic") bombs. In its 37 years of administration with the RAAF the sort experienced a few redesigns, including the Pave Tack infra-red and laser-guided accuracy weapons focusing on framework, Harpoon hostile to transportation rockets, and progressed computerized flying. Alan Stephens, in the official history of the post-war Air Force, depicted the F-111 as "the district's pre-famous strike air ship" and the RAAF's most essential obtaining. The nearest they came to being utilized in annoyance, however, was amid Australian-drove INTERFET tasks in East Timor starting in September 1999. Both F-111 squadrons were sent to RAAF Base Tindal, Northern Territory, to help the worldwide powers in the event of activity by the Indonesian military, and stayed there until December; six of No. 1 Squadron's air ship and roughly 100 work force were included. From 20 September, when INTERFET powers started to touch base in East Timor, the F-111s were kept up at an abnormal state of status to lead surveillance flights or air strikes if the circumstance disintegrated. As it occurred, INTERFET did not experience huge opposition, and F-111 activities were constrained to observation by RF-111Cs from 5 November through 9 December. 

In 2007, the Australian government chose to resign the F-111s by 2010, and gain 24 Boeing F/A-18F Super Hornets as a break substitution, pending the entry of the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning at that point being created. The F-111 armada was viewed as in danger because of weakness, and too costly to even consider operating as every airplane required 180 hours of support for each hour of flying time. No. 1 Squadron stopped working the F-111 in January 2009, in anticipation of changing over to the Super Hornet. Previous F-111 aircrew, acquainted with one next to the other seating and an alternate act envelope, discovered change more testing than pilots experienced in the RAAF's McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet warriors, which imparted numerous qualities to the more current model. No. 1 Squadron re-prepared between 26 March 2010 and 21 October 2011, making it the primary Australian unit, and the principal squadron outside the United States, to fly the Super Hornet. It wound up operational with its new flying machine on 8 December 2011. The multi-job Super Hornet permitted No. 1 Squadron to expand its past hostile hit job with an aerial battle work. The RAAF achieved full operational ability with the Super Hornet in December 2012. 

On 14 September 2014, the Federal government focused on conveying up to eight Super Hornets of No. 1 Squadron to Al Minhad Air Base in the United Arab Emirates, as a component of the Australian Air Task Group joining the alliance against Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) powers in Iraq. Airplane from the squadron directed their first mission over Iraq on 5 October, and their first strike four days after the fact. As indicated by the Department of Defense, as of 20 December 2014 the Super Hornets had flown more than 180 fights, dropped 113 weapons, and crushed 36 ISIL targets, harming another six. In March 2015, having flown just about 3,000 hours in more than 400 missions, the separation was supplanted by six F/A-18As from No. 75 Squadron. A unit of No. 1 Squadron was again to sent to Al Minhad as a major aspect of the Australian Air Task Group in May 2017, supplanting the inheritance Hornets of No. 77 Squadron conveyed earlier. The Super Hornets flew the last strike mission of their revolution, and the remainder of 2,700 forays by the Air Task Group Hornets, on 14 January 2018. In April, No. 1 Squadron was granted the 2017 Gloucester Cup. 

In May 2013, the Federal government declared designs to buy 12 Boeing EA-18G Growlers to enhance the Super Hornet armada. No. 6 Squadron is required to start taking conveyance of the Growlers in 2017, so, all things considered its Super Hornets will be exchanged to No. 1 Squadron. In April 2014, the legislature reported the buy of 58 F-35s notwithstanding 14 effectively arranged, for the express motivation behind supplanting the 71 "great" Hornets of Nos. 3, 75 and 77 Squadrons and No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit. An administration choice on whether to buy a further 28 F-35s, to be based at Amberley, will rely upon to what extent the Super Hornets are to be held. As indicated by "Australian Aviation", proceeding postponements to the F-35 program have improved the probability that the Super Hornets of Nos. 1 and 6 Squadrons will, as opposed to being discarded ahead of schedule as initially arranged, keep on being worked by the RAAF for their full administration life of more than 20 years.