Heterodontosaurus 

Heterodontosaurus is a family of heterodontosaurid dinosaur that lived amid the Early Jurassic, 200– 190 million years back. Its solitary known part species, Heterodontosaurus tucki, was named in 1962 dependent on a skull found in South Africa. The variety name signifies "diverse toothed reptile", in reference to its uncommon, heterodont dentition; the particular name respects G. C. Tuck, who bolstered the pioneers. Further examples have since been found, including a practically total skeleton in 1966. 

In spite of the fact that it was a little dinosaur, "Heterodontosaurus" was one of the biggest individuals from its family, coming to between and perhaps long, and weighing between . The body was short with a long tail. The five-fingered forelimbs were long and generally hearty, though the rear appendages were long, thin, and had four toes. The skull was lengthened, slender, and triangular when seen from the side. The front of the jaws were canvassed in a horny bill. It had three kinds of teeth; in the upper jaw, little, incisor-like teeth were trailed by long, canine-like tusks. A hole partitioned the tusks from the etch like cheek-teeth. 

"Heterodontosaurus" is the eponymous and best-known individual from the family Heterodontosauridae. This family is viewed as a standout amongst the most crude or basal gatherings inside the request of ornithischian dinosaurs. Regardless of the vast tusks, "Heterodontosaurus" is thought to have been herbivorous, or if nothing else omnivorous. In spite of the fact that it was in the past idea to have been equipped for quadrupedal velocity, it is currently thought to have been bipedal. Tooth substitution was sporadic and not nonstop, in contrast to its relatives. Somewhere around four other heterodontosaurid genera are referred to from indistinguishable topographical arrangements from "Heterodontosaurus". 

"Heterodontosaurus" was a little dinosaur. The most total skeleton, SAM-PK-K1332, had a place with a creature estimating about long. Its weight was differently assessed at , and in isolated examinations. The conclusion of vertebral sutures on the skeleton demonstrates that the example was a grown-up, and most likely completely developed. A second example, comprising of a deficient skull, shows that "Heterodontosaurus" could have become significantly bigger – up to a length of and with a weight of almost . The purpose behind the size distinction between the two examples is indistinct, and might reflect changeability inside a solitary animal varieties, sexual dimorphism, or the nearness of two separate species. The span of this dinosaur has been contrasted with that of a turkey. "Heterodontosaurus" was among the biggest known individuals from the family Heterodontosauridae. The family contains the absolute littlest known ornithischian dinosaurs – the North American "Fruitadens", for instance, achieved a length of just . 

The neck comprised of nine cervical vertebrae, which would have framed a S-formed bend, as demonstrated by the state of the vertebral bodies in the side perspective on the skeleton. The vertebral groups of the front cervical vertebrae are molded like a parallelogram, those of the center are rectangular and those of the back demonstrate a trapezoid shape. The storage compartment was short, comprising of 12 dorsal and 6 melded sacral vertebrae. The tail was for quite some time contrasted with the body; albeit not completely known, it most likely comprised of 34 to 37 caudal vertebrae. The dorsal spine was hardened by solidified ligaments, starting with the fourth dorsal vertebra. This element is available in numerous other ornithischian dinosaurs and most likely countered pressure brought about by bowing powers following up on the spine amid bipedal headway. Rather than numerous different ornithischians, the tail of "Heterodontosaurus" needed solidified ligaments, and was accordingly presumably adaptable. It had a long, slender pelvis and a pubis which took after those controlled by further developed ornithischians. 

The forelimbs were heartily manufactured and relatively long, estimating 70% of the length of the rear appendages. The sweep of the lower arm estimated 70% of the length of the humerus (lower arm bone). The hand was expansive, moving toward the humerus long, and had five fingers prepared for getting a handle on. The second finger was the longest, trailed by the third and the principal finger (the thumb). The initial three fingers finished in extensive and solid hooks. The fourth and fifth fingers were emphatically decreased, and potentially minimal. The phalangeal recipe, which expresses the quantity of finger bones in each finger beginning from the primary, was 2-3-4-3-2. 

The hindlimbs were long, thin, and finished in four toes, the first (the hallux) did not contact the ground. Interestingly for ornithischians, a few bones of the leg and foot were intertwined: the tibia and fibula were melded with upper tarsal bones (astragalus and calcaneus), framing a tibiotarsus, while the lower tarsal bones were combined with the metatarsal bones, shaping a tarsometatarsus. This star grouping can likewise be found in present day feathered creatures, where it has advanced autonomously. The tibiotarsus was about 30% longer than the femur. The ungual bones of the toes were paw like, and not foot like as in further developed ornithischians. 

Following the portrayal of the related "Tianyulong" in 2009, which was saved with several long, filamentous integuments (now and then contrasted with fibers) from neck to tail, "Heterodontosaurus" has additionally been delineated with such structures, for instance in productions by American scientistss Gregory S. Paul and Paul Sereno. Sereno has expressed that a heterodontosaur may have resembled a "deft two-legged porcupine" throughout everyday life. The rebuilding distributed by Sereno likewise included a speculative showcase structure situated on the nose, over the nasal fossa (misery). 

The skull of "Heterodontosaurus" was little yet powerfully assembled. The two most total skulls estimated (holotype example SAM-PK-K337) and (example SAM-PK-K1332) long. The skull was lengthened, tight, and triangular when seen from the side, with the most astounding point being the sagittal peak, from where the skull inclined down towards the nose tip. The back of the skull finished in a snare like shape, which was balanced to the quadrate bone. The circle (enlightening) was vast and roundabout, and a substantial goad like bone, the palpebral, jutted in reverse into the upper piece of the opening. Beneath the eye attachment, the jugal bone offered ascend to a sideways anticipating manager, or horn-like structure. The jugal bone additionally shaped a "sharp edge" that made a space together with a rib on the pterygoid bone, for controlling the movement of the lower jaw. Ventrally, the antorbital fossa was limited by a noticeable hard edge, to which the creature's beefy cheek would have been connected. The relatively huge lower worldly fenestra was egg-formed and tilted back, and situated behind the enlightening. The curved upper transient fenestra was unmistakable just taking a gander at the highest point of the skull. The left and right upper worldly fenestrae were isolated by the sagittal peak, which would have given horizontal connection surfaces to the jaw musculature in the living creature. 

The lower jaw decreased towards the front, and the dentary bone (the principle part of the lower jaw) was powerful. The front of the jaws were secured by a toothless keratinous mouth (or rhamphotheca). The upper mouth secured the front of the premaxilla bone and the lower bill secured the predentary, which are, separately, the chief bones of the upper and lower jaw in ornithischians. This is confirm by the harsh surfaces on these structures. The sense of taste was thin, and decreased towards the front. The outer nostril openings were little, and the upper fringe of this opening does not appear to have been totally crossed over by bone. If not because of breakage, the hole may have been shaped by connective tissue rather than bone. The antorbital fossa, a huge sadness between the eye and nostril openings, contained two littler openings. A sadness over the nose has been named the "nasal fossa" or "sulcus". A comparative fossa is likewise observed in "Tianyulong", "Agilisaurus", and "Eoraptor", yet its capacity is obscure. 

A bizarre component of the skull was the diverse molded teeth (heterodonty) for which the sort is named, which is generally fundamentally known from well evolved creatures. Most dinosaurs (and without a doubt most reptiles) have a solitary kind of tooth in their jaws, yet "Heterodontosaurus" had three. The curved tip of the nose was toothless, while the rear piece of the premaxilla in the upper jaw had three teeth on each side. The initial two upper teeth were little and cone-molded (equivalent to incisors), while the third on each side was highly extended, shaping unmistakable, canine-like tusks. These first teeth were presumably mostly encased by the upper nose. The initial two teeth in the lower jaw additionally shaped canines, yet were a lot greater than the upper reciprocals. The canines had fine serrations along the back edge, yet just the lower ones were serrated at the front. Eleven tall and etch like cheek-teeth lined each side of the back pieces of the upper jaw, which were isolated from the canines by an expansive diastema (hole). The cheek-teeth expanded step by step in size, with the center teeth being biggest, and diminished in size after this point. These teeth had a substantial layer of finish on the inwards side, and were adjusted for wear (hypsodonty), and they had long roots, immovably inserted in their attachments. The tusks in the lower jaw fit into a space inside the diastema of the upper jaw. The cheek-teeth in the lower jaw commonly coordinated those in the upper jaw, however the lacquer surface of these were on the outwards side. The upper and lower teeth lines were inset, which made a "cheek-break" likewise observed in different ornithischians. 

The holotype example of "Heterodontosaurus tucki" (SAM-PK-K337) was found amid the British– South African endeavor to South Africa and Basutoland (previous name of Lesotho) in 1961– 1962. Today, it is housed in the Iziko South African Museum. It was unearthed on a mountain at a height of about , at a territory called Tyinindini, in the locale of Transkei (some of the time alluded to as Herschel) in the Cape Province of South Africa. The example comprises of a pulverized however almost total skull; related postcranial remains referenced in the first depiction couldn't be situated in 2011. The creature was experimentally depicted and named in 1962 by scientistss Alfred Walter Crompton from South Africa and Alan J. Charig from the United Kingdom. The family name alludes to the distinctive molded teeth, and the particular name praises George C. Tuck, an executive of Austin Motor Company, who bolstered the campaign. The example was not completely arranged when of production, so just the front pieces of the skull and lower jaw were portrayed, and the creators surrendered that their depiction was fundamental, serving basically to name the creature. It was viewed as a vital disclosure, as couple of early ornithischians were known at the time. The arrangement of the example, for example the liberating of the bones from the stone grid, was very tedious, since they were shrouded in a meager, exceptionally hard, ferruginous layer containing haematite. This must be expelled by a jewel saw, which harmed the example. 

In 1966, a second example of "Heterodontosaurus" (SAM-PK-K1332) was found at the Voyizane region, in the Elliot Formation of the Stormberg Group of shake arrangements, above ocean level, on Krommespruit Mountain. This example included both the skull and skeleton, saved in enunciation (for example the bones being saved in their normal position in connection to one another), with little uprooting and contortion of the bones. The postcranial skeleton was quickly portrayed by scientistss Albert Santa Luca, Crompton and Charig in 1976. Its forelimb bones had recently been examined and figured in an article by scientistss Peter Galton and Robert T. Bakker in 1974, as the example was viewed as huge in building up that Dinosauria was a monophyletic common gathering, while most researchers at the time, including the researchers who portrayed "Heterodontosaurus", imagined that the two fundamental requests Saurischia and Ornithischia were not straightforwardly related. The skeleton was completely depicted in 1980. SAM-PK-K1332 is the most total heterodontosaurid skeleton portrayed to date. Despite the fact that an increasingly point by point portrayal of the skull of "Heterodontosaurus" was for quite some time guaranteed, it stayed unpublished upon the passing of Charig in 1997. It was not until 2011 that the skull was completely portrayed by David B. Norman and associates. 

Different examples alluded to "Heterodontosaurus" incorporate the front piece of an adolescent skull (SAM-PK-K10487), a fragmentary maxilla (SAM-PK-K1326), a left maxilla with teeth and adjoining bones (SAM-PK-K1334), which were all gathered at the Voyizane territory amid undertakings in 1966– 1967, in spite of the fact that the first was just recognized as having a place with this class in 2008. A fractional nose (NM QR 1788) found in 1975 on Tushielaw Farm south of Voyizane was thought to have a place with "Massospondylus" until 2011, when it was renamed as "Heterodontosaurus". South African scientist Robert Broom found a fractional skull, conceivably in the Clarens Formation of South Africa, which was sold to the American Museum of Natural History in 1913, as a component of an accumulation that comprised as a rule of synapsid fossils. This example (AMNH 24000) was first recognized as having a place with a sub-grown-up "Heterodontosaurus" by Sereno, who revealed it in a 2012 monograph about the Heterodontosauridae, the primary far reaching survey article about the family. This audit additionally characterized an incomplete postcranial skeleton (SAM-PK-K1328) from Voyizane as "Heterodontosaurus". Be that as it may, in 2014, Galton recommended it may have a place with the related family "Pegomastax" rather, which was named by Sereno dependent on a halfway skull from a similar region. In 2005, another "Heterodontosaurus" example was found in a streambed close Grahamstown in the Eastern Cape Province; it was the most total individual known to date, yet the stones around it were excessively difficult to completely evacuate. The example was in this way checked at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility in 2016, to help uncover the skeleton, and help in future research of its life structures and way of life. 

In 1970, scientist Richard A. Thulborn recommended that "Heterodontosaurus" was a lesser equivalent word of the sort "Lycorhinus", which was named in 1924 with the species "L. angustidens", additionally from an example found in South Africa. He renamed the sort species as an individual from the more seasoned variety, as the new blend "Lycorhinus tucki", which he thought about particular because of slight contrasts in its teeth and its stratigraphy. He repeated this case in 1974, in the portrayal of a third "Lycorhinus" animal varieties, "Lycorhinus consors", after analysis of the synonymy by Galton in 1973. In 1974, Charig and Crompton concurred that "Heterodontosaurus" and "Lycorhinus" had a place in a similar family, Heterodontosauridae, yet differ that they were comparative enough to be viewed as congeneric. They likewise brought up that the fragmentary nature and poor protection of the "Lycorhinus angustidens" holotype example made it difficult to completely come close it appropriately to "H. tucki". Notwithstanding the contention, neither one of the parties had analyzed the "L. angustidens" holotype direct, however in the wake of doing as such, scientist James A. Hopson additionally guarded conventional detachment of "Heterodontosaurus" in 1975, and moved "L. consors" to its very own class, "Abrictosaurus". 

When it was depicted in 1962, "Heterodontosaurus" was named a crude individual from Ornithischia, one of the two principle requests of Dinosauria (the other being Saurischia). The creators thought that it was most like the inadequately known genera "Geranosaurus" and "Lycorhinus", the second had been viewed as a therapsid stem-warm blooded animal up to that point because of its dentition. They noticed a few likenesses with ornithopods, and temporarily set the new class in that gathering. Scientistss Alfred Romer and Oskar Kuhn autonomously named the family Heterodontosauridae in 1966 as a group of ornithischian dinosaurs including "Heterodontosaurus" and "Lycorhinus". Thulborn rather considered these creatures as hypsilophodontids, and not a particular family. Bakker and Galton perceived "Heterodontosaurus" as essential to the development of ornithischian dinosaurs, as its hand design was imparted to crude saurischians, and consequently was crude or basal to the two gatherings. This was questioned by certain researchers who trusted the two gatherings had rather advanced autonomously from "thecodontian" archosaur predecessors, and that their similitudes were because of merged development. A few creators likewise recommended a relationship, for example, relative/progenitor, among heterodontosaurids and fabrosaurids, both being crude ornithischians, just as to crude ceratopsians, for example, "Psittacosaurus", however the idea of these relations were discussed. 

By the 1980s, most scientists considered the heterodontosaurids as a particular group of crude ornithischian dinosaurs, yet with a questionable position as for different gatherings inside the request. By the mid 21st century, the predominant hypotheses were that the family was the sister gathering of either the Marginocephalia (which incorporates pachycephalosaurids and ceratopsians), or the Cerapoda (the previous gathering in addition to ornithopods), or as a standout amongst the most basal radiations of ornithischians, before the split of the Genasauria (which incorporates the inferred ornithischians). Heterodontosauridae was characterized as a clade by Sereno in 1998 and 2005, and the gathering shares skull highlights, for example, three or less teeth in each premaxilla, caniniform teeth pursued by a diastema, and a jugal horn beneath the eye. In 2017, likenesses between the skeletons of "Heterodontosaurus" and the early theropod "Eoraptor" were utilized to recommend that ornithischians ought to be assembled with theropods in a gathering called Ornithoscelida. Generally, theropods have been gathered with sauropodomorphs in the gathering Saurischia. 

Numerous genera have been alluded to Heterodontosauridae since the family was raised, yet "Heterodontosaurus" remains the most totally referred to class, and has worked as the essential reference point for the gathering in the palaeontological writing. The cladogram beneath demonstrates the interrelationships inside Heterodontosauridae, and pursues the examination by Sereno, 2012: 

The family Heterodontosauridae persevered from the Late Triassic until the Early Cretaceous time frame, and existed for no less than a 100 million years. Heterodontosaurids are known from Africa, Eurasia, and the Americas, however the lion's share have been found in southern Africa. Heterodontosaurids seem to have part into two fundamental genealogies by the Early Jurassic; one with low-delegated teeth, and one with high-delegated teeth (counting "Heterodontosaurus"). The individuals from these gatherings are separated biogeographically, with the low-delegated assemble having been found in territories that were once part of Laurasia (northern landmass), and the high-delegated bunch from regions that were a piece of Gondwana (southern landmass). In 2012, Sereno named individuals from the last gathering a particular subfamily, Heterodontosaurinae. "Heterodontosaurus" has all the earmarks of being the most determined heterodontosaurine, because of subtleties in its teeth, for example, extremely meager veneer, orchestrated in an unbalanced example. The remarkable tooth and jaw highlights of heterodontosaurines give off an impression of being specializations for successfully preparing plant material, and their dimension of advancement is practically identical to that of later ornithischians. 

The ontogeny, or the improvement of the person from adolescent to grown-up, is ineffectively known for "Heterodontosaurus", as adolescent examples are rare. As appeared by the adolescent skull SAM-PK-K10487, the eye attachments turned out to be relatively littler as the creature developed, and the nose turned out to be longer and contained extra teeth. Comparative changes have been accounted for a few different dinosaurs. The morphology of the teeth, in any case, did not change with age, demonstrating that the eating routine of adolescents was equivalent to that of grown-ups. The length of the adolescent skull was recommended to be . Expecting comparative body extents as grown-up people, the body length of this adolescent would have been . In fact, the individual presumably would have been littler, since adolescent creatures as a rule show relatively bigger heads. 

In 1974, Thulborn recommended that the expansive tusks of heterodontosaurids spoke to an optional sex trademark. As per this hypothesis, just grown-up male people would have had completely created tusks; the holotype example of the related "Abrictosaurus", which needed tusks through and through, would have spoken to a female. This theory was addressed by scientist Richard Butler and associates in 2006, who contended that the adolescent skull SAM-PK-K10487 had tusks in spite of its initial formative state. At this state, optional sex attributes are not anticipated. Besides, tusks are available in practically all known "Heterodontosaurus" skulls; the nearness of sexual dimorphism anyway would propose a 50:50 proportion between people bearing tusks and those lacking tusks. The main exemption is the holotype example of "Abrictosaurus"; the absence of tusks in this individual is deciphered as a specialization of this specific sort. 

Much contention has encompassed the subject of whether, and to what degree, "Heterodontosaurus" demonstrated the constant tooth swap that is commonplace for different dinosaurs and reptiles. In 1974 and 1978, Thulborn found that the skulls known around then come up short on any signs of ceaseless tooth substitution: The cheek teeth of the realized skulls are worn consistently, showing that they framed at the same time. Recently ejected teeth are missing. Additional proof was gotten from the wear features of the teeth, which were shaped by tooth-to-tooth contact of the lower with the upper dentition. The wear aspects were converged into each other, framing a consistent surface along the total tooth push. This surface demonstrates that sustenance parade was accomplished by forward and backward developments of the jaws, not by basic vertical developments which was the situation in related dinosaurs, for example, "Fabrosaurus". Forward and backward developments are just conceivable if the teeth are worn consistently, again fortifying the case for the absence of a nonstop tooth substitution. At the same time, Thulborn focused on that a normal tooth substitution was fundamental for these creatures, as the alleged eating regimen comprising of extreme plant material would have prompted speedy scraped spot of the teeth. These perceptions drove Thulborn to presume that "Heterodontosaurus" more likely than not supplanted its whole arrangement of teeth without a moment's delay all the time. Such a total substitution could just have been conceivable inside periods of aestivation, when the creature did not bolster. Aestivation additionally consents to the alleged living space of the creatures, which would have been desert-like, including hot dry seasons when nourishment was rare. 

A complete examination led in 1980 by Hopson scrutinized Thulborn's thoughts. Hopson demonstrated that the wear feature designs on the teeth in actuality show vertical and sidelong instead of forward and backward jaw developments. Besides, Hopson exhibited fluctuation in the level of tooth wear, showing nonstop tooth substitution. He acknowledged that X-beam pictures of the most total example demonstrated that this individual in reality needed unerupted substitution teeth. As indicated by Hopson, this showed just adolescents persistently supplanted their teeth, and that this procedure stopped when achieving adulthood. Thulborn's aestivation theory was dismissed by Hopson because of absence of proof. 

In 2006, Butler and partners directed PC tomography outputs of the adolescent skull SAM-PK-K10487. To the amazement of these specialists, substitution teeth yet to emit were available even in this early ontogenetic stage. Notwithstanding these discoveries, the creators contended that tooth substitution more likely than not happened since the adolescent showed a similar tooth morphology as grown-up people – this morphology would have changed if the tooth basically developed ceaselessly. Taking everything into account, Butler and associates recommended that tooth substitution in "Heterodontosaurus" probably been more sporadic than in related dinosaurs. Unerupted substitution teeth in "Heterodontosaurus" were not found until 2011, when Norman and associates portrayed the upper jaw of example SAM-PK-K1334. Another adolescent skull (AMNH 24000) portrayed by Sereno in 2012 likewise yielded unerupted substitution teeth. As appeared by these revelations, tooth substitution in "Heterodontosaurus" was episodical and not persistent as in different heterodontosaurids. The unerupted teeth are triangular in sidelong view, which is the run of the mill tooth morphology in basal ornithischians. The trademark etch like state of the completely ejected teeth along these lines came about because of tooth-to-tooth contact between the dentition of the upper and lower jaws. 

Albeit most scientists presently consider "Heterodontosaurus" a bipedal sprinter, some prior investigations proposed an incomplete or completely quadrupedal motion. In 1980, Santa Luca portrayed a few highlights of the forelimb that are likewise present in later quadrupedal creatures and infer a solid arm musculature: These incorporate an expansive olecranon (a hard distinction framing the highest piece of the ulna), amplifying the switch arm of the lower arm. The average epicondyle of the humerus was expanded, giving connection locales to solid flexor muscles of the lower arm. Besides, projections on the hooks may have expanded the forward pushed of the hand amid strolling. As indicated by Santa Luca, "Heterodontosaurus" was quadrupedal while moving gradually however had the capacity to change to an a lot quicker, bipedal run. Clean scientistss Teresa Maryańska and Halszka Osmólska bolstered Santa Luca's theory in 1985; moreover, they noticed that the dorsal spine was unequivocally flexed downwards in the most totally known example. In 1987, Gregory S. Paul proposed that "Heterodontosaurus" may have been compulsorily quadrupedal, and that these creatures would have jogged for quick headway. David Weishampel and Lawrence Witmer in 1990 just as Norman and partners in 2004 contended for only bipedal headway, in view of the morphology of the hooks and shoulder support. The anatomical proof proposed by Santa Luca was distinguished as adjustments for scrounging; the powerful and solid arms may have been utilized for uncovering roots and tearing open bug homes. 

Most examinations think about dinosaurs as endothermic (warm-blooded) creatures, with a raised digestion practically identical to that of the present well evolved creatures and fowls. In a recent report, Herman Pontzer and partners determined the oxygen consuming perseverance of different dinosaurs. Indeed, even at moderate running rates, "Heterodontosaurus" would have surpassed the most extreme vigorous capacities feasible for an ectotherm (relentless) creature, showing endothermy in this class. 

"Heterodontosaurus" is generally viewed as a herbivorous dinosaur. In 1974, Thulborn recommended that the tusks of the dinosaur assumed no critical job in encouraging; rather, that they would have been utilized in battle with conspecifics, for presentation, as a visual risk, or for dynamic guard. Comparative capacities are found in the extended tusks of current muntjacs and chevrotains, however the bended tusks of warthogs (utilized for burrowing) are divergent. 

A few later investigations have raised the likelihood that the dinosaur was omnivorous and utilized its tusks for prey slaughtering amid an infrequent chase. In 2000, Paul Barrett proposed that the state of the premaxillary teeth and the fine serration of the tusks are reminiscent of flesh eating creatures, indicating facultative carnivory. Conversely, the muntjac needs serration on its tusks. In 2008, Butler and partners contended that the extended tusks framed right off the bat in the improvement of the individual, and along these lines couldn't establish sexual dimorphism. Battle with conspecifics accordingly is a far-fetched work, as broadened tusks would be normal just in guys in the event that they were an apparatus for battle. Rather, sustaining or guard capacities are more probable. It has additionally been proposed that "Heterodontosaurus" could have utilized its jugal supervisors to convey blows amid battle, and that the palpebral bone could have secured the eyes against such assaults. In 2011, Norman and associates attracted consideration regarding the arms and hands, which are moderately long and furnished with extensive, recurved paws. These highlights, in mix with the long hindlimbs that considered quick running, would have made the creature fit for catching little prey. As an omnivore, "Heterodontosaurus" would have had a huge determination advantage amid the dry season when vegetation was rare. 

In 2012, Sereno called attention to a few skull and dentition includes that recommend an absolutely or possibly prevalently herbivorous eating routine. These incorporate the horny bill and the specific cheek teeth (appropriate for cutting off vegetation), just as meaty cheeks which would have helped keeping nourishment inside the mouth amid rumination. The jaw muscles were broadened, and the jaw joint was set beneath the dimension of the teeth. This profound position of the jaw joint would have permitted a uniformly spread nibble along the tooth push, as opposed to the scissor-like chomp seen in flesh eating dinosaurs. At long last, size and position of the tusks are altogether different in isolated individuals from the Heterodontosauridae; a particular capacity in encouraging hence seems far-fetched. Sereno inferred that heterodontosaurids were equivalent to the present peccaries, which have comparative tusks and feed on an assortment of plant material, for example, roots, tubers, organic products, seeds and grass. Steward and partners proposed that the sustaining mechanical assembly of "Heterodontosaurus" was particular to process extreme plant material, and that late-enduring individuals from the family ("Fruitadens", "Tianyulong" and "Echinodon") most likely demonstrated an increasingly summed up eating regimen including the two plants and spineless creatures. "Heterodontosaurus" was described by a solid nibble at little expand points, however the later individuals were adjusted to an increasingly quick chomp and more extensive expands. A 2016 investigation of ornithischian jaw mechanics found that the relative nibble powers of "Heterodontosaurus" was practically identical to that of the more inferred "Scelidosaurus". The investigation recommended that the tusks could have assumed a job in sustaining by touching against the lower nose while editing vegetation. 

"Heterodontosaurus" is known from fossils found in arrangements of the Karoo Supergroup, including the Upper Elliot Formation and the Clarens Formation, which date to the Hettangian and Sinemurian times of the Lower Jurassic, around 200– 190 million years prior. Initially, "Heterodontosaurus" was believed to be from the Upper Triassic time frame. The Upper Elliot Formation comprises of red/purple mudstone and red/white sandstone, though the marginally more youthful Clarens Formation comprises of white/cream-hued sandstone. The Clarens Formation is less wealthy in fossils than the Upper Elliot Formation; its residue additionally frequently structure precipices, limiting availability for fossil seekers. The Upper Elliot Formation is portrayed by creatures that have all the earmarks of being more daintily worked than those of the Lower Elliot Formation, which may have been an adjustment to the drier atmosphere right now in southern Africa. The two developments are well known for their inexhaustible vertebrate fossils, including temnospondyl creatures of land and water, turtles, lepidosaurs, aetosaurs, crocodylomorphs, and non-warm blooded animal cynodonts. 

Different dinosaurs from these developments incorporate the genasaur "Lesothosaurus", the basal sauropodomorph "Massospondylus", and the theropod "Megapnosaurus". The Lower Elliot Formation demonstrates the biggest known heterodontosaurid decent variety of any stone unit; other than "Heterodontosaurus", it contained "Lycorhinus", "Abrictosaurus", and "Pegomastax". One more individual from the family, "Geranosaurus", is known from the Clarens Formation. The high heterodontosaurid assorted variety have driven scientists to reason that diverse species may have benefited from isolated nourishment sources so as to keep away from rivalry (specialty dividing). With its very specific dentition, "Heterodontosaurus" may have been particular for extreme plant material, while the less particular "Abrictosaurus" may have transcendently devoured milder vegetation. The situation of the individual heterodontosaurid examples inside the stone progression is inadequately known, making it hard to decide what number of these species truly were conspecific, and which species existed at independent occasions.