SMS Weissenburg 

SMS "Weissenburg" was one of the main maritime ships of the Imperial German Navy. She was the third pre-man of war of the , which likewise incorporated her sister ships , and . "Weissenburg" was set down in 1890 in the AG Vulcan dockyard in Stettin, propelled in 1891, and finished in 1894. The "Brandenburg"- class war vessels were one of a kind for their period in that they conveyed six extensive bore weapons in three twin turrets, instead of four firearms in two turrets, similar to the standard in different naval forces. 

"Weissenburg" presented with the I Division amid the principal decade of her administration with the armada. This period was commonly restricted to preparing activities and generosity visits to remote ports. These preparation moves were all things considered imperative to creating German maritime strategic precept in the two decades before World War I, particularly under the course of Alfred von Tirpitz. "Weissenburg", alongside her three sisters, saw just a single major abroad arrangement amid this period, to China in 1900– 1901, amid the Boxer Rebellion. The ship experienced a noteworthy modernization in 1904– 1905. 

In 1910, "Weissenburg" was sold to the Ottoman Empire and renamed Turgut Reis, after the popular sixteenth century Turkish chief of naval operations. The ship saw overwhelming administration amid the Balkan Wars, basically giving mounted guns backing to Ottoman ground powers. She additionally partook in two maritime commitment with the Greek Navy—the Battle of Elli in December 1912, and the Battle of Lemnos the next month. The two fights were massacres for the Ottoman Navy. After the Ottoman Empire entered World War I, she bolstered the strongholds securing the Dardanelles through mid-1915, and was decommissioned from August 1915 as far as possible of the war. She filled in as a preparation transport from 1924 to 1933, and a sleeping shelter send until 1950, when she was separated. 

"Weissenburg" was the third of four s, the first pre-man of war ships of the "Kaiserliche Marine" (Imperial Navy). Before the climb of Kaiser Wilhelm II to the German royal position in June 1888, the German armada had been to a great extent arranged toward safeguard of the German coastline and Leo von Caprivi, head of the "Reichsmarineamt" (Imperial Naval Office), had requested various seaside guard delivers during the 1880s. In August 1888, the Kaiser, who had a solid enthusiasm for maritime issues, supplanted Caprivi with "Vizeadmiral" (Vice Admiral) Alexander von Monts and trained him to incorporate four warships in the 1889– 1890 maritime spending plan. Monts, who supported an armada of war vessels over the beach front guard system underlined by his forerunner, dropped the last four waterfront safeguard ships approved under Caprivi and rather requested four war vessels. Despite the fact that they were the primary present day ships worked in Germany, foretelling the Tirpitz-period High Seas Fleet, the approval for the boats came as a major aspect of a development program that mirrored the vital and strategic perplexity of the 1880s brought about by the "Jeune École" (Young School). 

"Weissenburg" was long generally speaking, had a light emission was expanded to with the expansion of torpedo nets, and had a draft of forward and rearward. The ship uprooted at its planned weight, and up to at full battle load. She was outfitted with two arrangements of 3-chamber triple-extension steam motors that gave and a top speed of ; steam was given by twelve coal-terminated, transverse round and hollow water-tube boilers. "Weissenburg" had a cruising scope of at . Her group numbered 38 officers and 530 enlisted men. 

The ship was bizarre for its time in that it had a broadside of six substantial weapons in three twin firearm turrets, instead of the four firearms regular of contemporary ships. The forward and after turrets conveyed 28 cm (11 in) K L/40 weapons, while the amidships turret mounted a couple of 28 cm firearms with shorter L/35 barrels. Her optional deadly implement comprised of eight SK L/35 fast discharging firearms mounted in casemates and eight 8.8 cm (3.45 in) SK L/30 brisk shooting weapons, likewise casemate mounted. "Weissenburg"s deadly implement framework was adjusted with six torpedo tubes, all in above-water swivel mounts. In spite of the fact that the fundamental battery was heavier than other capital boats of the period, the auxiliary combat hardware was viewed as frail in contrast with different war vessels. 

"Weissenburg" was ensured with nickel-steel Krupp covering, another sort of more grounded steel. Her principle belt covering was thick in the focal segment that ensured the ammo magazines and apparatus spaces. The deck was thick. The fundamental battery barbettes were secured with thick protective layer. 

"Weissenburg" was the third of four boats of the "Brandenburg" class. Requested as war vessel "C", she was set down at the AG Vulcan shipyard in Stettin in May 1890 under development number 199. The third ship of the class to be propelled, "Weissenburg" slid down the slipway on 30 June 1891. She was casually appointed for ocean preliminaries on 28 August 1894, which kept going until 24 September. The ship formally entered administration on 10 October, under the order of at that point "Kapitän zur See" with "Korvettenkapitän" Eduard von Capelle as the official officer. "Weissenburg" at that point experienced further preliminaries, which finished on 12 January 1895, after which she was alloted to the I Division of the Maneuver Squadron, where she was at first busy with individual preparing. Around the finish of May, progressively armada moves were done in the North Sea, closing with a visit by the armada to Kirkwall in Orkney. The squadron came back to Kiel toward the beginning of June, where arrangements were in progress for the opening of the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal. Strategic activities were completed in Kiel Bay within the sight of remote assignments to the opening service. 

On 1 July, the German armada started a noteworthy journey into the Atlantic; on the arrival voyage toward the beginning of August, the armada ceased at the Isle of Wight for the Cowes Regatta. The armada came back to Wilhelmshaven on 10 August and started arrangements for the harvest time moves that would start soon thereafter. The principal practices started in the Helgoland Bight on 25 August. The armada at that point steamed through the Skagerrak to the Baltic; substantial tempests made noteworthy harm a significant number of the boats and the torpedo watercraft overturned and sank in the tempests—just three men were spared. The armada stayed quickly in Kiel before continuing moves, including live-fire works out, in the Kattegat and the Great Belt. The principle moves started on 7 September with a false assault from Kiel toward the eastern Baltic. Ensuing moves occurred off the bank of Pomerania and in Danzig Bay. An armada audit for Kaiser Wilhelm II off Jershöft finished up the moves on 14 September. The year 1896 pursued much a similar example as the earlier year. Singular ship preparing was led however April, trailed by squadron preparing in the North Sea in late April and early May. This incorporated a visit to the Dutch ports of Vlissingen and Nieuwediep. Extra moves, which kept going from the finish of May as far as possible of July, took the squadron further north in the North Sea, as often as possible into Norwegian waters. The boats visited Bergen from 11 to 18 May. Amid the moves, Wilhelm II and the Chinese emissary Li Hongzhang watched an armada survey off Kiel. On 9 August, the preparation armada gathered in Wilhelmshaven for the yearly pre-winter armada preparing. 

"Weissenburg" and the remainder of the armada worked under the typical daily practice of individual and unit preparing in the principal half of 1897. The ordinary routine was hindered toward the beginning of August when Wilhelm II and Augusta went to visit the Russian magnificent court at Kronstadt; the two divisions of the I Squadron were sent to go with the Kaiser. They came back to Neufahrwasser in Danzig on 15 August, where the remainder of the armada went along with them for the yearly harvest time moves. These activities mirrored the strategic reasoning of the new State Secretary of the "Reichsmarineamt" (RMA—Imperial Navy Office), "Konteradmiral" Alfred von Tirpitz, and the new leader of the I Squadron, "Vizeadmiral" August von Thomsen. These new strategies focused precise gunnery, particularly at longer ranges, however the necessities of the line-ahead arrangement prompted strategic unbending nature. Thomsen's accentuation on shooting made the reason for the incredible German gunnery amid World War I. Amid the terminating works out, "Weissenburg" won the Kaiser's "Schießpreis" (Shooting Prize) for phenomenal exactness in the I Squadron. The evening of 21– 22 August, the torpedo vessel incidentally slammed and sank one of "Weissenburg"s freight ships, slaughtering two men. The moves were finished by 22 September in Wilhelmshaven. Toward the beginning of December, the I Division directed moves in the Kattegat and the Skagerrak, however they were sliced short because of team deficiencies. 

From 20 to 28 February, "Weissenburg" quickly filled in as the divisional lead. The armada pursued the ordinary everyday practice of individual and armada preparing in 1898 without occurrence, and a voyage to the British Isles was likewise included. The armada halted in Queenstown, Greenock, and Kirkwall. The armada gathered in Kiel on 14 August for the yearly harvest time works out. The moves incorporated a false bar of the shore of Mecklenburg and a pitched fight with an "Eastern Fleet" in the Danzig Bay. A serious tempest, striking the armada as it steamed back to Kiel, made huge harm numerous boats and sank the torpedo pontoon . The armada at that point traveled the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal and proceeded with moves in the North Sea. Preparing completed on 17 September in Wilhelmshaven. "Weissenburg" again won the Kaiser's "Schießpreis" amid the moves. In December, the I Division led cannons and torpedo preparing in Eckernförde Bay, trailed by divisional preparing in the Kattegat and Skagerrak. Amid these moves, the division visited Kungsbacka, Sweden, from 9 to 13 December. Subsequent to coming back to Kiel, the boats of the I Division went into dock for their winter fixes. 

On 5 April 1899, the ship took an interest in the festivals celebrating the 50th commemoration of the Battle of Eckernförde amid the First Schleswig War. In May, the I and II Divisions, alongside the Reserve Division from the Baltic, went on a noteworthy voyage into the Atlantic. On the voyage out, the I Division ceased in Dover and the II Division went into Falmouth to restock their coal supplies. The I Division at that point joined the II Division at Falmouth on 8 May, and the two units at that point left for the Bay of Biscay, landing at Lisbon on 12 May. There, they met the British Channel Fleet of eight warships and four defensively covered cruisers. The German armada at that point left for Germany, halting again in Dover on 24 May. There they took an interest in the maritime audit observing Queen Victoria's 80th birthday celebration. The armada came back to Kiel on 31 May. 

In July, the armada directed squadron moves in the North Sea, which included coast barrier practices with officers from the X Corps. On 16 August, the armada collected in Danzig by and by for the yearly harvest time moves. The activities began in the Baltic and on 30 August the armada went through the Kattegat and Skagerrak and steamed into the North Sea for further moves in the German Bight, which kept going until 7 September. The third period of the moves occurred in the Kattegat and the Great Belt from 8 to 26 September, when the moves finished up and the armada went into port for yearly upkeep. The year 1900 started with the typical daily practice of individual and divisional activities. In the second 50% of March, the squadrons met in Kiel, trailed by torpedo and gunnery practice in April and a voyage toward the eastern Baltic. From 7 to 26 May, the armada went on a noteworthy preparing journey toward the northern North Sea, which included prevents in the Shetlands from 12 to 15 May and in Bergen from 18 to 22 May. On 8 July, "Weissenburg" and different boats of the I Division were reassigned to the II Division. 

Amid the Boxer Rebellion in 1900, Chinese patriots laid attack to the remote government offices in Peking and killed Baron Clemens von Ketteler, the German pastor. The broad viciousness against Westerners in China prompted a union among Germany and seven other Great Powers: the United Kingdom, Italy, Russia, Austria-Hungary, the United States, France, and Japan. Those Western warriors in China at the time were excessively very few to crush the Boxers; in Peking there was a power of marginally in excess of 400 officers and infantry from the armed forces of the eight European forces. At the time, the essential German military power in China was the East Asia Squadron, which comprised of the ensured cruisers , and , the little cruisers and , and the gunboats and . There was additionally a German 500-man separation in Taku; joined with the other countries' units, the power numbered nearly 2,100 men. Driven by the British Admiral Edward Seymour, these men endeavored to achieve Peking however were compelled to stop in Tientsin because of substantial opposition. Subsequently, the Kaiser decided an expeditionary power would be sent to China to strengthen the East Asia Squadron. The campaign included "Weissenburg" and her three sisters, six cruisers, ten vessels, three torpedo water crafts, and six regiments of marines, under the direction of "Generalfeldmarschall" (General Field Marshal) Alfred von Waldersee. 

On 7 July, "Konteradmiral" Richard von Geißler, the expeditionary power administrator, detailed that his boats were prepared for the task, and they left two days after the fact. The four war vessels and the aviso traveled the Kaiser Wilhelm Canal and ceased in Wilhelmshaven to meet with the remainder of the expeditionary power. On 11 July, the power steamed out of the Jade Bight, destined for China. They halted for coal at Gibraltar on 17– 18 July and went through the Suez Canal on 26– 27 July. More coal was taken on at Perim in the Red Sea, and on 2 August the armada entered the Indian Ocean. On 10 August, the boats achieved Colombo, Ceylon, and on 14 August they went through the Strait of Malacca. They touched base in Singapore on 18 August and withdrew five days after the fact, coming to Hong Kong on 28 August. After two days, the expeditionary power halted in the external roadstead at Wusong, downriver from Shanghai. When the German armada had arrived, the attack of Peking had just been lifted by powers from different individuals from the Eight-Nation Alliance that had shaped to manage the Boxers. 

Since the circumstance had quieted, the four warships were sent to either Hong Kong or Nagasaki, Japan, in late 1900 and mid 1901 for upgrades; "Weissenburg" went to Hong Kong, with the work enduring from 6 December 1900 to 3 January 1901. From 8 February to 23 March, she halted in German Tsingtau, where she additionally directed gunnery preparing. On 26 May, the German central leadership reviewed the expeditionary power to Germany. The armada took on provisions in Shanghai and withdrew Chinese waters on 1 June. The boats halted in Singapore from 10 to 15 June and took on coal before continuing to Colombo, where they remained from 22 to 26 June. Steaming against the rainstorm constrained the armada to stop in Mahé, Seychelles, to take on more coal. The boats at that point halted for multi day each to take on coal in Aden and Port Said. On 1 August they achieved Cadiz, and after that met with the I Division and steamed back to Germany together. They isolated in the wake of coming to Helgoland, and on 11 August, in the wake of achieving the Jade roadstead, the boats of the expeditionary power were visited by Admiral von Koester, who was currently the Inspector General of the Navy. The next day the expeditionary armada was disintegrated. At last, the activity cost the German government in excess of 100 million imprints. 

Following her arrival from China, "Weissenburg" was taken into the drydocks at the "Kaiserliche Werft" (Imperial Dockyard) in Wilhelmshaven for a redesign. In late 1901, the armada went on a voyage to Norway. The example of preparing for 1902 stayed unaltered from earlier years; I Squadron went on a noteworthy preparing journey that began on 25 April. The squadron at first steamed to Norwegian waters, at that point adjusted the northern tip of Scotland, and halted in Irish waters. The boats came back to Kiel on 28 May. Prior to the beginning of the yearly armada moves in August, "Weissenburg" was associated with a mishap that harmed her slam bow; to prepared the ship for the activities, wooden support pillars were introduced in the bow. After the moves, she was decommissioned on 29 September, with the new ship having her spot in the division. 

The four "Brandenburg"- class war vessels were removed from administration for a noteworthy remaking. Amid the modernization, a second conning pinnacle was included the toward the back superstructure, alongside a passage. "Weissenburg" and different boats had their boilers supplanted with fresher models, and furthermore had their superstructure amidships decreased. The work included expanding the ship's coal stockpiling limit and including a couple of 10.5 cm weapons. The plans had at first required the inside 28 cm turret to be supplanted with a reinforced battery of medium-gauge firearms, however this turned out to be to be restrictively costly. On 27 September 1904, "Weissenburg" was recommissioned, and supplanted the old beach front resistance send in the II Squadron. The two squadrons of the armada finished the year with the typical preparing voyage into the Baltic, which occurred uneventfully. The main portion of 1905 likewise go without occurrence for "Weissenburg". On 12 July, the armada started its yearly summer voyage to northern waters; the boats ceased in Gothenburg from 20 to 24 July and Stockholm from 2 to 7 August. The outing finished two days after the fact, and was trailed by the fall armada moves soon thereafter. In December, the armada took its typical preparing journey in the Baltic. 

The armada led its typical daily practice of individual and unit preparing in 1906, hindered just by a voyage to Norway from mid-July to early August. The yearly harvest time moves happened obviously. After the finish of the moves, "Weissenburg" had her team diminished on 28 September and she was exchanged to the Reserve Formation of the North Sea. She took part in the 1907 armada moves, yet was decommissioned on 27 September, however she was still formally doled out to the Reserve Formation. She was reactivated on 2 August 1910 to take part in the yearly moves with the III Squadron, however the closeout of "Weissenburg" and "Kurfürst Friedrich Wilhelm" to the Ottoman Empire was declared only a couple of days after the fact. On 6 August, she left the squadron and withdrew Wilhelmshaven on the fourteenth in organization with "Kurfürst Friedrich Wilhelm". They touched base in the Ottoman Empire on 1 September. 

In late 1909, the German military attache to the Ottoman Empire had started a discussion with the Ottoman Navy about the likelihood of pitching German warships to the Ottomans to counter Greek maritime extension. After long exchanges, including Ottoman endeavors to get at least one of the new battlecruisers , and , the Germans offered to sell the four boats of the "Brandenburg" class at an expense of 10 million imprints. The Ottomans purchased "Weissenburg" and "Kurfürst Friedrich Wilhelm", since they were the further developed boats of the class. The two war vessels were renamed after the celebrated sixteenth century Ottoman naval commanders, Turgut Reis and Hayreddin Barbarossa, separately. They were exchanged on 1 September 1910, and on 12 September the German "Reichsmarineamt" formally struck them from the maritime register, predated to 31 July. The Ottoman Navy, in any case, had extraordinary trouble preparing "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin"; the naval force needed to pull prepared enrolled men from the remainder of the armada just to assemble teams for them. The two vessels experienced condenser inconveniences after they entered Ottoman administration, which decreased their speed to . 

After a year, on 29 September 1911, Italy pronounced war on the Ottoman Empire to catch Libya. "Turgut Reis", alongside "Barbaros Hayreddin" and the out of date focal battery ironclad had been on a late spring preparing journey since July, as were set up for the contention. The day preceding Italy proclaimed war, the boats had left Beirut, destined for the Dardanelles. Ignorant that a war had started, they steamed gradually and directed preparing moves while on the way, passing southwest of Cyprus. While off the island of Kos on 1 October, the boats got expression of the Italian assault, provoking them to steam at full speed for the wellbeing of the Dardanelles, arriving soon thereafter. The next day, the boats continued to Constantinople for a refit after the preparation journey. "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin" sortied quickly on 4 October, yet immediately came back to port without experiencing any Italian vessels. Amid this period, the Italian armada laid maritime mines at the passage to the Dardanelles trying to keep the Ottoman armada from entering the Mediterranean. Upkeep work was finished by 12 October, so, all things considered the armada came back to Nagara inside the Dardanelles. 

Since the armada couldn't be utilized to challenge the fundamentally increasingly amazing Italian "Regia Marina" (Royal Navy), "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin" were basically kept at Nagara to help the beach front fortresses shielding the Dardanelles if the Italian armada endeavored to drive the straits. On 19 April 1912, components of the Italian armada shelled the Dardanelles strongholds, however the Ottoman armada did not mount a counterattack. The negative course of the war drove numerous maritime officers to join an upset against the Young Turk government; the officers ordering the armada at Nagara took steps to convey the boats to Constantinople if their requests were not met. With strains ascending in the Balkans, the Ottoman government marked a harmony settlement on 18 October, finishing the war. 

In the wake of observing Italy effectively catch An ottoman area, the Balkan League pronounced war on the Ottoman Empire in October 1912 to catch the staying European bit of the Empire, beginning the First Balkan War. At this point, "Turgut Reis", likewise with most ships of the Ottoman armada, was in a condition of dilapidation. Her rangefinders and ammo lifts had been evacuated, the channels for her siphons were consumed, and the phone lines never again worked. On 7 October, the day preceding the Balkan League assaulted, "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin" were moored off Haydarpaşa, alongside the cruisers and a few torpedo pontoons. After ten days, the boats withdrew for Iğneada and the two war vessels shelled Bulgarian ordnance positions close Varna two days from there on. The boats were all the while experiencing heater inconvenience. The two war vessels participated in gunnery preparing in the Sea of Marmara on 3 November, however ceased subsequent to discharging just a couple of salvos each, as their principle battery mountings were not completely useful. 

On 7 November, "Turgut Reis" shelled Bulgarian troops around Tekirdağ. On 17 November, she upheld the Ottoman III Corps by assaulting the assaulting Bulgarian powers. The ship was helped by mounted guns eyewitnesses shorewards. The warship's gunnery was to a great extent insufficient, however it gave a resolve lift to the assaulted Ottoman armed force delved in at Çatalca. By 17:00, the Bulgarian infantry had generally been constrained back to their beginning positions, partially because of the mental impact of the ships' siege. On 22 November, "Turgut Reis" sortied from the Bosporus to cover the withdrawal of "Hamidiye", which had been torpedoed by a Bulgarian torpedo watercraft prior that morning. 

In December 1912, the Ottoman armada was redesigned into a heavily clad division, which notwithstanding "Barbaros Hayreddin" as lead, two destroyer divisions, and a fourth division made out of warships planned for autonomous tasks. Throughout the following two months, the protected division endeavored to break the Greek maritime bar of the Dardanelles, which brought about two noteworthy maritime commitment. The principal, the Battle of Elli occurred on 16 December 1912. The Ottomans endeavored to dispatch an assault on Imbros. The Ottoman armada sortied from the Dardanelles at 09:30; the littler art stayed at the mouth of the straits while the war vessels cruised north, embracing the coast. The Greek flotilla, which incorporated the reinforced cruiser and three s, cruising from the island of Lemnos, modified course toward the upper east to obstruct the development of the Ottoman war vessels. 

The Ottoman boats opened flame on the Greeks at 09:50, from a scope of about . After five minutes, "Georgios Averof" traversed to the opposite side of the Ottoman armada, setting the Ottomans in the horrible position of being enduring an onslaught from the two sides. At 09:50 and under overwhelming weight from the Greek armada, the Ottoman boats finished a 16-point turn, which switched their course, and set out toward the security of the straits. The turn was inadequately led, and the boats dropped out of arrangement, obstructing each other's fields of flame. Around this time, "Turgut Reis" got a few hits, however they caused just minor harm to the ship's superstructure and firearms. By 10:17, the two sides had stopped terminating and the Ottoman armada pulled back into the Dardanelles. The boats achieved port by 13:00 and exchanged their setbacks to the emergency clinic send "Resit Paşa". 

The Battle of Lemnos came about because of an Ottoman intend to bait the quicker "Georgios Averof" far from the Dardanelles. The secured cruiser "Hamidiye" sidestepped the Greek barricade and broke out into the Aegean Sea; the suspicion was that the Greeks would dispatch "Georgios Averof" to chase down "Hamidiye". In spite of the risk to Greek lines of correspondence presented by the cruiser, the Greek officer wouldn't separate "Georgios Averof" from its position. By mid-January, the Ottomans had discovered that "Georgios Averof" stayed with the Greek armada, thus "Kalyon Kaptanı" (Captain) Ramiz Numan Bey, the Ottoman armada leader, chose to assault the Greeks notwithstanding. "Turgut Reis", "Barbaros Hayreddin", and different units of the Ottoman armada withdrew the Dardanelles at 08:20 on the morning of 18 January, and cruised toward the island of Lemnos at a speed of . "Barbaros Hayreddin" drove the line of war vessels, with a flotilla of torpedo water crafts on either side of the arrangement. "Georgios Averof", with the three "Hydra"- class ironclads and five destroyers trailing behind, blocked the Ottoman armada around from Lemnos. At 10:55, "Mecidiye" detected the Greeks, and the armada swung south to draw in them. 

A long-go gunnery duel that went on for two hours started at around 11:55, when the Ottoman armada opened discharge at a scope of . They focused their flame on "Georgios Averof", which returned fire at 12:00. At 12:50, the Greeks endeavored to cross the T of the Ottoman armada, yet the Ottoman line driven by "Barbaros Hayreddin" swung north to hinder the Greek move. The Ottoman leader disconnected the old ironclad "Mesudiye" after she got a genuine hit at 12:55. After "Barbaros Hayreddin" endured a few hits that decreased her speed to , "Turgut Reis" led the pack of the development and Bey chose to sever the commitment. By 14:00, the Ottoman armada achieved the front of the Dardanelles posts, driving the Greeks to pull back. Between "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin", the boats shot some 800 rounds, for the most part of their fundamental battery 28 cm firearms however without progress. Amid the fight, barbettes on both "Turgut Reis" and her sister were handicapped by gunfire, and the two boats burst into flames. 

On 8 February 1913, the Ottoman naval force upheld a land and/or water capable strike at Şarköy. "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin", alongside two little cruisers gave gunnery backing to the correct flank of the attacking power once it went aground. The boats were situated about a kilometer seaward; "Turgut Reis" was the second ship in the line, behind her sister "Barbaros Hayreddin". The Bulgarian armed force opposed wildly, which at last constrained the Ottoman armed force to withdraw, however the withdrawal was fruitful in huge part because of the gunfire support from "Turgut Reis" and the remainder of the armada. Amid the fight, "Turgut Reis" shot 225 rounds from her 10.5 cm firearms and 202 shells from her 8.8 cm weapons. 

In March 1913, the ship came back to the Black Sea to continue backing of the Çatalca battalion, which was under restored assaults by the Bulgarian armed force. On 26 March, the flood of 28 and 10.5 cm shells discharged by "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin" aided the repulsing of development of the second Brigade of the Bulgarian first Infantry Division. On 30 March, the left wing of the Ottoman line swung to seek after the withdrawing Bulgarians. Their development was upheld by both field gunnery and the overwhelming weapons of "Turgut Reis" and different warships situated off the coast; the strike picked up the Ottomans about by sunset. Accordingly, the Bulgarians conveyed the first Brigade to the front, which beat the Ottoman development back to its beginning position. On 11 April, "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin", upheld by a few littler vessels, steamed to Çanakkale to give inaccessible spread to a light flotilla leading a breadth for Greek warships. The opposite sides conflicted in an uncertain commitment, and the fundamental Ottoman armada did not fight before the opposite sides separated. 

In the mid year of 1914, when World War I broke out in Europe, the Ottomans at first stayed nonpartisan. Toward the beginning of November, the Black Sea Raid of the German battlecruiser "Goeben", which had been exchanged to the Ottoman naval force and renamed "Yavuz Sultan Selim", brought about revelations of war by Russia, France, and Great Britain. At this point, "Turgut Reis" was laid up off the Golden Horn, exhausted from substantial administration amid the Balkan Wars. Naval commander , the leader of the German maritime mission to the Ottoman Empire, sent her and "Barbaros Hayreddin" to Nagara to help the Dardanelles fortifications. They stayed on station from 14 to 19 December, before coming back to Constantinople for fixes and gunnery preparing. On 18 February 1915, they left for the Dardanelles and tied down in their terminating positions. Amid this period, their motors were halted to safeguard fuel, yet after the danger of British submarines expanded, they kept steam up in their motors to save their capacity to make equivocal move; the steamer was moored before the ships as a skimming blast. By 11 March, the central leadership chose that just a single ship ought to be kept on station at once, rotating each five days, to enable the boats to recharge stores and ammo. 

On 18 March, "Turgut Reis" was on station when the Allies endeavored to constrain the straits. She didn't draw in the Allied boats, as her requests were to start shooting just if the guards were ruptured. This was partially because of an extreme lack of shells. On 25 April, both "Turgut Reis" and "Barbaros Hayreddin" were available to assault the Allied troops that had arrived at Gallipoli that day. At 07:30 that morning, the Australian submarine terminated a few torpedoes at "Turgut Reis" however neglected to score any hits. "Turgut Reis" came back to Constantinople soon thereafter as arranged. While she was besieging Allied positions on 5 June, one of "Turgut Reis"s forward firearms detonated; four men were slaughtered and thirty-two were injured. She came back to Constantinople for fixes, and the naval force suspended barrage tasks—"Barbaros Hayreddin" having endured a comparative mishap on 25 April. On 12 August, "Turgut Reis" was laid up at the Golden Horn after "Barbaros Hayreddin" was torpedoed and sunk by a British submarine. Sooner or later in 1915, some of "Turgut Reis"s firearms were expelled and utilized as waterfront weapons to shore up the barriers ensuring the Dardanelles. 

On 19 January 1918, "Yavuz" and the light cruiser , which had additionally been exchanged to Ottoman administration under the name "Midilli", cruised from the Dardanelles to assault a few British screens positioned outside. The boats rapidly sank and before swinging back to the security of the Dardanelles. While in transit, "Midilli" struck five mines and sank, while "Yavuz" hit three mines and started to rundown to port. The ship's chief gave an off base request to the helmsman, which made the ship steer into the rocks. "Yavuz" stayed there for just about seven days, until "Turgut Reis" and a few different vessels touched base on the scene on 22 January; the boats went through four days endeavoring to free "Yavuz" from the sand bank, including utilizing the choppiness from their propellers to gather sand up from under the ship. By the morning of 26 January, "Yavuz" came free from the sandbank and "Turgut Reis" escorted her again into the Dardanelles. 

"Turgut Reis" was laid up again on 30 October 1918, and was refitted at the Gölcük Naval Shipyard from 1924 to 1925. In the wake of coming back to support, she filled in as a stationary preparing ship based at Gölcük. At the time, she held just two of her initially six 28 cm weapons. Two principle turrets were expelled and introduced as a piece of the substantial seaside battery Turgut Reis, arranged at the Asian shoreline of the Dardanelles Strait. The two turrets are saved with its firearms (two L/40 and two L/35). She was decommissioned in 1933 and was from that point utilized as a sleeping quarters deliver for dockyard laborers, a job she filled until 1950, when she started to be separated at Gölcük. By 1953, the ship had been stalled into two segments, and these were sold to be disassembled abroad. Obliteration work was at last finished somewhere in the range of 1956 and 1957.