Hugh de Neville 

Hugh de Neville (kicked the bucket 1234) was the Chief Forester under the lords , John and of England; he was the sheriff for various areas. Identified with various other illustrious authorities just as a priest, Neville was an individual from Prince Richard's family unit. After Richard moved toward becoming lord in 1189, Neville proceeded in his administration and went with him on the Third Crusade. Neville stayed in the regal administration following Richard's passing in 1199 and the increase of King John to the position of royalty, getting to be one of the new ruler's top choices and frequently betting with him. He was named in "Magna Carta" as one of John's chief consultants, and considered by a medieval writer to be one of King John's "malevolent advocates". He betrayed John after the French attack of England in 1216 yet came back to promise his dedication to John's child after the last's promotion to the position of authority soon thereafter. Neville's imperial administration proceeded until his passing in 1234, however by then he was a less critical figure than he had been at the tallness of his forces. 

Neville was the child of Ralph de Neville, a child of Alan de Neville, who was likewise Chief Forester. Hugh had a sibling, Roger de Neville, who was a piece of Hugh's family from 1202 to 1213, when Roger was given guardianship of Rockingham Castle by King John. Another sibling was William, who was given a portion of Hugh's properties in 1217. Hugh, Roger, and William were identified with various other illustrious authorities and churchmen, most prominent among them Geoffrey de Neville, who was an imperial chamberlain, and Ralph Neville, who progressed toward becoming Bishop of Chichester. Hugh de Neville utilized Ralph de Neville toward the beginning of Ralph's profession, and the two seem to have stayed on great terms all through a mind-blowing remainder. 

Hugh de Neville was an individual from the family unit of Prince Richard, later , and furthermore served Richard's dad, King Henry II toward the finish of Henry's rule, directing two baronies for the ruler. Neville went with Richard on the Third Crusade; he was one of only a handful couple of knights who battled with the ruler on 5 August 1192 outside the dividers of Jaffa, when the lord and a little power of knights and crossbowmen fended off an unexpected assault by Saladin's powers. Neville's record of occasions was a hotspot for the writer Ralph of Coggeshall's entrances on Richard's exercises in the Third Crusade. 

In 1194 Neville procured the wardship of Joan de Cornhill, girl of Henry de Cornhill, and wedded her four years after the fact. Likewise in 1194 he was given authority of the town of Marlborough in Wiltshire, and in 1196 he was named as Sheriff of Oxfordshire. He was additionally named in 1197 as Sheriff of Essex and Sheriff of Hertfordshire, workplaces he held until some time in 1200. 

Neville was delegated as Chief Forester under King Richard I in 1198. As the authority accountable for the imperial timberlands, he held one of the four extraordinary workplaces of the express: the others were the justiciar, the chancellor, and the treasurer. The forester was in charge of upholding the woodland law – the exceptional law that connected to the imperial forests  – and managed the backwoods judges, who held timberland eyres. There was additionally an extraordinary backwoods exchequer, or timberland treasury. In 1198 Neville directed an Assize of the Forest that was portrayed by the writer Roger of Howden as extraordinarily severe. The incomes could be impressive; in 1198 the backwoods eyre got £1,980. Neville expressed in 1208 that over the past six and a half years the sum raised by the different incomes of the woodlands had been £15,000; in 1212 it had been £4,486. Woods law was hated by the lord's subjects, for its seriousness as well as on account of the expansive degree of the kingdom that it included. It secured forests, however before the finish of the twelfth century between a quarter and 33% of the entire kingdom. This degree empowered the Norman and Angevin rulers to utilize the unforgiving disciplines of timberland law to remove extensive aggregates of cash for their administration. 

Neville kept on holding the workplace of Chief Forester under King John and he was regularly the lord's betting accomplice. He was an incessant observer to John's imperial sanctions. Under John, Neville was named to the workplaces of Sheriff of Hampshire in 1210, and Sheriff of Cumberland, workplaces of which he was denied in 1212. He was likewise reappointed to the shrievalties of Essex and Hertfordshire in 1202, holding them until 1203. 

In 1210 King John fined Neville 1,000 imprints since he had permitted Peter des Roches, the Bishop of Winchester, to encase some chasing grounds without imperial authorization; in spite of the fact that Roches was near the lord, his activity was an encroachment of the regal backwoods. Neville's extensive fine was most likely a notice that the lord was not kidding about upholding the woodland law; it was in the end repealed. In 1213 Neville was set accountable for the seaports along the southwest English coast from Cornwall to Hampshire, yet some time in 1213 it creates the impression that he tumbled from imperial support, despite the fact that the conditions are obscure. A fine of 6,000 imprints was evaluated on him for enabling two detainees to get away, just as other unrecorded offenses, despite the fact that the lord did therefore transmit 1,000 signs of the fine. In 1215 Neville lost his office of boss forester. He was available at Runnymede for the marking of "Magna Carta" and was referenced in the introduction as one of King John's councilors, just as filling in as an observer to the archive. Roger of Wendover, a writer writing in 1211, recorded Neville as one of King John's "detestable advisors". 

John's style of decision, and his annihilations in the Anglo-French War in 1214, had estranged huge numbers of his nobles. At first, a group of the noblemen constrained John to consent to "Magna Carta" to verify less fanciful government from the ruler. John, nonetheless, in the wake of consenting to their requests, verified the cancellation of the sanction from the papacy in late 1215. The resistance magnates at that point welcomed Prince Louis of France to take the English honored position, and Louis touched base in England with a military in May 1216. 

Neville joined the revolutionary noblemen in 1216, not long after Prince Louis attacked England. Neville surrendered Marlborough Castle, an imperial château in his authority, to Prince Louis in mid-1216. Louis had not assaulted the mansion, and it creates the impression that Neville stepped up to the plate in making suggestions to the sovereign. At the point when John knew about the difference in sides, he appropriated the majority of Neville's properties held straightforwardly from the ruler on 1216. On 4 September 1216 the ruler further seized grounds having a place with different revolutionaries that had been allowed to Neville before the surrender of Marlborough; some were re-conceded to Neville's sibling William. Hugh de Neville's child, Herbert, additionally joined the renegades. 

In the wake of King John's demise in October 1216, Neville and his child came to terms with the new lord, Henry III, John's child. The two men had their properties reestablished in 1217, however the workplaces that the senior Neville had held were not returned rapidly. Guardianship of some illustrious timberlands was returned by 1220, however the workplace of Chief Forester was not returned until some time later. In 1218 Neville should have had the woods of Rockingham came back to his authority, however William de Forz, the Count of Aumale, wouldn't return it. It was not until 1220 that de Neville figured out how to recoup his care of Rockingham backwoods. By 1224 Neville was yet again Chief Forester, however he never recaptured the power and impact that he had held under John. When he lost the workplace for the second time is misty. The history specialist C. R. Youthful states that he held the workplace until his demise in 1234 when it go to his child John, however Daniel Crook, writing in the "Oxford Dictionary of National Biography", guarantees that Neville lost the forester office in 1229, to be supplanted by John of Monmouth and Brian de Lisle. He likewise filled in as Sheriff of Lincolnshire. 

Neville's family unit records for 1207 endure, itemizing his agenda for the year; in one eight-week time frame his family visited eleven unique towns. In 1204 his better half offered the lord 200 chickens for the privilege to rest one night with her significant other, a commitment recorded in the imperial records. The history specialist Daniel Crook recommends that this demonstrates Joan Neville was one of the nobles' spouses who pulled in King John's sexual considerations. 

Neville acquired grounds in Lincolnshire worth one portion of a knight's expense. These were enlarged with blessings from Richard and John, quite a bit of which were in Essex. He additionally obtained terrains in Surrey and in Somerset, and his marriage to Joan brought him domains in Essex. Joan's territories likewise carried him into strife with Falkes de Breauté, the spouse of Joan's more youthful sister and co-beneficiary, and the two brothers by marriage were associated with claims over their wives' properties for over five years. Joan and her sister were likewise co-beneficiaries to the barony of Courcy, in right of their mom Alice de Courcy. 

Neville's first spouse, Joan de Cornhill, kicked the bucket after December 1224. Some time before April 1230 he wedded furthermore Beatrice, the widow of Ralph de Fay and one of the five girls of Stephen of Turnham. Joan and Neville had somewhere around three sons – John, Henry, and Herbert. Neville likewise had a little girl named Joan. 

Neville kicked the bucket in 1234, in spite of the fact that his passing was inaccurately recorded by Matthew Paris as happening in 1222. Neville was covered at Waltham Abbey, of which he had been a benefactor. Other than Waltham, he additionally made endowments to Christ Church Priory in Canterbury, Bullington Priory in Lincolnshire, and . The antiquarian Sidney Painter said of Neville's profession amid John's rule that "a solid contention could be progressed for the proposal that the regal authority who used the most genuine power amid John's rule was the central forester, Hugh de Neville". Another antiquarian, J. R. Maddicott, states that Neville was head of "a standout amongst the most despised parts of regal organization".