Leek Town F.C. 

Leek Town Football Club is an English football club situated in Leek, Staffordshire, as of now playing in the Northern Premier League Division One West. The group, nicknamed "The Blues", play their home diversions at Harrison Park. 

The club was established in 1946 and played in an assortment of nearby alliances including the Staffordshire County League, Manchester League, Mid-Cheshire League and Cheshire County League, before turning into an originator individual from the North West Counties League in 1982 and from that point advancing toward the Northern Premier League in 1987. In 1997 they were Northern Premier League champions and picked up advancement to the Football Conference, the most elevated amount of English non-association football, burning through two seasons at that dimension before being consigned. 

Leek Town achieved the last of the FA Trophy in 1990, having advanced right from the principal qualifying round, yet lost in the last at Wembley Stadium 3– 0 to Barrow. 

Football was played in Leek from somewhere around 1876, with a prior side called essentially Leek F.C. having been a piece of The Combination during the 1890s, yet the present Leek Town club follows its heredity to the arrangement of a group called Leek Lowe Hamil in 1946 (in spite of the fact that the club's authentic history does not specify it, a few sources express that the club was at first known as Abbey Green Rovers before embracing the Lowe Hamil name). 

The club started life playing in the neighborhood Leek and Moorlands League, playing on a field connecting a bar, before joining the Staffordshire County League in 1947. In 1949– 50 Lowe Hamil were heroes of this alliance, turning into the first (and to date just) group to win the title without losing a solitary match (a few sources express this title win happened in 1950– 51). In 1951 the group changed to the Manchester League, receiving the name Leek Town in the meantime, and won the title at the principal endeavor, after which the group migrated afresh to the Mid-Cheshire League, where again they played for only one season. In 1954 the group joined the Birmingham and District League however surrendered amidst the 1956– 57 season because of budgetary challenges, after which they had another short spell in the Manchester League, which was additionally abridged because of money related issues, before in the long run coming back to the Staffordshire County League. 

In 1968 another board of trustees was framed, under which the club rose up out of the doldrums. Director Paul Ogden took over in 1969 and drove the club to two Staffordshire County League titles, followed one after another by two Manchester League titles. After the second Manchester League win, Leek joined the Cheshire County League, where they were class champions at the second endeavor in the 1974– 75 season, however after Ogden left in 1975 to take over as administrator of Northwich Victoria a progression of chiefs went back and forth one after another without having the capacity to keep up this dimension of achievement. 

In 1982 the Cheshire County League converged with the Lancashire Combination to frame the new North West Counties League, where Leek burned through five generally fruitless seasons. Amid their spell in this alliance previous England player Mike Pejic took over as supervisor, Leek's most prominent arrangement to date, however he had just a short rule before moving to Northwich Victoria. Following Kevin Lewis' short reign Neil Baker took over in 1986 and was to lead the club to a portion of its most prominent victories to date. 

Leek were picked to be among the organizer individuals from the new Northern Premier League Division One out of 1987 and in 1989– 90 won the Division One title to pick up advancement to the Premier Division, the most abnormal amount at which they had ever played. In a similar season they advanced through eight rounds of the FA Trophy, including a quarter-last win over Darlington, that season's Conference champions, to achieve the last at Wembley Stadium however were crushed 3– 0 by Barrow. 

In 1993– 94 Leek completed second in the Northern Premier League Premier Division, which ought to have been adequate for advancement to the Football Conference. Nonetheless, they were rejected advancement because of money related anomalies. To intensify their issues, they were moved from the Northern Premier League toward the Southern League; the subsequent travel costs demonstrated an extreme channel on the club. After one season the club was permitted to come back toward the Northern Premier League. 

In 1996– 97 Leek guaranteed the Northern Premier League title by ten and were this time conceded advancement to the Conference. In their first season at this dimension they barely figured out how to maintain a strategic distance from assignment however couldn't rehash the accomplishment the next year and were consigned back toward the Northern Premier League Premier Division. In 2000– 01 the Blues were consigned to Division One, yet recaptured their place in the Premier Division when the group was rebuilt because of the arrangement of Conference North in 2004. The club accomplished a few mid-table completes in the class however battled off the pitch. On 21 June 2006 it was declared that the club was in such serious budgetary danger that it was confronting a wrapping up request, yet on 11 June the next year it was affirmed that another consortium had assumed control over the club and verified its future. In the 2007– 08 season Leek completed in the last four, bringing about transfer to Division One South. Between the 2011– 2012 and 2014– 15 seasons the club met all requirements for the play-offs for advancement back to the Premier Division multiple times, yet passed up a great opportunity each time. In 2011– 12 Leek lost in the last to Ilkeston. Two seasons later the group lost at the semi-last stage to Belper Town, and in 2015– 16 Leek lost in the last to Sutton Coldfield Town. 

Leek's home hues have customarily been all blue, and their away hues all yellow, the two hues which mirror the town's ensign, which is prevalently blue and gold. The club has likewise utilized a blue and white pack like that of Blackburn Rovers, and a red and dark away unit. 

Since 1997, the group's shirts have been supported by spread producer Kerrygold, whose central command are in the town. 

The club's peak includes a clothing and a Staffordshire tie, the two of which are components of the town's arms, just as a caduceus, an image which shows up on token coins issued in Leek in the eighteenth century. 

Harrison Park lies on the edges of Leek and has been the group's home since 1948, when the club bought what was then called Hamil Park for £1,250. Changing rooms were developed during the 1950s (beforehand the players had been obliged to change in an adjacent bar), alongside the principal secured convenience for observers, and floodlights (which had recently had a place with the dead Rugby Town) were raised in 1972, not long after which the arena was renamed Harrison Park after previous club director Geoff Harrison. 

The ground as of now has a situated remain along one side of the pitch, which was developed in 1992, three secured patios and a little measure of revealed terracing. In 1998 the ground was overwhelmed when a close-by repository flooded and the stream which keeps running nearby the ground burst its banks. 

Leek County School Old Boys, when they were in the North West Counties Football League, shared the ground between the mid 1990s and 2014. 

In the 2016-17 season Leek's normal participation was 244, putting them fourth out of twenty two groups in the Northern Premier League Division One South. In Leek's last season in the Conference National, 1998– 99, the club's normal home participation was 607. 

Leek's best ever association complete was a nineteenth spot complete in Conference National (level 5 of the general English football group framework) in 1997– 98, the first of two seasons the group played at that dimension. The Blues have just twice advanced similarly as the rounds appropriate of the FA Cup, achieving the first round in 1993– 94 and the second round in 1990– 91, when they held Chester City to a draw at home however lost 4– 0 in the replay. 

Leek achieved the last of the FA Trophy in 1989– 90 yet lost 3– 0 to Barrow at Wembley Stadium. 

The most astounding participation figure recorded at Harrison Park came when the club played close neighbors Macclesfield Town in a FA Cup second qualifying round match in the 1973– 74 season before a horde of 3,512. 

"N.B. The Northern Premier League does not utilize a squad numbering framework" 

Notwithstanding their generally short history, more than 30 men have dealt with The Blues. Paul Ogden has had six separate spells in control. 

"As of May 2018" 

Leek's principle nearby adversaries are Buxton, the opposite sides having been memorable Northern Premier League matches all through the 1990s. Matlock Town and Kidsgrove Athletic are likewise viewed as nearby opponents to the Blues.