McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet in Australian administration 

The Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) has worked McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet contender flying machine since 1984. The Australian Government bought 75 "An" and "B" variations of the F/A-18 out of 1981 to supplant the RAAF's Dassault Mirage III contenders. The Hornets entered administration with the RAAF somewhere in the range of 1984 and 1990, and 69 stay in task starting at 2019. Of the other six Hornets, four were crushed in flying mishaps amid the late 1980s and mid 1990s and two were moved to Canada in February 2019. 

RAAF Hornets were first sent on a battle arrangement as a major aspect of the Australian commitment to the 2003 attack of Iraq. Amid the attack, 14 Hornets flew watches over Iraq, just as close air bolster forays to help alliance ground powers. RAAF F/A-18s additionally given security to the American air base at Diego Garcia between late 2001 and mid 2002, and have ensured various prominent occasions in Australia. Somewhere in the range of 2015 and 2017 a unit of Hornets was sent to the Middle East and struck ISIL focuses as a feature of Operation Okra. 

Since 1999 the RAAF has put its Hornets through a progression of moves up to improve their viability. Be that as it may, the flying machine are ending up progressively hard to work and are in danger of being dominated by the contenders and air-safeguard frameworks worked by different nations. Subsequently, the RAAF will start to resign its F/A-18s in the late 2010s, and the last airplane will depart administration in the mid 2020s. Under current Australian Government arranging they will be supplanted by 72 Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II warriors. The Australian Government has offered the Hornets available to be purchased once they are never again required by the RAAF, and settled an arrangement to pitch 25 of the flying machine to Canada in mid 2019. 

The RAAF started the underlying phases of checking a swap for its Dassault Mirage III contenders in 1968. The administration issued an Air Staff Requirement for new contender air ship in December 1971, which got a bigger than anticipated number of proposition from producers. As of now the RAAF expected to begin eliminating the Mirage IIIs in 1980. In 1973, a group of RAAF faculty examined the McDonnell Douglas F-15 Eagle, Northrop YF-17, Saab 37 Viggen and Dassault Mirage F1 programs, however suggested that any choices about an appropriate substitution be deferred with the goal that few new contenders that were relied upon to before long turned out to be accessible could likewise be considered. In August 1974 the Australian Government chose to concede the warrior substitution venture and broaden the Mirage IIIs' operational life into the 1980s. One of the four Mirage III-prepared squadrons was likewise disbanded right now. 

Work on the Mirage substitution program continued in 1975, and the Tactical Fighter Project Office was built up in 1976 to deal with the way toward choosing the RAAF's next warrior. A solicitation for proposition was issued in November that year and pulled in eleven reactions. By March 1977 the workplace had concentrated on the F-15 Eagle, General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon, Dassault Mirage 2000 and Panavia Tornado, just as the McDonnell Douglas F-18A and F-18L; the F-18A was a bearer based contender created from the YF-17 for the United States Navy, and the F-18L was a land-based variation of this structure. The Grumman F-14 Tomcat was likewise considered by the task office, yet was viewed as unacceptable and never put on the official waitlist. In November 1978 the F-15 and Tornado were expelled from the rundown of air ship being considered. The Tornado was barred as it was mainly a strike flying machine and had constrained aerial capacity. While the F-15 was an amazing flying machine that met or surpassed practically the majority of the RAAF's necessities, it was trusted that the aviation based armed forces did not require a contender with such propelled abilities and that bringing it into administration could destabilize Australia's area. 

Further assessment of the rest of the flying machine occurred amid 1979. Wing Commander (and later Air Vice-Marshal) Bob Richardson test-flew a Mirage 2000 in April 1979, and detailed that while the flying machine had phenomenal streamlined qualities, its aeronautics, radar, fuel framework, cockpit and weapons capacity were sub-par compared to those of US structures. Richardson additionally test-flew a YF-17 that was being utilized as a demonstrator for the F-18L in mid-1979, and was awed by its abilities. No F-18Ls had been requested as of now, be that as it may, and the RAAF did not have any desire to go for broke of being the lead client for the plan. At about a similar time, the RAAF rejected an idea of F-14 Tomcats that had been initially requested by the Iranian Government however not conveyed because of the unrest in that nation. While the Tomcats were made accessible at an extraordinarily scaled down value, the flying corps made a decision about that these flying machine were excessively vast and complex for its prerequisites. 

With the Mirage 2000 and F-18L rejected, the RAAF was looked with a decision between the F-16 and F-18A. Richardson and a few other RAAF pilots tried United States Air Force (USAF) F-16Bs in 1979 and 1980, and revealed that the flying machine had astounding execution however could be hard to control now and again. The assessment group was additionally worried about the unwavering quality of the F-16's motor and viewed the air ship as mechanically juvenile. It was likewise noticed that the air ship's radar was second rate compared to that of the F-18A, and that F-16s couldn't fire the past visual-run (BVR) aerial rockets and long-go hostile to delivery rockets that the F-18A was equipped for working. Conversely, the assessment group was awed by the F-18A, and viewed it just like an increasingly strong and survivable air ship as it had been intended to work from plane carrying warships; these highlights were critical for tasks from exposed bases in northern Australia. Richardson and three other RAAF pilots test-flew F-18As, and detailed that the flying machine took care of well, yet had a few lacks with its flight control framework and motors; these were not seen as significant imperfections by the assessment group, in any case. The F-18A's twin motors were viewed as its principle leeway over the single-engined F-16, as research directed by the assessment group found that the whittling down rate for single-engined warriors was twice that for air ship with two motors. By and large, in any case, the RAAF made a decision about that both the F-16 and F-18A were unreasonably youthful for a choice to be made in 1980 as had been initially arranged, and prescribed to the Government this be conceded by a year. 

The Government acknowledged the RAAF's suggestion, and postponed its choice on a Mirage III substitution until late 1981. This allowed General Dynamics a chance to offer the improved F-16C to the RAAF. The capacity of these airplane was nearer to that of the F-18 as they were furnished with BVR rockets. Richardson and another RAAF pilot test-flew F-16Cs in May 1981. The F-18 configuration was likewise improved amid 1981, and was redesignated the F/A-18. At the point when RAAF aircraft testers flew these airplane amid 1981, they found that the lacks they had recognized in 1980 were currently tended to. Generally speaking, the RAAF presumed that while both airplane met its necessities and the F-16 was more affordable, the F/A-18 was the predominant plan as it was all the more mechanically develop, simpler to keep up amid operational arrangements, and liable to have a much lower wearing down rate. The Government acknowledged this counsel, and reported on 20 October 1981 that 75 F/A-18s would be requested. As a component of this declaration, Minister for Defense Jim Killen recognized that the F-16 would have been seven percent less expensive to buy, yet expressed that the F/A-18's lower running expenses and expected whittling down rate enormously decreased the contrast between the lifetime cost of the two plans. 

Rather than legitimately requesting the flying machine from McDonnell Douglas, the Australian Government obtained its F/A-18s through the US Government's Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program. Requesting the flying machine through the US Government enabled the RAAF to exploit the prevalent obtaining intensity of the US military, and diminished the administration's undertaking the board prerequisites. This prompted a confused game plan whereby the flying machine were requested by the US Government, conveyed to the US Navy, and after that exchanged to the RAAF once introductory flight testing had occurred. The procedure worked easily, nonetheless, and was practical. 

The RAAF's organization of 75 Hornets included 57 single-situate "A" variation warriors and 18 two-situate "B" variation operational preparing air ship. It was arranged that every one of the three warrior squadrons and the single operational change unit that were to work the F/A-18 would be apportioned 16 airplane, of which 12 were required to be operational whenever while the other four were experiencing support. The staying eleven Hornets were named the "half-life whittling down purchase" and would supplant the flying machine that were relied upon to have been lost by 2000; as it occurred, this extraordinarily surpassed the RAAF's real misfortunes. Conveyances were wanted to begin in late 1984 and be finished in 1990. The absolute expense of the F/A-18 program, including the flying machine, save parts, other gear and adjustments to the RAAF's contender bases, was determined as A$2.427 billion in August 1981, yet was quickly overhauled upwards because of the devaluation of the Australian dollar right now. 

The Australian Hornets were fundamentally the same as the standard US Navy variations, yet consolidated various minor adjustments. These incorporated the expansion of an Instrument Landing System/Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range (ILS/VOR) framework, a high-recurrence radio, an alternate discharge situate outfit and the erasure of all hardware utilized just to dispatch the air ship from launches. Also, two of the Australian air ship were fitted with flight-test instrumentation so they could be utilized as a major aspect of preliminaries. 

The Government looked to utilize the Mirage III substitution program as a way to expand the capacities of Australia's assembling industry. As needs be, it was chosen to assemble the air ship in Australia, however it was perceived this would prompt greater expenses than if the warriors were acquired straightforwardly from the United States. While the initial two RAAF Hornets were worked in the United States, the rest of gathered at the Government Aircraft Factories plant at Avalon Airport in Victoria, and their motors were created by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation at Fishermans Bend in Melbourne. Another twelve Australian organizations were associated with different phases of the task. These organizations were sub-contracted to McDonnell Douglas and the other significant US organizations that delivered parts for the F/A-18, and needed to agree to the prerequisites of the FMS program. The Australian Government trusted that Singapore and New Zealand would buy Australian-manufactured Hornets, however this did not eventuate. The Canadian Government communicated enthusiasm for acquiring 25 Australian-constructed F/A-18As in 1988 so as to build its power of these airplane after they had stopped to be produced in the United States, yet this did not prompt any deals. 

The Australian Hornets started to move off the generation lines in 1984. The initial two air ship (sequential numbers A21-101 and A21-102) were altogether worked at McDonnell Douglas' industrial facility in St. Louis, and were given over to the RAAF on 29 October 1984. These flying machine stayed in the United States until May 1985 for preparing and preliminaries purposes. The following two Australian Hornets (A21-103 and A21-104) were additionally worked at St. Louis, yet were then dismantled and traveled to Avalon in June 1984 on board a USAF Lockheed C-5 Galaxy. The air ship were then reassembled, and A21-103 was taken off at a service gone to by Prime Minister Bob Hawke and the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal David Evans, on 16 November. Be that as it may, the flying machine's underlying experimental drill was postponed until 26 February 1985 by an outline argument about which class of pilot was allowed to fly the airplane. 

So as to meet creation targets, GAF was required to finish 1.5 Hornets every month. Generation fell behind timetable amid the principal half of 1987, in any case, because of wasteful aspects at the organization's processing plant and modern relations issues. GAF had the capacity to quicken generation later in the year, however a few segments that were intended to be fabricated in Australia were acquired from organizations in the United States. The last expense of the Hornet venture was A$4.668 billion; subsequent to changing for the deterioration of the Australian dollar this was $186 million not exactly the underlying assessment. 

The RAAF started to acknowledge Hornets into administration in 1985. A21-103 was formally conveyed on 4 May of that year. After two weeks, A21-101 and 102 were flown from Naval Air Station Lemoore in California to RAAF Base Williamtown in New South Wales somewhere in the range of 16 and 17 May 1985. This ship flight was directed as a constant adventure, and USAF McDonnell Douglas KC-10 Extender tankers refueled every one of the Hornets multiple times as they crossed the Pacific. Starting at 2005 this remained the longest single trip to have been attempted by F/A-18s. Regardless of the postponements to creation in 1987, the last Australian Hornet (A21-57) was conveyed on timetable at a service held in Canberra on 16 May 1990. The F/A-18As were apportioned sequential numbers A21-1 through to A21-57 and the F/A-18Bs were distributed A21-101 to A21-118. 

A noteworthy capital works program was likewise attempted to get ready RAAF bases for the Hornets. Over $150 million was spent updating the runways, overhangs and upkeep offices at RAAF Base Williamtown, which has been the principle F/A-18 base all through the flying machine's administration. The prior landing strip at RAAF Base Tindal in the Northern Territory was additionally formed into a noteworthy air base somewhere in the range of 1985 and 1988 at an expense of $215 million with the goal that it could oblige No. 75 Squadron. Until this time the squadron had been positioned at RAAF Base Darwin which, because of its area on Australia's north coast, was helpless against harm from violent winds and hard to guard amid wartime. 

Inferable from worries over the airworthiness of the RAAF's General Dynamics F-111 planes and postponements to the Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II program, the Australian Government requested 24 F/A-18F Super Hornets in 2006. This structure is altogether unique in relation to the first (or "great") Hornet, in any case. The RAAF's first Super Hornets entered administration in 2010 and conveyances were finished the following year. In 2013 the Australian Government requested 12 Boeing EA-18G Growler electronic fighting variations of the Super Hornet, and all were conveyed to the RAAF somewhere in the range of 2015 and 2017. 

Support of the RAAF's Hornets is completed by both aviation based armed forces work force and non military personnel temporary workers. Until the mid 1990s, all normal adjusting and a noteworthy extent of serious "more profound upkeep" was embraced by the aviation based armed forces. In any case, the offer of serious upkeep undertakings re-appropriated to the private segment was expanded amid the 1990s under the RAAF-wide Commercial Support Program. Under current plans, the four Hornet-prepared units embrace all normal adjusting and a portion of the more perplexing further upkeep assignments. The rest of the more profound upkeep work, just as every single real restoration and overhaul ventures, are completed by business firms. BAE Systems has been the lead temporary worker for Hornet more profound support since 2003, and Boeing Australia has likewise given upkeep administrations to the flying machine since it won an agreement to do as such in 2010. In August 2017 Boeing's agreement was reached out until the arranged retirement of the Hornets in 2021, with the organization additionally picking up duty regarding coordinating weapons onto the sort. This change was made to free up RAAF work force for exercises related with bringing the F-35 into administration. 

The RAAF's Hornet armada got couple of adjustments until the late 1990s. Amid this period, the AN/AAS-38 "Nite Hawk" focusing on unit was the main new framework fitted to the air ship. In any case, a few Asian nations brought Mikoyan MiG-29 contenders into administration amid the 1990s, raising worries that the RAAF's air ship would be clobbered. The flying corps thought about supplanting the Hornet with the Eurofighter Typhoon or Boeing F/A-18E/F Super Hornet, however reasoned that both air ship were innovatively juvenile. Thus, it was chosen to overhaul the Hornets. 

The Hornet Upgrade Program (HUG) started in 1999, and has had three fundamental stages. In Phase 1, which kept running from mid-2000 through 2002, the Hornets' PC frameworks, route framework and radio were supplanted. The air ship were additionally fitted to work the ASRAAM aerial rocket; these weapons supplanted the AIM-9 Sidewinder. Embrace Phase 2 involved four sub-components and looked to improve the Hornets' battle execution. Amid Phase 2.1 the APG-65 radar was supplanted with the improved AN/APG-73, and the airplane were fitted with a safe voice encryption interchanges framework just as different updates to their PC frameworks. In HUG Phase 2.2, the most essential component of the program, the Hornets were fitted with a Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System, gear expected to share information through the Link 16 arrange, another countermeasures apportioning framework and a few moves up to their cockpit shows. The majority of the Hornets were moved up to this standard between January 2005 and December 2006. In Phase 2.3, an improved Electronic Counter Measures framework was fitted to the Hornets; the AN/ALR-2002 was initially chosen, yet demonstrated fruitless. It was supplanted by the ALR-67 Radar Warning Receiver in late 2006. Starting at mid 2012, 14 Hornets had been fitted with the framework and the rest of planned to get it before the year's over. Amid HUG Phase 2.4 the Hornets were adjusted to have the capacity to utilize the AN/AAQ-28(v) "LITENING" focusing on unit and 37 of these frameworks were obtained; this stage was finished in 2007. 

The third phase of the Hornet Upgrade Program tried to redress airframe harm. Embrace Phase 3.1 included minor basic work to all airplane as they went through different periods of the program. The inside fuselages of the ten Hornets evaluated as enduring the best measure of auxiliary harm were supplanted in HUG Phase 3.2. It was initially expected that all the RAAF's Hornets would get new focus fuselages, yet the extent of this period of the program was diminished after it was discovered that the quantity of worker hours expected to redesign every air ship was a lot more noteworthy than initially assessed. The ten flying machine were updated at a L-3 Communications office in Canada, and all were come back to support by June 2010. 

The long-running HUG process confounded the RAAF's administration of its armada of F/A-18s. At any one time, the capacities of individual air ship contrasted impressively relying upon their redesigns. In like manner, the long-standing game plan where airplane were for all time doled out to every squadron was supplanted by a framework where they were pooled. Endeavors to dispense Hornets with comparable dimensions of adjustments from the normal pool to every squadron were not fruitful. 

The RAAF's Hornets have been fitted with a few unique kinds of aerial weapons. The air ship are outfitted with an inside M61A1 gun for use against air and ground targets; 578 rounds can be conveyed for this weapon. Amid the underlying long periods of the Hornet's administration, the air ship were furnished with AIM-9M Sidewinder short range aerial rockets and AIM-7M Sparrow medium-go aerial rockets. The Sparrows were supplanted by the AIM-120 AMRAAM in 2002, and in 2004 the Sidewinders were supplanted by ASRAAMs. The more established rockets are infrequently utilized in preparing works out, notwithstanding. 

An assortment of unguided and guided weapons can likewise be utilized against ground targets. The Hornets convey Mark 82, Mark 83 and Mark 84 bombs, just as GBU-10, GBU-12 and GBU-16 Paveway II laser-guided bombs. Furthermore, the air ship have worked bombs fitted with JDAM direction units since 2008. The since quite a while ago extended JDAM-ER variation of these bombs were requested in 2011 and will start to enter administration in 2015. Amid activities the Hornets convey BDU-33 and BDU-57 LGTR preparing bombs. Since November 2011, the RAAF's Hornets have likewise been furnished with AGM-158 JASSM voyage rockets. The F/A-18s fundamental weapon in the sea strike job is the Harpoon against ship rocket; the RAAF at first worked the Block IC variation of this rocket, yet bought Block II variations in 2003. Notwithstanding these weapons, the Hornets can likewise be fitted with drop tanks to broaden their range. 

Four RAAF units changed over to the Hornet somewhere in the range of 1985 and 1988. The initial 14 Hornets were allotted to No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit (2OCU) at RAAF Base Williamtown, and were utilized to prepare the pilots and educators expected to change over the RAAF's three warrior squadrons to the flying machine. 2OCU's first Hornet operational transformation course started on 19 August 1985. Notwithstanding the unit's preparation exercises, 2OCU air ship voyaged generally around Australia and South East Asia amid 1985 and 1986 to grandstand the new air ship. No. 3 Squadron was the main contender unit to change over from the Mirage III, and wound up operational with the Hornet in August 1986. It was trailed by No. 77 Squadron in June 1987 and No. 75 Squadron in May 1988. No. 81 Wing, whose central command is situated at Williamtown, has told these four units since they changed over to the F/A-18. Starting at 2012, 2OCU, No. 3 and No. 77 Squadrons are positioned at Williamtown and No. 75 Squadron is situated at Tindal. What's more, two Hornets are assigned to the Aircraft Research and Development Unit at RAAF Base Edinburgh in South Australia. 

The RAAF's Mirage III pilots commonly discovered the way toward changing over to the Hornet to be direct. While the F/A-18 was viewed as simpler to fly, its increasingly advanced flying and weapons frameworks required improved cockpit remaining task at hand administration abilities. The Hornets have likewise turned out to be precisely solid and simple to keep up, however deficiencies of extra parts decreased accessibility rates amid the early long periods of their administration with the RAAF. The updates introduced as a major aspect of the HUG procedure have additionally disentangled support methodology. As of late, be that as it may, the maturing air ship have required substantially more overhauling than was the situation previously. 

To expand the Hornet's range, four of the RAAF's six Boeing 707 transport air ship were changed over to tankers in the mid 1990s; the first Boeing 707 tanker entered administration in 1990. The tankers were worked by No. 33 Squadron and bolstered the Hornet units until the 707s were resigned in 2008. These flying machine were supplanted with KC-30A tanker-transports in 2011. 

The RAAF has now and again experienced setbacks of Hornet-qualified pilots. The administration started to encounter deficiencies of F/A-18 and F-111 quick stream pilots in the mid-1980s because of rivalry from business aircrafts and generally low enlistment rates. By June 1999 the three operational Hornet-prepared squadrons had just 40 pilots, which was not exactly the quantity of air ship dispensed to these units. The RAAF asserted that the squadrons had the capacity to meet their availability targets, in any case. To defeat this deficit, the RAAF gave its quick fly units a higher need for aircrew, actualized measures to diminish partition rates, and enrolled pilots from different nations. These changes concurred with decreased interest for common pilots following the 11 September assaults, and by late 2003 the RAAF's quick stream units were at close full quality. A 2010 article in the magazine "Australian Aviation" expressed that No. 3 Squadron normally had "around 18 pilots on quality" anytime. As of now the all out quality of the squadron, including air and ground team, was around 300 staff. 

As the Hornets are multi-job contenders, their pilots practice a wide scope of assignments amid peacetime preparing. Every year the three Hornet squadrons turn between four-month preparing "squares" concentrated on aerial battle, air-to-ground strategies and Australian Defense Force bolster undertakings. The units embrace the aerial and air-to-ground "obstructs" before accepting accountability for Australian Defense Force support (which includes working with the Australian Army and Royal Australian Navy). No. 81 Wing's central command directs this preparation program and screens adherence to basic norms and methodology. Preparing fights may incorporate such undertakings as safeguarding air bases, foundation and delivery from adversary air ship, assaulting maritime and ground targets, and rehearsing in-flight refueling. Increasingly surprising assignments, for example, dropping maritime mines have likewise been rehearsed now and again. Significant activities frequently include other RAAF units and air ship, just as units from the Army and Navy and contingents from different nations. 

As a major aspect of their ordinary preparing exercises, F/A-18 Hornets work in various pieces of Australia and the Asia-Pacific locale. Standard organizations are made to Singapore and RMAF Butterworth in Malaysia as a component of Integrated Air Defense System works out. Likewise, RAAF F/A-18s have taken an interest in activities in the Philippines, Thailand and the United States. These arrangements have seen Australian warrior squadrons extend as far away from home as Eielson Air Force Base in Alaska, where they participated in Red Flag – Alaska practices in 2008 and 2011. 

Four of the RAAF's Hornets were decimated in flying mishaps amid the late 1980s and mid 1990s. A21-104 was the main air ship to be lost when it slammed at Great Palm Island in Queensland on 18 November 1987; its pilot was murdered. The following misfortune happened on 2 August 1990 when two No. 75 Squadron Hornets (A21-29 and A21-42) impacted. A21-42 smashed, murdering the unit's boss; the other flying machine was harmed however figured out how to come back to base. On 5 June 1990 A21-41 slammed north-east of Weipa, Queensland, executing its pilot. A21-106 was the fourth airplane to be lost when it slammed inland from Shoalwater Bay in Queensland on 19 May 1992 – its pilot and a traveler from the Defense Science and Technology Organization kicked the bucket. As of September 2017, the majority of the rest of the 71 F/A-18s were still in administration. Flying author Nigel Pittaway has noticed that the sort has "appreciated a model security record amid its RAAF administration", particularly when contrasted with the loss of 41 of the RAAF's 116 Mirages because of mishaps. 

In late 1990 thought was given to conveying a squadron of F/A-18s to the Middle East as a major aspect of an extended Australian commitment to the Gulf War. The Department of Defense contradicted dispatching the airplane in light of the fact that doing as such would extraordinarily strain the warrior constrain in Australia, and this alternative was not received by the legislature. Thus, the Hornets' solitary job in the war was to help the preparation of the Royal Australian Navy warships which were sent to the Gulf by leading false assaults on the vessels as they cruised from Sydney to Perth. 

Amid late 1999, No. 75 Squadron was put on alarm to give close air backing and air safeguard for the global powers conveyed to East Timor as a feature of INTERFET. While Indonesian powers represented a potential danger to this power, no battling eventuated and the Hornets were not required. 

The main operational organization of RAAF Hornets occurred in 2001. Following the 11 September psychological militant assaults, the Australian Government consented to send F/A-18s to ensure the real USAF air base on the Indian Ocean island of Diego Garcia, which was being utilized to mount tasks in Afghanistan. Four No. 77 Squadron Hornets and 70 staff withdrew for the island on 9 November. No. 3 Squadron pilots and ground team calmed the No. 77 Squadron faculty toward the beginning of February 2002. RAAF Hornets were not doled out to the War in Afghanistan as at the time they were less fit than other accessible alliance air ship. While the F/A-18s were infrequently mixed because of reports of air ship close to the base, no risk created. The separation came back to Australia on 21 May 2002. 

No. 75 Squadron framed piece of the Australian commitment to the 2003 intrusion of Iraq. The squadron started beginning anticipating this arrangement in December 2002, and escalated preparing was embraced from January 2003. To improve the unit's availability, air and ground team just as airplane were likewise presented on No. 75 Squadron from different units. The Australian Government declared on 1 February that it would start conveying RAAF air ship, including a squadron of F/A-18s, to the Middle East. No. 75 Squadron left from Tindal on 13 February, and touched base at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar on the sixteenth of the month. The 14 F/A-18A Hornets chose for this sending had gotten the HUG 2.1 bundle of overhauls and as of late finished real adjusting. These updates permitted the F/A-18s to work nearby other alliance flying machine. Notwithstanding No. 75 Squadron, a few experienced Hornet pilots were additionally presented on the USAF Combined Air and Space Operations Center in the Middle East to give exhortation on the most proficient method to utilize the squadron. 

The Australian Hornets saw battle in a few jobs amid the Iraq War. Following the episode of war on 20 March, No. 75 Squadron was at first used to escort high-esteem Coalition air ship, for example, tankers and airborne early cautioning and control airplane. As it quickly turned out to be certain that the Iraqi Air Force represented no risk, from 21 March No. 75 Squadron likewise started to likewise lead air ban forays against Iraqi powers. These fights were at first flown in help of the United States Army's V Corps, yet the squadron was once in a while alloted any objectives to assault. Subsequently, the Australian administrators in the Middle East had No. 75 Squadron reassigned to help the United States Marine Corps' I Marine Expeditionary Force. As of now the squadron likewise started flying close air bolster fights. Amid the initial two weeks of the war the squadron regularly flew 12 forays every day. To stay away from pilot weariness, extra aircrew were presented on the Middle East from Australia. The quantity of fights dropped to somewhere in the range of six and ten every day from 5 April onwards as the American powers shut on Baghdad and few targets stayed in southern Iraq. On 12 April, No. 75 Squadron upheld components of the Special Air Service Regiment and fourth Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, which involved Al Asad Airbase. Amid the most recent long stretches of the war the squadron kept on flying forays crosswise over western, focal and southern Iraq to help British and American powers. In a few of the squadron's tasks in the last seven day stretch of the war, the Hornets made low elevation and rapid ignores Iraqi positions to urge their safeguards to surrender. No. 75 Squadron led its last battle forays on 27 April. Amid the war the squadron flew 350 battle missions (counting 670 individual forays) and dropped 122 laser-guided bombs. No. 75 Squadron did not endure any losses, and every one of the 14 Hornets came back to Tindal on 14 May 2003. 

RAAF Hornets have additionally given air resistance to a few prominent occasions in Australia since the 11 September assaults. In 2002, Hornets watched over the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) at Coolum Beach, Queensland; this was the first run through RAAF flying machine had flown air safeguard forays over Australia since World War II. On 22 and 23 October that year a unit of Hornets watched over Canberra amid US President George W. Shrubbery's visit to the city. A unit of air ship from No. 77 Squadron was sent to RAAF Base East Sale in March 2006 to ensure the Commonwealth Games, which were being held in Melbourne. In September 2007, Hornets watched over Sydney amid the APEC pioneers meeting there. Eight Hornets were additionally sent from Williamstown to RAAF Base Pearce in October 2011 to secure the CHOGM meeting in close-by Perth. On 16 and 17 November that year, Hornets worked over Canberra and Darwin while President Barack Obama was available. 

In March 2015 six F/A-18As from No. 75 Squadron were conveyed to the Middle East as a major aspect of Operation Okra, supplanting a unit of Super Hornets. No. 81 Wing's inclusion in Operation Okra finished up in May 2017, with No. 1 Squadron continuing obligation regarding this assignment. At this point the majority of the wing's three squadrons had finished somewhere around one revolution to the Middle East: No. 3 Squadron was sent once, and the other two squadrons led two arrangements. The squadrons utilized a typical 'pool' of air ship amid these organizations, with either six or seven Hornets being positioned in the Middle East whenever. The air ship were ordinarily sent for eight months before turning back to Australia while getting to be expected for real adjusting. Individuals from the three Hornet-prepared squadrons served five or half year revolutions, and ground team from 2OCU and No. 81 Wing's workshops were additionally sent to fill expert jobs. The Hornets assaulted ISIL faculty and offices in both Iraq and Syria, incorporating into help of Iraqi powers occupied with the Battle of Mosul. By and large, No. 81 Wing directed 1,973 fights over Iraq and Syria amid which 1,961 weapons were discharged. Regardless of the age of the airplane and the unforgiving natural conditions in the Middle East, the separation continued a high functionality rate. 

While the Hornet Upgrade Program has been effective, the RAAF's Hornets are moving toward retirement. It is normal that the flying machine will be progressively costly to work as they age, and enhancements to the contender flying machine and air safeguards worked by different nations will lessen the Hornets' battle adequacy. The Australian Government is as of now intending to supplant the RAAF's F/A-18 Hornets with Lockheed Martin F-35A Lightning II warriors from 2018 onwards. The Defense Materiel Organization's Project AIR 6000 Phase 2A/B determines that 72 F-35A warriors will be procured to prepare three squadrons and an operational preparing unit. No. 3 Squadron will be the principal Hornet unit to be reequipped, and stopped working the sort in December 2017. It started to progress to the F-35 in mid 2018. The squadron's Hornets and a large portion of its faculty were exchanged to No. 77 Squadron, which was extended from a few flights as a component of this change. The majority of the F/A-18A and Bs are planned to be resigned by 2023. The RAAF's Hornet manageability arranging has been intended to enable the sort to be held in administration for more if the F-35 program encounters further deferrals. 

Meanwhile, the RAAF has executed a few measures to keep the Hornets in administration. These incorporate an auxiliary repair program, expanded observing of weariness related issues just as repainting the air ship and regularly washing them to decrease the dangers presented by consumption. In 2015 the Defense Science and Technology Group led new factual investigation of the Hornets' auxiliary condition which found that the airframes were less exhausted than recently accepted, thus ready to stay in administration for a more drawn out period than arranged if important. This finding was acknowledged by the Directorate General Technical Airworthiness – Australian Defense Force. As of September 2017, none of the RAAF Hornets were liable to flying limitations because of airframe exhaustion. Be that as it may, the expense of keeping up the maturing air ship in administration has been expanding. A 2017 article by Canadian guard examiner Christopher Cowan and Australian Strategic Policy Institute expert Dr. Andrew Davies expressed that the RAAF "has worked superbly dealing with its Hornet armada", with every airplane having a one of a kind intend to limit airframe exhaustion. As of now every one of the Hornets had, all things considered, been flown for 4,200 hours, when contrasted with the ostensible weariness life of 6,000 hours for the sort. 

The Australian Government is intending to sell the Hornets and related extra parts after the sort is resigned from RAAF administration. In August 2017 the Canadian Government started talks to buy various Australian F/A-18s to enlarge the Royal Canadian Air Force's armada of comparable McDonnell Douglas CF-18 Hornets if an arranged buy of Super Hornets was dropped as the consequence of an exchange question. A Canadian assignment likewise visited Australia that month to assess RAAF Hornets. The Canadian Government held up a formal articulation important to buy Australian F/A-18s on 29 September 2017. 

On 13 December 2017, Australian Minister for Defense Marise Payne affirmed the clearance of 18 F/A-18 Hornets and related extra parts to Canada. The Canadian Government declared while it had dropped its arrangements to procure Super Hornets. The Australian air ship are being procured to empower the RCAF to keep on meeting its global responsibilities until another warrior type is requested and enters administration. In June 2018 the Canadian Government mentioned a further seven Australian Hornets. These extra flying machine will be utilized as a wellspring of extra parts. The clearance of the 25 Hornets was finished in mid 2019, with the price tag being C$90 million. Of these airplane, 18 will be issued to operational units and the rest of for preliminaries purposes and as a wellspring of extra parts. After they touch base in Canada, the air ship will be fitted with various launch seats and programming so they are indistinguishable to CF-18s. 

Conveyances of ex-RAAF Hornets to Canada started in February 2019. Two of the flying machine were traveled to CFB Cold Lake by Australian pilots in mid-February, and gave over after they had shaped piece of the RAAF unforeseen at a Red Flag practice in the United States. Right now, conveyances of the other 23 Hornets were booked to be finished in 2021. Notwithstanding, this calendar is reliant on advancement with bringing the F-35 into Australian administration.