No. 77 Squadron RAAF 

No. 77 Squadron is a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) squadron headquartered at RAAF Base Williamtown, New South Wales. It is constrained by No. 81 Wing, and outfitted with McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet multi-job contenders. The squadron was framed at RAAF Station Pearce, Western Australia, in March 1942 and saw activity in the South West Pacific performance center of World War II, working Curtis P-40 Kittyhawks. After the war, it re-outfitted with North American P-51 Mustangs and conveyed to Japan as a major aspect of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force. The squadron was going to come back to Australia when the Korean War broke out in June 1950, after which it joined United Nations powers supporting South Korea. It changed over from Mustangs to Gloster Meteor flies among April and July 1951 and stayed in Korea until October 1954, guaranteeing five MiG-15s and more than five thousand structures and vehicles wrecked amid the war for the loss of just about sixty air ship, for the most part to ground fire. 

The squadron re-furnished with CAC Sabers at Williamtown in November 1956. After two years it exchanged to RAAF Butterworth in Malaya to join the air battle against socialist guerrillas in the last phases of the Emergency. The squadron stayed at Butterworth amid the 1960s, giving provincial air safeguard amid the "Konfrontasi" among Indonesia and Malaysia. It came back to Williamtown in mid 1969 to re-furnish with Dassault Mirage III supersonic stream contenders. No. 77 Squadron started changing over to Hornets in June 1987. It provided a unit of four air ship to the American base on Diego Garcia in 2001– 02, supporting the war in Afghanistan, and conveyed to the Middle East as a major aspect of the military intercession against ISIL in 2015– 16. Alongside its Hornets, the squadron quickly worked Pilatus PC-9s in the forward air control job in the mid 2000s. The RAAF plans to supplant its Hornets with Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II contenders beginning in 2018, and No. 77 Squadron is planned to change over to the new kind in 2021. 

No. 77 Squadron is situated at RAAF Base Williamtown, New South Wales, and constrained by No. 81 Wing, which is a piece of Air Combat Group. No. 81 Wing keeps up three contender squadrons for hostile and protective counter-air tasks. Just as aerial battle, No. 77 Squadron is entrusted with land strike, close air support and sea strike missions. Its staff incorporates upkeep, supply and other help work force. The unit adage is "Quick to Destroy" and the peak includes an oriental sanctuary lion, a heritage of No. 77 Squadron's job in the Korean War. Nicknamed the "crotchety monkey", the lion speaks to "a safeguard of harmony, which, when irritated, is quick to demolish". 

The squadron works McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet multi-job contenders, the first was conveyed in June 1987. The twin-engined Hornet is equipped with a 20 mm gun and can convey short-and medium-run aerial rockets and an assortment of guided and unguided air-to-surface arms. It tends to be refueled in trip by the RAAF's Airbus KC-30A Multi Role Tanker Transports. No. 77 Squadron principally works the single-situate F/A-18A Hornet; every Hornet squadron likewise works a couple of F/A-18Bs, a two-situate show utilized for pilot change. Squadron staff are in charge of everyday overhauling and some substantial upkeep undertakings. Other overwhelming upkeep is completed by an industry alliance contracted through Boeing. No. 77 Squadron routinely attempts practices with aviation based armed forces from South-East Asia, New Zealand and the United States. 

As the Japanese progressed in the South West Pacific amid mid 1942, the RAAF quickly settled three warrior units—Nos. 75, 76 and 77 Squadrons—outfitted with Curtiss P-40E Kittyhawks as of late conveyed from the United States. No. 77 Squadron was framed at RAAF Station Pearce, Western Australia, on 16 March, with a supplement of three officers and 100 men. Briefly directed by Squadron Leader D. F. Forsyth, the unit was at first in charge of the protection of Perth. Squadron Leader Dick Cresswell accepted direction on 20 April. The squadron exchanged to Batchelor Airfield close Darwin, Northern Territory, in August, the first RAAF contender unit to be positioned in the zone. Until this time, air protection over Darwin had been given by the P-40s flown by the USAAF's 49th Fighter Group. No. 77 Squadron moved to another of Darwin's satellite landing strips, Livingstone, in September. Among its pilots was John Gorton, future Prime Minister of Australia. No. 77 Squadron saw activity protecting Darwin from Japanese air assaults and guaranteed its first elevated triumph soon after 5 a.m. on 23 November 1942, when Cresswell wrecked a Mitsubishi "Betty" plane. It was the primary "slaughter" for an Australian squadron over the terrain, and the main night triumph over Australia. As of 24 December, the unit's quality was twenty-four Kittyhawks. 

In February 1943, simultaneous with No. 1 Wing and its three Supermarine Spitfire squadrons getting to be operational in the Darwin region, No. 77 Squadron was exchanged to Milne Bay in New Guinea. Alongside Nos. 6, 75 and 100 Squadrons it went under the control of the recently shaped No. 71 Wing, which was a piece of No. 9 Operational Group, the RAAF's primary portable arrangement in the South West Pacific Area. No. 77 Squadron enrolled its first daytime triumph on 11 April, when a Kittyhawk shot down a Mitsubishi Zero partaking in a strike on Allied delivering close Buna. After three days the Japanese assaulted Milne Bay; the squadron guaranteed four aircraft and a warrior for the loss of one Kittyhawk. At this point, Allied home office had concluded designs for a drive north to the Philippines including overwhelming assaults on Rabaul and the control of an area in New Guinea, New Britain and the Solomon Islands. 

No. 77 Squadron started moving to Goodenough Island in May 1943, and was completely settled and prepared for activities by 15 June. As Japanese warrior resistance was restricted, the squadron participated in a few ground-assault missions in New Britain, equipped with flammable and universally useful bombs, a training that had been utilized by Kittyhawk units in the Middle East. Amid one such assault on 2 August, Cresswell's assigned successor as boss, Flight Lieutenant Daryl Sproule, was compelled to crash-arrive on a shoreline and was caught and executed by the Japanese. Cresswell stayed in direction until Squadron Leader "Buster" Brown took over on 20 August. Japanese warrior quality in New Britain and New Guinea expanded in September and October, and eight of No. 77 Squadron's Kittyhawks were quickly disconnected to Nadzab as escorts for the CAC Boomerangs of No. 4 Squadron, which were supporting the seventh Australian Division. 

In January 1944, No. 77 Squadron partook in the two biggest assaults mounted by the RAAF to that time, each including more than seventy flying machine assaulting focuses in New Britain. It was along these lines doled out to Los Negros in the Admiralty Islands, joining Nos. 76 and 79 Squadrons under No. 73 Wing. No. 77 Squadron's ground party went shorewards at Los Negros on 6 March, amidst a firefight with Japanese powers. Fourteen of the squadron's Kittyhawks arrived seven days after the fact, and another ten on 28 March. Their essential obligation was giving air spread to Allied delivering, however no Japanese air ship were experienced; they additionally flew ground-assault missions in help of US troops on Manus Island. Following the catch of the Admiralties, which finished the disconnection of Rabaul, No. 77 Squadron stayed with No. 73 Wing on army obligation at Los Negros from May to July 1944. 

Somewhere in the range of 13 August and 14 September 1944, the squadron moved to Noemfoor in western New Guinea to join Nos. 76 and 82 Squadrons as a major aspect of No. 81 Wing under No. 10 Operational Group (later the Australian First Tactical Air Force), which had assumed control over the portable job recently performed by No. 9 Group and was supporting the American arrivals along the north shoreline of New Guinea. Cresswell, presently a wing leader, landed for his second voyage through obligation as boss on 26 September. Working P-40N Kittyhawks, No. 77 Squadron besieged Japanese positions on the Vogelkop Peninsula in October and on Halmahera in November. Cresswell gave over order in March 1945. The squadron moved to Morotai on 13 April and directed ground-assault fights over the Dutch East Indies until 30 June, when it redeployed with No. 81 Wing to Labuan to help the ninth Australian Division in North Borneo until threats finished in August 1945. The squadron's count of aeronautical triumphs amid the war was seven flying machine demolished and four "probables", for the loss of eighteen pilots slaughtered. 

No. 77 Squadron started re-furnishing with North American P-51 Mustangs at Labuan in September 1945. In the wake of Japan's surrender, No. 81 Wing turned out to be a piece of Australia's commitment to the British Commonwealth Occupation Force (BCOF). No. 77 Squadron was the remainder of the wing's three flying units to send to Japan, landing at Bofu, a previous kamikaze base, on 21 March 1946. No. 481 (Maintenance) Squadron gave specialized support of the Mustangs. Occupation obligations demonstrated uneventful, the primary operational errand being reconnaissance watches, yet units kept up an escalated preparing routine and embraced joined activities with other Allied powers. Numerous RAAF faculty were joined to Japan by their families. 

No. 81 Wing moved to Iwakuni in April 1948, that month that the Federal government chose to diminish Australia's commitment to BCOF, holding just No. 77 Squadron in Japan. Wing home office and No. 481 Squadron disbanded in November 1948, and No. 77 Squadron went under the aegis of another association called RAAF Component. The squadron was presently the biggest operational unit in the RAAF, with a quality of 299 officers and men, forty Mustangs, three CAC Wirraways, two Douglas C-47 Dakotas and two Austers. The Dakotas and Austers shaped the No. 77 Squadron Communications Flight. In December 1949, the Mustangs contended in a gunnery rivalry against three gatherings of Mustangs and two gatherings of F-80 Shooting Star planes having a place with the US Far East Air Force (FEAF). No. 77 Squadron's Flight Lieutenant "Narrows" Adams accomplished the most astounding individual score of the challenge, acquiring the individual congrats of Lieutenant Generals George E. Stratemeyer, authority of FEAF, and Horace Robertson, officer of BCOF. The RAAF faculty were getting ready to come back to Australia when, on 25 June 1950, they were set on backup for activity in the Korean War, which had quite recently broken out. 

Driven by Wing Commander Lou Spence, No. 77 Squadron was resolved to activity over Korea as a major aspect of United Nations Command, and went under the operational control of the US Fifth Air Force. The Australian unit was explicitly mentioned by General Douglas MacArthur, leader of UN powers; the Mustang was viewed as the best long-run ground-assault air ship in the theater, and Stratemeyer battled that No. 77 Squadron was the best Mustang outfit in Japan. The squadron flew its underlying escort and watch fights from Iwakuni on 2 July 1950, turning into the first non-American UN unit to initiate activities. A few Australian families were all the while living at Iwakuni pending their repatriation from what had turned into an operational theater, and could watch the Mustangs leave for missions over Korea. 

A benevolent flame occurrence happened on 3 July 1950, when No. 77 Squadron assaulted a train brimming with US and South Korean troops on the principle parkway among Suwon and Pyongtaek, exacting numerous setbacks, twenty-nine of them deadly. Spence had raised worries before the mission that the North Koreans couldn't have entered so far south, however was guaranteed by Fifth Air Force controllers that the objective was right; the occurrence was generally announced in US papers yet an open explanation by Stratemeyer cleared the RAAF of any fault. No. 77 Squadron did not experience adversary flying machine in the opening period of the war yet regularly confronted exceptional ground fire. It endured its first casualty on 7 July when its appointee administrator, Squadron Leader Graham Strout, was murdered amid an attack on Samchok. He was likewise the main Australian, and the first non-American UN serviceman, to bite the dust in Korea. 

For the following two months, furnished with bombs, rockets and napalm, No. 77 Squadron upheld UN troops withdrawing before the North Korean development. To facilitate turnaround times between missions, the Mustangs, which were as yet based at Iwakuni, regularly refueled and rearmed at Taegu close to the Pusan Perimeter, where UN powers made a keep going trench remain on the southern tip of Korea. One of the squadron's Dakotas consistently flew among Iwakuni and Taegu conveying arms and extra parts. As indicated by the official history of the Air Force in 1946– 71, the squadron's part in the triumph at Pusan earned acknowledgment "for the RAAF as well as Australia at the most elevated political dimensions in the United States". Amid a visit to Japan in August 1950, Prime Minister Robert Menzies introduced the Gloucester Cup to No. 77 Squadron as the RAAF's most capable unit of the previous year. That month, the squadron asserted thirty-five tanks, 212 different vehicles, eighteen railroad motors or autos, and thirteen fuel or ammo dumps devastated. 

On 3 September 1950, Sergeant Bill Harrop was constrained down behind adversary lines and executed by the North Koreans. After six days, Spence was killed when his Mustang neglected to haul out of a jump amid a napalm assault on Angang-ni. His passing was a genuine hit to the squadron, and the RAAF despatched Cresswell on his third visit as boss to supplant him. Cresswell landed at Iwakuni on 17 September and begin reestablishing resolve, undertaking four fights on his first day of tasks three days after the fact. MacArthur had in the interim propelled a land and/or water capable arriving behind North Korean lines at Inchon, compelling the socialists to withdraw from the Pusan Perimeter. No. 77 Squadron was exchanged from Iwakuni to Pohang, South Korea, on 12 October, to help UN powers propelling northwards. On 20 October, the squadron turned into a part of the RAAF's recently settled No. 91 (Composite) Wing, which additionally included No. 391 (Base) Squadron, No. 491 (Maintenance) Squadron, and No. 30 Communications Flight, once in the past the No. 77 Squadron Communications Flight. The wing and all units with the exception of No. 77 Squadron, which went under the operational control of the US 35th Fighter-Interceptor Group, were headquartered at Iwakuni. 

China entered the war in mid-October 1950, as propelling UN troops surrounded the Yalu River. No. 77 Squadron attempted its first forays against Chinese ground powers on 1 November. The squadron flew its first missions supporting the Australian Army on 5 November, when it assaulted Chinese troops restricting the 3rd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, at Pakchon. No. 77 Squadron faculty were housed in tents in solidifying conditions at Pohung; two pilots passed on from consumes after a flame in their quarters on 14 November. After two days the Australians started pushing ahead with the 35th Group to Yonpo Airfield, close Hamhung. North Korea's counter-assault, bolstered by Chinese powers, prompted the squadron being pulled back to Pusan on 3 December 1950. The socialists worked a Russian-planned cleared wing plane contender, the Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15, that was far better than every single other warrior in the auditorium with the exception of the new North American F-86 Saber. In spite of the fact that the MiGs conveyed Chinese or North Korean markings, they were much of the time worked via prepared Russian aviation based armed forces pilots, whose arrangement was informal, as the Soviet Union was not a warrior in the Korean War. 

The RAAF endeavored to secure Sabers to supplant No. 77 Squadron's Mustangs, yet the need being given to re-preparing the USAF implied that conveyances would not be conceivable until 1954. The Australian government consented to buy Gloster Meteor straight-wing plane warriors from Britain as the main practical option; the underlying request included thirty-six single-situate Mk.8 interceptors and four two-situate Mk.7 coaches. No. 77 Squadron finished its keep going Mustang mission on 6 April 1951 and came back to Iwakuni the following day to start changing over to Meteors. It along these lines exchanged to Kimpo, South Korea, and started activities with its new air ship on 29 July. The squadron sent twenty-two Meteors at Kimpo, and went under the control of the USAF's fourth Fighter-Interceptor Wing. Despite the fact that it had worked viably as a ground-assault unit with its Mustangs, No. 77 Squadron's essential job in the RAAF was block attempt, and it was normal that with the Meteor it could again concentrate on contender obligations, especially as by this stage the USAF had just two squadrons of Sabers in the theater. 

Wing Commander Gordon Steege succeeded Cresswell on 16 August 1951, by which time No. 77 Squadron's Meteors had led hostile scopes up the Yalu River with USAF Sabers, and escorted Boeing B-29 Superfortresses on shelling missions. MiG-15s had showed up on a few events without drawing in the Meteors; it was guessed at the time, and consequently affirmed, that they had been watching the execution of the recently arrived RAAF planes. No. 77 Squadron's first Meteor fatalities happened on 22 August, when two air ship crashed in mid-air as they came back to Kimpo after a range. The Meteors initially connected with MiG-15s on 25 August, however scored no hits. After four days, eight Meteors and sixteen Sabers battled twelve MiGs; one RAAF pilot catapulted when his air ship was shot down, and a second Meteor was severely harmed. Multi week later another Meteor endured extreme harm in a dogfight with MiGs. Because of these conflicts, Steege ended up persuaded that the Meteor was outmaneuvered as a contender. Following exchanges with the Fifth Air Force, he chose to remove No. 77 Squadron from its aerial battle job and diminish its tasks in "MiG Alley", the region between the Yalu and Chongchon Rivers on North Korea's outskirt with Manchuria. This caused contention among the individuals who trusted that appropriate strategies misusing the Meteor's mobility and overwhelming deadly implement would have enabled it to stay focused as a contender; for the Australian pilots the difference in job added up to lost eminence. The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal George Jones, supported the choice, which consigned the squadron for the most part to escort obligation and neighborhood air barrier. Resolve endured and it was not until Wing Commander Ron Susans succeeded Steege on 26 December 1951 that the Meteors were yet again doled out a hostile job, to be specific ground assault. 

In the interceding time frame, Flight Lieutenant "Smoky" Dawson enlisted No. 77 Squadron's first fly battle guarantee when he harmed a MiG amid an escort mission close Anju, North Korea, on 26 September 1951. On 27 October, Flying Officer Les Reading was credited with harming another MiG while covering B-29s over Sinanju; it was in this way affirmed as having been pulverized, making it the squadron's first MiG "execute". The squadron was granted the Republic of Korea Presidential Unit Citation for "incredibly exemplary administration and valor" on 1 November. On 1 December 1951, over Sunchon, somewhere around twenty Soviet-steered MiGs from the 176th Guards Fighter Air Regiment ("176 GvIAP") assaulted an arrangement of fourteen Meteors. The two sides clearly overestimated the size of the fight and the harm caused to their rivals: three Meteors—one flown by Pilot Officer Vance Drummond—were lost, yet Soviet pilots asserted nine demolished; Australian pilots guaranteed one MiG shot down and another harmed, from an arrangement of something like forty, however Russian sources recommend that all the MiGs came back to base and under twenty-five were accessible to "176 GvIAP" at the time. 

On 8 January 1952, Susans drove the squadron on its first ground-assault mission in Meteors, which were furnished with eight rockets under the wings just as their four inward 20 mm gun, at Chongdan. They kept on working basically in the ground-assault job until the finish of the war, yet enrolled two additional triumphs over MiGs close Pyongyang on 4 and 8 May 1952. The squadron participated in a mass air strike on 29 August, when 420 UN air ship assaulted Pyongyang. One Meteor was shot down and another harmed by MiGs following a ground-assault mission on 2 October 1952. The squadron assumed a main job in the pulverization of a substantial North Korean guard on 16 March 1953: two Meteors found a line of approximately 140 vehicles in a mountain pass south of Wonsan, ended it by devastating trucks at the front and back of the caravan, and after that brought in further help from Kimpo and the USAF. The Australian air ship in the end guaranteed twenty-four trucks out of a sum of ninety vehicles crushed or harmed by UN powers. No. 77 Squadron was credited with bringing down its last MiG southeast of Pyongyang on 27 March. Squadron Leader Len McGlinchey turned into its last wartime casualty when his Meteor slammed while taking off from Kimpo on 16 July. 

Following the peace negotiation on 27 July 1953, the squadron stayed in South Korea on army obligations—at first at Kimpo, later at Kunsan—until exchanging to Iwakuni on 12 October 1954. It withdrew for Australia on 19 November and touched base in Sydney on 3 December, having been based abroad for a long time, a record for a RAAF unit. Its execution in the beginning of the war has been refered to as a factor in the United States' choice to sanction the ANZUS settlement in September 1951. The squadron's loss rate in Korea was twenty-five percent murdered or caught. Forty-one pilots kicked the bucket, thirty-five from the RAAF and six on trade from the Royal Air Force. A further seven pilots moved toward becoming detainees of war. Air ship misfortunes totalled just about sixty, including more than forty Meteors, generally to ground fire. The squadron flew 18,872 forays, incorporating 3,872 in Mustangs and 15,000 in Meteors. It was credited with shooting down five MiG-15s and devastating 3,700 structures, 1,408 vehicles, ninety-eight railroad motors and carriages, and sixteen extensions. 

No. 77 Squadron wound up operational at RAAF Base Williamtown, New South Wales, on 4 January 1955. On 21 March, it joined Nos. 3 and 75 Squadrons as a major aspect of No. 78 Wing, which had as of late been redesigned following battalion obligation in Malta. No. 77 Squadron stopped Meteor tasks in August 1956 and re-shaped on 19 November outfitted with CAC Sabers. Between October 1958 and February 1959, Nos. 3 and 77 Squadrons conveyed with No. 78 Wing to RAAF Butterworth in Malaya, to help Commonwealth powers in the Emergency. The Sabers were among the first to wear the RAAF's as of late presented "jumping kangaroo" roundel. No. 478 (Maintenance) Squadron gave overhauling to the airplane. No. 77 Squadron attempted its first mission plunge bombarding socialist guerrillas on 13 August 1959, and flew two more ground-assault fights on 10 June 1960. The RAAF pilots additionally here and there attempted to surprise the socialists by jumping their planes through the sound wall to make sonic blasts that recreated the sound of cannons fire. Two No. 77 Squadron Sabers crashed in mid-air on 22 July, however the two pilots shot out securely. The Emergency was proclaimed authoritatively over on 31 July 1960. 

The RAAF squadrons stayed at Butterworth as a feature of Australia's commitment to the Commonwealth Strategic Reserve. Eight Sabers, alongside their pilots and ground group, were disconnected from No. 77 Squadron in May 1962 to re-structure No. 79 Squadron at Ubon, Thailand. The Sabers were traveled to Thailand by means of Singapore to give the appearance that they were not drawn from the Strategic Reserve, along these lines safeguarding Malaysia's lack of bias. Work force and gear from Nos. 3 and 77 Squadrons kept on turning through No. 79 Squadron all the time. The Butterworth-based Sabers, equipped with Sidewinder rockets, were in charge of local air guard amid the "Konfrontasi" among Indonesia and Malaysia from July 1963 until August 1966, however no battle occurred. From 26 October until 27 November 1965, a unit of six Sabers from No. 77 Squadron was based at Labuan to direct battle watches over the Indonesian– Malaysian outskirt on Borneo. Following the disbandment of No. 78 Wing in November 1967, No. 77 Squadron turned into a freely working unit under the direction of Headquarters RAAF Butterworth. 

No. 77 Squadron came back to Williamtown in mid 1969 to re-outfit with Dassault Mirage III supersonic contenders, undertaking its underlying flights on 7 July. The Mirages were accused of interference, high-and low-edge bombarding, close air backing, and photograph observation; their deadly implement included 30 mm gun, Sidewinder rockets and regular bombs. No. 77 Squadron's prime job was ground assault, albeit none of the RAAF's Mirages at any point saw battle. No. 481 Squadron was in charge of everyday adjusting, just as most overwhelming upkeep. No. 77 Squadron endured its first lethal Mirage mishap on 3 April 1973, when a flying machine smashed amid a preparation trip at low elevation. Another pilot was slaughtered when his Mirage hit the water amid arrangement flying around evening time on 24 June 1976. 

The squadron started preparing with laser-guided bombs in October 1980. As of March 1984, its flying machine supplement was nineteen Mirages. Two pilots passed on following a mid-air crash at low dimension on 9 April that year. 

On 1 January 1985, in anticipation of the presentation of the McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet to Australian administration, No. 77 Squadron assumed control over all Mirages and Macchi MB-326s of No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit, accepting accountability for contender battle teacher, early on warrior, and Mirage change courses. The exchange swelled the squadron's solidarity to fifty-six airplane—forty Mirages and sixteen Macchis—and more than 500 officers and men, making it the biggest operational unit in the RAAF. Alongside a vigorously extended preparing system, and its current Australian Army close help job, No. 77 Squadron's armada bolster duty was expanded to take up the slack coming about because of the reduction of the Royal Australian Navy's fixed-wing capacity. Its last deadly mishap with the Mirage happened on 2 May 1986; the air ship collided with water amid aerial gunnery practice. 

The squadron started eliminating the Mirage in July 1986, and took conveyance of its first Hornet on 29 June 1987. It had gone under the control of a recently re-shaped No. 81 Wing that February. No. 77 Squadron's keep going Mirage left Williamtown on 27 November 1987. Hornet support at Williamtown was the obligation of No. 481 Wing, which had developed from No. 481 Squadron. One of No. 77 Squadron's Hornets smashed close Rockhampton, Queensland, on 19 May 1992, murdering the pilot and his traveler, a barrier researcher. In September that year, the squadron embraced a demonstrating exercise over Halifax Bay in Far North Queensland, when four of its Hornets—refueled in trip on the round outing from Williamtown by a Boeing 707 tanker—turned into the principal stream airplane in Australia to drop airborne mines. No. 481 Wing was revamped as No. 402 Wing in July 1996; the last exchanged its capacities to No. 81 Wing's flying squadrons in July 1998. 

No. 77 Squadron worked a unit of Pilatus PC-9 air ship in the forward air control job from 2000 until 2003; this job was in this manner filled by the Forward Air Control Development Unit. Four Hornets from No. 77 Squadron were sent to ensure the US base at Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean between November 2001 and February 2002, amid the early period of the war in Afghanistan. In March 2006, the squadron sent a unit of air ship to RAAF Base East Sale, Victoria, to help with security for the Commonwealth Games being held in Melbourne. No. 77 Squadron conveyed to the Middle East in September 2015 as a feature of Operation Okra, Australia's commitment of the military intercession against ISIL; it gave over to the following revolution, from No. 3 Squadron RAAF, in April 2016. 

The Australian government intends to supplant the Hornet compel with seventy-two Lockheed Martin F-35 Lightning II warriors. Under the Defense Materiel Organization's Project AIR 6000 Phase 2A/B, the main Lightnings will be conveyed to the RAAF in late 2018. Each of No. 81 Wing's three warrior squadrons will work sixteen of the new airplane. No. 77 Squadron is booked to start transformation in 2021; RAAF Hornet activities are relied upon to stop the next year. In December 2017, No. 77 Squadron got all of No. 3 Squadron's Hornets and the vast majority of its faculty when that unit was re-framed as a F-35 unit. The air ship and work force were alloted to a recently settled "C" Flight inside No. 77 Squadron.