Ruma Maida 

Ruma Maida (discharged universally as Maida's House) is a 2009 Indonesian movie composed by Ayu Utami, coordinated by Teddy Soeriaatmadja and featuring Atiqah Hasiholan, , Nino Fernandez, and Frans Tumbuan. It subtleties a lady's battle to spare a notable house from an engineer; it additionally demonstrates the life of the house's unique proprietor. 

Work on what was to move toward becoming "Ruma Maida" started in 2008, when Utami was drawn nearer by Lamp Pictures and requested to compose a patriotism themed content; she finished the assignment in a half year, with contribution from Soeriaatmadja. Following three months of pre-generation, shooting started in Semarang, Central Java, and Kota, Jakarta. Altering took three months, after which the film – with a soundtrack by the band Naif and a tune composed by Utami – debuted on 28 October 2009, the commemoration of the 1928 Youth Pledge; it was later appeared in film celebrations in Singapore, Australia, and Italy. 

"Ruma Maida", which utilizes distinctive shooting styles for scenes in the over a wide span of time, manages the significance of instruction, history, and pluralism. Basic gathering to the film was blended; commentators applauded the visuals yet opposed the plot and exchange. It was selected for twelve Citra Awards at the 2009 Indonesian Film Festival, of which it won one. 

A youthful history understudy, Maida (Atiqah Hasiholan), a Christian, runs a free school for road kids in Jakarta. The school is in a house that once had a place with Ishak Pahing (Nino Fernandez), a Christian Indo writer and pilot, and his Muslim spouse Nani Kuddus (Imelda Soraya); Pahing composed the tune "Pulau Tenggara" ("The South-Eastern Island"), which motivated President Sukarno to help structure the Non-Aligned Movement, while living in the house. As Maida finds out about Pahing, she chooses to keep in touch with her undergrad proposal about his life. 

One day her class is hindered by the youthful Muslim draftsman Sakera (Yama Carlos), who has been advised to oust Maida's school by his manager, the engineer Dasaad Muchlisin (Frans Tumbuan). As Maida and Sakera contend in the lanes, revolting breaks out around them. Sakera ensures the half-Chinese Maida, at that point discloses to her that he will help her keep the house, despite the fact that it is booked to be devastated inside seven days. 

After endeavors to influence Muchlisin to keep the first structure come up short, Sakera catches that the house is on questioned land. Maida utilizes the data, just as input from a conventional melodic gathering remotely identified with Pahing, to find that the house has a mystery underground dugout, in which she and Sakera – with whom she has started to fall in love – discover archives demonstrating the historical backdrop of the house. With the assistance of her mom's previous darling Kuan (Henky Solaiman), she finds the genuine responsibility for house. 

Pahing, who had grown up inside the incipient freedom development and related with a few recorded figures, was captured for being half-Dutch by the Japanese covert agent Maruyama (Verdi Solaiman) – a man who pined for Pahing's significant other. Subsequent to being tormented, Pahing was discharged to find that his better half had been assaulted and slaughtered; their infant child Fajar had been hijacked. Pahing later passed on a flight conveying restorative supplies over Yogyakarta when the flight was shot down. In the mean time, his child was brought up by Maruyama – the kidnapper – and had his name changed to Dasaad Muchlisin. 

With this data, Maida, Sakera, and Kuan approach Muchlisin and disclose to him how the house includes in his history. After a short quietness, Muchlisin instructs them to leave. A while later, on Maida and Sakera's wedding day – when they are hitched at both a mosque and a church – Muchlisin goes to the congregation and says that he has surrendered his arrangements to obliterate the house. Rather, he revamps the structure and devotes it as a school for road kids. 

The screenplay for "Ruma Maida" was composed by Ayu Utami, her first such work; for the most part known for her books, she had stayed away from screenplays as she suspected they were commonly excessively financially arranged. She composed the screenplay over a time of a half year starting in 2008, when Lamp Pictures  – which delivered the movie with Karuna Pictures – mentioned that she compose an anecdote about patriotism; as per the executive Teddy Soeriaatmadja, who was acquired while the screenplay was still on its first draft, he and Utami read seven drafts of the screenplay before they concurred on the story. Considering the screenplay an approach to urge the more youthful age to think about Indonesian history, which she said could be fun, Utami chose to concentrate on instruction, decent variety, and history. 

Pre-generation for "Ruma Maida" took three months. The characters were composed with no specific performing artists as a top priority. Atiqah Hasiholan, who had recently featured in the Academy Award-submitted "Jamila dan Sang Presiden" ("Jamila and the President", 2009), was given a role as Maida. Yama Carlos, who played Sakera, was at first cast for another job however got the main male job following a very late switch. The on-screen character give a role as Muchlisin, Frans Tumbuan, was the just a single tried out as Soeriaatmadja suspected the job was ideal for him. Soeriaatmadja later reviewed that, including additional items, "Ruma Maida" had the biggest cast of any film he had made to that point. 

Shooting for the film was led in Kota, Jakarta, and Semarang, Central Java, over a time of one month. Soeriaatmadja later reviewed that the most troublesome scenes to shoot were those which occurred in current occasions, particularly the mobs; for set plan, notwithstanding, Indra Tamoron Musu found those that happened in the past to be the most troublesome, inferable from the exploration essential. The scenes at the house were shot independently; those happening in 1998 were shot first and those happening in the past were shot after the group had gone through seven days redesigning the house. Hasiholan later reviewed that Soeriaatmadja was a controlling chief who told the performing artists precisely what he needed in an unmistakable way. Nonetheless, cinematographer Ical Tanjung said that Soeriaatmadja was as yet open to input from the cast and group. Altering, which was finished by Waluyo Ichwandiardono, took an additional three months. 

The Indonesian band Naif secured a few melodies for "Ruma Maida's" soundtrack, including tunes from the 1940s, for example, "Juwita Malam" ("Beauty of the Night", by Ismail Marzuki), "Di Bawah Sinar Bulan Purnama" ("Under the Light of the Full Moon", by R. Maladi), and "Ibu Pertiwi" ("Motherland"). The spreads were recorded over a time of five days. Utami expressed "Pulau Tenggara", which was sung by Imelda Soraya. 

Benny Benke, writing in "Suara Merdeka", noticed that the film was a "free translation of the formal Indonesian history, [a history] which is excessively presumptuous, predominant, and narrow minded". He composed that now and again the line among reality and fiction was dainty. Utami expressed that individuals from the progressive time frame "had faith in dreams" and had a "solid feeling of valor and enthusiasm", things which she trusted Indonesia required. Soeriaatmadja additionally noticed that the film was intended to address issues of contemporary Indonesia, through the house's history. Partner chief Azhar Lubis depicted the house as a microcosm of Indonesia, inferring that, if the nation was not kept up, it would come apart. 

In "Media Indonesia", Yulia Permata Sari composed that Soeriaatmadja appeared to elevate the need to recall and regard history through the plot and characterisations. The film indicated "Indonesia Raya" writer W.R. Supratman, Japanese chief of naval operations Maeda, Vice President Mohammad Hatta, President Sukarno, and Prime Minister Sutan Sjahrir. Hasiholan considered the film a notice against rehashing past errors. 

Triwik Kurniasari, writing in "The Jakarta Post", portrayed the consideration of the May 1998 uproars and ensuing fall of Suharto as addressing pluralism issues. Utami, in a meeting with the "Jakarta Globe", expressed that she had intended to indicate assorted variety by giving the characters distinctive ethnic, religious, and financial foundations, and later clarified that the film was intended to demonstrate Indonesia's adage Bhinneka Tunggal Ika (Unity in Diversity) as it is connected in the nation. Another analyst, Dewi Anggraeni, composed that "Ruma Maida" "portrays Indonesia's general public, where individuals don't really fit into flawless social, racial or monetary classes", with its characters not fitting into any customary generalizations. 

"Ruma Maida" utilizes hues and shooting styles to demonstrate distinctive timeframes. Past occasions have a delicate sepia overlay and are shot with a static camera, while those in 1998 have progressively regular tones and are shot with a handheld. The utilization of the handheld was intended to demonstrate the present in as "harsh and non-sterile" a way conceivable, while the past was intended to have a sweet, delightful, and clean inclination; this played on the subject of romanticizing the past. Occasions throughout Pahing's life are appeared in flashbacks mixed all through Maida's battle to retake the house. The film is paced gradually, and shots are taken from "one of a kind" points. 

In "Beat" magazine, Kurie Suditomo composed that "Ruma Maida" entwined a few sub-plots, including the portrayal of the 1928 Youth Conference, the training of road kids, and a scene where Sakera talks about engineering with Muchlisin; the survey expressed that these reduced the film's fathomability. "Jakarta Globe" commentator Armando Siahaan noticed that few plot lines run parallel, including riots following the Japanese surrender in 1945 and those in May 1998. 

"Ruma Maida" debuted on 28 October 2009, concurring with occasions that commended the 1928 Youth Pledge – this discharge date was arranged from right off the bat underway, in light of the date's verifiable criticalness. It got a wide discharge on the next day. The film was screened at the Singapore International Film Festival in April 2010. That August "Ruma Maida" had three screenings in the "Training" classification of the Indonesian Film Festival in Melbourne, Australia. In November it was screened at the Asiatica Film Mediale in Rome, Italy, under the title "La Casa Di Maida". 

"Ruma Maida" got blended gathering. Kurniasari depicted the film as "an agreeable method to get familiar with [Indonesia's] long history." Benke composed that the film had great visuals, however the exchange now and again "went over watchers' heads". Sari called the cinematography well done, however discovered that the plot could befuddle watchers. Suditomo imagined that the film was all around pictured however lost quite a bit of its effect inferable from its superfluous subplots. 

Anggraeni, covering the Indonesian Film Festival in Australia, depicted "Ruma Maida" as cunningly meshing the plot into Indonesia's freedom battle, in spite of the fact that she felt that few plot turns "rather stretch[ed] the gathering of people's creative ability". Siahaan composed that the film "may have impediments in its execution and introduction, yet is exceptionally estimable for its capacity to bring up social issues and dive into the country's history." The survey in "Republika" recommended that the film might be unreasonably exhausting for the overall population attributable to its moderate moving plot. 

The film was discharged on VCD and DVD in Indonesia on 14 July 2010 by EZY Home Entertainment, in the wake of going through the oversight board in February. The DVD highlighted English-language captions and an off camera narrative. 

"Ruma Maida" was designated for twelve Citra Awards at the 2009 Indonesian Film Festival, winning one.