No. 79 Squadron RAAF 

No. 79 Squadron is a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) flight preparing unit that has been shaped on four events since 1943. The squadron was set up in May 1943 as a warrior unit furnished with Supermarine Spitfires, and hence observed battle in the South West Pacific auditorium of World War II. Between June 1943 and the finish of the war in August 1945 it flew air resistance watches to secure Allied bases and ships, escorted Australian and United States flying machine, and assaulted Japanese positions. The squadron was disbanded in November 1945, yet was re-shaped somewhere in the range of 1962 and 1968 to work CAC Sabers from Ubon Air Base in Thailand. In this job it added to the protection of Thailand against a dreaded assault from its neighboring states and practiced with United States Air Force units. No. 79 Squadron was dynamic again at RAAF Base Butterworth in Malaysia somewhere in the range of 1986 and 1988 where it worked Mirage III warriors and a solitary DHC-4 Caribou transport amid the period in which the RAAF's contender squadrons were progressing to new air ship. 

The squadron was re-framed in its present manifestation amid 1998 and is as of now positioned at RAAF Base Pearce, where it has worked Hawk 127 stream preparing airplane since 2000. The unit's fundamental job is to give initial stream flying machine preparing to RAAF pilots just as boost preparing on the Hawk for experienced pilots. No. 79 Squadron additionally underpins Australian Army and Royal Australian Navy preparing practices in Western Australia and the Northern Territory. 

No. 79 Squadron was shaped at RAAF Station Laverton in Victoria on 26 April 1943 under the order of flying expert Squadron Leader Alan Rawlinson. The squadron's proposed job was to utilize Spitfire Vc contenders to give 'high spread' escort for the RAAF's P-40 Kittyhawk-prepared units which were drawing in Japanese powers in the New Guinea Campaign. This necessity was viewed as dire, and the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal George Jones, coordinated that No. 79 Squadron get need for the RAAF's restricted supply of Spitfires. The squadron moved to Wooloomanata Aerodrome a few days after it was framed, and got its first Spitfires on 3 May. While at Wooloomanata No. 79 Squadron embraced preparing activities to get ready for battle. The distribution of 24 Spitfires to the squadron prompted No. 1 Wing RAAF, which was positioned close Darwin and in charge of securing the town against air assault, to endure a lack of these air ship amid June and July. 

No. 79 Squadron started moving to Goodenough Island in the combat area off the north shoreline of Papua in mid-May 1943. Its development party withdrew Wooloomanata on 17 May, trailed by the pilots on 4 June. The principle assortment of ground group cruised from Sydney on 7 June. The squadron endured its first casualty on 13 June, when Flight Lieutenant Virgil Brennan—an accomplished military pilot who had shot down 10 Axis flying machine over Malta—kicked the bucket from wounds brought about when his Spitfire crashed into another while they were arriving at Cairns. Amid the unit's travel to Goodenough Island, No. 79 Squadron Spitfires were mixed from Gurney Airfield at Milne Bay on a few events somewhere in the range of 19 and 25 June to capture Japanese surveillance air ship, however did not harm these gatecrashers. 

The squadron finished its development to Goodenough Island on 26 June and started flying air safeguard forays from that point as a major aspect of No. 73 Wing. It didn't capture any Japanese air ship while working from this base, be that as it may. The squadron moved to Kirwina Airfield on Kiriwina somewhere in the range of 9 and 18 August, from where it worked close by the P-40 Kittyhawk-prepared No. 76 Squadron. This was the nearest Allied landing strip to the significant Japanese base at Rabaul and was relied upon to be consistently assaulted. No Japanese attacks were made on the landing strip amid the primary long stretches of the squadron's sending there, be that as it may, and its pilots were frustrated to not see battle while directing watches in help of United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) assaults on Rabaul. The Imperial Japanese Army Air Force (IJAAF) started a progression of assaults on Goodenough Island and Kiriwina toward the beginning of October, be that as it may, and the squadron asserted its first triumph in 31 October when one of its Spitfires shot down a Kawasaki Ki-61 contender north of Kiriwina (this kind of air ship was marked the "Tony" by the Allies). 

After a time of preparing, No. 79 Squadron flew its first breadth over Japanese-held domain on 27 November when eight Spitfires were dispatched to Gasmata on New Britain. The following the very beginning of its Spitfires shot down a Mitsubishi Ki-46 "Dinah" observation air ship south of Kitava. As couple of Japanese assaults were made against Kirwina, No. 79 Squadron's pilots ended up anxious. The hostile watches over New Britain improved their resolve, be that as it may. Another Ki-61 was blocked and shot somewhere near a Spitfire on 21 December, and an A6M Mitsubishi A6M "Zero" warrior was pulverized on the ground at Gasmata seven days after the fact. A Spitfire was lost amid a watch over New Britain on 31 December, be that as it may. Amid January and February 1944 the squadron led hostile breadths over New Britain, strafed Japanese positions and escorted Allied planes. On 17 January, eight No. 79 Squadron Spitfires participated in an assault against a Japanese camp close Lindenhafen which included 73 Australian flying machine; this was the biggest RAAF task of the war up to that time. Two Spitfires were lost amid the tasks in January and February. 

In mid 1944 No. 73 Wing was chosen to help the US Army's Admiralty Islands battle. The first Cavalry Division started to arrive on the islands on 29 February, and the wing moved to Momote Airstrip on Los Negros Island in March 1944. No. 79 Squadron ended up operational there with 24 air ship on the 29th of the month. From Momote, the squadron flew ground assault forays in help of US troops until Japanese opposition stopped. No Japanese flying machine were experienced all through this task. Before the finish of April, No. 79 Squadron's fundamental job was to escort Allied dispatching, however flying was hampered by a deficiency of extra parts. The squadron's boss, Squadron Leader M.S. Bott, was slaughtered in a mishap on 16 April. Transportation escort watches proceeded in May, yet challenges keeping up the Spitfires diminished the squadron to only two operational flying machine with another 12 anticipating fix. Because of a lack of air ship the squadron's flying exercises were restricted to preparing forays among August and October, and flying machine accessibility kept on being an issue until late November. On 9 November, two Spitfires fruitlessly endeavored to capture three Japanese A6M warriors which had assaulted Hyane Harbor; while the Japanese power had been followed by Allied radar for 25 minutes before the assault, the Spitfires were mixed simply after the bandits had left the region. No. 79 Squadron in this manner kept up a three-flying machine watch over Los Negros amid light hours until 22 November. After two days the squadron was discharged from tasks in front of moving to Darwin in northern Australia to be re-furnished with increasingly current Mark VIII Spitfires. 

No. 79 Squadron landed at Sattler Airfield south of Darwin on 12 January 1945 and got its new air ship in the blink of an eye a short time later. It started to move to Morotai in the Netherlands East Indies (NEI) on 6 February and ended up operational there as a component of No. 80 Wing toward the finish of March. The squadron directed ground assault forays against Japanese positions on close-by islands until the finish of the war and furthermore wound up in charge of Morotai's air safeguard from 28 May. Albeit no Japanese air ship were experienced here, a few Spitfires were shot somewhere near enemy of air ship shoot amid ground assault fights. Activities were prevented on occasion by faculty deficiencies, and a considerable lot of the aviators who were presented on the unit were made a decision by the squadron's officer to have been insufficiently prepared. On 30 July No. 80 Wing was disbanded and the squadron turned into the primary flying unit relegated to the recently shaped No. 11 Group. This gathering was in charge of battalion obligations in a lot of Borneo and the eastern NEI. No. 79 Squadron dropped handouts on Japanese positions after Japan consented to surrender on 15 August and came back to Australia in October 1945. It was disbanded at Oakey Airfield on 12 November that year. The unit endured 13 lethal losses amid the war. In late 2010 the squadron was granted fight respects for its World War II administration in the Pacific, New Britain and Morotai. 

In May 1962 the Australian Government chose to send a squadron of CAC Saber warriors to Thailand to reinforce that nation's resistances. This activity was embraced as a component of Australia's Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) duty to guard Thailand against assault from its Communist neighbors, which was thought liable to happen. The United States, United Kingdom and New Zealand additionally conveyed powers to Thailand in light of this apparent danger, however Malaysia and a few other SEATO individuals decided not to be included. On 28 May, Minister for Defense Athol Townley declared that Australia's commitment would be a RAAF squadron outfitted with Saber contenders. The eight air ship, alongside their pilots and ground team, were drawn from No. 77 Squadron, which shaped piece of Australia's Commonwealth Strategic Reserve powers at RAAF Base Butterworth in Malaysia. So as to save Malaysia's lack of bias, the Sabers were traveled to Thailand by means of Singapore. This power was assigned No. 79 Squadron while at Tengah Air Base in Singapore on 29 May. 

The squadron touched base at Ubon Air Base in the Ubon Ratchathani Province of eastern Thailand on 1 June 1962 and flew its first operational watch four days after the fact. Offices at Ubon were at first straightforward, and the pilots and ground team lived in tents. Development of perpetual convenience started under the supervision of No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron in September 1962, be that as it may, and offices were later additionally improved. In spite of Malaysia's approach of lack of bias in respects the contention in Southeast Asia, No. 79 Squadron worked as a unit of the RAAF drive (No. 78 Wing) based at Butterworth all through its time in Thailand. Flying machine and faculty were consistently exchanged among Butterworth and Ubon, and most pilots' ostensibly half year long voyages through obligation in Thailand were broken into a few shorter periods amid which they and their air ship were illicitly pivoted between the two bases. In March 1963 the Defense Committee, the most noteworthy basic leadership body of the Department of Defense, prescribed to Cabinet that No. 79 Squadron be pulled back from Thailand in light of the fact that the British and New Zealand contingents had left the nation. The Cabinet's Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee ruled against this on 28 March as it was trusted that keeping up the squadron at Ubon kept up great associations with Thailand and the United States. The Thai Government was attentively inquired as to whether it would lean toward an alternate type of help, be that as it may. 

All through its period at Ubon, No. 79 Squadron shaped piece of a universal power entrusted with protecting Thailand's air space against gatecrashers. Toward the beginning of the organization, pressures in Thailand were to such an extent that the squadron's work force trusted that they were at war. While the circumstance turned out to be progressively steady from late July 1962, No. 79 Squadron kept up furnished air ship on alarm consistently and mixed Sabers when unidentified flying machine were identified. No air assaults were directed against Thailand, in any case, and the unidentified flying machine that were captured quite often turned out to be from the Central Intelligence Agency-controlled Air America. In January 1965 two Sabers coincidentally overflew North Vietnam subsequent to getting to be lost amid a preparation foray however returned securely to Ubon. 

From early April 1965, Ubon turned into a critical base for United States Air Force (USAF) assaults on North Vietnam amid the Vietnam War, and No. 79 Squadron turned out to be a piece of a coordinated air resistance framework constrained by the USAF on 25 June. This changed the status of the squadron's quality in Thailand, and RAAF Headquarters evaluated that the North Vietnamese would be defended in viewing it as shaping piece of the air battle against their nation. Because of the risk of counter-assaults on Ubon, the base's ground barriers were updated amid 1966; this incorporated the development of cautious positions for No. 79 Squadron's airplane and work force just as the sending of a unit of RAAF landing strip protection monitors. While the squadron did not assume a functioning job in the war, it upheld the US exertion by giving air resistance to Ubon and participating in activities with USAF air ship in which the Sabers received strategies utilized by North Vietnamese MiG-17 warriors. In December 1965 the leader of the United States Pacific Air Forces, General Hunter Harris, Jr., kept in touch with the head of the RAAF, Air Marshal Alister Murdoch, to propose that No. 79 Squadron join the USAF activities against the Ho Chi Minh trail in southern Laos which were by and large secretly led by Ubon-based air ship. The Thai Government demonstrated that it would enable the squadron to be utilized for this reason as long as the Australian activities were led without a formal understanding or any open declaration. On 2 March 1966 the Australian Cabinet chose to strengthen the Army and RAAF compel in South Vietnam, however dismissed the choice of growing the extent of RAAF activities in Thailand. This choice was made in light of the fact that the extended power in South Vietnam and existing arrangements to Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore spoke to the most extreme powers Australia could focus on the locale. 

By mid-1968, No. 79 Squadron never again had a reasonable job at Ubon. The USAF had adequate contenders situated in Thailand to shield the nation and was hesitant to utilize the Australian warriors—which were currently viewed as out of date—to capture conceivably unfriendly airplane, as the squadron's principles of commitment did not enable it to seek after contacts that left Thai airspace. Accordingly, the Australian military's head of staff established that the RAAF nearness in Thailand had outlasted its political and military helpfulness and chose to pull back the squadron without substitution. No. 79 Squadron was taken off ready status on 26 July and disbanded toward the month's end. On 31 March 2011 it got a fight respect for its sending to Ubon between May 1962 and August 1968. 

On 31 March 1986, No. 79 Squadron was re-framed at RAAF Base Butterworth as a brief measure to cover some portion of the period while the RAAF's three warrior squadrons were progressing from Mirage IIIs to F/A-18 Hornets. The squadron acquired all of No. 3 Squadron's twelve Mirage III warriors and the greater part of its staff; the rest of No. 3 Squadron came back to Australia to be re-furnished with Hornets. Just as the Mirage IIIs, the squadron worked a solitary DHC-4 Caribou transport that was likewise based at Butterworth. 

In its new manifestation, No. 79 Squadron proceeded with the air protection and preparing obligations for which No. 3 Squadron had been dependable at Butterworth. It took an interest in routine preparing practices in Southeast Asia, which included making normal arrangements to Paya Lebar Air Base in Singapore to prepare with the Republic of Singapore Air Force. In May 1987 the squadron conveyed to Clarke Air Force Base in the Philippines to partake in the yearly Cope Thunder practice with USAF units. It likewise practiced with No. 77 Squadron's new F/A-18 Hornets in April 1988 when that unit visited Butterworth. The Caribou transport was utilized to help Australian Army units in Malaysia and furthermore flew preparing forays to neighboring nations. 

By mid 1988 both No. 3 and No. 77 Squadrons had effectively changed over to the F/A-18, and No. 79 Squadron was never again required. Arrangements to restore the unit's Mirages to Australia occurred amid the principal long stretches of 1988, and on 3 May they left Butterworth. As the RAAF's F/A-18 Hornet squadrons were to be situated in Australia, this denoted the finish of the perpetual sending of RAAF contenders to Butterworth that had started in mid-1958. No. 79 Squadron's air ship honored the event by directing a marvelous low-elevation flypast of the base, the primary leg of which started at transonic speed. The air ship were traveled to Woomera in focal Australia to be put away through Paya Lebar, Bali, Darwin and RAAF Base Tindal. A large portion of No. 79 Squadron's ground team came back to Australia in late May, and the squadron was formally disbanded at Butterworth on 30 June 1988. 

No. 79 Squadron was re-framed a third time on 1 July 1998 as a preparation unit situated at RAAF Base Pearce close Perth in Western Australia. The squadron was restored by isolating No. 25 Squadron's Permanent Air Force (full-time) segment from its Air Force Reserve (low maintenance reservist) faculty and obligations. The squadron at first worked Aermacchi MB-326 flying machine before being re-furnished with Hawk 127 airplane between 7 December 2000 and 4 March 2001. In 2000 No. 78 Wing was re-framed and expected order of No. 76 and No. 79 Squadrons. The Hawks experienced workableness issues amid their initial year and a half with the squadron, yet these were inevitably redressed. Amid October 2003 two No. 79 Squadron Hawks led a voyage through Australia to belatedly remember the unit's 60th commemoration. Amid this visit the aircrew visited Alan Rawlinson at his home at Naracoorte, South Australia, and later directed a flyover of the town in his respect. The squadron made its first abroad organization in right around twenty years amid April 2006 when six Hawks and 52 work force were dispatched to RMAF Base Butterworth to participate in Exercise Bersama Shield. This was likewise the first run through RAAF Hawks had worked abroad. As of May 2010, No. 79 Squadron was outfitted with 15 of the RAAF's 33 Hawks. In 2011, the squadron was sorted out into a Training Flight, Operations Flight, and Maintenance Flight. A program to modernize the majority of the RAAF's Hawks to a comparative standard to the Royal Air Force's Hawk T.2 flying machine started in 2014, and No. 79 Squadron is planned to start tasks with these air ship in mid-2017. The unit's Maintenance Flight was disbanded in July 2016 when obligation regarding bolster administrations for the Hawks was exchanged to BAE Systems. 

In its present job No. 79 Squadron's fundamental obligation is to give initial quick fly preparing to pilots who have as of late moved on from No. 2 Flying Training School. Amid this preparation, new pilots who have been chosen to fly airplane are educated to work Hawks and furnished with beginning guidance on fly flying machine battle strategies. In 2004, each of No. 79 Squadron's instructional classes went on for twelve weeks. Subsequent to finishing their underlying plane flying machine preparing, pilots exchange to No. 76 Squadron at RAAF Base Williamtown for cutting edge guidance before being presented on one of the RAAF's operational transformation units. No. 79 Squadron additionally gives early on preparing on quick streams for RAAF air battle officers who have been chosen to serve on board F/A-18F Super Hornets. The squadron prepared RAAF work force chose to fill in as pilots on board F-111 strike air ship until these air ship were supplanted with Super Hornets in 2010. No. 79 Squadron additionally gives boost preparing on the Hawk air ship for experienced military pilots. 

Notwithstanding its pilot preparing obligations, No. 79 Squadron's Operations Flight gives airplane to help Navy and Army preparing works out. These obligations are attempted by experienced pilots who did not effectively total operational transformation preparing, and furthermore by new pilots who have finished preparing with No. 76 Squadron and been presented back on No. 79 Squadron until a spot ends up accessible in an operational change course. No. 76 Squadron has a comparative Operations Flight. The majority of No. 79 Squadron's activities with the Navy occur off the shoreline of Western Australia, however flying machine are once in a while sent to Darwin for this undertaking. 

Coulthard-Clark (1995), p. 13 states that the unit of Sabers was authoritatively assigned No. 79 Squadron on 24 June 1962.<br>