No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit RAAF 

No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit (No. 2 OCU) is a contender preparing unit of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Situated at RAAF Base Williamtown, New South Wales, the unit trains pilots to work the McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet, conducts supplemental classes for pilots coming back to the sort, and prepares future Hornet teachers. Pilots new to the Hornet enter No. 2 OCU after first meeting all requirements to fly quick flies at No. 79 Squadron and undertaking beginning warrior battle guidance at No. 76 Squadron. When qualified on the F/A-18, they are presented on one of No. 81 Wing's operational Hornet units, No. 3 Squadron, No. 75 Squadron or No. 77 Squadron. 

The unit was built up as No. 2 (Fighter) Operational Training Unit (No. 2 OTU) in April 1942 at Port Pirie, South Australia, and moved to RAAF Station Mildura, Victoria, the next month. Amid World War II, it gave preparing on a wide scope of air ship, including P-40 Kittyhawks, Vultee Vengeances, Avro Ansons, CAC Boomerangs, Supermarine Spitfires and Airspeed Oxfords. Disbanded in March 1947, No. 2 OTU was re-shaped at Williamtown in March 1952 because of the interest for all the more very prepared pilots to serve in the Korean War. It was renamed No. 2 (Fighter) Operational Conversion Unit in September 1958, and from that point forward has directed preparing with the CAC Saber, Dassault Mirage III, and Macchi MB-326, before taking conveyance of the Hornet. 

The job of No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit (No. 2 OCU) is to "bolster the planning for and the direct of powerful airspace control, counter air strike and battle air bolster activities through the arrangement of prepared faculty". Situated at RAAF Base Williamtown, New South Wales, it goes under the control of No. 81 Wing, some portion of Air Combat Group. 

No. 2 OCU is basically in charge of directing operational change seminars on the RAAF's McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet multi-job warrior, which entered administration in 1985. The unit takes understudies who have changed over to quick flies with No. 79 Squadron, situated at RAAF Base Pearce, Western Australia, and experienced lead-in warrior preparing at No. 76 Squadron, based at Williamtown. Most are new to operational flying, yet some are "retreads" (experienced pilots changing over from another air ship type). No. 2 OCU's teachers are among the RAAF's most experienced Hornet pilots, and regularly assume a noteworthy job growing new strategies, in co-activity with contender battle educators at other No. 81 Wing units. 

No. 2 OCU works both single-situate F/A-18A Hornets and two-situate F/A-18Bs. The F/A-18B is to a great extent indistinguishable to the A model beside its double cockpit, which lessens inside fuel limit by around six percent. Flying machine attire incorporates a yellow-and-dark tail balance streak, the base highlighting a yellow tiger's head sketched out in dark, with a red mouth, white teeth and white eyes. The unit peak demonstrates a winged kangaroo conveying a joey in its pocket, symbolizing "'Mother Australia' flying with her young". The saying is "Juventus Non Sine Pinnis" ("The Young Shall Have Wings"). 

Hornet transformation courses keep running for a half year, after which graduates are presented on one of the RAAF's cutting edge warrior units, No. 3 Squadron or No. 77 Squadron at Williamtown, or No. 75 Squadron at RAAF Base Tindal, Northern Territory. Understudies should initially pick up their instrument rating on the Hornet, and are then trained fundamental warrior moves, air battle systems, aerial gunnery, and air-to-ground strategies. The course finishes with Exercise High Sierra, a semiannual occasion that was first kept running at Townsville, Queensland, in 1986. The activity keeps going a little while and includes day and night flights, incorporating exactness hit fights with training and live bombs. 

Just as operational change, No. 2 OCU conducts supplemental classes and contender battle teacher seminars on the Hornet. Pilots who have not flown Hornets for over nine months embrace the fourteen day supplemental class. Contender battle teacher courses keep running for five months and are allowed at regular intervals. Understudies are looked over among the most experienced Hornet squadron pilots and experience guidance in how to prepare others, just as how to manage complex operational situations. This is tried in reenacted battle with different sorts of US or RAAF flying machine, as accessible, including F-15 Eagles, F-16 Fighting Falcons, and F/A-18 Super Hornets. Graduates become qualified F/A-18 educators and at first stay with No. 2 OCU for the following two-year cycle. After this time, they are presented on one of the bleeding edge squadrons or No. 81 Wing's home office as Hornet weapons-and-strategies experts. Alongside preparing pilots, No. 2 OCU might be called upon to direct operational errands "specifically conditions". 

Amid World War II, the RAAF built up a few operational preparing units (OTUs) to change over as of late graduated pilots from cutting edge mentors to battle airplane, and to add battling systems to the flying abilities they had effectively learned. No. 2 (Fighter) Operational Training Unit (No. 2 OTU) was framed on 2 April 1942 at Port Pirie, South Australia. Its debut leader was Wing Commander Peter Jeffrey, a warrior expert who had driven No. 3 Squadron in North Africa. Jeffrey had as of late expedited line Nos. 75 and 76 Squadrons, two of the initial three contender units raised to help shield northern Australia as the Japanese progressed toward New Guinea. His group of teachers at No. 2 OTU included individual pros from the North African battle, Clive Caldwell and Wilf Arthur. Initially outfitted with CAC Wirraways and Fairey Battles, the unit's supplement was increased by P-40 Kittyhawks, Vultee Vengeances, Avro Ansons, CAC Boomerangs, Supermarine Spitfires and Airspeed Oxfords after it migrated to RAAF Station Mildura, Victoria, in May. By September 1942, its armada of airplane included nine of the 106 Kittyhawks the RAAF had close by at the time. Amid November, No. 2 OTU led relative preliminaries that hollowed a Spitfire Mk V against a P-40E; the last report of these preliminaries made a decision about that in spite of the fact that the Spitfire had better execution concurring than most criteria, the P-40E was likewise a helpful plan. 

No. 2 OTU's Spitfire area was exchanged to RAAF Station Williamtown, New South Wales, in March 1943, under the direction of expert John Waddy. Jeffrey gave over order of No. 2 OTU at Mildura in August 1943; that month, the unit logged more than 5,000 flying hours, its largest amount amid the war. For the rest of the contention it kept up a normal quality of in excess of 100 air ship. North African battle pros and previous No. 3 Squadron leaders Bobby Gibbes and Nicky Barr served progressively as head flying educator from March 1944 until the finish of the Pacific War. Gathering Captain Arthur drove the unit from July to November 1944, when Group Captain Jeffrey continued direction. Amid 1945, the Spitfires and Kittyhawks were supplanted by 32 North American P-51 Mustangs. Preparing presumed that October, following the end of threats, and No. 2 OTU was decreased to a consideration and-support unit. Amid the war, it had graduated 1,247 pilots, losing 45 understudies in deadly mishaps. Jeffrey finished his arrangement in June 1946, and the unit was disbanded on 25 March 1947. 

Post-war deactivation saw the disbandment of all the RAAF's OTUs. Operational change of new pilots at that point turned into the obligation of cutting edge squadrons. This training disturbed the squadrons' ordinary obligations, and the approach of the Korean War and the presentation of stream flying machine additionally required an increasingly formal arrangement of operational preparing. As per Dick Cresswell, leader of No. 77 Squadron in Korea from September 1950 to August 1951: 

The RAAF moved to redress the circumstance by re-shaping No. 2 OTU on 1 March 1952 to change over RAAF pilots to stream flying machine and train them for contender activities. Headquartered at RAAF Base Williamtown, it was furnished with Wirraways, Mustangs, and de Havilland Vampire planes. Cresswell took direction of No. 2 OTU on 21 May 1953. The unit stopped flying Mustangs that October, holding its Wirraways and Vampires. In April 1954, it started directing warrior battle teacher courses, just as supplemental classes on planes. Cresswell conveyed the main Australian-manufactured CAC Saber stream contender to No. 2 OTU in November, and that month set up the unit's Saber Trials Flight. The flight was in charge of execution testing and creating battle flying systems, working together with the Aircraft Research and Development Unit (ARDU). On 3 December 1954, Creswell drove an arrangement of twelve No. 2 OTU Vampires in the state of two sevens over Sydney to welcome No. 77 Squadron upon its entry from administration in Korea on board the plane carrying warship HMAS "Retaliation". Instructional classes on the Saber started on 1 January 1955. When the Saber entered operational administration in March 1956, the Saber Trials Flight was broken down and its duties go to No. 3 Squadron. Pilots experienced first experience with planes and contender battle at No. 2 OTU, however completed their change to Sabers at a cutting edge squadron. 

In May 1958, No. 1 Applied Flying Training School started outfitting with Vampire stream coaches at RAAF Base Pearce, Western Australia. As RAAF pilots were presently picking up their first presentation to planes somewhere else, No. 2 OTU took over from the contender squadrons the obligation of changing over prepared stream pilots to Sabers. Mirroring its new essential job, it was renamed No. 2 (Fighter) Operational Conversion Unit (No. 2 OCU) in September 1958, and stopped Vampire courses that month. Wing Commander Neville McNamara, later Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) and Chief of the Defense Force Staff, filled in as leader from August 1959 until January 1961. Amid his residency, the unit attempted activities with No. 75 Squadron at RAAF Bases Amberley, Townsville and Darwin. Two Saber pilots from No. 2 OCU and one from No. 75 Squadron passed on in discrete episodes right off the bat in 1960; each had endeavored to launch at low dimension and experienced deadly head wounds crashing into the flying machine's shelter amid the discharge succession. All RAAF Sabers were grounded until ARDU built up an alteration to break the overhang preceding the pilot launched out. 

Alongside Nos. 75 and 76 Squadrons, likewise based at Williamtown, No. 2 OCU was under the control of No. 81 Wing from 1961 until the wing was disbanded in 1966. By late 1963, staff were caught up with creating preparing material for the pending Saber substitution, the Dassault Mirage III, an undertaking that expected them to decipher the maker's specialized documentation from the first French. No. 2 OCU got its first Mirages in February and March 1964. It started change seminars on the sort that October, and contender battle educator courses in August 1968. The RAAF in the long run took conveyance of 100 Mirage IIIO single-situate contenders and 16 Mirage IIID two-situate coaches; No. 2 OCU worked the two models. Squadron Leader John Newham, later to fill in as CAS, held transitory order of the unit from July 1965 to April 1966. A Saber-prepared aerobatic show group named the "Marksmen" was shaped inside No. 2 OCU amid 1966 and 1967. Somewhere in the range of 1967 and 1984, six of the unit's Mirages endured significant mishaps, bringing about three fatalities. Involvement in the Vietnam War drove the RAAF to start preparing Forward air controllers in 1968. The undertaking at first tumbled to No. 2 OCU before a particular unit, No. 4 Forward Air Control Flight, was framed in 1970. In October 1969, the OCU started working the Macchi MB-326 fly for lead-in contender preparing, just as the Mirage. No. 5 Operational Training Unit, based at Williamtown, took over duty regarding Macchi courses from April 1970 until its disbandment in July the next year; the Macchis were then exchanged back to No. 2 OCU. 

In anticipation of the presentation of the F/A-18 Hornet, No. 2 OCU incidentally stopped flying tasks on 1 January 1985 and exchanged Macchi and Mirage preparing to No. 77 Squadron, which accepted accountability for warrior battle teacher, starting contender, and Mirage change courses. Starting on 17 May, the initial fourteen Australian Hornets—seven single-situate F/A-18As and seven two-situate F/A-18Bs—and a Hornet test system were conveyed to No. 2 OCU. Change seminars on the sort initiated on 19 August with four F/A-18Bs and three understudies. No. 2 OCU has remained the prime client of the two-situate Hornet, however some are worked by the contender squadrons, Nos. 3, 75 and 77. The principal year of Hornet administration saw No. 2 OCU, as the then-just RAAF administrator, embrace exhibit flights around the nation to uncover the new warrior to the Australian open. The majority of the Hornet units went under the control of a recently re-shaped No. 81 Wing on 2 February 1987. An extreme preparing program that year brought about 21 pilots changing over to the sort. In June 1987, Macchi instructional classes again turned into the duty of No. 2 OCU; this job was taken over by No. 76 Squadron in January 1989. No. 2 OCU endured its solitary Hornet misfortune to date when a F/A-18B slammed at Great Palm Island, Queensland, amid an evening preparing trip on 18 November 1987, murdering the pilot. Two Hornets crashed amid an aerial battle preparing exercise the earlier year, yet both figured out how to come back to base. The unit incidentally migrated to RAAF Base Richmond, New South Wales, in July 1990, while Williamtown's runway was reemerged. 

The RAAF started adjusting four of its Boeing 707 fly transports to empower aerial refueling of the Hornets in December 1988; No. 2 OCU staff initiated preparing for airborne tanker activities in July 1991, therefore adding this ability to the Hornet change course. By the mid-1990s, the unit had 12 teachers and a supplement of 18 Hornets, including 13 two-seaters. It was running two transformation courses for each year, with eight understudies for every course, and had a normal disappointment rate of 10 percent. A few of its educators were US and Canadian pilots on trade with the RAAF. In 2000, No. 2 OCU joined Nos. 76 and 79 Squadrons as a feature of No. 78 Wing, which had been restored as an operational preparing arrangement. Starting at 2005, the unit had a quality of somewhere in the range of 12 and 14 educators and ran three Hornet transformation courses and one warrior battle teacher course more than two-year cycles. Around six new Hornet pilots participated in every one of the change courses, and the unit by and large graduated 15 new Hornet pilots over each cycle. By 2007, No. 2 OCU had come back to the aegis of No. 81 Wing, under Air Combat Group. In spite of the fact that the term of the transformation courses has stayed unaltered since the Hornets were brought into administration, the substance secured has been modified after some time to reflect moves up to the Hornets, the supplanting of the Macchis with BAE Hawk 127 mentors in the mid 2000s, and experience picked up from utilizing Hornets in battle amid the Iraq War. No. 2 OCU led its 32nd warrior battle teacher course in 2013. The graduation work out, Aces North, was the first to include RAAF F/A-18 Super Hornets, Airbus KC-30 tankers, and Boeing E-7 Wedgetail early cautioning flying machine, just as the "Work of art" Hornets. The unit was granted the 2016 Gloucester Cup for capability. In December 2017, Australia's first female military pilots moved on from No. 2 OCU.