Eurasian ridge martin 

The Eurasian ridge martin or just bluff martin ("Ptyonoprogne rupestris") is a little passerine fowl in the swallow family. It is about long with fiery remains dark colored upperparts and paler underparts, and a short, square tail that has unmistakable white fixes on a large portion of its plumes. It breeds in the mountains of southern Europe, northwestern Africa and southern Asia. It very well may be mistaken for the three different species in its family, yet is bigger than both, with more brilliant tail spots and distinctive plumage tone. Numerous European winged animals are occupant, yet some northern populaces and most Asian raisers are transitory, wintering in northern Africa, the Middle East or India. 

The Eurasian precipice martin assembles a home disciple to the stone under a bluff shade or progressively onto a man-made structure. It makes a slick half-glass mud home with an internal delicate coating of quills and dry grass. Homes are regularly lone, in spite of the fact that a couple of sets may breed generally near one another at great areas. Two to five dark colored blotched white eggs are hatched for the most part by the female, and the two guardians feed the chicks. This species does not shape extensive rearing states, however is gregarious outside the reproducing season. It benefits from a wide assortment of creepy crawlies that are gotten in its nose as the martin flies close to bluff countenances or over streams and elevated glades. Grown-ups and youthful might be chased and eaten by feathered creatures of prey or corvids, and this species is a large group of parasitic bugs. With its huge and extending territory and expansive populace there are no huge preservation concerns. 

This winged creature is firmly identified with the other three ridge martins which share its sort, and has in some cases been viewed as indistinguishable species from one or both, despite the fact that it gives the idea that there are regions where two species' reaches cover without hybridisation happening. Every one of the three "Ptyonoprogne" ridge martins are very comparative in conduct to other Old World swallows that manufacture mud settles, and are in some cases subsumed into the bigger variety "Hirundo", yet this methodology prompts irregularities in characterizing other genera, especially the house martins. 

The Eurasian bank martin was formally portrayed as "Hirundo rupestris" by Italian naturalist Giovanni Antonio Scopoli in 1769 and was moved to the new sort "Ptyonoprogne" by German ornithologist Heinrich Gustav Reichenbach in 1850. Its closest relatives are the three different individuals from the family, the pale bluff martin, "P. obsoleta", the stone martin, "P. fuligula", and the dim bluff martin, "P. concolor". The sort name is gotten from the Greek "ptuon" (πτύον), "a fan", alluding to the state of the opened tail, and Procne (Πρόκνη), a legendary young lady who was transformed into a swallow. The particular "rupestris" signifies "of rocks", from the Latin "rupes" "shake". There are no commonly perceived subspecies. Two races, Central Asian "P. r. centralasica" and "P. r. theresae" in the Atlas Mountains of Morocco, have been proposed, however the slight contrasts in size and shading demonstrate no predictable geological example. Fossils of this species have been found in Late Pleistocene stores in Bulgaria, and in focal France in layers dated at 242,000 to 301,000 years prior. 

The four "Ptyonoprogne" species are individuals from the swallow group of winged animals, and are set in the subfamily Hirundininae, which includes all swallows and martins aside from the extremely particular stream martins. DNA contemplates recommend that there are three noteworthy groupings inside the Hirundininae, extensively connecting with the sort of home fabricated. The gatherings are the "center martins" including tunneling species like the sand martin, the "home adopters", which are feathered creatures like the tree swallow that use common cavities, and the "mud home developers". The "Ptyonoprogne" species develop an open mud home and along these lines have a place with the last gathering; "Hirundo" species additionally assemble open homes, "Delichon" house martins have a shut home, and the "Cecropis" and "Petrochelidon" swallows have answer like shut homes with a passage burrow. 

"Ptyonoprogne" is firmly identified with the bigger swallow family "Hirundo" into which it is frequently subsumed, yet a DNA examination demonstrated that an extended variety "Hirundo" ought to intelligently contain all the mud-manufacturer genera, including the "Delichon" house martins, a training which couple of specialists pursue. In spite of the fact that the homes of the "Ptyonoprogne" bluff martins looks like those of ordinary "Hirundo" species like the horse shelter swallow, the examination demonstrated that if "Delichon", "Cecropis" and "Petrochelidon" are part from "Hirundo", "Ptyonoprogne" ought to likewise be treated as a different sort. 

The Eurasian bank martin is long with a wingspan, and gauges a normal . It has fiery debris darker upperparts and paler underparts, and has a more extensive body, wings and tail than some other European swallow. The tail is short and square, with white fixes close to the tips of everything except the focal and peripheral sets of plumes. The underwing and undertail coverts are blackish, the eyes are dark colored, the little bill is fundamentally dark, and the legs are earthy pink. The genders are similar, however adolescents have buff-dark colored tips to the plumage of the head, upperparts and wing coverts. This species can be recognized from the sand martin by its bigger size, the white fixes on the tail, and its absence of a dark colored bosom band. Where the range covers with that of another "Ptyonoprogne" species, the Eurasian ridge martin is darker, browner and 15% bigger than the stone martin, and bigger and paler, especially on its underparts than the gloomy bank martin. The white tail spots of the Eurasian bank martin are fundamentally bigger than those of the two its relatives. 

The precipice martin's flight shows up moderately moderate for a swallow. Quick wing beats are scattered with level winged floats, and its long adaptable primaries give it the deftness to move close bluff appearances. The normal movement flight speed has been estimated at 9.9 m/s (32.5 ft/s), not exactly the generally 11 m/s (36 ft/s) regular for hirundines, yet the information is restricted. The fledgling regularly flies high, and demonstrates the white spots as it spreads its tail. The vocalizations incorporate short high "pli", and "piieh" and "tshir" calls looking like those of the linnet and the house martin individually. 

The Eurasian precipice martin breeds in mountains from Iberia and northwesternmost Africa through southern Europe, the Persian Gulf and the Himalayas to southwestern and northeastern China. Northern populaces are transitory, with European flying creatures wintering in north Africa, Senegal, Ethiopia and the Nile Valley, and Asian reproducers going to southern China, the Indian subcontinent and the Middle East. Some European flying creatures remain north of the Mediterranean, and, similar to martins in hotter territories, for example, India, Turkey and Cyprus, simply move to bring down ground in the wake of rearing. The rearing reach is limited by the July isotherm, and wintering regions need a temperature of about for enough bug nourishment to be accessible. This is an uncommon animal categories any separation north of its rearing territories. For instance, there are just eight records from the UK, none from Ireland, and the primary record for Sweden was accounted for as of late as 1996. South of its ordinary wintering range, it has happened as a vagrant in The Gambia. 

Ridge martins breed on dry, warm and protected precipices in rugged regions with banks and canyons. The run of the mill height is nevertheless reproducing happens up to in Central Asia. The Eurasian ridge martin's decision of home locales is fundamentally the same as that of Savi's pipistrelle, "Hypsugo savii"; the flying creature and the bat frequently breed in similar areas and have practically indistinguishable ranges in Europe. In South Asia, transient Eurasian feathered creatures some of the time unite with groups of the shadowy ridge martin and perch commonly on edges of precipices or structures. 

Ridge martin sets home alone or in little states, generally containing less than ten homes. Homes are by and large separated and each pair forcefully safeguards its reproducing an area against other ridge martin and most other flying creature species. Settling happens from May to August, and generally two broods are raised. The home, worked by the two grown-ups, is an open half glass made of mud and fixed with delicate material, for example, quills or dry grass. It is developed under a shade on a stone precipice face, in a cleft or cavern, or on a man-made structure. It takes one to three weeks to fabricate and is re-utilized for the second brood and in ensuing years. The grasp is two to five eggs with a normal of three. The eggs are white with earthy blotches especially at the wide end, and normal with a weight of . The eggs are brooded predominantly by the female for 13– 17 days to bring forth, and the chicks take another 24– 27 days to fledge. The two guardians feed the chicks conveying sustenance each two to five minutes, and the youthful are bolstered for 14– 21 days subsequent to fledging. With such continuous nourishing rates the grown-ups for the most part scrounge in the best chasing zones in the quick region of the home, since the further they fly to rummage the more it would take to acquire sustenance to the chicks the home. In an Italian examination, the incubating rate was 80.2 percent, and the normal number of fledged youthful was 3.1. 

The ridge martin has in the course of the most recent couple of decades progressively utilized houses and other man-made destinations to settle. This more noteworthy accessibility of rearing destinations has empowered the species to extend its range, yet it is conceivable that this will prompt challenge with different hirundines, for example, the outbuilding swallow and basic house martin, which additionally utilize counterfeit home locales. 

An Italian investigation demonstrated that, similarly as with other aeronautical feeders, the beginning of rearing was postponed by cold or wet climate, however this had no effect on the grip estimate nor on the quantity of fledged youthful. Out of the blue, it was discovered that once the eggs had brought forth there was a negative connection among temperature and the quantity of fledged youthful. The creators recommended that sweltering climate evaporated the little waterways where the guardians discovered sustenance. Province estimate did not impact the laying date, the grasp measure or the quantity of effectively fledged youthful, yet this species does not frame expansive states at any rate. 

The Eurasian bluff martin nourishes principally on creepy crawlies got in its nose in flight, in spite of the fact that it will incidentally take prey things off rocks, the ground, or a water surface. When rearing, feathered creatures regularly fly forward and backward close to a stone face chasing for bugs, bolstering both inside and outside the settling an area. At different occasions, they may chase hovering above streams or snow capped glades. The creepy crawlies taken rely upon what is locally accessible and may incorporate flies, ants, elevated bugs, and insects. Sea-going species, for example, stoneflies, caddisflies and lake skaters have all the earmarks of being essential in any event Spain and Italy. Not at all like different hirundines, these flying creatures feed near their rearing destinations, and might be locally defenseless against changes in creepy crawly accessibility. This martin is gregarious outside the rearing season, and may frame sizeable groups where nourishment is rich. Precipice faces create standing waves in the wind stream which concentrate creepy crawlies close vertical regions. The precipice martin abuses the region near the bluff when it chases, depending on its high mobility and capacity to perform tight turns. 

This species is at times chased by the peregrine bird of prey, which shares its mountain living space, and amid its relocation over the Himalayas, it is accounted for to be liable to predation by crows. Normal kestrels, Eurasian sparrowhawks, Eurasian jays and basic ravens are likewise treated as predators and assaulted by rehashed plunges on the off chance that they approach settling bluffs. In spite of the general forcefulness of the martin, it endures sympatric basic house martins, maybe on the grounds that the extensive quantities of that exceptionally provincial species give an early cautioning of predators. 

The precipice martin is a large group of parasitic bugs of the family "Dermanyssus", including "D. chelidonis", and of the nasal bug "Ptilonyssus ptyonoprognes". Two new types of parasites were first found on this martin, the fly "Ornithomya rupes" in Gibraltar and the bug "Ceratophyllus nanshanensis" from China. 

The European populace of the Eurasian bluff martin is evaluated to be 360,000– 1,110,000 people, including 120,000– 370,000 rearing sets. An unpleasant gauge of the overall populace is 500,000– 5,000,000 people, with Europe facilitating between one-quarter and one-portion of the aggregate. The populace is evaluated to build following a northward extension, which might be mostly because of expanded utilization of man-made structures as home destinations. Extensions of the range have been accounted for in Austria (where motorway spans are utilized as home locales), Switzerland, the previous Yugoslavia, Romania, and Bulgaria. With its exceptionally extensive territory and high numbers, the Eurasian bluff martin isn't viewed as undermined, and it is classed as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List.