Attack of Constantinople (717– 718) 

The Second Arab attack of Constantinople in 717– 718 was a consolidated land and ocean hostile by the Muslim Arabs of the Umayyad Caliphate against the capital city of the Byzantine Empire, Constantinople. The battle denoted the zenith of twenty years of assaults and dynamic Arab control of the Byzantine borderlands, while Byzantine quality was sapped by delayed inner unrest. In 716, following quite a while of arrangements, the Arabs, driven by Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik, attacked Byzantine Asia Minor. The Arabs at first would have liked to abuse Byzantine common difficulty and made basic reason with the general Leo III the Isaurian, who had ascended against Emperor Theodosius III. Leo, be that as it may, deceived them and verified the Byzantine position of authority for himself. 

In the wake of wintering in the western coastlands of Asia Minor, the Arab armed force crossed into Thrace in late-spring 717 and fabricated attack lines to barricade the city, which was ensured by the huge Theodosian Walls. The Arab armada, which went with the land armed force and was intended to finish the city's barricade via ocean, was killed not long after its entry by the Byzantine naval force using Greek flame. This enabled Constantinople to be resupplied via ocean, while the Arab armed force was injured by starvation and sickness amid the uncommonly hard winter that pursued. In spring 718, two Arab armadas sent as fortifications were crushed by the Byzantines after their Christian teams surrendered, and an extra armed force sent overland through Asia Minor was trapped and vanquished. Combined with assaults by the Bulgars on their back, the Arabs were compelled to lift the attack on 15 August 718. On its arrival venture, the Arab armada was totally pulverized by catastrophic events and Byzantine assaults. 

The attack's disappointment had wide-extending repercussions. The salvage of Constantinople guaranteed the proceeded with survival of Byzantium, while the Caliphate's key viewpoint was adjusted: albeit standard assaults on Byzantine regions proceeded, the objective of by and large triumph was relinquished. Students of history believe the attack to be a standout amongst history's most essential fights, as its disappointment delayed the Muslim development into Southeastern Europe for quite a long time. 

Following the principal Arab attack of Constantinople (674– 678), the Arabs and Byzantines encountered a time of harmony. After 680, the Umayyad Caliphate was in the throes of the Second Muslim Civil War and the ensuing Byzantine power in the East empowered the sovereigns to extricate enormous measures of tribute from the Umayyad government in Damascus. In 692, as the Umayyads rose as victors from the Muslim Civil War, Emperor Justinian II () re-opened threats. The outcome was a progression of Arab triumphs that prompted the loss of Byzantine command over Armenia and the Caucasian territories, and a continuous infringement upon Byzantine borderlands. Step by step, the Caliphate's officers, more often than not individuals from the Umayyad family, propelled attacks into A byzantine area and caught strongholds and towns. After 712, the Byzantine guarded framework started to hint at breakdown: Arab assaults infiltrated further and further into Asia Minor, fringe strongholds were over and over assaulted and sacked, and references to Byzantine response in the sources become increasingly rare. In this, the Arabs were helped by the drawn out time of inward insecurity that pursued the primary statement of Justinian II in 695, in which the Byzantine royal position changed hands multiple times in rough upsets. In the expressions of the Byzantinist Warren Treadgold, "the Arab assaults would regardless have increased after the finish of their own common war ... With unquestionably more men, land and riches than Byzantium, the Arabs had started to focus everything that is in them against it. Presently they took steps to douse the domain altogether by catching its capital." 

The data accessible on the attack originates from sources made in later dates, which are regularly commonly conflicting. The primary Byzantine source is the broad and point by point record of the "Narrative" of Theophanes the Confessor (760– 817) and optionally the concise record in the "Breviarium" of Patriarch Nikephoros I of Constantinople (passed on 828), which demonstrates little contrasts, for the most part sequential, from Theophanes' rendition. For the occasions of the attack, the two creators seem to have utilized an essential record made amid the rule out of Leo III the Isaurian () which along these lines contains a great delineation of the last mentioned, while Theophanes obviously depends on an obscure life story of Leo (disregarded by Nikephoros) for the occasions of 716. The eighth century recorder Theophilus of Edessa records the years paving the way to the attack and the attack itself in some detail, giving specific consideration to the tact among Maslama and Leo III. The Arab sources, predominantly the eleventh century "Kitab al-'Uyun" and the more compact story "Ever of Prophets and Kings" by al-Tabari (838– 923), depend on essential records by mid ninth century Arab authors, yet are progressively confounded and contain a few incredible components. The Syriac language accounts depend on Agapius of Hierapolis (kicked the bucket 942), who likely drew from a similar essential source as Theophanes, yet are far briefer. 

The Arab triumphs opened the path for a second ambush on Constantinople, an endeavor previously started under Caliph al-Walid I (). Following his demise, his sibling and successor Sulayman () took up the task with expanded energy, as indicated by Arab accounts due to a prescience that a Caliph bearing the name of a prophet would catch Constantinople; Sulayman (Solomon) was the main individual from the Umayyad family to endure such a name. As indicated by Syriac sources, the new Caliph swore "to not quit battling against Constantinople before having depleted the nation of the Arabs or to have taken the city". The Umayyad powers started gathering at the plain of Dabiq north of Aleppo, under the immediate supervision of the Caliph. As Sulayman was too debilitated to even consider campaigning himself, in any case, he endowed direction to his sibling Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik. The task against Constantinople came when the Umayyad domain was experiencing a time of consistent extension toward the east and west. Muslim militaries progressed into Transoxiana, India, and the Visigothic Kingdom of Hispania. 

Middle Easterner arrangements, particularly the development of a vast armada, did not go unnoticed by the stressed Byzantines. Ruler Anastasios II () sent a government office to Damascus under the patrician and urban administrator, Daniel of Sinope, apparently so as to supplication for harmony, however actually to keep an eye on the Arabs. Anastasios, thus, started to plan for the unavoidable attack: the strongholds of Constantinople were fixed and furnished with abundant big guns (launches and other attack weapons), while sustenance stores were brought into the city. Moreover, those occupants who couldn't store nourishment for no less than three years were cleared. Anastasios fortified his naval force and in mid 715 dispatched it against the Arab armada that had come to Phoenix—generally related to present day Finike in Lycia, it might likewise be current Fenaket crosswise over Rhodes, or maybe Phoenicia (current Lebanon), popular for its cedar woodlands—to gather timber for their boats. At Rhodes, be that as it may, the Byzantine armada, supported by the warriors of the Opsician Theme, revolted, murdered their officer John the Deacon and cruised north to Adramyttium. There, they acclaimed a hesitant assessment gatherer, Theodosius, as head. Anastasios crossed into Bithynia in the Opsician Theme to stand up to the insubordination, yet the renegade armada cruised on to Chrysopolis. From that point, it propelled assaults against Constantinople, until, in pre-fall, sympathizers inside the capital paved the way for them. Anastasios held out at Nicaea for a while, at long last consenting to leave and resign as a priest. The promotion of Theodosios, who from the sources seems to be both reluctant and unfit, as a manikin sovereign of the Opsicians incited the response of different topics, particularly the Anatolics and the Armeniacs under their separate "strategoi" (officers) Leo the Isaurian and Artabasdos. 

In these states of close respectful war, the Arabs started their painstakingly arranged development. In September 715, the vanguard, under general Sulayman ibn Mu'ad, walked over Cilicia into Asia Minor, taking the vital fortification of Loulon on its way. They wintered at Afik, a unidentified area close to the western exit of the Cilician Gates. In mid 716, Sulayman's military proceeded into focal Asia Minor. The Umayyad armada under Umar ibn Hubayra traveled along the Cilician coast, while Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik anticipated improvements with the principle armed force in Syria. 

The Arabs trusted that the disunity among the Byzantines would play further bolstering their good fortune. Maslama had officially settled contact with Leo the Isaurian. French researcher Rodolphe Guilland speculated that Leo offered to turn into a vassal of the Caliphate, in spite of the fact that the Byzantine general proposed to utilize the Arabs for his own motivations. Thus, Maslama upheld Leo wanting to augment disarray and debilitate the Empire, facilitating his own undertaking of taking Constantinople. 

Sulayman's first goal was the deliberately vital fortification of Amorium, which the Arabs proposed to use as a base the accompanying winter. Amorium had been left exposed in the disturbance of the common war and would have effectively fallen, yet the Arabs reinforced Leo's situation as a stabilizer to Theodosios. They offered the city terms of surrender if its occupants would recognize Leo as ruler. The fortification gave in, yet at the same time did not clear a path for the Arabs. Leo went to the region with a bunch of fighters and executed a progression of ploys and dealings to army 800 men in the town. The Arab armed force, defeated in its target and with provisions running low, pulled back. Leo got away to Pisidia and, in summer, upheld by Artabasdos, was broadcasted and delegated as Byzantine head, transparently testing Theodosios. 

Leo's prosperity at Amorium was luckily planned, since Maslama with the primary Arab armed force had meanwhile crossed the Taurus Mountains and was walking straight for the city. Furthermore, as the Arab general had not gotten updates on Leo's cheating, he didn't annihilate the regions he walked through—the Armeniac and Anatolic subjects, whose governors despite everything he accepted to be his partners. On getting together with Sulayman's withdrawing armed force and realizing what had happened, Maslama altered course: he assaulted Akroinon and from that point walked toward the western coastlands to spend the winter. On his way, he sacked Sardis and Pergamon. The Arab armada wintered in Cilicia. Leo, meanwhile, started his own walk on Constantinople. He caught Nicomedia, where he found and caught, among different authorities, Theodosios' child, and afterward walked to Chrysopolis. In spring 717, after short dealings, he verified Theodosios' acquiescence and his acknowledgment as ruler, entering the capital on 25 March. Theodosios and his child were permitted to resign to a religious community as priests, while Artabasdos was elevated to the situation of "kouropalates" and got the hand of Leo's girl, Anna. 

From the start, the Arabs arranged for a noteworthy strike on Constantinople. The late eighth century Syriac "Zuqnin Chronicle" reports that the Arabs were "endless", while the twelfth century Syriac recorder Michael the Syrian notices a much-expanded 200,000 men and 5,000 boats. The tenth century Arab author al-Mas'udi makes reference to 120,000 troops, and the record of Theophanes the Confessor 1,800 boats. Supplies for quite a long while were accumulated, and attack motors and combustible materials (naphtha) were amassed. The supply train alone is said to have numbered 12,000 men, 6,000 camels and 6,000 jackasses, while as per the thirteenth century history specialist Bar Hebraeus, the troops included 30,000 volunteers ("mutawa") for the Holy War ("jihad"). 

Whatever the genuine numbers, the assailants were extensively more various than the protectors; as per Treadgold, the Arab host may have dwarfed the whole Byzantine armed force. Little is known on the nitty gritty sythesis of the Arab drive, yet it gives the idea that it for the most part comprised of, and was driven by, Syrians and Jazirans of the world class "ahl al-Sham" ("People of Syria"), the primary mainstay of the Umayyad routine and veterans of the battle against Byzantium. Nearby Maslama, Umar ibn Hubayra, Sulayman ibn Mu'ad, and Bakhtari ibn al-Hasan are referenced as his lieutenants by Theophanes and Agapius of Hierapolis, while the later "Kitab al-'Uyun" replaces Bakhtari with Abdallah al-Battal. 

Despite the fact that the attack devoured a huge piece of the Caliphate's labor and assets, it was as yet fit for propelling assaults against the Byzantine outskirts in eastern Asia Minor amid the attack's length: in 717, Caliph Sulayman's child Daud caught a post close Melitene and in 718 Amr ibn Qais struck the boondocks. On the Byzantine side, the numbers are obscure. Beside Anastasius II's arrangements (which may have been ignored after his testimony), the Byzantines could depend on the help of the Bulgars, with whom Leo closed a bargain that perhaps included union against the Arabs. 

In late-spring, Maslama requested his armada to go along with him and with his military crossed the Hellespont (Dardanelles) at Abydos into Thrace. The Arabs started their walk on Cοnstantinople, completely pulverizing the wide open, gathering supplies, and sacking the towns they experienced. In mid-July or mid-August, the Arab armed force achieved Constantinople and disconnected it totally ashore by structure a twofold attack mass of stone, one confronting the city and one confronting the Thracian farmland, with their camp situated between them. As per Arab sources, now Leo offered to recover the city by paying a gold coin for each occupant, however Maslama answered that there couldn't be harmony with the vanquished, and that the Arab battalion of Constantinople had just been chosen. 

The Arab armada under Sulayman (regularly mistook for the Caliph himself in the medieval sources) touched base on 1 September, tying down at first close to the Hebdomon. After two days, Sulayman drove his armada into the Bosphorus and the different squadrons started tying down by the European and Asian rural areas of the city: one section cruised south of Chalcedon to the harbors of Eutropios and Anthemios to look out for the southern passageway of the Bosporus, while the remainder of the armada cruised into the strait, gone by Constantinople and started making landfall on the coasts among Galata and Kleidion, cutting the Byzantine capital's correspondence with the Black Sea. In any case, as the Arab armada's rearguard, twenty substantial boats with 2,000 marines, was passing the city, the southerly wind halted and afterward turned around, floating them towards the city dividers, where a Byzantine squadron assaulted them with Greek flame. Theophanes announced that some ran down with all hands, while others, consuming, cruised down to the Princes' Islands of Oxeia and Plateia. The triumph empowered the Byzantines and down and out the Arabs, who, as indicated by Theophanes, had initially planned to sail to the ocean dividers amid the night and attempt to scale them utilizing the boats' directing oars. That night, Leo drew up the chain between the city and Galata, shutting the passage to the Golden Horn. The Arab armada wound up hesitant to draw in the Byzantines, and pulled back to the protected harbor of Sosthenion further north on the European shore of the Bosporus. 

The Arab armed force was very much provisioned, with Arab accounts detailing high hills of provisions heaped up in their camp, and had even conveyed along wheat to sow and reap the following year. The disappointment of the Arab naval force to barricade the city, in any case, implied that the Byzantines also could ship in arrangements. Also, the Arab armed force had just crushed the Thracian farmland amid its walk and couldn't depend on it for rummaging. The Arab armada and the second Arab armed force, which worked in the Asian rural areas of Constantinople, had the capacity to get restricted supplies to Maslama's military. As the attack drew into winter, arrangements opened between the opposite sides, widely announced by Arab sources yet disregarded by Byzantine history specialists. As indicated by the Arab accounts, Leo kept on playing a twofold diversion with the Arabs. One variant cases that he deceived Maslama into giving over a large portion of his grain supplies, while another cases that the Arab general was convinced to consume them inside and out, in order to demonstrate the occupants of the city that they confronted an unavoidable attack and initiate them to surrender. The winter of 718 was incredibly cruel; snow made the progress for more than three months. As the provisions in the Arab camp ran out, a horrendous starvation broke out: the officers ate their ponies, camels, and other domesticated animals, and the bark, leaves and underlying foundations of trees. They cleared the snow of the fields they had sown to eat the green shoots, and apparently depended on savagery and eating their very own feces. Thusly, the Arab armed force was assaulted by pestilences; with extraordinary distortion, the Lombard history specialist Paul the Deacon put the quantity of their dead of yearning and malady at 300,000. 

The circumstance looked set to improve in spring when the new Caliph, Umar II (), sent two armadas to the besiegers' guide: 400 boats from Egypt under an authority named Sufyan and 360 boats from Africa under Izid, all loaded down with provisions and arms. In the meantime, a new armed force started walking through Asia Minor to aid the attack. At the point when the new armadas touched base in the Sea of Marmara, they stayed away from the Byzantines and tied down on the Asian shore, the Egyptians in the Gulf of Nicomedia close present day Tuzla and the Africans south of Chalcedon (at Satyros, Bryas and Kartalimen). The vast majority of the Arab armadas' groups were made out of Christian Egyptians, be that as it may, and they started abandoning to the Byzantines upon their landing. Informed by the Egyptians of the approach and attitude of the Arab fortifications, Leo propelled his armada in an assault against the new Arab armadas. Injured by the absconding of their teams, and powerless against Greek discharge, the Arab ships were annihilated or caught alongside the weapons and supplies they conveyed. Constantinople was currently sheltered from a seaborne assault. Ashore too the Byzantines were successful: their troops figured out how to snare the propelling Arab armed force under an officer named Mardasan and devastate it in the slopes around Sophon, south of Nicomedia. 

Constantinople could now be effectively resupplied via ocean and the city's anglers returned to work, as the Arab armada did not cruise once more. As yet experiencing appetite and disease, the Arabs lost a noteworthy fight against the Bulgars, who slaughtered, as indicated by Theophanes, 22,000 men. It is misty, be that as it may, regardless of whether the Bulgars assaulted the Arab place to stay as a result of their arrangement with Leo or whether the Arabs strayed into Bulgar domain looking for arrangements, as revealed by the Syriac "Annal of 846". Michael the Syrian notices that the Bulgars partook in the attack from the earliest starting point, with assaults against the Arabs as they walked through Thrace and hence on their place to stay, however this isn't substantiated somewhere else. The attack had plainly fizzled, and Caliph Umar sent requests to Maslama to withdraw. Following thirteen months of attack, on 15 August 718, the Arabs withdrew. The date corresponded with the blowout of the Dormition of the Theotokos (Assumption of Mary), and it was to her that the Byzantines credited their triumph. The withdrawing Arabs were not obstructed or assaulted on their arrival, however their armada lost more ships in a tempest in the Marmara Sea, while different boats were set ablaze by fiery remains from the fountain of Santorini, and a portion of the survivors were caught by the Byzantines, so that Theophanes claims that just five vessels made it back to Syria. Middle Easterner sources guarantee that out and out 150,000 Muslims died amid the battle, a figure which, as per the Byzantinist John Haldon, "while absolutely swelled, is by and by characteristic of the monstrosity of the calamity in medieval eyes". 

The endeavor's disappointment debilitated the Umayyad state. As student of history Bernard Lewis remarked, "Its disappointment brought a grave minute for Umayyad control. The money related strain of preparing and keeping up the endeavor caused an irritation of the monetary and budgetary mistreatment which had effectively stimulated such unsafe restriction. The annihilation of the armada and armed force of Syria at the ocean dividers of Constantinople denied the routine of the central material premise of its capacity". The hit to the Caliphate's strength was extreme, and in spite of the fact that the land armed force did not endure misfortunes in a similar degree as the armada, Umar is recorded as thinking about pulling back from the ongoing triumphs of Hispania and Transoxiana, just as a total clearing of Cilicia and other Byzantine regions that the Arabs had seized over the earlier years. In spite of the fact that his counsels deterred him from such radical activities, most Arab battalions were pulled back from the Byzantine wilderness locale they had involved in the number one spot up to the attack. In Cilicia, just Mopsuestia stayed in Arab hands as a cautious defense to secure Antioch. The Byzantines even recuperated some domain in western Armenia for a period. In 719, the Byzantine armada struck the Syrian coast and torched the port of Laodicea and, in 720 or 721, the Byzantines assaulted and sacked Tinnis in Egypt. Leo likewise reestablished authority over Sicily, where updates on the Arab attack of Constantinople and desires for the city's fall had provoked the neighborhood senator to pronounce his very own sovereign, Basil Onomagoulos. It was amid this time, in any case, that viable Byzantine power over Sardinia and Corsica stopped. 

Other than this, the Byzantines neglected to abuse their accomplishment in propelling assaults of their own against the Arabs. In 720, following a break of two years, Arab assaults against Byzantium continued, albeit now they were never again aimed at victory, yet rather looking for goods. The Arab assaults would strengthen again throughout the following two decades, until the significant Byzantine triumph at the Battle of Akroinon in 740. Combined with military annihilations on different fronts of the overextended Caliphate, and the interior shakiness which finished in the Abbasid Revolution, the time of Arab development reached an end. 

The second Arab attack of Constantinople was unmistakably more hazardous for Byzantium than the first as, dissimilar to the free bar of 674– 678, the Arabs propelled an immediate, all around arranged assault on the Byzantine capital, and endeavored to remove the city totally from land and ocean. The attack spoke to a last exertion by the Caliphate to "remove the head" of the Byzantine Empire, after which the rest of the areas, particularly in Asia Minor, would be anything but difficult to catch. The explanations behind the Arab disappointment were predominantly calculated, as they were working excessively a long way from their Syrian bases, however the prevalence of the Byzantine naval force using Greek fire, the quality of Constantinople's fortresses, and the expertise of Leo III in double dealing and exchanges likewise assumed vital jobs. 

The disappointment of the Arab attack prompted a significant change in the idea of fighting among Byzantium and the Caliphate. The Muslim objective of success of Constantinople was viably relinquished, and the wilderness between the two realms balanced out along the line of the Taurus and Antitaurus Mountains, over which the two sides kept on propelling customary strikes and counter-attacks. In this ceaseless outskirt fighting, wilderness towns and fortifications changed hands as often as possible, however the general layout of the fringe stayed unaltered for more than two centuries, until the Byzantine triumphs of the tenth century. The eastern armadas of the Caliphate entered a century-long decay; just the Ifriqiyan armadas kept up standard strikes on Byzantine Sicily, until they excessively died down after 752. Undoubtedly, except for the development of the Abbasid armed force under Harun al-Rashid up to Chrysopolis in 782, no other Arab armed force could ever come quite close to the Byzantine capital again. Thus, on the Muslim side the attacks themselves in the end gained a practically custom character, and were esteemed for the most part as a show of the proceeding "jihad" and supported by the Caliph as an image of his job as the pioneer of the Muslim people group. 

The result of the attack was of extensive macrohistorical significance. The Byzantine capital's survival protected the Empire as a defense against Islamic venture into Europe until the fifteenth century, when it tumbled to the Ottoman Turks. Alongside the Battle of Tours in 732, the fruitful barrier of Constantinople has been viewed as instrumental in ceasing Muslim venture into Europe. History specialist Ekkehard Eickhoff composes that "had a triumphant Caliph made Constantinople as of now toward the start of the Middle Ages into the political capital of Islam, as occurred toward the finish of the Middle Ages by the Ottomans—the ramifications for Christian Europe [...] would have been limitless", as the Mediterranean would have turned into an Arab lake, and the Germanic successor states in Western Europe would have been cut off from the Mediterranean underlying foundations of their way of life. Military history specialist Paul K. Davis summed up the attack's significance as pursues: "By turning back the Moslem intrusion, Europe stayed in Christian hands, and no genuine Moslem danger to Europe existed until the fifteenth century. This triumph, correspondent with the Frankish triumph at Tours (732), constrained Islam's western development toward the southern Mediterranean world." Thus the student of history John B. Cover called 718 "an ecumenical date", while the Greek student of history Spyridon Lambros compared the attack to the Battle of Marathon and Leo III to Miltiades. Thusly, military antiquarians regularly incorporate the attack in arrangements of the "conclusive fights" of world history. 

Among Arabs, the 717– 718 attack turned into the most popular of their endeavors against Byzantium. A few records endure, yet most were made at later dates and are semi-anecdotal and opposing. In legend, the thrashing was changed into a triumph: Maslama withdrew simply after emblematically entering the Byzantine capital on his steed joined by thirty riders, where Leo got him with respect and drove him to the Hagia Sophia. After Leo paid respect to Maslama and guaranteed tribute, Maslama and his troops—30,000 out of the first 80,000 that set out for Constantinople—left for Syria. The stories of the attack affected comparative scenes in Arabic epic writing. An attack of Constantinople is found in the story of Omar container al-Nu'uman and his children in the "Thousand and One Nights", while both Maslama and the Caliph Sulayman show up in a story of the "Hundred and One Nights" from the Maghreb. The administrator of Maslama's protector, Abdallah al-Battal, turned into a commended figure in Arab and Turkish verse as "Battal Gazi" for his endeavors in the Arab assaults of the following decades. So also, the tenth century epic "Delhemma", identified with the cycle around Battal, gives a fictionalized variant of the 717– 718 attack. 

Later Muslim and Byzantine convention likewise attributed the structure of Constantinople's first mosque, close to the city's "praetorium", to Maslama. In all actuality, the mosque close to the "praetorium" was presumably raised in around 860, because of an Arab international safe haven in that year. Footstool convention likewise credited the structure of the Arap Mosque (situated outside Constantinople legitimate in Galata) to Maslama, in spite of the fact that it wrongly dated this to around 686, presumably confounding Maslama's assault with the principal Arab attack during the 670s. The death of the Arab armed force additionally left follows at Abydos, where "Maslama's Well" and a mosque credited to him were as yet known in the tenth century. 

In the long run, following their rehashed disappointments before Constantinople, and the proceeded with strength of the Byzantine express, the Muslims started to extend the fall of Constantinople to the inaccessible future. In this manner the city's fall came to be viewed as one of the indications of the entry of the last days in Islamic eschatology. The attack turned into a theme in Byzantine prophetically calamitous writing also, with conclusive last fights against the Arabs before the dividers of Constantinople being included in the mid eighth century Greek interpretation of the Syriac "End of the world of Pseudo-Methodius" and the "End of the world of Daniel", composed either at about the season of the attack or after a century.