Contact Me I'm Sick 

"Contact Me I'm Sick" is a melody by the American elective musical crew Mudhoney. It was recorded in March 1988 at Seattle's Reciprocal Recording studio with maker Jack Endino. "Contact Me I'm Sick" was discharged as Mudhoney's introduction single by free record mark Sub Pop on August 1, 1988. The melody's verses, which highlight dull amusingness, are a snide interpretation of issues, for example, ailment and brutal sex. 

When it was first discharged, "Contact Me I'm Sick" was a hit on the non mainstream circuit; it remains the band's most conspicuous tune. The intensely mutilated and fluffy guitars, growling vocals, obtuse bass line and fiery drumming added to a grimy sound that affected numerous nearby artists, and built up the incipient Seattle grunge scene. As per Allmusic, "the melody's crude, base vitality made it a moment song of praise which still stands as one of [grunge's] unequaled works of art". 

As per Mudhoney vocalist Mark Arm, "Contact Me I'm Sick" started from a talk with Sub Pop proprietor Bruce Pavitt, who "stated: 'Hello, you sing about canines. You sing about being wiped out. You got a shtick, it'll take you to the top.' And he essentially gave us five harmonies, yet he said don't utilize more than three inside one melody." Arm additionally expresses that "Contact Me I'm Sick" was a catchphrase around which the band assembled a tune. 

Mudhoney recorded the tune at Seattle's Reciprocal Recording studio in March 1988, three months after the band's development. Maker Jack Endino was astounded by how boisterous the sessions were and how messy the band needed the guitars to sound; "generally, I simply kind of remained back and let them go at it". Guitarist Steve Turner said that the band chosen two of their "grungiest" tunes for the single. "Sweet Young Thing Ain't Sweet No More" was to be the A-side of the single and "Contact Me I'm Sick" the B-side previously, in drummer Dan Peters' words, "that all got flipped around". 

"Contact Me I'm Sick" has a direct carport punk structure with a straightforward rehashing power harmony riff played at a high rhythm. This is joined by an unpolished bass line and frantic drumming. The tune's grimy sound was created utilizing an Electro-Harmonix Big Muff contortion pedal, which is increased by a second guitar giving more twisting. Music author Brian J. Barr alluded to this loud solid as "what might be compared to an intensified brush scratching against paper". 

Pundits have noticed a Stooges impact in "Contact Me I'm Sick", run of the mill of Mudhoney's initial material. Turner stated: "by and large, it's The Yardbirds' 'Happenings Ten Years Time Ago' by method for The Stooges' 'Tired of You'. At the time I was striving for the faltering R&B guitar of The Nights and Days." The tune is likewise reminiscent of the no-nonsense punk of Black Flag. In his book "Failure: The Real Seattle Music Story", Clark Humphrey blames the tune for being a duplicate of "The Witch" by The Sonics. The band have expelled this case, and scrutinized the author's information of music. 

Arm's verses, as indicated by commentator Steve Huey, are a tirade about "illness, self-hatred, apprehension, and messy sex". In a paper called "'Touch Me I'm Sick': Contagion as Critique in Punk and Performance Art", Catherine J. Creswell recommends that a portion of the verses allude to AIDS. As indicated by Creswell, "In pronouncing 'Admirably, I'm unhealthy and I wouldn't fret' and changing the last hold back to 'Screw Me, I'm Sick!' the speaker proclaims himself to be the viral, 'Guides bearing,' 'contaminating' individual of contemporary dream". Creswell, who additionally trusts the tune spoofs the topic of enchantment in contemporary shake music, focuses to verses that allude to feebleness ("If you don't come, on the off chance that you don't come, in the event that you don't come, you'll pass on alone!") and savage belonging or compelling ("I'll make you cherish me till the day you die!"). Be that as it may, Arm says that he had not put much idea into the verses; while playing out the tune in shows, he some of the time transforms them to divert himself. 

Another component of "Touch Me I'm Sick" that has been remarked upon is Arm's vocals. Huey alludes to them as an "insane shriek", and "growling, satanic yells". Columnist Joe Ehrbar says that Arm starts the melody with a "burp", before singing with a "nasally yell". Creswell considers Arm's "over the edge" vocals to taunt an assortment of shake generalizations: the punk growl, the "woozy slur" of hard shake, carport shake "yea-ahs", R&B-style moans and a "Jerry Lee Lewis shiver". 

"Contact Me I'm Sick" was discharged on August 1, 1988, as a 7" vinyl. It was Mudhoney's presentation discharge. At first, Sub Pop discharged 800 clear espresso dark colored vinyl duplicates, 200 black vinyl duplicates and a couple of arranged vinyl shading duplicates of the single. The restricted discharge numbers were motivated by another outside the box mark, Amphetamine Reptile. Sub Pop proprietors Bruce Pavitt and Jonathan Poneman contemplated the constrained supply would build request, and used distinctive shades of vinyl so as to support additionally restricted pressings and to expand the single's appeal as a collectible thing. The record, which arrived in a white paper sack without an image sleeve, had an engraving on the A-side: "What does the word 'split' intend to you?". The B-side sticker highlighted the can picture that later turned into the spread craft of the sleeved second release of the single. 

As indicated by Pavitt, "It was only a restricted version, perhaps 800 pieces, however individuals all over America began raving about it. Individuals that we truly regarded." 

The single was an outside the box hit in Seattle, and "Contact Me I'm Sick" turned into Mudhoney's most conspicuous melody. At the point when gotten some information about the business figures of the single, Turner answered, "The first [pressing sold] 1,000, at that point 3,000 of the reissue, at that point it was no longer in production for some time; at that point they made 2,000 more and those are presumably gone." The single's prosperity got the band unsuspecting; had at first expelled the melody as a "B-side hurl off". "Contact Me I'm Sick" and B-side "Sweet Young Thing Ain't Sweet No More" were later included on the Mudhoney assemblage collections "Superfuzz Bigmuff Plus Early Singles" (1990) and "Walk to Fuzz" (2000). 

Before the arrival of the "Contact Me I'm Sick" single, Pavitt sent a five-tune Mudhoney tape to New York elective musical crew Sonic Youth for the individuals' conclusions. Sonic Youth promptly proposed a split single where each band secured the other. Sonic Youth secured "Contact Me I'm Sick" while Mudhoney secured Sonic Youth's "Halloween". "Contact Me I'm Sick/Halloween" was discharged as a constrained release 7" vinyl by Sub Pop in December 1988. The spread was incorporated into the special release of "Dream Nation" (2007), and offers a female viewpoint of the melody with bassist Kim Gordon taking care of the vocals. 

Following the accomplishment of the "Contact Me I'm Sick" single in the Seattle zone, Sub Pop situated Mudhoney as the lead band of their list and attempted overwhelming advancement for the gathering. The band's initial material got airplay on school radio and impacted numerous nearby performers, including Kurt Cobain of Nirvana. In a couple of years, numerous Seattle grunge groups marked to significant names and broke into the standard, accomplishing mass prominence. Despite the fact that Mudhoney never achieved this dimension of standard acknowledgment, as per Allmusic's Mark Deming, the band's "outside the box scene achievement laid the basis for the development that would (quickly) make Seattle, WA, the new capital of the stone and move universe". 

Since its discharge, "Contact Me I'm Sick" has been agreed exemplary status inside the grunge sort. Composing for Allmusic, Steve Huey depicted the tune as "a definitive grunge hymn" and "a vital and endlessly persuasive touchstone in the advancement of the grunge development, for all intents and purposes characterizing the term". For its northwestern shake display, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame mentioned the tune's unique verses sheet. Since it didn't exist—Arm quickly thought about making a phony one by recording the verses, folding the sheet, and afterward consuming the edges—the band rather given Turner's old Big Muff pedals. 

"Contact Me I'm Sick" remains Mudhoney's most prevalent melody. Joe Ehrbar called it "the tune the greater part of us would come to know [the band] by". Arm believes the track to be Mudhoney's highwater mark, 

There's something extraordinary about that first single, we were never entirely ready to recover that sound. I don't have a clue in the event that it was the guitars or the account. It was only an actually intense, amazing guitar sound. We've gotten some since, yet they've been an alternate kind. I think it had more to do with the genuine electromagnetic science of what was experiencing our amps that day. It was only a cool, browned out sound. 

The melody was referenced in the 1992 film "Singles", which is set against the setting of the Seattle grunge scene. The anecdotal band in the film, Citizen Dick, play out a melody called "Contact Me I'm Dick"— a wit on Mudhoney's tune. In 2003, Charles Peterson distributed a book of photography titled "Contact Me I'm Sick". It highlights highly contrasting photos of groups (counting Mudhoney) and shows, and spotlights on the elective music scene of the 1990s. 

The two tunes credited to Mark Arm, Steve Turner, Dan Peters and Matt Lukin.