O heilges Geist-und Wasserbad, BWV 165 

' (O blessed shower of Spirit and water), ', is a congregation cantata by Johann Sebastian Bach. He created it in Weimar for Trinity Sunday and drove the primary execution on 16 June 1715. 

Bach had taken up ordinary cantata creation a year prior to when he was elevated to concertmaster at the Weimar court, keeping in touch with one cantata for each month to be performed in the , the court church in the ducal "Schloss". was his first cantata for Trinity Sunday, the blowout day denoting the finish of the principal half of the formal year. The lyrics by the court artist Salomo Franck depends on the day's recommended gospel finding out about the gathering of Jesus and Nicodemus. It is close in substance to the gospel and associates the idea of the Trinity to submersion. 

The music is organized in six developments, rotating arias and recitatives, and scored for a little gathering of four vocal parts, strings and continuo. The voices are joined just in the end chorale, the fifth stanza of Ludwig Helmbold's song "", which makes reference to sacred writing, sanctification and the Eucharist, in a rundown of the cantata's subject. In light of the content brimming with Baroque symbolism, Bach created a lesson in music, particularly in the two recitatives for the bass voice, and accomplished differences in articulation. He drove the principal execution, and likely another on the Trinity Sunday closing his first year as Thomaskantor in Leipzig on 4 June 1724. 

On 2 March 1714 Bach was delegated (show ace) of the Weimar (court church) of the co-ruling dukes Wilhelm Ernst and Ernst August of Saxe-Weimar. The position was made for him, conceivably on his interest, giving him "a recently characterized rank request" as per Christoph Wolff. 

From 1695, a game plan shared the obligation regarding church music at the (court church) between the Samuel Drese and the Georg Christoph Strattner, who dealt with one Sunday for each month while the served on three Sundays. The example most likely proceeded from 1704, when Strattner was prevailing by Drese's child Johann Wilhelm. At the point when Bach additionally accepted the chief accountability for one cantata a month, the "'s" remaining task at hand was additionally decreased to two Sundays every month. 

The execution setting on the third level of the court church, in German called (Heaven's Castle), has been portrayed by Wolff as "amicable and private", requiring a little group of vocalists and players. Entertainers of the cantatas were mostly the center gathering of the , framed by seven vocalists, three pioneers and five different instrumentalists. Extra players of the military band were accessible when required, and furthermore town artists and vocalists of the recreation center. Bach as the concertmaster most likely drove the exhibitions as the main musician, while the organ part was played by Bach's understudies, for example, Johann Martin Schubart and Johann Caspar Vogler. Indeed, even in settings like orchestral arrangements, Bach mentioned a solid continuo area with cello, bassoon and violone notwithstanding the console instrument. 

While Bach had made vocal music just for extraordinary events until his advancement, the ordinary opportunity to create and play out another work brought about a program into which Bach "tossed himself wholeheartedly", as Christoph Wolff notes. In his first cantata of the arrangement, , for the twofold dining experience of Palm Sunday and Annunciation, he demonstrated his aptitude in an intricate work in eight developments, for four vocal parts and on occasion ten-section instrumental composition, and introducing himself as a violin soloist. 

The accompanying table of works performed by Bach as concertmaster among 1714 and the finish of 1715 depends on tables by Wolff and Alfred Dürr. As per Dürr, is the eleventh cantata organization of this period. The works contain arias and recitatives, as in contemporary musical drama, while prior cantatas had focused on scriptural content and chorale. A few works, for example, , may have been formed before. 

Bach created for Trinity Sunday, the Sunday closing the primary portion of the formal year. The recommended readings for the day were from the Epistle to the Romans, "What profundity of the wealth of the shrewdness and information of God" (), and from the Gospel of John, the gathering of Jesus and Nicodemus (). 

In Leipzig, Bach formed two additional cantatas for the event which concentrated on various parts of the readings, , first made for the initiation out of chapel and organ in Störmthal on 2 November 1723, (1725) and the chorale cantata (1726). Researchers banter if Bach performed on Trinity Sunday of 1724, which fell on 4 June, or both. 

The lyrics was composed by the court artist, Salomon Franck, and distributed in 1715. The opening alludes to Jesus' words in John 3:5: "Aside from a man be conceived of water and of the Spirit, he can't go into the kingdom of God."() The second development, a recitative, reflects upon birth in the Spirit as immersion through God's elegance: "" (In the shower of soul and water he turns into an offspring of blessedness and beauty). Development 3, an aria for alto, thinks about that the bond must be reestablished all through life, since it will be broken by man, reflected in development 4. The last aria is a petition for the knowledge that the passing of Jesus brought salvation, named ""'s (demise). The cantata finishes up with the fifth stanza of Ludwig Helmbold's psalm of 1575, "", referencing sacred text, sanctification and the Eucharist. Bach utilized the eighth and last stanza, "Erhalt uns in der Wahrheit" (Keep us in reality), to close his cantata "Gott der Herr ist Sonn und Schild", BWV 79. 

Salomon communicates his idea in Baroque style wealthy in symbolism. The picture of the snake is utilized in a few implications: as the snake which allured Adam and Eve to sin in heaven, as the image which Moses raised in the desert, and identified with the gospel's section 14: "And as Moses lifted up the snake in the wild, even so should the Son of man be lifted up". 

Bach drove the main execution of the cantata on 16 June 1715. The execution material for Weimar is lost. Bach played out the work again as Thomaskantor in Leipzig. Surviving execution material was set up by his right hand Johann Christian Köpping. The primary conceivable restoration is the Trinity Sunday of Bach's first year in office, 4 June 1724, likewise the finish of his first year and first Leipzig cantata cycle, since he had expected the workplace on the principal Sunday after Trinity the prior year. Bach rolled out apparently minor improvements. 

The cantata was distributed in the , the primary release of Bach's finished works by the , in 1887 in volume 33, altered by Franz Wüllner. In the second version of the total works, the , it showed up in 1967, altered by Dürr, with a (Critical report) following in 1968. 

The title on the duplicate by Johann Christian Köpping is: "Concerto a 2 Violi:1 Viola. Fagotto Violoncello S.A.T.e Basso e Continuo /di Joh:Seb:Bach" (Concerto for 2 violins, 1 viola. Bassoon Cello S.A.T and Bass and Continuo /by Joh:Seb:Bach). The cantata in six developments is scored like ambiance music for four vocal soloists (soprano, alto, tenor and bass), a four-section choir (SATB) in the end chorale, two violins (Vl), viola (Va), bassoon (Fg), cello (Vc) and basso continuo (Bc). The bassoon is called for, yet has no free part. The length is given as around 15 minutes. 

In the accompanying table of the developments, the scoring pursues the Neue Bach-Ausgabe, and the condensings for voices and instruments the rundown of Bach cantatas. The keys and time marks are taken from the Bach researcher Alfred Dürr, utilizing the image for normal time (4/4). The instruments are appeared for winds and strings, while the continuo, playing all through, isn't appeared. 

The cantata comprises of solo developments shut by a four-section chorale. Arias interchange with two recitatives, both sung by the bass. John Eliot Gardiner abridges: "It is a genuine lesson in music, in view of the Gospel record of Jesus' evening time discussion with Nicodemus regarding the matter of 'new life', accentuating the otherworldly significance of submersion." He calls attention to the numerous melodic pictures of water. 

In the main aria, "" (O shower of Holy Spirit and of water), the ritornello is a fugue, though in the five vocal segments the soprano and violin I are a pair in impersonation on a similar material. These segments are formed in symmetry, A B C B' A'. The subject of B includes a reversal of material from A, that of C is gotten from measure 2 of the ritornello. Dürr composes: 

The principal recitative, "" (The corrupt birth of the reviled beneficiaries of Adam), is secco, however a few expressions are near an arioso. The musicologist Julian Mincham takes note of that Bach pursues the significance of the content intently, for instance by "cadenced separations for death and pulverization", an adjustment in amicability on "harmed", and "the total difference in inclination at the notice of the favored Christian". He outlines: "Here annoyance and disdain at Man's legacy of suppurating sin is differentiated against the harmony and delight of undeniable salvation". 

The second aria, "" (Jesus, who out of extraordinary love), joined by the continuo, is ruled by an expressive theme with a few upward jumps of sixths, which is presented in the ritornello and grabbed by the alto voice in four areas. Mincham takes note of that "the disposition is not kidding and intelligent yet in addition intentional and discreetly unfaltering". 

The second recitative, "" (I have to be sure, o groom of my spirit), is joined by the strings ("accompagnato"), set apart by Bach "Rec: con Stroment" (Recitative: with instruments). The German musicologist Klaus Hofmann takes note of that the content swings to otherworldliness, mirroring the Bridegroom, Lamb of God and the snake in its two sided connotation. The content is heightened by a few melismas, a stamping "adagio" on the words "" (most heavenly Lamb of God), and by melodic parts for the instruments. Gardiner takes note of that Bach has pictures for the snake shown in the desert by Moses, and has the backup blur away on the last line "" (when everything that is in me has blurred). 

The last aria, "" (Jesus, passing of my demise), is set for tenor, joined by the violins as one, checked "Aria Violini unisoni e Tenore". The picture of the snake seems once more, portrayed by the writer and musicologist William G. Whittaker: "the entire of the obbligato for violins as one is built out of the picture of the bowing, squirming, contorting reptile, for the most part an image of loathsomeness, yet in Bach's melodic discourse a thing of pellucid excellence". 

The cantata closes with a four-section setting of the chorale stanza, } (His pledge, His sanctification, His fellowship). 

The content in four short lines condenses that Jesus helps any in need by his words, his sanctification and his fellowship, and finishes in the supplication that the Holy Spirit may educate to loyally trust in this. 

The song tune by Nikolaus Selnecker was first distributed in Leipzig in 1587 in the hymn book "Christliche Psalmen, Lieder vnd Kirchengesenge" (Christian hymns, melodies and church drones). Bach denoted the development: "", demonstrating that the instruments play with the voices. 

The passages are taken from the posting on the Bach Cantatas Website. Instrumental ensmbles playing period instruments in verifiably educated execution are set apart by green foundation. 

"Scores" 

"Books" 

"Online sources" 

The total chronicles of Bach's cantatas are joined by liner notes from artists and musicologists; Gardiner remarked on his Bach Cantata Pilgrimage, Hofmann composed for Masaaki Suzuki, and Wolff for Ton Koopman.