Inocybe saliceticola 

Inocybe saliceticola is a growth found in soggy territories in the Nordic nations. The species produces darker mushrooms with tops of differing takes care of business to over, and tall, slim stems up to long. At the base of the stem is a huge and very much characterized "knob". The species creates bizarrely molded, unpredictable spores, each with a couple of thick distensions. This component separates it from different species that would some way or another be comparable in appearance and propensity. 

"Inocybe saliceticola" develops in mycorrhizal relationship with willow trees, and it is for this that the species is named. In any case, specific species supported by the growth are indistinct and may incorporate beech and birch taxa. The mushrooms develop starting from the earliest stage, among greeneries or waste. "I. saliceticola" was first depicted in 2009, and inside the variety "Inocybe", the species is a piece of the area "Marginatae". The species has been recorded in Finland and Sweden and is moderately normal in certain regions. 

"Inocybe saliceticola" was first portrayed in 2009 by Jukka Vauras and Katri Kokkonen in the diary "Karstenia", in light of around 20 examples from Finland, most of which were gathered by the creators. The holotype was gathered from the shore of lake Pahakala, close Nurmes. The particular name "saliceticola" is in reference to the way that the species develops among willow ("Salix"). Inside the sort "Inocybe", "I. saliceticola" has a place with the area "Marginatae", as characterized by Rolf Singer. The segment has been characterized in a few different ways. It was built up in 1933 by Robert Kühner, who distinguished two key attributes: a stem which does not include a cortina (a delicate, spider web like fractional cloak) however is altogether secured by cystidia, and the nearness of a marginate "knob" at the base of the stem. Vocalist improved the area in 1986 to consider that a knob isn't constantly present. A somewhat extraordinary infrageneric scientific classification was offered by Thom Kuyper in 1986. He, similar to Singer, gathered "Marginatae" under "Inocybe" subg. "Inocybe", yet he marked it a "supersection". In any case, phylogenetic investigations have shown that neither one of the singers' segment "Marginatae" nor Kuyper's "supersection" "Marginatae" genuinely structure monophyletic gatherings, however that Singer's area comes nearer to doing as such. Species inside "Marginatae" like "I. saliceticola" incorporate "I. obtusiuscula", "I. dunensis", "I. salicis-herbaceae", "I. substellata", "I. praetervisa", "I. salicis" and "I. mixtilis". These species are altogether known to connect with willow, and all have naturally visible similitudes. 

"Incoybe saliceticola" produces mushrooms with tops of between in distance across. The state of the top shifts, contingent upon the age of the mushroom. In more youthful examples, they are tapered or almost in this way, yet as the mushroom develops, the tops straighten into an increasingly raised or level shape. In that capacity, the tallness of the top fluctuates from . The top highlights an umbo that is generally exceptionally unmistakable. Around the umbo, the top surface is smooth, however towards the top edge, the surface is characterized by fibrils running from the edge towards the umbo. The top once in a while parts along these. The top's shading differs from yellow-dark colored to pale darker, and is palest at the edges. The umbo differentiations to this to some degree, being a dim dark colored or red-darker. The thin stem measures from long by thick. It thickens somewhat towards the base, where it joins an expansive, very much characterized "knob" that can be up to over. Shallow furrows keep running up the outside of the stem, which is shrouded in a fine white powder. In one case, be that as it may, an atypical example was recouped with a totally smooth stem, free of striations or powder. The stem shifts in shading, with whitish, light yellow-darker, light red-dark colored, pale dark colored and dim dark colored all watched, while the base is white. No cover or ring is unmistakable. 

The genuinely jam-packed gills are adnate, implying that they append to the stem through their whole profundity. They are a pale dim to pale dim darker when youthful, obscuring to dim darker as they develop. The gill edges, which are marginally fimbriate, are a similar shading or paler. The substance comes up short on any solid or particular smell or taste, and is portrayed in the first depiction as "fungoid". In the top, the tissue fluctuates in shading from whitish to a pale darker dim or light yellow, while in the stem, it is a similar shading as the stem surface or somewhat paler. 

The sporadically molded spores measure from 7.2 to 11.6 by 5.1 to 7.9 micrometers (μm), each including a couple of thick protusions. Strange spores of an alternate shape, now and then with projections more particular from the genuine spore than is common, can at times structure; this is maybe because of poor climate. The club-molded basidia measure 25 to 40 by 9 to 14 μm, and every basidium bears four spores. The yellowish pleurocystidia (cystidia on the substance of the gill) are ventricose or once in a while club-formed, estimating 41 to 89 by 12 to 23 μm, including a cell divider up to 4.5 μm thick. The tip regularly twists and is encrusted with precious stone like structures, while the base decreases, or limits into a little stalk. The cheilocystidia (cystidia on the edge of the gill) are much the equivalent, yet they are commonly fairly shorter and stouter. The more drawn out caulocystidia (cystidia on the stem) happen right down the stem and measure up to 99 μm long with an increasingly factor shape. The mushrooms additionally highlight "paracystidia", club-molded cystidia-like structures on the gills lacking precious stones, just as "cauloparacystidia" on the stem. In "Inocybe saliceticola", the paracystidia are genuinely plentiful, with dainty cell-dividers, while the bounteous cauloparacystidia can have marginally thicker dividers and are regularly masterminded in groups. 

Of the types of "Marginatae" related with willow, five ("I. salicis-herbaceae", "I. substellata", "I. praetervisa", "I. salicis" and "I. mixtilis") can be promptly recognized from "I. saliceticola" as their spores highlight unmistakable, unequivocally distending excrescences. Also, they are found in unfathomably extraordinary natural surroundings: "I. mixtilis" and "I. praetervisa" support willow just in montane living spaces, while "I. salicis-herbaceae" and "I. substellata" develop solely in montane environments. "I. salicis" is uncommon in Nordic nations, and is ordinarily gathered from rises. Of the other two recorded by Vauras and Kokkonen, the spores of "I. dunensis" are particularly bigger and of an alternate shape to those of "I. saliceticola", and the cystidia are shorter. While the species is ordinarily found on the shoreline, it develops on fine sand, and has not been recorded in Finland. "I. obtusiuscula" likewise has bigger spores of an alternate shape, and they are a darker shading, inferable from their thick cell dividers. Phylogenetic investigation of the particular interior interpreted spacer groupings has affirmed that "I. obtusiuscula" and "I. saliceticola" are isolated species. 

"Inocybe alnea" and "I. ochracea", viewed by some as similar species, can likewise be recognized from "I. saliceticola" by the nearness of projecting knobs on the spores. DNA examination affirmed that they were independent from "I. saliceticola", and, regardless, it is conceivable that they don't develop in relationship with willow. "I. hirculus" has been recorded becoming close "I. saliceticola", yet can be separated both perceptibly and infinitesimally; the mushrooms of "I. hirculus" have a considerably more fibrillose top, and the stem does not join a knob, while the spores are bigger. Perceptibly, "I. rivularis", which could develop in comparable living spaces to that of "I. saliceticola", produces bigger mushrooms and has powder just towards the highest point of the stem. It likewise varies minutely. 

"Inocybe saliceticola" develops in a mycorrhizal relationship with willow ("Salix"). Exact favored species are vague; something like one of the tea-leaved willow ("Salix phylicifolia") or the dull leaved willow ("S. myrsinifolia") is a conceivable symbiont, while different trees that the species has been found close incorporate the sound willow ("S. pentandra"), the dark willow ("S. cinnerea"), the dim birch ("Alnus incana") and types of birch ("Betula"). "I. saliceticola" is discovered most normally in sodden shrubberies or forest near shores, however chronicles have likewise been made in other soggy natural surroundings. Mushrooms are experienced on the ground, developing from garbage or among greenery, for example, the heart-leaved lance greenery ("Calliergon cordifolium"), the spiky-marsh greenery ("Sphagnum squarrosum") and types of "Mnium". They are regularly close plants, for example, the tufted loosestrife ("Lysimachia thyrsiflora"), the crawling buttercup ("Ranunculus repens"), the basic bog bedstraw ("Galium palustre"), the purple marshlocks ("Comarum palustre") and the purple little reed ("Calamagrostis canescens"), and share the environment with other "Inocybe", including "I. acuta" and "I. lacera" var. "helobia". 

"Inocybe saliceticola" has been recorded in a few areas around Finland, running from the hemiboreal zones in the east and the south of the nation, to boreal regions in the north, and it has additionally been found in Sweden, near the Klarälven. In any event in North Karelia, Finland, it is generally normal in the correct living spaces. It is one of more than 150 types of "Inocybe" found in the Nordic nations, and natural product bodies can be experienced between late July and early October.