Choiseul pigeon 

The Choiseul pigeon ("Microgoura meeki") is a wiped out types of flying creature in the pigeon and bird family, Columbidae. It was endemic to the island of Choiseul in the Solomon Islands, despite the fact that there are unconfirmed reports that it might once have lived on a few close-by islands. The last affirmed locating was in 1904. Other basic names were Solomons peaked pigeon, Solomon Islands delegated pigeon and Kuvojo. 

The Choiseul pigeon was monotypic inside the variety Microgoura and had no known subspecies. Its nearest living relative is accepted to be the thick-charged ground pigeon, and a few creators have proposed that the Choiseul pigeon might be a connection between that animal varieties and the delegated pigeons. The grown-up pigeon was to a great extent blue-dark, with a buffy orange tummy and an unmistakable slaty-blue peak. It is obscure how this peak was held by the fowl throughout everyday life. The winged creature's head brandished a blue frontal shield encompassed by dark plumes and a bicoloured mouth. The wings were dark colored and the short tail was a blackish purple. It was portrayed as having an excellent rising and falling whistling call. 

As the fledgling ended up terminated before noteworthy field perceptions could be made, very little is thought about its conduct. It is accepted to have been an earthbound animal categories that laid a solitary egg in an unlined discouragement in the ground. It perched in sets or little gatherings of three or four in little bushes and was apparently agreeable, enabling seekers to lift it up off its perch. The Choiseul pigeon lived in marsh woodlands, especially in seaside swampy zones that needed mangroves. It was just recorded by Albert Stewart Meek, who gathered six grown-ups and an egg from the northern piece of the island in 1904. In spite of numerous ensuing pursuits, the winged animal has not been absolutely revealed since. It is accepted to have been uncommon when Meek gathered his examples. The indigenous people groups detailed that the species was headed to elimination because of the presentation of felines, as the pigeon had never recently gone up against a meat eating warm blooded animal on Choiseul. The last unsubstantiated report of a Choiseul pigeon was in the mid 1940s, and the species is viewed as wiped out. 

The Choiseul pigeon was portrayed by Walter Rothschild in 1904 based on six skins—three male and three female—and an egg gathered by Albert Stewart Meek prior that year. It was put in the monotypic sort "Microgoura", whose name originates from the Ancient Greek word "mikros" "little", and "goura", a New Guinean native name for the comparably peaked delegated pigeons of the family "Goura". Rothschild named the species after Meek, giving the winged creature the particular name "meeki". Despite the fact that its connections are indistinct, the Choiseul pigeon is accepted to have been nearest to the thick-charged ground pigeon ("Trugon terrestris") from Indonesia and Papua New Guinea, which has comparative plumage. It has been recommended that the Choiseul pigeon was a connection between the thick-charged ground pigeon and the delegated pigeons; be that as it may, different sources contend that it might not have been firmly identified with the delegated pigeons as its peak was very unique. In view of conduct and morphological proof, Jolyon C. Ward recommended that the Choiseul pigeon ought to be set in the Gourinae subfamily alongside the "Groura" pigeons, the dodo, the Rodrigues solitaire, and others. The Choiseul pigeon has no known subspecies. 

Today, five skins and an incomplete skeleton are kept in the American Museum of Natural History, while a solitary skin and the egg are kept at the Natural History Museum at Tring. The Choiseul pigeon is otherwise called the Solomon delegated pigeon, Solomon Islands pigeon, Solomons peaked pigeon, Solomon Islands peaked pigeon, Choiseul peaked pigeon, peaked Choiseul pigeon, Meek's pigeon, Meek's ground pigeon, and diminutive person goura. The indigenous people groups of Choiseul called the species either "kumku-peka" or "kukuru-ni-lua", which interprets actually as "pigeon-have a place ground". 

The Choiseul pigeon was about long. The wing of the male was , the tail , the culmen , and the bone structure was . The wing of the female was , the tail , the culmen , and the bone structure was . Grown-up Choiseul pigeons of both genders were blue-dim by and large with a buffy orange paunch. The pigeon had an unmistakable since quite a while ago, adjusted peak that had a shaggy surface. This peak, similar to the crown, was slaty-blue and rose up out of the flying creature's hindcrown. In spite of the fact that numerous specialists have guessed, it is obscure how the pigeon held its peak in life as Meek's notes did not cover this subject. John Gerrard Keulemans (who delivered the outline going with Rothschild's unique portrayal), delineated the peak as being level dependent on Meek's examples; different specialists have displayed it as spread and scraggly like that of the delegated pigeons. It has been recommended that the peaks of the historical center examples were leveled amid arrangement. 

On the flying creature's temple was a stripped and pale blue frontal shield. This was encompassed by short, smooth dark plumes that reached out from the base of the bill to the zone just underneath and before the eye, while the zone beneath the eye was a pinkish wash. The fledgling's jaw and throat were scantily secured with dark, smooth plumes, while the neck was a slaty-blue that changed into a caramel dim bosom. The midriff and undertail-coverts were a rich orange, while the undertail was a blackish-dim. The wing was slaty with a trace of darker at its base and turned into a warm, dim dark colored by the wingtips; the underwing was dark colored. The back was dim and progressed into a browner posterior, while the uppertail-coverts were a dull dirty dark with blackish tips. The tail, which was short and adjusted, was an exceptionally dim indigo that had a marginally purple glowing sheen. The bill was bicoloured; the upper mandible was powdery blue with a dark tip while the lower mandible was red. The plumage of the adolescent is obscure. The winged creature's feet were a dull purplish-red and unfeathered up to the impact point, while the iris was a dim dark colored. 

The winged animal's voice was never recorded; be that as it may, after it ended up wiped out, the indigenous people groups depicted it as having a "delightful rising and falling whistling call given from the perch site each night." Others portrayed the call as a low "c-r-r-ooo", "cr-ooo", or "cr-o-o-o". 

Very little is thought about the species' conduct, as it wound up terminated before noteworthy field perceptions could be made. Almost certainly, the Choiseul pigeon was a to a great extent earthbound animal groups, nourishing and settling close to the woods floor. The indigenous individuals of the town of Vundutura said that the pigeon would perch in sets or little gatherings of three or four in little bushes near the ground. They guaranteed that the species was manageable, enabling neighborhood seekers to approach it and lift it up off of its roost by hand. They revealed that the species had stones in its gizzard. It laid a solitary dim, cream-shaded egg in an unlined melancholy on the ground. The egg was about in size, which is viewed as little in extent to the flying creature. 

The Choiseul pigeon was non-transient and is thought to have lived on the woodland floor in marsh backwoods, including waterfront swampy zones that needed mangroves. The Choiseul pigeon is typically considered to have been endemic to the island of Choiseul in the Solomon Islands off the shore of New Guinea, where the main examples were gathered. The examples Meek procured were likely gathered close Choiseul Bay in the northern piece of the island. The last reports of the species from the indigenous populace originated from the Kolombangara River. It additionally purportedly lived on the neighboring islands of Santa Isabel and Malaita, and it is suspected that it might once have lived on Bougainville Island. Be that as it may, these reports were never affirmed and should be viewed as recounted. It would be viewed as exceptionally uncommon if the Choiseul pigeon were really endemic to Choiseul as the island has no other endemic species, and the pigeon was never connected environmentally with another species on the island. 

In January 1904 six examples and an egg were gathered by Albert Stewart Meek, a winged creature authority for Lord Walter Rothschild, close Choiseul Bay on Choiseul. A few neighborhood young men disclosed to Meek that the pigeon was additionally present on the adjacent islands of Santa Isabel and Malaita. In spite of the fact that Meek did not make a trip to these islands, he searched for the Choiseul pigeon on the adjoining Bougainville Island, however did not discover any proof of its quality. No different examples were ever gathered or seen by Western researchers. 

The Choiseul pigeon was not looked for again until quickly in 1927 and again in October 1929, when five veteran gatherers having a place with the Whitney South Seas Expedition committed three months to scanning for the pigeon in different areas crosswise over Choiseul without progress. The indigenous individuals met by this undertaking to a great extent trusted that the pigeon was wiped out in 1929. The last announced indigenous locating was at some point in the mid 1940s close Sasamungga by the Kolombangara River, in spite of the fact that this locating was never affirmed. Ventures of the little, feline free islands of Rob Roy Island and Wagina off Choiseul's southeast coast and Choiseul's forested beach front swampland during the 1960s by British ornithologist Shane A. Parker did not find any indications of the pigeon. American researcher Jared Diamond looked for the fledgling in 1974 without progress. 

This pigeon was a wellspring of nourishment for the nearby individuals, who might find its perching destinations either because of the flying creature calling or by the droppings that had aggregated underneath its roosts. It was very much recalled by the indigenous people groups, and accounts of the flavorful ground-abiding pigeon were passed somewhere around nearby seniors after its termination. One indigenous individual inferred that the gizzard stones of the pigeon may have had esteem locally. After the feathered creature's elimination, the indigenous individuals have at times confounded the Choiseul pigeon with the arboreal peaked cuckoo-dove in current old stories, and a few cases of the pigeon's proceeded with presence ended up being founded on the cuckoo-dove. After its disclosure, a few Western feathered creature accumulations profoundly wanted its skins; the Whitney South Seas Expedition went through three months at high cost on Choiseul with the essential target being the securing of the Choiseul pigeon. In 2012 the Choiseul pigeon was celebrated on a stamp from Mozambique alongside a few other terminated flying creatures. The Choiseul pigeon is portrayed on the banner of the Choiseul Province. 

The indigenous populace trusted that the pigeon wound up terminated because of predation by non domesticated felines and, to a lesser degree, non domesticated puppies. As Choiseul has no indigenous predatory well evolved creatures, the ground-abiding pigeon was especially defenseless to the presented felines. In the event that the pigeon existed on islands that non domesticated felines had never achieved, it is trusted that the leeway of its timberland natural surroundings would have prompted its neighborhood annihilation. As there have been no substantiated reports since 1904 regardless of various ventures, the IUCN has pronounced it wiped out. As a few ornithologists had visited Choiseul and the adjacent islands before Meek without noticing any indication of the winged creature's presence, all things considered, the Choiseul pigeon was at that point near eradication in 1904.