Albertus Soegijapranata 

Albertus Soegijapranata, SJ (; Perfected Spelling: Albertus Sugiyapranata; 25 November 1896 – 22 July 1963), better known by his original name Soegija, was a Jesuit cleric who turned into the Apostolic Vicar of Semarang and later its diocese supervisor. He was the primary local Indonesian cleric and known for his master nationalistic position, regularly communicated as "100% Catholic, 100% Indonesian". 

Soegija was conceived in Surakarta, Dutch East Indies, to a Muslim retainer and his better half. The family moved to close-by Yogyakarta when Soegija was as yet youthful; there he started his instruction. Known as a brilliant kid, around 1909 he was asked by Father Frans van Lith to enter Xaverius College, a Jesuit school in Muntilan, where Soegija gradually wound up intrigued by Catholicism. He was submersed on 24 December 1910. Subsequent to moving on from Xaverius in 1915 and going through a year as an educator there, Soegija went through two years at the on location theological school before setting off to the Netherlands in 1919. He started his two-year newcomer with the Society of Jesus in September 1920 in Grave, and completed his juniorate there in 1923. Following three years examining rationality at Berchmann College in Oudenbosch, he was sent back to Muntilan as an educator for a further two years. In 1928, he came back to the Netherlands to examine religious philosophy at Maastricht, where he was appointed by Bishop of Roermond Laurentius Schrijnen on 15 August 1931; Soegija then included "pranata" to the back of his name. He was then sent back to the Indies to lecture and turned into a parochial vicar at the ward in Kidul Loji, Yogyakarta, and in 1934 he was given his very own area in Bintaran. There he concentrated on making a feeling of Catholicism inside the local network, underlining the requirement for solid securities between Catholic families. Soegijapranata was blessed as the vicar missional of the recently settled Apostolic Vicariate of Semarang in 1940. 

In spite of the fact that the number of inhabitants in local Catholics extended incredibly in the years following his sanctification, Soegijapranata was before long looked with various preliminaries. The Empire of Japan attacked the Indies starting in mid 1942, and amid the following occupation various houses of worship were seized and pastors were captured or executed. Soegijapranata had the capacity to oppose a few of these seizures, and spent the remainder of the occupation serving the Catholics in his vicariate. After President Sukarno announced the nation's freedom in August 1945, Semarang was overwhelmed with distress. Soegijapranata helped facilitate a truce following a five-day fight among Japanese and Indonesian troops and required the focal government to send somebody to manage the agitation and sustenance deficiencies in the city. Be that as it may, these issues kept on developing, and in 1947 Soegijapranata moved his seat to Yogyakarta. For the rest of the national upheaval Soegijapranata attempted to advance worldwide acknowledgment of Indonesia's freedom. Not long after the Dutch, who had returned in late 1945, perceived the nation's autonomy, Soegijapranata came back to Semarang. Amid the post-unrest years he composed widely against socialism and extended the congregation; he additionally filled in as a go between a few political groups. He was made a diocese supervisor on 3 January 1961, when Semarang was raised to a ministerial area. At the time he was in Europe, taking an interest in the primary session of the Second Vatican Council. Soegijapranata kicked the bucket in 1963, in Steyl, the Netherlands. His body was flown back to Indonesia, where he was made a national saint and buried at Giri Tunggal Heroes' Cemetery in Semarang. 

Soegijapranata keeps on being seen with deference by both Catholic and non-Catholic Indonesians. A few memoirs have been composed, and in 2012 a fictionalized biopic by Garin Nugroho, entitled "Soegija", was discharged to well known approval. Soegijapranata Catholic University, a substantial college in Semarang, is named after him. 

Soegija was conceived on 25 November 1896 in Surakarta to Karijosoedarmo, an "abdi dalem" (retainer) at the Sunanate of Surakarta, and his significant other Soepiah. The family was "abangan" Muslim, and Soegija's granddad Soepa was a "kyai"; Soegija pursued their religion. Soegija – whose name was gotten from the Javanese word , meaning rich – was the fifth of nine kids. The family later moved to Ngabean, Yogyakarta. There, Karijosoedarmo started to fill in as a squire at the Kraton Ngayogyakarta Hadiningrat to Sultan Hamengkubuwono VII, while his better half sold fish; in spite of this, the family was poor and in some cases had little sustenance. Soegija was a challenging kid, brisk to battle, gifted at football, and noted for his brains since early on. While Soegija was as yet youthful, his dad made him quick as per Islamic law. 

Soegija began his formal instruction at a school in the Kraton mind boggling, referred to locally as a (Number Two School), where he figured out how to peruse and compose. He later exchanged to a school in Wirogunan, Yogyakarta, close Pakualaman. Starting in his third year he went to a Dutch-run school for local Indonesian () in Lempuyangan. Outside of school he contemplated gamelan and singing with his folks. Around 1909 he was asked by Father Frans van Lith to join the Jesuit school in Muntilan, north-west of Yogyakarta. In spite of the fact that his folks were at first stressed that Soegija would turn out to be also Europeanised, they concurred. 

In 1909 Soegija began at the Xaverius College in Muntilan, a school for trying instructors, and remained in the quarters. He was one of 54 understudies in his year. The young men pursued an exacting timetable, going to classes in the first part of the day and participating in different exercises, for example, planting, discourses, and chess, toward the evening. The Catholic understudies had ordinary petitions. In spite of the fact that the school did not expect understudies to be Catholic, Soegija was influenced by his Catholic schoolmates, prompting a few battles. Feeling disappointed, Soegija grumbled to his instructor that the Dutch clerics resembled shippers, considering just cash. The cleric answered that the educators were unpaid and sought after the understudies' great. This drove Soegija to all the more likely regard the clerics, and when van Rijckevorsel told different understudies that Soegija did not have any desire to be Catholic, they quit forcing him. 

The next year Soegija requested to join the Catholic-instruction classes, refering to a craving to completely utilize the offices at Xaverius. His instructor, Father Mertens, revealed to Soegija that he required authorization from his folks first; in spite of the fact that they can't, Soegija was by and by permitted to contemplate Catholicism. He was charmed by the Trinity, and approached a few of the clerics for illumination. Van Lith refered to crafted by Thomas Aquinas, while Mertens talked about the Trinity as clarified by Augustine of Hippo; the last disclosed to him that people were not intended to comprehend God with their constrained information. Soegija, who needed to find out additional, requested to be purified through water, citing the Finding in the Temple to indicate why he ought not require his folks' consent. The ministers concurred, and Soegija was sanctified through water on 24 December 1910, taking the baptismal name Albertus, for Albertus Magnus. Amid Christmas occasions, he told his family that he had changed over. Despite the fact that his close family in the end acknowledged this, and may have in the long run bolstered him, Soegija's different relatives wouldn't address him a while later. 

Soegija and the understudies proceeded with their training at Xaverius, getting further guidance. As indicated by Father G. Budi Subanar, a speaker on philosophy at Sanata Dharma University, amid this period one of the instructors showed the Fourth Commandment, "Respect your dad and your mom, that your days might be long in the land which the Lord your God gives you.", as relating not exclusively to one's introduction to the world dad and mother, yet all who had preceded; this left the understudies with nationalistic propensities. On another event, a visit by a Capuchin missionary – who was physically very not quite the same as the Jesuit teachers – drove Soegija to think about turning into a cleric, a thought which his folks acknowledged. In 1915 Soegija completed his training at Xaverius, yet remained on as an educator. The next year he joined the on location theological college, one of three local Indonesians who entered the theological college that year. He graduated in 1919, having contemplated French, Latin, Greek, and writing. 

Soegija and his colleagues cruised to Uden, in the Netherlands, to encourage their examinations in 1919. In Uden Soegija went through a year further considering Latin and Greek, fundamental for his proclaiming back in the Indies. He and his colleagues adjusted to Dutch culture. On 27 September 1920 Soegija started his amateur to join the Jesuits, the first of his cohorts. While finishing his investigations at Mariëndaal in Grave, he was isolated from a significant part of the world and invested his energy in thoughtfulness. He finished his newcomer on 22 September 1922 and was started into the Jesuits, making their vow of destitution, purity and dutifulness. 

In the wake of joining the Jesuits Soegija went through one more year in Mariëndaal in juniorate. Starting in 1923 he contemplated rationality at Berchmann College in Oudenbosch; amid this time he analyzed the lessons of Thomas Aquinas and started composing on Christianity. In a letter dated 11 August 1923, he composed that the Javanese were so far unfit to observe among Catholics and Protestants, and that the most ideal approach to change over the Javanese was by deeds, not words. He likewise interpreted a portion of the aftereffects of the 27th International Eucharistic Congress, held in Amsterdam in 1924, for the Javanese-language magazine "Swaratama", which coursed for the most part among Xaverius graduated class. A few of Soegija's different works were distributed in "St. Claverbond, Berichten uit Java". He moved on from Berchmann in 1926, at that point started arrangements to come back to the Indies. 

Soegija touched base in Muntilan in September 1926, where he started showing polynomial math, religion, and Javanese at Xaverius. Little is referred to about his period as an educator at the school, in spite of the fact that records demonstrate that he put together his showing style with respect to that of van Lith, who had passed on in mid 1926, clarifying religious ideas in wording dependent on Javanese convention. He administered the school's gamelan and cultivating programs and turned into the main proofreader of "Swaratama". Soegijapranata composed articles that secured an assortment of points, including judgments of socialism and dialogs of different parts of destitution. 

Following two years at Xaverius, in August 1928, Soegija came back to the Netherlands, where he contemplated philosophy at Maastricht. On 3 December 1929 he and four other Asian Jesuits joined Jesuit General Wlodzimierz Ledóchowski in a gathering with Pope Pius XI in Vatican City; the pope told the Asian men that they were to be the "spines" of Catholicism in their individual countries. Soegija was made a minister in May 1931; he was appointed by Bishop of Roermond Laurentius Schrijnen on 15 August 1931, while as yet examining religious philosophy. After his appointment, Soegija added the word , signifying "supplication" or "expectation", as a postfix to his original name; such options were a typical practice in Javanese culture after its conveyor achieved a critical achievement. He completed his philosophy considers in 1932 and in 1933 spent his tertianship in Drongen, Belgium. That year he composed a personal history, entitled "La Conversione di un Giavanese" ("The Conversion of a Javanese"); the work was discharged in Italian, Dutch, and Spanish. 

On 8 August 1933 Soegijapranata and two individual ministers withdrew for the Indies; Soegijapranata was relegated to lecture at Kidul Loji in Yogyakarta, close Kraton. He filled in as parochial vicar for Father van Driessche, one of his instructors from Xaverius. The senior cleric educated Soegijapranata how to all the more likely location the necessities of his area, while van Driessche likely utilized Soegijapranata to lecture the city's developing local Catholic populace. Soegijapranata was, by this point, a short and tubby man with what the Dutch student of history Geert Arend van Klinken portrayed as "an innocent comical inclination that won him numerous companions". 

After the St Yoseph Church in Bintaran, about from Kidul Loji, opened in April 1934, Soegijapranata was exchanged there to turn into its minister; the congregation principally served the Javanese Catholic people group. Bintaran was one of four focuses of Catholic nearness in Yogyakarta at the time, alongside Kidul Loji, Kotabaru, and Pugeran; each significant church served a wide territory, and the ministers from the real temples gave messages in the uttermost compasses of their wards. After van Driessche's passing in June 1934, Soegijapranata's obligations were reached out to incorporate the town of Ganjuran, Bantul, south of the city, which was home to in excess of a thousand local Catholics. He was additionally an otherworldly guide to a few nearby gatherings and built up a Catholic credit association. 

The Catholic Church at the time confronted trouble holding changes over. Some Javanese, who had changed over as understudies, came back to Islam in the wake of reappearing society and confronting social segregation. In a 1935 gathering with different Jesuits, Soegijapranata accused the issue for the absence of a unified Catholic character, or "sensus Catholicus", just as couple of intermarriages between local Catholics. Soegijapranata restricted marriage among Catholics and non-Catholics. He mentored youthful Catholic couples before marriage, trusting that these associations joined the Catholic families in the city, and kept on composing for "Swaratama", again filling in as its editorial manager in boss. In 1938, he was picked to instruct the Society with respect to Jesus, planning Jesuit work in the Indies. 

The expanding populace of Catholics in the Indies drove Mgr. Petrus Willekens, at that point Vicar Apostolic of Batavia, to recommend that another biblical vicariate be built up in Central Java, headquartered in Semarang, as the territory was socially extraordinary and topographically separate from Batavia. The Apolistic Vicariate of Batavia was part in two on 25 June 1940; the eastern half turned into the Apostolic Vicariate of Semarang. On 1 August 1940 Willekens got a message from Pro-Secretary of State Giovanni Battista Montini requesting that Soegijapranata be placed accountable for the recently settled missional vicariate. This was sent to Soegijapranata in Yogyakarta, who consented to the arrangement, regardless of being shocked and anxious. His right hand Hardjosoewarno later reviewed that Soegijapranata cried subsequent to perusing the telegram – a unique response – and, when eating a bowl of soto, inquired as to whether Hardjosoewarno had ever observed a diocesan eating the dish. 

Soegijapranata left for Semarang on 30 September 1940 and was sanctified by Willekens on 6 October at the Holy Rosary Church in Randusari, which later turned into his seat; this sanctification made Soegijapranata the principal local Indonesian religious administrator. The function was gone to by various political figures and sultans from Batavia, Semarang, Yogyakarta, and Surakarta, just as church from Malang and Lampung; Soegijapranata's first go about as vicar was to issue a peaceful letter with Willekens that sketched out the chronicled foundation that prompted his arrangement, including Pope Benedict XV's apolistic letter "Most extreme illud" which called for progressively neighborhood pastorate, and Pope Pius XI and Pope Pius XII's endeavors to delegate more ministers and diocesans from local ethnic gatherings around the world. Soegijapranata started taking a shot at the Church chain of command in the area, building up new areas. 

In Soegijapranata's missional vicariate were 84 ministers (73 European and 11 local), 137 siblings (103 European and 34 local), and 330 nuns (251 European and 79 local). The vicariate included Semarang, Yogyakarta, Surakarta, Kudus, Magelang, Salatiga, Pati, and Ambarawa; its geographic conditions extended from the rich marshes of the Kedu Plain to the dry Gunung Sewu rugged zone. By far most of its populace was ethnic Javanese, comprising of in excess of 15,000 local Catholics, just as a comparable number of European Catholics. The quantity of local Catholics immediately outpaced the quantity of European ones, and had multiplied by 1942. There were additionally a few Catholic gatherings, for the most part working in training. Be that as it may, the Indonesian Catholics were less conspicuous than the Protestants. 

After the Japanese involved the Indies in mid 1942, on 9 March 1942 Governor-General Tjarda van Starkenborgh Stachouwer and leader of the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army General Hein ter Poorten ceded. This got various changes the administration of the archipelago, diminishing the personal satisfaction for non-Japanese. In his journal, Soegijapranata composed of the intrusion that "fires were everywhere ... no fighters, no police, no laborers. The avenues are loaded with wore out vehicles. ... Fortunately least there are still a few administrators and Catholics out there. They function as agents of their gatherings to guarantee the city is all together." 

The occupation government caught various (for the most part Dutch) people, both pastorate and laymen, and initiated strategies that changed how benefits were held. They denied the utilization of Dutch in administrations and recorded as a hard copy, and caught a few church properties. Soegijapranata endeavored to oppose these seizures, on occasion filling the areas with individuals to make them unmanageable or showing that different structures, for example, films, would serve Japanese needs better. At the point when the Japanese endeavored to seize Randusari Cathedral, Soegijapranata answered that they could take it simply in the wake of beheading him; the Japanese later discovered another area for their office. He kept the Japanese from taking Gedangan Presbytery, where he lived, and doled out watchmen for schools and different offices to counteract seizure. These endeavors were not constantly fruitful, in any case, and a few Church-run organizations were seized, as were church reserves. 

Soegijapranata was unfit to avoid Japanese torment of detainees of war, including the ministry, yet was himself very much treated by the Japanese powers; he was frequently welcome to Japanese services, yet never visited, sending bundles in his stead. He utilized this situation of regard to campaign for reasonable treatment of those interned. He effectively appealed to the Japanese overlords to absolved nuns from the paramilitary draft and enable them to work at medical clinics. He and the Catholic masses likewise accumulated sustenance and different supplies for interned church, and Soegijapranata stayed in touch with the detainees, providing and accepting news, for example, ongoing passings, and other data. 

As the quantity of pastorate was seriously restricted, Soegijapranata meandered from chapel to chapel to take care of parishioners, effectively lecturing and filling in as the "true" leader of the Catholic Church in the nation; this was to some degree to neutralize bits of gossip about his confinement by the Japanese. He gone by foot, bike, and carriage, as his vehicle had been seized. He sent ministers to missional prefectures in Bandung, Surabaya, and Malang to manage the absence of pastorate there. Soegijapranata attempted to guarantee that the theological college would keep on delivering new ministers and named the as of late appointed Father Hardjawasita as its minister. He additionally conceded local clerics the specialist to perform relational unions. To quiet the Catholic masses, he visited their homes and persuaded them that the roads were sheltered. 

After the nuclear bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the declaration of Indonesian freedom in August 1945, the Japanese started pulling back from the nation. In help of the new Republic, Soegijapranata had an Indonesian banner flown before the Gedangan Rectory; nonetheless, he didn't formally perceive the country's freedom, attributable to his correspondence with Willekens in regards to the Church's impartiality. He and his ministry treated harmed Dutch teachers, who had as of late been discharged from internment, at the parsonage. The Dutch church were malnourished, and a few required treatment at a medical clinic. Some were later taken to Indonesian-run internment camps, yet the Catholics were still permitted to care for them. In the mean time, between religious conflict prompted the consuming of a few mission structures and the homicide of some priests. The legislature likewise took a few structures, and some that had been seized by the Japanese were not returned. 

United powers sent to incapacitate the Japanese and repatriate detainees of war touched base in Indonesia in September 1945. In Semarang, this prompted a contention between Japanese powers and Indonesian dissidents, that started on 15 October; the Indonesians intended to reallocate the Japanese weapons. Associated powers started arriving in the city on 20 October 1945; a little gathering was sent to Gedangan to talk with Soegijapranata. Worried about non military personnel enduring, the vicar missional told the Allies that they should stop the fight; the Allies couldn't go along as they didn't know the Japanese officer. Soegijapranata then reached the Japanese and, that evening, expedited a truce understanding in his office at Gedangan, notwithstanding Indonesian powers' terminating at the Gurkha troopers posted before the structure. 

Military clashes all through the territory and a progressing Allied nearness prompted sustenance deficiencies all through the city, just as consistent power outages and the foundation of a check in time. Regular citizen run bunches endeavored to manage the nourishment deficiencies yet were unfit to adapt. While trying to manage these issues, Soegijapranata sent a nearby man, Dwidjosewojo, to the capital at Jakarta – renamed from Batavia amid the Japanese occupation – to talk with the focal government. Dwidjosewojo met with Prime Minister Sutan Sjahrir, who sent Wongsonegoro to help build up a non military personnel government, introducing Moch. Ikhsan as city hall leader. The regional's legislature was, be that as it may, in any case unfit to deal with the emergency, and the significant figures in this administration were later caught by the Dutch-run Netherlands-Indies Civil Administration (, or NICA) and detained; Soegijapranata, in spite of the fact that he on occasion harbored Indonesian progressives, was saved. 

In January 1946 the Indonesian government moved from Jakarta – by then under Dutch control – to Yogyakarta. This was trailed by an across the board mass migration of regular folks escaping the progressing NICA troopers. Soegijapranata at first remained in Semarang, attempting to set up watches and watches. He additionally related with Willekens in Jakarta, despite the fact that the senior minister considered the transformation an inner security matter for the Dutch and not an issue for the Church. Be that as it may, in mid 1947 Soegijapranata moved to Yogyakarta, permitting simple correspondence with the political initiative. He built up his seat at St Yoseph in Bintaran and guided youthful Catholics to battle for their nation, saying that they should just return "once they were dead". Soegijapranata was available amid a few fights that emerged where he was lecturing. 

After the Linggadjati Agreement neglected to unravel clashes among Indonesia and the Netherlands and the Dutch assaulted republicans on 21 July 1947, Soegijapranata proclaimed that Indonesia's Catholics would work with the Indonesians and required a conclusion to the war in a discourse on Radio Republik Indonesia; van Klinken portrays the location as "energetic" and considers it to have supported the Catholic masses' resolve. Soegijapranata composed broadly to the Holy See. Accordingly, the Church authority sent Georges de Jonghe d'Ardoye to Indonesia as its agent, starting formal relations between the Vatican and Indonesia. D'Ardoye landed in the new republic in December 1947 and met with President Sukarno; be that as it may, formal strategic relations were not opened until 1950. Soegijapranata later turned into a companion of the president. 

After the Dutch caught the capital amid Operation Kraai on 19 December 1948, Soegijapranata requested that the Christmas merriments be kept easy to speak to the Indonesian individuals' misery. Amid the Dutch occupation Soegijapranata snuck a portion of his compositions out of the nation; the works, later distributed in "Commonweal" with the assistance of George McTurnan Kahin, portrayed Indonesians' day by day lives under Dutch guideline and called for worldwide judgment of the occupation. Soegijapranata further opined that the Dutch barricade on Indonesia, beside choking the new nation's economy, expanded the impact of its socialist gatherings. After the Dutch withdrew in the wake of the General Attack of 1 March 1949, Soegijapranata started attempting to guarantee Catholic portrayal in the legislature. With I. J. Kasimo, he sorted out the All-Indonesia Catholic Congress (). Held somewhere in the range of 7 and 12 December, the congress brought about the association of seven Catholic ideological groups into the Catholic Party. Soegijapranata proceeded with his endeavors to merge the Party after the insurgency. 

After the Dutch perceived Indonesia's autonomy on 27 December 1949, following a multi month-long gathering in the Hague, Soegijapranata came back to Semarang. The post-insurgency period was set apart by an intense increment in enrolment at the country's theological school; the 100th local Indonesian minister was appointed in 1956. The administration, in any case, ordered a few laws that constrained the Church's capacity to extend. In 1953 the Ministry for Religion declared that no remote preachers would be permitted into the nation, and a resulting law denied those as of now in Indonesia from instructing. Accordingly, Soegijapranata urged qualified ministry to apply for Indonesian citizenship, dodging the new laws. 

Beside supervising the new church, Soegijapranata kept on progressing in the direction of Catholic training and success, like his pre-war work. He underscored that understudies must not exclusively be great Catholics, yet in addition great Indonesians. The Church started further improvement of its schools, running from primary schools to colleges. Soegijapranata likewise started changing the Church in his biblical vicariate, making it progressively Indonesian. He supported the utilization of nearby dialects and Indonesian amid mass, permitting it all through his ward starting in 1956. Furthermore, he squeezed for the utilization of gamelan music to go with administrations, and consented to the utilization of wayang shows to show the Bible to kids. 

As the Cold War warmed up, pressures created between the Church in Indonesia and the Indonesian Communist Party (, or PKI). Soegijapranata trusted that the PKI was gaining ground with the poor through its guarantees of specialists' rights in a socialist drove association. To battle this, he worked with different Catholics to set up work gatherings, open to the two Catholics and non-Catholics. He trusted that these would engage specialists and consequently limit the PKI's impact. One such work aggregate was Buruh Pancasila, which was framed on 19 June 1954; through the association Soegijapranata advanced the state rationality of Pancasila, truly "the five principles". The next year the Church Representatives Conference of Indonesia (, or KWI), perceiving Soegijapranata's commitment to poor people, place him accountable for building up social-bolster programs all through the archipelago. On 2 November 1955, he and a few different priests issued an announcement reprimanding socialism, Marxism, and realism, and requesting that the administration guarantee reasonable and fair treatment for all residents. Relations among Indonesia and the Netherlands kept on being poor, explicitly as to control of West Papua, verifiably under Dutch control yet asserted by Indonesia. Soegijapranata solidly upheld the Indonesian position; West Papua was attached in 1963. 

There was likewise grating inside the Catholic gatherings, first over Sukarno's 1957 announcement that he was president forever and foundation of a guided vote based system arrangement. A group, driven by Soegijapranata, bolstered this declaration, while Catholic Party pioneer I. J. Kasimo's group was vigorously against it. Sukarno, who had a decent working association with Soegijapranata, requested that the vicar join the National Council, a solicitation that Soegijapranata won't; he did, in any case, dole out two representatives to the Council, guaranteeing Catholic portrayal. This, alongside Soegijapranata's help of Sukarno's pronouncement on 5 July 1949 requiring an arrival to the 1945 constitution, brought about Bishop of Jakarta Adrianus Djajasepoetra's upbraiding of Soegijapranata as a sycophant. In any case, Soegijapranata was unequivocally against Sukarno's concept of Nasakom, which based piece of the country's administration on socialism. 

Amid the last 50% of the 1950s, the KWI addressed a few times to talk about the issue for a self-decided Indonesian Roman Catholic progressive system. At these yearly gatherings, they addressed regulatory and peaceful issues, including the interpretation of melodies into Indonesian dialects. In 1959 Cardinal Grégoire-Pierre Agagianian visited the nation to see the Church's arrangements. The KWI formally mentioned their own chain of command in a May 1960 letter; this letter got an answer from Pope John XXIII dated 20 March 1961, which isolated the archipelago into six ministerial territories: two in Java, one in Sumatra, one in Flores, one in Sulawesi and Maluku, and one in Borneo. Semarang turned into the seat of the area of Semarang, and Soegijapranata its ecclesiastical overseer. He was raised on 3 January 1961. 

At the point when this occurred, Soegijapranata was in Europe to go to the Second Vatican Council as a major aspect of the Central Preparatory Commission; he was one of eleven diocesan religious administrators and ecclesiastical overseers from Asia. He had the capacity to go to the main session, where he voiced worries about declining nature of peaceful work and required the modernisation of the Church. He at that point came back to Indonesia, however his wellbeing, poor since the late 1950s, immediately declined. 

After a stay at Elisabeth Candi Hospital in Semarang in 1963, Soegijapranata was illegal from undertaking dynamic obligations. Justinus Darmojuwono, a previous internee of the Japanese armed force and vicar general of Semarang since 1 August 1962, filled in as acting religious administrator. On 30 May 1963 Soegijapranata left Indonesia for Europe to go to the race of Pope Paul VI. Soegijapranata then went to Canisius Hospital in Nijmegen, where he experienced treatment from 29 June until 6 July; this was fruitless. He passed on 22 July 1963, at a convent in Steyl, the Netherlands, having shown some kindness assault in no time before his demise. 

As Sukarno did not need Soegijapranata covered in the Netherlands, his body was traveled to Indonesia after last customs were performed via Cardinal Bernardus Johannes Alfrink. Soegijapranata was announced a National Hero of Indonesia on 26 July 1963, through Presidential Decree No. 152/1963, while his body was still in travel. Soegijapranata's body touched base at Kemayoran Airport in Jakarta on 28 July and was conveyed to the Jakarta Cathedral for further rituals, including a discourse by Sukarno, directed by Bishop of Jakarta Adrianus Djajasepoetra. The next day Soegijapranata's body was traveled to Semarang, joined by a few Church and government illuminating presences. He was covered at Giri Tunggal Heroes' Cemetery in a military memorial service on 30 July, after a few further rituals. Darmojuwono was named as the new diocese supervisor in December 1963; he was sanctified on 6 April 1964 by Archbishop Ottavio De Liva. 

Soegijapranata is recalled proudly by Javanese Catholics, who acclaim his quality of will amid the occupation and national unrest. The student of history Anhar Gonggong portrayed Soegijapranata as a minister, however an Indonesian head who "was tried as a decent pioneer and merited the legend status". The Indonesian history specialist Anton Haryono portrayed Soegijapranata's climb to bishophood as "momentous", taking into account that Soegijapranata had just been appointed nine years beforehand and was picked in front of non-Indonesian clerics quite a long while his senior. Henricia Moeryantini, a religious woman in the Order of Carolus Borromeus, composes that the Catholic Church turned out to be broadly persuasive under Soegijapranata, and that the diocese supervisor thought about the general population to adopt an outcast's strategy. Van Klinken composes that Soegijapranata in the end wound up like a "priyayi", or Javanese aristocrat, inside the congregation, as "focused on progression and business as usual with regards to the God who made them". As indicated by van Klinken, by going to the early republic Soegijapranata had been happy to see "the coming Javanese heaven" at an extraordinary individual hazard. 

Soegijapranata is the namesake of a substantial Catholic college in Semarang. Avenues in a few Indonesian urban communities are named after him, incorporating into Semarang, Malang, and Medan. His grave in Giritunggal is frequently the site of journey for Indonesian Catholics, who hold graveside masses. 

In June 2012 chief Garin Nugroho discharged a biopic on Soegijapranata entitled "Soegija". Featuring Nirwan Dewanto in the main job, the film pursued Soegijapranata's exercises amid the 1940s, in the midst of a scenery of the Japanese occupation and the war for Indonesian freedom. The film, which had a Rp 12 billion (US$1.3 million) spending plan, sold more than 100,000 tickets on its first day. Its dispatch was joined by a semi-anecdotal novelisation of Soegija's life, composed by Catholic creator Ayu Utami. A few verifiable histories of Soegija, by both Catholic and non-Catholic journalists, were discharged simultaneously. 

In Indonesian mainstream culture, Soegijapranata is known for his saying "100% Catholic, 100% Indonesian" (). The witticism, which has been utilized to publicize a few memoirs and the film "Soegija", is gotten from Soegijapranata's opening discourse at the 1954 All-Indonesia Catholic Congress in Semarang, as pursues: