Confidence Leech 

Confidence Yvonne Leech (31 March 1941 – 14 September 2013) was an Australian free-form swimmer who won a gold award in the 4×100– meter free-form transfer and bronze in the 100-meter free-form at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne. 

A tall and lean swimmer known for her rich procedure, Leech began swimming as a tyke to fabricate quality after a progression of stomach issue in her earliest stages. She rapidly rose to noticeable quality subsequent to breaking a string of age aggregate records. In 1955, she turned into the most youthful swimmer to win an Australian title, asserting triumph in the 110-yard free-form at 13 years old. She twice broke the Australian record in the 100-yard free-form in late 1955, consequently situating herself as a main contender for Olympic determination in 1956. Parasite's planning was obstructed by disease, which constrained her out of the 1956 Australian Championships, however she recuperated to increase Olympic determination in both the 100-meter free-form and the relating hand-off. Parasite created a late flood to take bronze in the individual occasion and seal an Australian trifecta, before swimming the second leg in the transfer to help secure an Australian triumph in world record time. Bloodsucker resigned after the Olympics at 15 years old; she refered to uneasiness brought about by hustling as one of the primary factors in her choice. 

The second offspring of Johnstone Melmore and Jessie Francis Leech, Leech was conceived in Bendigo in Australia. She was given the name Faith after her senior sister, who passed on from leukemia at two years old. A sensitive youngster, Leech had an abhorrence for eating in the initial two years of her life, so her mom bolstered her in little hourly portions. Parasite was twice hurried from the family home to a Melbourne medical clinic. Traditional drug neglected to amend Leech's dietary issues, so her mom put her on a quick for ten days at the suggestion of a naturopath. Bloodsucker was later put on an eating regimen of natural product, serving of mixed greens and vegetables, with an accentuation on beetroot juice and carrot juice. 

Bloodsucker's wellbeing improved, yet she stayed slight and fragile, with a twofold ebb and flow of the back. With an end goal to enable her increase to muscle control and certainty, her folks sent her to begin expressive dance moving, before having a go at swimming, a game her mom had contended in. Matured six, she was taken to swimming classes while the family holidayed in the Mornington Peninsula. Parasite was trained by Gus Froelich, a previous European swimming victor and mentor of Australian Olympic medallist Judy-Joy Davies. 

After a troublesome begin, Leech improved in her second year. At the Victorian Championships, she demonstrated her potential by setting a state record of 17.4 seconds (s) for the 25-yard free-form in the under-8 division. The next year, she canvassed 25 yards in 15.7 seconds, three seconds quicker than Davies had done at a similar age. She advanced consistently, clearing the state age titles from nine to 13, setting records that were frequently quicker than those by young men of a similar age. 

Living in Bendigo and learning at Camp Hill Primary School, Leech could just travel three times each year to prepare with Froelich, so she depended vigorously on dry land reenactments, for example, a pulley appended to the kitchen entryway. When she was 12, she shrouded 110 yards in 1 minute (min) 7.1 seconds, setting an informal world record for her age gathering. This accomplishment provoked her folks to lease a condo in Melbourne, so she could prepare with Froelich all the time. Bloodsucker moved there with her mom, while her dad remained in Bendigo to care for the family's adornments business. 

From 1954, Leech went to St. Michael's Girls' Grammar School and prepared with Froelich once a day at the City Baths. The normal sessions satisfied at the 1955 Victorian Championships; Leech won the open 110-and 220-yard free-form in the midst of 1 minute 7.2 seconds and 2 minutes 39.3 seconds, individually, setting state records in the two occasions. She continued to the Australian Championships, winning the 110-yard free-form in 1 minute 7.6 seconds to turn into the most youthful ever victor of an open title at 13 years old. Bloodsucker likewise won the national junior 110-and 220-yard occasions. 

Parasite's routine contrasted from most swimmers on the grounds that Froelich was not a promoter of separation preparing, and planned shorter exercises for his understudies. She prepared once every day, swimming close to . Froelich did not push her to keep swimming laps when she felt tired, however accentuated a proficient stroke instrument, which Leech executed with a long and agile arm activity. Bloodsucker stood 180 centimeters (5'11"), however weighed just , with wide shoulders, thin hips and vast hands and feet. Her since quite a while ago streamlined activity provoked onlookers to consider her a "flying fish". Spinal issues brought about by a back misalignment kept her from utilizing the ideal flip turn favored by free-form swimmers. Rather, she was compelled to use the touch turn, which was slower. 

In August 1955, Leech set an Australian record of 1 minute 5.0 seconds for the 110-yard free-form, before bringing it down to 1 minute 4.8 seconds in October; this provoked papers to trumpet her as a prospect for the Melbourne Olympics. She didn't get a chance to guard her Australian title in 1956 in light of the fact that she was hospitalized with disease. Parasite recuperated so as to win the national age title in the 100-meter free-form in a period of 1 minute 4.6 seconds, only 0.1 of a second outside Dawn Fraser's reality record. She at that point posted a period of 1 minute 4.6 seconds to vanquish Fraser and Lorraine Crapp at another gathering in the next month. 

Bloodsucker was named in the Olympic squad and the Australian Swimming Union exempted her from heading out to the national preparing camp in Townsville so she could prepare with Froelich, who comprehended her unique dietary prerequisites. She joined the squad for the last race preliminaries in Melbourne in October before the Olympics. Fraser and Crapp were excessively solid in the 100-meter free-form, with Leech completing second and third in the two races. In the wake of consolidating with Fraser, Crapp and Margaret Gibson to break the world record for the 4×100-meter free-form transfer, Leech was chosen as one of Australia's three participants in the 100-meter free-form occasions and one of six swimmers for the 4×100-meter free-form hand-off squad for the Olympics. 

Having landed at the Olympics, Leech made her presentation in the 100-meter free-form, an occasion in which she, Fraser and Crapp were viewed as the three most grounded contenders, in spite of the fact that the last two were viewed as considerably more grounded. Each of the three won their warms. Bloodsucker won her warmth by 1.6 seconds in a period of 1 minute 4.9 seconds. She was third quickest qualifier behind Fraser and Crapp, who were over 1.5 seconds quicker. Attracted Fraser's elimination round, Leech completed second in a period of 1 minute 5.2 seconds, and was the third quickest qualifier for the last behind her countrymen. The elimination rounds pursued a comparative example to the warms, with Fraser and Crapp over two seconds in front of the six residual qualifiers, who were isolated by only 0.8 of a second. 

This example was rehashed in the last. Fraser and Crapp were a long ways in front of the field, completing in 1 minute 2.0 seconds and 1 minute 2.3 seconds, individually. Parasite surpassed the United States' Joan Rosazza in the last 25 meters to take bronze in 1 minute 5.1 seconds. The race for third spot had been tight, with only 0.7 of a second isolating Leech and the last finisher. The most youthful swimmer in the field, Leech had come through to guarantee the last platform position. Bloodsucker said that it was a passionate event, having seen the Australian men take a trifecta in the comparing occasion on the earlier night of hustling. 

As the Australians flaunted the three quickest swimmers in the individual 100-meter free-form occasion, they were clear top choices for the comparing hand-off, particularly as Fraser and Crapp were three seconds quicker than the majority of different swimmers. Parasite was not guaranteed of a spot in the last group of four. In the warms, Fraser and Crapp were refreshed and the staying four swimmers, Sandra Morgan, Elizabeth Fraser, Gibson and Leech qualified the group. Parasite swam the second leg in 1 minute 5.9 seconds, the second quickest of the Australians, in this way verifying her situation in the last alongside Sandra Morgan, who recorded a period of 1 minute 5.4 seconds. Australia won the second warmth by 3.1 seconds to qualify snappiest for the last. They were 1.8 and 2.3 seconds quicker than South Africa and the United States, individually, both of whom swam in the main warmth. The determination of Leech and Morgan produced discussion. They were Australia's most youthful swimmers and needed involvement with open dimension rivalry: Morgan had false begun twice at the Australian Championships, and both had contended at national dimension just once. 

In the last, Australia made a poor begin; Dawn Fraser nearly halted when she heard a second shot, trusting that a bogus begin had happened. She completed her leg in 1 minute 4.0 seconds, two seconds slower than the world record she set in the individual 100-meter last, however with a 2.3-second lead over the United States' Sylvia Ruuska. All things considered, this implied Australia had a littler than anticipated favorable position. Swimming the second leg, Leech kept up the lead in the initial 50 meters however blurred in the second half and completed with a split of 1 minute 5.1 seconds, with the Australian lead slice to 0.9 of a second. Indeed, even with the benefit of a flying begin, Leech's leg was 0.4 of a second slower than her quickest time amid the individual challenge. 

Morgan was then upgraded and gone by Nancy Simons. With 25 meters left, Morgan removed her head from the water, and seeing the American a body length in front, burrowed profound to restore a lead of 0.7 of a second going into the last changeover. Crapp then broadened the lead over the United States to 2.2 seconds to verify gold in a world record time of 4 minutes 17.1 seconds. The Melbourne Olympics was the main time that Australia has made a decisive victory of the 100-meter free-form and the hand-off occasions for the two people. This accomplishment has just been equalled by the Americans at the 1920 Summer Olympics. The triumph was Australia's solitary triumph in a female swimming transfer at the Olympics until the 2004 Summer Olympics. 

After the 1956 Olympics, Leech resigned from focused swimming at 15 years old. She was the main individual from Bendigo to win an Olympic decoration and was feted after coming back to the place where she grew up. She respected the experience of living in the Olympic Village as an abnormal one; notwithstanding the substantial groups and the weight of an Olympics, it was the first occasion when that she had been far from the family home. Doctors supported her choice to resign, feeling that she turned out to be excessively anxious preceding races. Bloodsucker quickly worked in Melbourne as a model, before coming back to Bendigo to help maintain the family adornments business. She played a main job in the business after the passing of her dad during the 1970s, before giving control of the firm to her child. 

Parasite wedded Mitch Tuohy and had two children, Adam and Troy, whom she debilitated from entering focused swimming, dreading the weight and strain of dashing. In retirement, she disregarded aggressive game, yet kept up her wellness and physicality. She instructed swimming to impaired kids, some of whom spoke to Australia at the Special Olympics. 

Parasite proceeded with her association with the Olympic development through charitable effort. In July 1999, Leech and Australia's then-most established man and World War I veteran Jack Lockett were the visitors of respect at a commencement festivity to the landing of the Olympic Torch in Bendigo in July 2000. In 2001, she was determined to have a tumor in her neck, which was the measure of a 50c coin. The tumor was evacuated in a seven-hour activity pursued by about a month and a half of radiotherapy treatment. This experience provoked her to turn into a volunteer for the Cancer Council and help the individuals who were determined to have the sickness. In February 2003, Leech called fourfold Olympic boss Betty Cuthbert to comfort her amid her recuperation from a mind discharge. In October 2006, Leech joined with 1956 partner John Devitt to dispatch "50 Years On—The Melbourne Olympics", a progression of stamps from the Australia Post. 

Bloodsucker is an inductee of the Path of Champions at Sydney Olympic Park Aquatic Center. She kicked the bucket at her home on 14 September 2013, matured 72.