Sandra Morgan 

Sandra Anne Morgan (brought into the world 6 June 1942), additionally known by her wedded name Sandra Beavis, or as Sandra Morgan-Beavis, is an Australian previous free-form swimmer who was a piece of the gold award winning group in the 4×100-meter free-form transfer at the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne. At 14 years old years and a half year, she turned into the most youthful Australian to win an Olympic gold decoration, a record that still stands. 

Morgan started genuine preparing in mid 1956 and won Olympic choice for the hand-off group just as the 400-meter free-form. Morgan's determination in the last group of four raised contention in view of her naiveté in top-level hustling and her history of false begins. Amid the last, she lifted her head out of the water and saw her American rival in front of her, provoking her to recapture the lead with a late burst in the third leg. Australia proceeded to win the hand-off in world record time. In her solitary individual occasion, Morgan came 6th in the 400-meter free-form. 

In 1957, she won the 110-, 220-, and 440-yard treble at the Australian Championships without her fundamental adversaries, yet starting there on her vocation was tormented by sickness and weight issues. She was chosen in the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games simply as a transfer swimmer, winning gold in the occasion. At her second Olympic Games, the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, she just contended in the 4 × 100 hand-off warms; her partners proceeded to win silver in the last. She resigned from focused swimming after the Rome Olympics. 

In retirement, she has proceeded with her association in swimming and the Olympics by showing impaired youngsters to swim and partaking in Olympic instructive projects and light transfers. She is additionally an envoy for Australia Day and has showed up on TV as a feature of her work with Christian gatherings. 

Morgan was conceived in the north-western New South Wales city of Tamworth, before experiencing childhood in Punchbowl, a suburb in South-western Sydney. Morgan was the most established of four kids, with two sisters and a sibling. Her dad Barrington, a handyman, had accomplishment as a swimmer in his youth, however an absence of offices in provincial Australia abridged his profession. Therefore, he pledged that his little girl would turn into a national hero. Morgan said her dad "turned into my driving and persuasive power. I satisfied his desire, however outperformed it by turning into an Olympic victor!" Morgan additionally refered to her gatherings with Frederick Lane—Australia's first Olympic gold medallist in swimming—and the Olympic sports champion Marjorie Jackson-Nelson as key rousing minutes in her profession. 

Morgan figured out how to swim at Bankstown at 7 years old. She was at first moderate to learn, and her mentor utilized a long post joined to a rope and belt to keep up her wellbeing. This enabled him to angle her out of the water in the event that she fell into trouble. Because of her moderate learning, Morgan was given double the quantity of exercises as different understudies. At eight years old, she won the locale title, and in 1953, matured 11, she won the New South Wales (NSW) Primary School Championships. In February 1956, matured 13, she was taken for genuine preparing. Her dad exchanged her to the tutelage of Frank Guthrie in Enfield. At the time, Guthrie was viewed as a standout amongst the best mentors in the express; his understudies included Gary Chapman, Kevin O'Halloran and Lorraine Crapp. Every one of the three (or more Morgan) would win decorations at the 1956 Summer Olympics. Her mom needed to drive her to Enfield, as her dad was occupied with the pipes business. 

Under Guthrie's instructing, Morgan rapidly wound up one of the quickest junior swimmers in the state, winning the under-14 110-yard and 55-yard free-form, just as the 110-yard butterfly at the New South Wales Championships in 1956. She proceeded to win the lesser 110-yard free-form at the Australian Championships, notwithstanding causing two false begins. After the national titles, she spoke to Marrickville Junior Girls' High School and won the State Combined High School Championship in the 110-yard free-form. 

Despite the fact that her occasions were among the quickest in the nation, Morgan's childhood forestalled choice for the Olympic preparing squad. Be that as it may, the Australian Swimming Union enabled her to join the squad for preparing in Townsville at her very own cost. Her family was unfit to meet these expenses, however a gathering pledges crusade by the Bankstown people group enabled her to make the outing. Preparing in the Tobruk Memorial Baths nearby swimmers, for example, Crapp, Alva Colquhoun, Faith Leech and Dawn Fraser, Morgan's occasions relentlessly improved. The group were relied upon to swim three times each day, totalling more than . Be that as it may, Morgan was not viewed as a presumable choice in the last group. 

Following the preparation camp, a progression of determination preliminaries were held in Brisbane and Melbourne. In three 100-meter races, Morgan came third, fifth and fourth separately, with a best time of 1 minute 7.3 seconds. She recorded a best act of third in a period of 5 minutes 10.0 seconds in the 400-meter free-form behind Crapp and Fraser. Australia was qualified for three agents in every individual occasion, consequently enabling Morgan to contend in her first Olympics. Morgan passed up a major opportunity in the 100-meter free-form as Fraser, Crapp and Leech were chosen, however she picked up an individual compartment in the 400-meter alongside Fraser and Crapp. She was one of six swimmers chosen for the 4×100-meter free-form transfer squad, the first from Australia to contend at Olympic dimension. Morgan was set under significant weight by media discourse that viewed her as the frail connection in the transfer group. 

Touching base in Melbourne for the Olympics, Morgan was not guaranteed of a spot in the last hand-off group of four. Fraser and Crapp were refreshed in the warms on 4 December while the staying four swimmers qualified the group. Morgan swam the second leg in 1 minute 5.4 seconds, the quickest of the Australians, verifying her situation in the last four alongside Leech. Australia qualified speediest for the last, winning the second warmth by 3.1 seconds. They were 1.8 and 2.3 seconds quicker than the South Africans and Americans, separately, the two of which swam in the main warmth. 

The determination of Leech and Morgan for the 6 December last created debate, as they were the two most youthful swimmers in the squad and needed involvement with open dimension rivalry. Both had contended just once at senior Australian dimension; Morgan had twice false begun at the 1956 Australian Championships, while Leech had been too sick to even think about competing. Australia was the most loved for the hand-off, having cleared the awards in the individual 100-meter occasion; Fraser, Crapp and Leech completed first, second and third. The preference was significantly progressively stamped in light of the fact that Fraser and Crapp were three seconds quicker than every other person on the planet. 

The Australian group made a poor begin in the last after Fraser nearly quit amid the main leg, trusting that a bogus begin had happened after erroneously hearing a second gunfire. She completed her leg in 1 minute 4.0 seconds, just about two seconds slower than her own best, yet enough for a 2.3-second lead over the United States' Sylvia Ruuska. Swimming the second leg, Leech kept up the lead in the initial 50 meters yet blurred in the second half and completed with a split of 1 minute 5.1 seconds; the Australian lead was subsequently sliced to 0.9 s. Morgan made a plunge for the third leg and was then redesignd and gone by American Nancy Simons. With 25 meters left, Morgan removed her head from the water—an essential blunder—and seeing the American a body length in front, reacted with a flood to recapture a 0.7-second lead heading into the last changeover. Crapp then stretched out the edge to 2.2 seconds to verify an Australian triumph in a world-record time of 4 minutes 17.1 seconds. The triumph was the first occasion when that Australia had cleared the 100-meter free-form transfer and individual occasions for the two people. The main other time this has been accomplished was by the Americans in 1920 in Antwerp. The success would be Australia's solitary triumph in a female swimming hand-off at the Olympics until the 2004 Games in Athens. The triumph made Morgan Australia's most youthful ever gold medallist; this record still stands. 

Morgan's individual occasion was the 400-meter free-form. She decreased her own best by 2.3 seconds in chronicle a period of 5 minutes 7.8 seconds in the warms, only 0.2 of a second behind Marley Shriver of the United States, who set another Olympic record. The imprint was outperformed in later warms by Fraser and Crapp, however Morgan in any case qualified fourth quickest for the last, very nearly seven seconds quicker than the cutoff. The last was held the day after the transfer last. Morgan was unfit to rehash her warmth execution, completing 6th in a period of 5 minutes 14.3 seconds, far outside her own best. Had she rehashed her warmth swim, she would have put fourth, only 0.7 of a second from the bronze decoration. All things considered, she noticed that "I was happy to the point that I had made the last in an individual occasion in the Olympic Games, for this was my first appearance in a senior challenge". 

Upon her arrival to Bankstown, Morgan was respected with a city gathering and gave a gold watch and life enrollment of the Bankstown Pool. Be that as it may, her stay at the Olympic Village had offered ascend to another issue. She delighted in the nourishment so much that she had put on in weight, and now remained at and weighed . This proclaimed the beginning of a persistent weight issue. 

After the Olympics, Crapp and Fraser enjoyed a reprieve from aggressive swimming, while Leech resigned. This permitted Morgan an opening, and she won both the lesser and open run titles at the 1957 New South Wales Championships. She pursued this by winning three individual titles at the Australian Championships in Canberra: the 110-, 220-and 440-yard free-form, in the midst of 1 minute 7.8 seconds; 2 minutes 29.3 seconds; and 5 minutes 21.6 seconds, separately. Her occasions were slower than her bests in 1956. She was a piece of the New South Wales group that won the 4×100-yard free-form and mixture transfers, mooring the two groups of four. 

In 1958, Crapp and Fraser came back to the pool, while Ilsa Konrads developed as a main swimmer. At the Australian Championships, Morgan came third in both the 110-yard and 440-yard free-form occasions; Fraser won both and Crapp and Konrads set second in the 110-yard and 440-yard free-form separately. Morgan was chosen for the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Cardiff, Wales, yet just in the 4×110-yard free-form hand-off. Alongside Fraser, Crapp and Konrads, she broke the world record for the occasion in March in Sydney with a period of 4 minutes 18.9 seconds. At the Empire Games, Fraser, Crapp, Morgan and Colquhoun brought down the world record to a period of 4 minutes 17.4 seconds to win gold. 

After the Empire Games, the Australian group returned home by means of France, Austria, Germany, Netherlands, Italy and Singapore for a progression of rivalries. Morgan's best exhibitions were at the Dutch and French Championships, where she came third in the 400-meter occasions. In 1959, she put third in both the 440-yard and 880-yard free-form occasions at the Australian Championships. Her swimming profession was then hindered by bronchitis, which formed into bronchial pneumonia. The ailment constrained her to take an all-encompassing break. Her chest issues persevered when she came back to rivalry at the 1960 Australian Championships, putting third in the 220-yard and 440-yard free-form and fifth in the 110-yard free-form. She picked up determination for the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome as an individual from the 4×100-meter free-form transfer squad. She swam the main leg in the warms, posting a period of 1 minute 5.5 seconds, giving Australia a 1.0-second lead. Australia drove at each change and proceeded to win its warmth by five seconds, qualifying quickest for the last. Be that as it may, Morgan posted the slowest leg of the Australian group of four and was dropped when Fraser and Konrads were brought into the group for the last, in which Australia won silver. Under the tenets of the time, heat swimmers were not granted decorations if the last group of four put in the main three positions. Experiencing occasional chest torment, Morgan resigned from focused swimming in December 1960. 

Morgan wedded George Beavis in 1965 and had three little girls, every one of whom delighted in swimming triumphs at school and region level. After her marriage, she lived in the Outback towns of Griffith and Orange for a long time before coming back to Sydney. She tried different things with instructing, yet found the challenge unappealing and turned into a teacher. In 1978, she started instructing debilitated kids to swim in her patio pool, and was given an administration give to proceed with her work. She at that point ran a swimming school at Bonnet Bay for a long time and worked at the Bates Drive Special School, accepting an allow to encourage preschool impaired kids swimming. In later life, Morgan effectively battled a perilous fight against lupus, and in 2004 she was living in Sutherland Shire in southern Sydney. 

A submitted Christian, Morgan has been an open speaker at capacities for Seasons Christian Women's Conference. From January 1996 to mid-1999, she lived in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, alongside her better half, who was posted there by his boss. Amid that time, Morgan functioned as a Bible instructor at St Andrew's Presbyterian Church, Kuala Lumpur. She has likewise showed up on "Eye to eye", a Christian TV television show that screens on the Ten Network. 

In 1995, Morgan was enlisted into the Hall of Champions at the State Sports Center and the Path of Champions at the Sydney Olympic Park Aquatic Center. She has been associated with instructive projects went for advancing the Olympic development in schools and raises assets for the Australian Olympic Committee. In 2000, Morgan was granted the Australian Government's Australian Sports Medal for her commitments to the 2000 Summer Olympics held in Sydney and her accomplishments as a contender. She has been granted the respect of conveying the Olympic light amid its entry through Australia in both 2000 and 2004. Morgan is an Australia Day diplomat, and goes to provincial towns advancing the yearly festivals.