Hygeberht 

Hygeberht (passed on after 803) was the Bishop of Lichfield from 779 and Archbishop of Lichfield after the rise of Lichfield to an archdiocese some time after 787, amid the rule of the ground-breaking Mercian lord Offa. Little is known about Hygeberht's experience, despite the fact that he was presumably a local of Mercia. 

Offa prevailing with regards to having Lichfield raised to an archbishopric, yet the ascent in Lichfield's status was disliked with Canterbury, the other southern English archbishopric. Offa was presumably inspired by a craving to expand the status of his kingdom and to free his kingdom's religious issues from the control of another kingdom's archbishopric, and perhaps the need to verify the royal celebration of Offa's successor, which the Archbishop of Canterbury had contradicted. After Offa's demise his far off relative Coenwulf progressed toward becoming ruler, and requested of the pope to have Lichfield come back to a straightforward church district. The pope consented to do as such in 803, by which time Hygeberht was never again even thought about a religious administrator: he is recorded as an abbot at the committee that administered the downgrade of Lichfield in 803. The date of his demise is obscure. 

Nothing is known about Hygeberht's parentage or his childhood, yet given his nearby connections to the kingdom of Mercia, he was most likely a Mercian by birth. He progressed toward becoming Bishop of Lichfield in 779. At a Mercian committee he went to that year at Hartleford he was styled "electus praesul", or "priest choose". After two years he saw a contract of Offa's concerning a clerical case on a congregation in Worcester. 

Maybe as ahead of schedule as 786 the formation of a Mercian archbishopric was being examined at Offa's court. A letter to the papacy composed by Coenwulf, who succeeded Offa's child Ecgfrith to the Mercian position of authority, asserted that Offa's intentions were his aversion of Jænberht, the Archbishop of Canterbury, and of the men of Kent. At the Council of Chelsea held in 787, Offa verified the making of an archbishopric for his kingdom focused on the see of Lichfield (in present day Staffordshire). Offa may have defended the move by proposing that Jænberht wanted to enable the Frankish ruler Charlemagne to utilize an arrival site in Kent if the last chose to attack, in spite of the fact that this is just known from a thirteenth century essayist, Matthew Paris. Another worry was presumably that of glory, as having the primary Mercian see held by a diocese supervisor instead of a cleric would build the kingdom's status. 

An archbishopric in Mercia would likewise fortify the kingdom's autonomy and free it from religious reliance on Canterbury in the kingdom of Kent, which Offa had as of late brought under Mercian control. Jænberht bolstered the Kentish lord Egbert II, who was not known as a firm supporter of Offa's; a diocese supervisor at Canterbury who was either detached or in dynamic resistance to Offa would be an obstruction to Offa's capacity to build up overlordship of Kent and different zones of England. By lifting another ecclesiastical overseer, Offa would lessen the political intensity of the diocese supervisors of Canterbury. Rise of a ward to an archbishopric was not exceptional; in 735 the papacy had raised another Anglo-Saxon church district to an archbishopric, when Ecgbert turned into the main Archbishop of York. 

Two unique variants of the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" record the procedures of the chamber. The Peterborough Manuscript (Version E) of the "Annal" records the board under the year 785, in spite of the fact that the occasions occurred in 787, and states that "here there was an argumentative synod at Chelsea and Archbishop Jænberht surrendered some piece of his church district, and Hygeberht was picked by King Offa, and Ecgfrith sanctified as lord." The Canterbury Manuscript (Version F) has the committee under 785 likewise, and portrays the chamber as "a full synod sat at Chelsey" yet generally relates much similar occasions. The student of history Nicholas Brooks sees the coupling of the rise of Lichfield with the sanctification of Ecgfrith, who was Offa's child, as critical. He contends that Offa wanted to have Ecgfrith blessed as his successor amid Offa's lifetime, yet was unfit to get Jænberht to concur, and this was another factor in the production of Lichfield as an archbishopric. Hygeberht sanctified Ecgfrith after Hygeberht's rise to archiepiscopal status. 

Offa pledged at the gathering to give 365 mancuses every year to the papacy, to accommodate needy individuals in Rome and to give lights to St. Subside's Basilica, expressed to be a much obliged offering for his triumphs. C. J. Godfrey has contended that the gift was truly as an end-result of the ecclesiastical endorsement of Offa's plan to hoist the bishopric of Lichfield to an archdiocese. Whatever Offa's inspiration, antiquarians have for the most part observed the blessing as the start of Peter's Pence, a yearly "charge" paid to Rome by the English Church. 

In spite of the fact that it gives the idea that the Council of Chelsea endorsed Lichfield's rise to an archdiocese, Hygeberht, who was available, remained a priest at its decision; he marked the chamber's report still as a minister. There is no sign that he had any huge impact in the committee nor in the activities that prompted him turning into a diocese supervisor. 

In 788 Hygeberht ventured out to Rome and got a pallium, the image of an ecclesiastical overseer's power, from Pope Hadrian I. In one enduring contract of 788 Hygeberht is recorded with the title of diocesan, yet another from late 788 gives him the title of ecclesiastical overseer. More contracts from 789 and 792 additionally give him the title of diocese supervisor, and he kept on being named in that capacity on sanctions until 799. 

All through the early piece of Hygeberht's episcopate, Jænberht of Canterbury was the senior diocese supervisor and delighted in priority, albeit after Jænberht's demise in 792 Hygeberht turned into the premier prelate in southern England. It is obscure if Jænberht ever recognized Hygeberht's rise as a diocese supervisor, yet there is no proof that Jænberht challenged the division of his archiepiscopal see and the formation of another archbishopric. Hygeberht sanctified Jænberht's successor Æthelhard, after Offa counseled Alcuin of York about appropriate technique. Hygeberht then was viewed as the senior prelate in the south of England, as appeared by him being recorded before Æthelhard in any sanctions they both show up on. 

Canterbury held as suffragans, or subordinates, the ministers of Winchester, Sherborne, Selsey, Rochester, and London. The sees of Worcester, Hereford, Leicester, Lindsey, Dommoc and Elmham were exchanged to Lichfield. This posting, in any case, originates from the "Gesta pontificum Anglorum" of the later medieval writer William of Malmesbury, written in around 1120. In spite of the fact that the division is coherent, William mistakes Hygeberht for Hygeberht's successor Ealdwulf, and does not give a hotspot for his rundown, which recommend that it might be conniving. The formation of a third archbishopric was dubious, and the network at Canterbury Cathedral appears to be never to have acknowledged Hygeberht as a diocese supervisor. The student of history D. P. Kirby guesses that there were in every case some in the Mercian kingdom who objected to the rise of Lichfield to an archdiocese. 

Amid Hygeberht's archbishopric, joint synods for the territories of Lichfield and Canterbury were held, managed by the two diocese supervisors. These social events were authoritatively sporadic, as the typical technique was for every region to hold its own synod. The explanations behind holding joint gatherings are vague; they may have been a sign of Offa's longing to manage the whole southern church, or an endeavor by the ecclesiastical overseers of Canterbury to hold some specialist over the area of Lichfield. 

Offa kicked the bucket in July 796 and his child Ecgfrith 141 days later. Coenwulf, a far off relative, prevailing to the Mercian position of authority after Ecgfrith's passing. Not long after his increase Coenwulf tried to supplant the two archdioceses with one at London, contending that Pope Gregory I's unique arrangement had been that there be an archbishopric at London rather than at Canterbury. In 797 and 798 Coenwulf sent agents to Rome to Pope Leo III, proposing that another archdiocese be made at London for Æthelhard. The ruler's agents laid the fault for the issues experienced with the Lichfield archdiocese on Pope Hadrian I's ineptitude. Disappointed by analysis of the papacy, Leo ruled against the ruler's arrangement. In 801 Coenwulf put down a Kentish insubordination, enabling him to again declare his position in Canterbury and control the archbishopric. At long last, in 802, Pope Leo III allowed that Hadrian's choice was invalid, after the English church revealed to him it had been accomplished by Offa's deception. Leo restored all purview to Canterbury, a choice reported by Æthelhard at the Council of Clovesho in 803. 

Hygeberht had surrendered his see before Lichfield was downgraded back to a ministerial office. He was still named as diocese supervisor in 799, yet proof recommends that he never again controlled the majority of the suffragan religious administrators that he once had. Potentially, he was supplanted at Lichfield; his successor Ealdwulf went to a board in 801, and was named minister in the gathering's records. When that Æthelhard held another chamber at Clovesho in 803, Hygeberht was never again even named as a minister, and shows up at that committee as an abbot. Which convent he was abbot of, and his accurate date of death, are obscure. 

Hygeberht's contemporary at Canterbury, Æthelhard, was the principal Archbishop of Canterbury to require an attestation of confidence from his subordinate religious administrators when they were chosen. The student of history Eric John contends that this custom started due to the production of the archbishopric of Lichfield.