McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II in Australian administration 

The Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) worked 24 McDonnell Douglas F-4E Phantom II contender plane air ship in the ground assault job somewhere in the range of 1970 and 1973. The Phantoms were rented from the United States Air Force (USAF) as a break measure attributable to delays in the conveyance of the RAAF's 24 General Dynamics F-111C aircraft. The F-4Es were viewed as effective in this job, however the legislature did not consent to a proposition from the RAAF to hold the air ship after the F-111s entered administration in 1973. 

The F-4C variation of the Phantom II was among the flying machine assessed by the RAAF in 1963 as a feature of the task to supplant its English Electric Canberra aircraft. The F-111 was chosen, yet when that venture was postponed in the late 1960s because of long-running specialized issues with the air ship, the RAAF established that the F-4E Phantom II would be the best option. Because of proceeded with issues with the F-111s, the Australian and United States Governments arranged an understanding in 1970 whereby the RAAF rented 24 F-4Es and their help hardware from the USAF. 

The RAAF's F-4Es entered administration in September 1970, and turned out to be very viable. Utilized noticeable all around to-ground job, they arranged aircrew to work the advanced F-111s, and the concentrated preparing program embraced utilizing the air ship improved the RAAF's expert benchmarks. One of the Phantoms was obliterated in a flying mishap in June 1971, and another was fixed by the RAAF after it continued overwhelming harm amid an accident arrival. The 23 enduring flying machine were come back to the USAF in two bunches amid October 1972 and June 1973. 

The McDonnell Douglas F-4C Phantom II was one of the air ship types assessed by the RAAF as a potential trade for its maturing English Electric Canberra aircraft in the mid 1960s. In mid-1963 a group of senior RAAF officers headed by the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Valston Hancock, ventured out to the United States to assess the General Dynamics F-111 (at that point known as the "TFX"), North American A-5 Vigilante and F-4C Phantom II strike flying machine. While in the United States, the group likewise investigated the Boeing KC-135 Stratotanker, which was viewed as important to help these air ship. Moreover, the RAAF officers headed out to the United Kingdom and France to assess the BAC TSR-2 and Dassault Mirage IV, separately. In its last report, the group dismissed the F-4C in light of the fact that the flying machine came up short on the range, execution at low elevation and surveillance ability that the RAAF required. The F-111 was viewed as the most appropriate flying machine of those considered, however the group suggested that the RAAF gain 36 Vigilantes as they additionally met the power's necessities and could be conveyed inside a shorter time span. The Australian Government dismissed this exhortation, and chose to buy 24 F-111s. At the time the request was put in late 1963 these flying machine were planned to be conveyed in 1967; the conveyance date was pushed back to 1968 after Australia chose to arrange the remarkable F-111C variation. In late 1963 the United States Government offered to loan Australia 24 Boeing B-47 Stratojet aircraft until the F-111s were conveyed. The Australian Air Board contradicted gaining these airplane in light of the fact that they were out of date and would be costly to work. Rather, it prescribed to Cabinet that a bundle of F-4C strike flying machine, the RF-4C observation variation of this plan, and KC-135 tankers be rented from the United States if an interval drive was viewed as important. Bureau thought about the two alternatives amid 1964, and rejected them two. Somewhere in the range of 1965 and 1970 six Australian pilots serving on trade postings to the United States Air Force (USAF) flew Phantoms in battle amid the Vietnam War. 

The F-111 program experienced huge issues amid the late 1960s. Because of deferrals to the advancement of the RF-111 observation variation of the F-111, of which Australia had requested four, the RAAF considered acquiring eight RF-4C or RF-4E surveillance flying machine and two tankers in mid 1968. The Air Force and government in the long run reasoned that it was too soon to settle on a choice on this issue, and no move was made. The RAAF acknowledged each of the 24 F-111Cs at a function held at Fort Worth, Texas, on 4 September 1968. As of now the F-111 program was in emergency inferable from specialized issues with the plan of the flying machine's wing get together, and all F-111s were grounded after an American F-111 smashed on 23 September. Consequent testing uncovered further issues with F-111 segments not meeting their expected life expectancy, and the Australian airplane were set away at Fort Worth until these imperfections could be redressed. The RAAF in this manner assessed the F-4E Phantom II, Blackburn Buccaneer, LTV A-7 Corsair II and Grumman A-6 Intruder as conceivable trades for the F-111. Just the F-4E was considered to verge on meeting the RAAF's prerequisites, however its moderately short range and absence of landscape following radar and electronic countermeasures were viewed as risky. 

By 1970 the F-111Cs were as yet not airworthy, and the Australian Government was experiencing strain to drop the request or obtain a break structure. In April of that year Minister for Defense Malcolm Fraser consented to an arrangement with his American partner, Melvin R. Laird, which indicated the conditions under which the Australian Government would acknowledge the F-111s. As a major aspect of the exchanges prompting this understanding, Laird offered to rent Australia 24 F-4E Phantoms at a marked down cost. The Cabinet consented to Fraser's proposal that this offer be taken up, a move bolstered by the Air Board. The RAAF stayed focused on the F-111C, in any case, and the Air Board issued an announcement amid May contending that these flying machine would "meet the RAAF operational prerequisite more viably than the F-4E by a conclusive edge". 

A RAAF group headed by the Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Charles Read, was sent to the United States in May 1970 to arrange the rent plans. Subsequent to thinking about the proposed arrangement, Read prescribed that it proceed; as indicated by RAAF student of history Alan Stephens this choice "charmed RAAF senior officers and aircrews". The Cabinet thusly endorsed the rent of 24 Phantoms for a long time at a complete expense of $US 41.554 million (counting preparing, save parts and specialized guidance) and the formal consent to do as such was marked on 29 June 1970. The USAF assigned this venture "Harmony Reef". The terms of the rent understanding enabled the Australian Government to buy the Phantoms inside and out if the F-111C program was dropped, yet in addition enabled the USAF to request the quick return of the flying machine and their help hardware in case of a national crisis. Laird furnished Fraser with a composed responsibility that this alternative would not be worked out, and it was never exposed. Laird additionally guaranteed that USAF tankers would be made accessible to help the Australian Phantoms amid emergencies, subject to American national prerequisites and the terms of significant understandings between the two nations. 

The RAAF's Phantoms were conveyed not long after the rent understanding was finished. Australian pilots and guides from the two units that were to work the airplane, No. 1 and No. 6 Squadrons, started to touch base in the United States for transformation preparing in July 1970. The vast majority of this preparation was given by the 4530th Tactical Training Squadron, first Tactical Fighter Wing, at MacDill Air Force Base in Florida, and included 32 hours of flying. USAF work force were likewise presented on RAAF Base Amberley in Queensland, where the F-4Es were to be based, to prepare Australian ground team. The Australian Phantoms were redirected from USAF arranges and were fresh out of the box new. The RAAF acknowledged each of the 24 air ship in September 1970, and they were along these lines carried to Amberley in four gatherings of six flying machine; the initial three gatherings touched base on 14, 19 and 26 September, and the last gathering landed on 3 October. The Phantom was designated the RAAF sequential number prefix "A69", however this was never connected to the flying machine, and they held their USAF serials. 

The Phantom spoke to a huge improvement to the RAAF's ground assault capacities. The F-4Es were more innovatively progressed than the Canberra, as they could fly at supersonic rates, were furnished with aerial radar and rockets, and had an inertial route framework, ground-assault PC and a gun. The Phantoms were equipped for working in a few jobs; the RAAF fundamentally utilized them as strike airplane. This job was chosen to get ready aircrew to work F-111s, and most preparing activities were centered around assignments that the F-111s would likewise have the capacity to perform. 

Aircrew preparing utilizing the F-4Es started three days after the air ship originally touched base at Amberley. The flying machine were at first worked as a pool constrained by No. 82 Wing (the parent base camp for No. 1 and No. 6 Squadrons) and were assigned between the two squadrons simply after every one of the Phantoms, aircrew and ground group had landed in Australia. The preparation program bit by bit expanded in unpredictability, with night flying start in October, work on besieging fights initiating in late November and aerial forays being flown from January 1971. Ground assault missions were polished from February 1971, and in June that year the Phantoms started dropping live bombs amid activities. The presentation of a few of the flying machine into administration was deferred by an underlying lack of extra parts, however all were operational before the finish of 1970. 

Amid their administration with the RAAF, the Phantoms were worked nearby the RAAF's Dassault Mirage III warriors and the Royal Australian Navy's Douglas A-4 Skyhawk ground assault air ship. Notwithstanding normal preparing flights, the Phantoms took an interest in significant air safeguard practices and furthermore flew practice forays against warships. The F-4Es likewise participated in airshows, including four that framed piece of the flying showcases directed in various pieces of Australia to stamp the RAAF's 50th commemoration amid March and April 1971. 

Support of the Phantoms was attempted by No. 482 Squadron and No. 3 Aircraft Depot, the two of which were situated at Amberley. Notwithstanding normal adjusting, these units changed the Phantoms' AN/APQ-120 radars amid mid 1971. Because of issues identified amid support, RAAF specialized work force checked all the flying machine for deformities to their crisis fold framework in September 1971 and utilized X-beam testing to identify any splits in their stabilators amid mid 1972. 

The RAAF's Phantoms endured a few mishaps. The first happened on 19 October 1970 when the frameworks expected to control the brake slide and nosewheel directing on board Phantom A69-7234 fizzled amid flight. It was chosen to utilize Amberley's capturing gear to moderate the air ship as it landed, yet this framework flopped after A69-7234's tail snare drew in the wires, making the Phantom slide off the runway. The pilot just endured minor wounds and the guide was safe, however A69-7234 was severely harmed. The airplane was consequently modified by No. 3 Aircraft Depot and came back to support on 30 September 1971; at the time this was the most perplexing Phantom fix errand to have been attempted by military work force in any of the nations working the air ship. The following genuine mishap happened the evening of 16 June 1971 when A69-7203 collided with the ocean amid an activity close Evans Head, New South Wales, bringing about the demise of the airplane's pilot and guide. The expense of this flying machine was discounted against that of an Australian Lockheed P-3B Orion that had slammed in the United States amid 1968 preceding being conveyed to the RAAF. Different mishaps including the Phantom included A67-7220 being over-worried in trip amid February 1971 (which prompted its motors being sent back to the United States for fixes) and A69-7206's nosewheel falling amid departure in January 1972. 

The RAAF was exceedingly happy with the execution of the F-4Es, and they assumed an imperative job in getting ready No. 82 Wing to work the F-111. Numerous faculty in the Air Force trusted that it would have been troublesome for the wing to have changed legitimately from the Canberra to the significantly more muddled F-111. Specifically, the Phantoms gave RAAF staff experience working air ship fitted with refined flying and equipped for utilizing a wide scope of weapons, and the escalated preparing program embraced by No. 82 Wing amid this period altogether improved its polished skill. In his book "Going Solo: The Royal Australian Air Force 1946– 1971", Alan Stephens likewise contended that the speed with which the Air Force's aircrew and specialized staff adjusted to working Phantoms "represented the RAAF's uncommon specialized skill". 

Fixes to the RAAF's F-111Cs were attempted from late 1971, and every one of the 24 were acknowledged on 15 March 1973. The RAAF considered holding the Phantoms after the F-111s entered administration, and the US Government offered to pitch the 23 remaining air ship to Australia for $54 million. Concentrates found that the forthright expense of keeping the F-4Es would be $77 million, and that one of the Mirage III squadrons would should be disbanded to man the Phantom-prepared units. By the by, the Air Board prescribed that the flying machine be held, yet a proposition to do as such was rejected by the Cabinet in 1972 on counsel from the Treasury. On the off chance that the Phantoms had stayed in administration they would have been utilized to give close air backing to the Army. 

The Phantoms started to be come back to the USAF in 1972. No. 6 Squadron stopped working the air ship on 4 October 1972. Six F-4Es left for the United States on 25 October that year, trailed by a further five toward the beginning of November. The initial six F-111s touched base at Amberley on 1 June 1973, and six Phantoms left for the United States five days after the fact. The last RAAF Phantom flight was made on 20 June, and four of the flying machine left the following day. The last two Phantoms left Amberley on 21 June. Everything except two of the previous RAAF Phantoms were in this manner changed over to master Wild Weasel airplane. 

A previous USAF F-4E is in plain view at the RAAF Museum in Melbourne. This flying machine, which did not present with the RAAF, was introduced to the RAAF by the National Museum of the United States Air Force in 1990, and is painted as one of the Phantoms worked by No. 82 Wing.