George Headley 

George Alphonso Headley OD, MBE (30 May 1909 – 30 November 1983) was a West Indian cricketer who played 22 Test matches, generally before the Second World War. Considered a standout amongst the best batsmen to play for the West Indies and one of the best cricketers ever, Headley additionally spoken to Jamaica and played proficient club cricket in England. West Indies had a frail cricket group through the majority of Headley's playing profession; as their one world-class player, he conveyed an overwhelming obligation and the side relied upon his batting. He batted at number three, scoring 2,190 keeps running in Tests at a normal of 60.83, and 9,921 keeps running in all top notch matches at a normal of 69.86. He was picked as one of the Wisden Cricketers of the Year in 1934. 

Headley was conceived in Panama however brought up in Jamaica where he immediately settled a cricketing notoriety as a batsman. He before long picked up his place in the Jamaican cricket group, and barely missed choice for the West Indies voyage through England in 1928. He made his Test debut in 1930, against England in Barbados, and was in a split second effective. Further triumphs followed in arrangement against Australia and in three more against England, as Headley ruled the West Indian batting of the period. Following his voyage through England in 1933, Headley marked as an expert at Haslingden in the Lancashire League, where he played until the episode of war in 1939. 

The war intruded on Headley's profession; in spite of the fact that he came back to Tests in 1948 he was hampered by wounds and did not accomplish his past dimensions of achievement. All things being equal, he was picked as West Indies chief in 1948 against England, the principal dark player to be designated to the position, despite the fact that a blend of wounds and governmental issues implied he just driven his group for one Test coordinate. He didn't play Tests somewhere in the range of 1949 and 1953, however continued his vocation in English group cricket, first in Lancashire and later in the Birmingham League. His playing profession finished in 1954 on his arrival to Jamaica, after an open membership paid his charge from England. In the wake of resigning as a player, Headley was utilized as a cricket mentor by the Jamaican government until 1962. He lived until 1983; his child Ron and his grandson Dean each played Test coordinate cricket, for West Indies and England individually. 

Headley was conceived in Colón, Panama on 30 May 1909, the child of DeCourcy Headley and Irene Roberts. Neither of Headley's folks was from Panama; his dad was from Barbados and his mom from Jamaica, yet they had moved to Panama while DeCourcey dealt with the development of the Panama Canal. When Headley was five years of age the Canal was finished, and the family moved to Cuba looking for further business. In 1919, worried by the measure of Spanish being spoken by her child, Headley's mom took him to Jamaica so he could be instructed in an English-talking school. 

Headley moved in with his mom's sister-in-law Mrs Clarence Smith, in Rae Town, Kingston, and stayed with her until her demise in 1933. His mom came back to Cuba, however consistently traded letters with her child. He went to Calabar Elementary School, where he played for the school cricket group as a wicket-manager, in spite of the fact that a small donning spending plan implied he needed to do as such without gloves. Afterward, he proceeded with his instruction at Kingston High School. Partaking on the whole day cricket matches at the neighborhood Crabhole Park, Headley started to pull in nearby consideration, and matured 16, he joined Raetown Cricket Club. In 1925 he scored his first century, batting at number three in the batting request in a counterpart for Raetown against Clovelly. 

On leaving school, Headley was named as an impermanent representative in a judge's court; this empowered him to play aggressive cricket for the St Andrew's Police side in 1926, in a container rivalry. Some noteworthy exhibitions for the club earned him an encouragement to rehearse with the Jamaica Colts group. Be that as it may, his activity made it difficult to visit, and he was not considered for the Jamaican side against Lord Tennyson's English visiting side in 1927. That year, Headley started working for Keeling– Lindo Estates, in St Catherine. The firm were energetic cricket benefactors, permitting representatives a break to play in matches, so that Headley had the capacity to go to rehearse with the Jamaica group all the time. He additionally moved to the St Catherine Cricket Club, captained by his quick predominant in Keeling– Lindo. To produce more salary, Headley accepted a second position, working for the Jamaica Fruit and Shipping Company, yet he needed a protected calling. To this end, he wanted to move to America to seek after a profession in dentistry. Be that as it may, he was currently nearly the Jamaica group and a deferral in the landing of the application frames for his American work license enabled him to make his top of the line debut for Jamaica against another visiting group driven by Lord Tennyson. 

Headley made his Jamaica debut against Lord Tennyson's XI at Sabina Park on 9 February 1928, in a match won effectively by the home group. Batting at number three, his first innings yielded 16 runs, yet in the second innings, he scored 71, achieving fifty keeps running in the same number of minutes. In the second diversion against Lord Tennyson's XI which started in Kingston on 18 February, Headley scored his lady top of the line century. Having scored 22 not out after the primary day's play, he achieved 50 keeps running by playing all around cautiously however in this way played increasingly brave shots. He hit the bowling of Alan Hilder for four successive fours and twice hit Lord Tennyson for three fours out of a column. At a certain point, thirteen of his scoring shots straight went for four. He was at last out for 211, the most noteworthy score at the time by a West Indian batsman against an English group. After the innings, Tennyson contrasted Headley with Victor Trumper and Charlie Macartney, batsmen considered among the best who at any point played. Headley closed the arrangement against Tennyson's group with innings of 40 and 71, to give him a total of 409 keeps running at a normal of 81.80. He additionally took his lady top notch wicket. 

Following his prosperity, Headley relinquished his imminent profession in dentistry. Albeit a few faultfinders expected his choice for the West Indies voyage through England in 1928, Headley was not picked. While West Indies played their debut Test arrangement amid that visit, Headley kept on playing for St Catherine's. He had another open door against English restriction in 1929, when a group driven by Julien Cahn touched base to play two top of the line recreations. Jamaica's separation from other Caribbean islands made it troublesome for their cricketers to increase great quality playing knowledge, so the continuous visits by English sides were critical to the improvement of Jamaican cricket. These visits likewise served to fabricate Headley's notoriety. In the primary match, Headley played a moderate, protective innings of 57, however he didn't achieve fifty in his other three innings. All things considered, he was picked by the Jamaican selectors for a West Indies XI, which included players from different islands, to play Cahn's group in their last visit coordinate. The home side lost the hurl and needed to bat in extremely troublesome conditions following precipitation. Headley found the quick bowlers troublesome, yet endure the period when the pitch was most hard to bat on before he was out for 44. In the second innings, he assaulted from the begin and utilized a wide scope of shots to achieve 143 preceding he was run out. In three matches against the sightseers, Headley scored 326 runs, averaging 54.33. 

An adjustment in the area of his activity implied that Headley moved to the Lucas Cricket Club in 1929. He visited America and played some presentation matches for the Jamaican Athletic Club in New York, scoring a century against a visiting group from Bermuda; his folks had moved to America by at that point, which empowered Headley to consolidate the cricket with his first visit to his folks in ten years. 

In 1930 the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) embraced a voyage through the West Indies which included four Test coordinates—the main Tests to be played in the West Indies. The MCC side was not at full universal quality; it included players who were either simply starting or simply finishing their global professions, and a few star English bowlers were absent. The principal Test was played in Barbados and Headley was chosen, making his introduction for the West Indies on 11 February 1930—to the dissatisfaction with certain Barbadians who figured his place ought to have gone to a neighborhood player. Batting at number three, he played forcefully in the primary innings yet the group barracked him and he was bowled for 21. Be that as it may, in the second innings he scored 176, turning into the primary West Indian to score a century on his Test debut and just their second centurion by and large. He imparted century organizations to both Clifford Roach and Frank de Caires, yet these were lacking to constrain triumph, and the match was drawn. Headley stayed in the Test side for the remainder of the arrangement, the main home player other than Roach to show up in every one of the four Tests. In Trinidad, amid the second Test, Headley found the new conditions troublesome—Trinidad was the main Test coordinate ground in the Caribbean which was played on a pitch produced using tangling rather than grass. Headley scored eight and 39 as West Indies lost the match. The home side leveled the arrangement with their first since forever Test triumph in the third match of the arrangement, played in British Guiana. In this match Headley turned into the primary West Indian, and just the fifth cricketer of any country, to score two separate hundreds of every a Test coordinate. His first innings of 114 was played fundamentally in help of Roach, who scored a twofold century. In the second innings, Headley scored 112 as West Indies batted with a major first innings lead, assaulting cautious English bowling. 

While on the way to the last Test in Jamaica, the West Indies group ceased in Panama and Costa Rica where official capacities were held in Headley's respect. In Jamaica, where there was far reaching celebration, Headley went to a few gatherings and festivities. At the point when the cricket continued, Headley scored 64, 72 and 55 of every three innings against MCC for Jamaica. With the Test arrangement level, it was concurred that the last match of the arrangement would be played until one group won, paying little mind to what extent it took—different Tests had been restricted to four days each. On the initial three days, England scored 849. In answer West Indies could just oversee 286, with Headley out for ten runs. Britain batted once more, to set West Indies an inevitable triumph focus of 836. This time, Headley batted for 390 minutes, confronted 385 balls and hit 28 fours while scoring 223. He and Karl Nunes included 227 for the second wicket. Headley played the snare all around successfully and hit many short conveyances for runs. At the point when Headley was befuddled, he had made what was at the time the fourth most astounding individual score in all Test cricket and the most astounding in a second innings. At the point when West Indies still required 428 runs, downpour succumbed to two days and the match must be relinquished after its ninth booked day. Headley finished the arrangement with 703 keeps running at a normal of 87.87. 

Headley was chosen for the West Indian voyage through Australia in the 1930– 31 season, under the captaincy of Jackie Grant. After a short visit to New Zealand where they played a non-top of the line coordinate against Wellington, the sightseers touched base in Sydney. Headley made a decent begin to the visit and pulled in applause from the press in Australia and West Indies. The main match of the Australian leg was against New South Wales, where the West Indians were bowled out for 188 and Headley was puzzled for 25. Notwithstanding, his runs came in under two overs and Learie Constantine later appraised this as a standout amongst Headley's best innings. In the second innings, Headley made 82, the top score, yet couldn't keep the visitors losing. The following match was likewise lost, as Bert Ironmonger took thirteen wickets in the counterpart for Victoria. In the principal innings, Headley scored 131 out of 212, viewed by one commentator as a standout amongst the greatest hundreds of years scored on the ground, and top-scored again with 34 in the second innings. By this stage the Australian bowlers had understood that Headley exceeded expectations when hitting the ball through the off side, and they started to adjust their strategies as needs be. In the last match before the Test arrangement started, against South Australia, Headley had issues playing the Australian bowlers, especially the leg turn of Clarrie Grimmett. The Australians bowled at Headley's leg stump with defenders focused on the leg side, making it troublesome for him to score runs. Headley scored 27 and 16 as his group were vigorously crushed. These bowling strategies were utilized in ensuing matches, and Headley discovered trouble in countering them. 

Toward the start of the primary Test, West Indies were bowled out 296 as Grimmett took seven wickets, including Headley first ball. In the second innings, with West Indies 80 behind, Grimmett again assaulted Headley's leg stump. In the wake of having his scoring limited, Headley lost persistence and in the wake of scoring 11 was confused, endeavoring to hit Grimmett. Bowled out for 249, West Indies lost by ten wickets. In the wake of scoring just three in the accompanying visit coordinate against Tasmania, Headley contributed 14 and two of every an innings rout in the second Test. After two overwhelming Test massacres for the voyagers, a few commentators trusted that the arrangement was too uneven and that a portion of the five Tests ought to be dropped. Headley's poor keep running of structure proceeded in the West Indian triumph over Queensland and, having put on weight, he was likewise battling with his wellness. With an end goal to beat Australia's leg stump assault Headley had modified his batting position; rather than remaining at right edges to the bowler, he turned his body increasingly front-on, to empower him to improve his situation of the ball on the leg side. His fast footwork empowered him to change his position if important to play the ball on the off side. He likewise wiped out from his strokes a hazardous spread drive he had created on Caribbean pitches. Amid the third Test at Brisbane, Headley made his first significant commitment to the arrangement, after Australia scored 558 batting first. Confronting Grimmett's leg side strategies, Headley figured out how to score uninhibitedly, and constrained Grimmett to adjust to an off stump assault. With ten fours altogether, Headley turned into the main West Indian to score a century against Australia, and was forgotten 102 not when West Indies were bowled out for 193. Compelled to pursue on, West Indies were rejected for 148 of which Headley made 28, the most noteworthy score of the innings. Ironmonger deceived him into playing the leg look and he was gotten by the wicket-attendant who had moved crosswise over fully expecting the shot. 

Headley kept up his great structure in matches against Victoria and South Australia after the third Test, scoring 77 and 113 in the primary match and 75 and 39 in the second. Albeit neither one of the matchs was won, the West Indians expected to take just a single more wicket to win the principal coordinate when it finished drawn, and lost the second by a solitary wicket. Be that as it may, the fourth Test was lost by an innings as Ironmonger again caused troubles for the West Indies batsmen. Headley top-scored with 33 out of the primary innings aggregate of 99 yet made just 11 on his second endeavor, being expelled the multiple times by Ironmonger. At this point the visit was making a budgetary misfortune, driving the sightseers to take economy estimates, for example, going by cable car. In discussion with an individual from the Australian Board of Control, Headley, Constantine and individual vacationer Tommy Scott proposed the specialists should create quicker pitches to empower people in general to see all the more assaulting cricket. It appears this counsel may have been paid attention to; the contribute was quicker a match against New South Wales, won by the West Indians, in which Headley scored 70 and two. In the fifth Test, West Indies won the hurl and batted first, which demonstrated leverage in a match tormented by unsure climate. Headley and individual Jamaican Frank Martin scored hundreds of years on the principal day in spite of bowling from the Australians which the Jamaican paper "Every day Gleaner" portrayed as great. Headley, playing Grimmett serenely at this point, batted for 146 minutes, and hit 13 fours. Over the span of the innings he accomplished the uncommon accomplishment in Australia of achieving 1,000 top notch keeps running on the visit. Allow, the West Indies skipper, pronounced the innings shut after downpour had tumbled to make the pitch progressively troublesome for batting. Australia were then bowled out for 224, 126 keeps running behind West Indies. The travelers scored 124 additional keeps running in their second innings, of which Headley made 30, preceding more downpour fell and Grant proclaimed for the second time in the match. Along these lines, the bowlers rejected Australia for 220 to give West Indies their first win over Australia, in spite of the fact that the arrangement finished 4– 1 to the home side. Headley scored 336 keeps running in the Test matches at a normal of 37.33, and 1,066 keeps running at 44.41 in all top notch diversions. 

On their arrival home, the West Indian players were generally welcomed by the general population and authorities; Headley got acclaim and indeed gone to capacities masterminded in his respect. In Australia Donald Bradman, the star Australian batsman, commended Headley, especially for the manner by which he had conquered his issues against Grimmett. C. L. R. James, the author and antiquarian, later composed that Headley's prosperity showed his dominance of batting. Headley landed in Australia as a fundamentally off-side player which represented his trouble against the Australian bowlers' strategies. Notwithstanding, James notes: "What he did, enduring an onslaught, in a manner of speaking, was to rearrange his batting to meet the new assault." So fruitful was Headley that he was depicted by Grimmett as the best on-side batsman against whom the bowler had played. 

Headley continued playing for Lucas on his arrival to Jamaica, drawing in incredible groups and exclusive standards. When the cricket season finished, he set out on another outing to America to play show matches, visiting his folks on the adventure. On his arrival for the 1931– 32 season, he was delegated skipper of Lucas and started planning for the expected voyage through Jamaica by another group driven by Lord Tennyson. Notwithstanding his customary practice, Headley started a program of running and swimming to improve his general wellness. Subsequent to performing admirably in the preliminary counterparts for Jamaica, he was chosen in the principal coordinate against the voyagers. Jamaica made a dubious begin, losing five wickets when their score achieved 215 however Headley had scored 130. He at that point shared an association of 487 for the 6th wicket with Clarence Passailaigue; 236 not out after the main day's play, Headley proceeded to score an unbeaten 344, in the wake of batting for 407 minutes and hitting 39 fours. Jamaica totalled 702, and won the match by an innings. Amid his innings, Headley passed the past most elevated score by any West Indian batsman, 304 not out by Percy Tarilton in 1920, and the most astounding score in the West Indies by any batsman, Andy Sandham's 325 of every 1930. His organization with Passailaigue took 248 minutes, and starting at 2015 remains a world record for the most astounding 6th wicket association in a top notch coordinate. The achievement of two home batsmen prompted festivities in Jamaica and commendation from the English bowlers for Headley's batting. Headley proceeded with his accomplishment in the second amusement, opening the batting and top-scoring with 84 in the primary innings. In the second innings, opening once more, he made 155 not out to manage West Indies to their triumph focus of 363. In the last match, Headley scored his third century of the arrangement in the wake of coming back to number three, amassing 140 of Jamaica's aggregate of 561. Jamaica won the match to win the arrangement 3– 0; Headley scored 723 keeps running at a normal of 361.50. In the rest of the period, Headley drove Lucas to triumph in the Senior Cup, scoring a century in the last. 

In the wake of playing in two preliminary matches, Headley was chosen to visit England in 1933 under the proceeding with captaincy of Jackie Grant. The English press theorized on Headley's capacity to adapt to English conditions, while anticipating that him should perform to an elevated expectation. In the occasion, "Wisden" trusted he legitimized the desires and expanded his notoriety. In the principal match of the visit he scored 52 out of a sum of 129 against Northamptonshire, in troublesome batting conditions on a wet pitch. He scored fifties in every one of his next three matches before scoring a century against the MCC amid his first appearance at Lord's Cricket Ground. In the second innings of this match, a short ball from Bill Bowes struck Headley on the chest, and because of this damage he missed three recreations, yet when he came back to the group he scored 129 against Glamorgan and 224 not out against Somerset. A calmer match pursued against Middlesex, however Headley achieved his second twofold century of the visit in the match against Derbyshire, which took him past 1,000 keeps running for the season. In spite of Headley's commitments, the West Indians won just a single of these matches and in this way lost the principal Test against England by an innings. Headley scored 13 in the West Indies first innings, and his 50 was the most noteworthy score when West Indies pursued on. Pundits were inspired by Headley's second innings execution, in which he scored his comes up short on 64 included while he was batting. Between the first and second Tests, in matches where conditions were troublesome for batting and perfect for turn bowlers, Headley scored three fifties and accomplished his side's most elevated score in every one of four innings. 

West Indies drew the second Test, staying away from thrashing without precedent for a Test in England. Headley scored 169 of every 375 minutes with 18 fours, sharing an organization of 200 out of 205 minutes with Ivan Barrow—who turned into the main West Indian to score a Test century in England, minutes before Headley turned into the second. At the point when the innings finished, Headley was as yet not out and the group gave him a brilliant gathering. "Wisden" portrayed Headley's batting as grand, showing "a prepared versatility and flawlessness of timing." The West Indies bowlers utilized Bodyline strategies in the England innings; England's Nobby Clark utilized the strategy in the West Indian second innings, in which Headley scored 24 runs. He was one of only a handful few of his side's batsmen ready to oppose the bowling strategies. 

Subsequent to scoring an unbeaten 257 out of a minor match against Norfolk, Headley scored 89 in his group's triumph over Glamorgan and 182 against Warwickshire. Notwithstanding, he bombed in the third and last Test, scoring nine and 12 as West Indies were crushed by an innings. The sightseers consequently lost the arrangement 2– 0; in the three Tests Headley's total was 277 keeps running at a normal of 55.40, the best figures for the group. After the Test matches were finished, Headley had an activity to expel a sebaceous blister from his brow and missed a few diversions, before returning for a finish of-season celebration coordinate in which he scored 167 against an England XI. At the point when the visit closed, Headley had scored 2,320 keeps running with seven hundreds, at a normal of 66.28. This was more than 1,000 runs more than some other visitor and set him third in the English five star batting midpoints for the season. Ivan Barrow trusted Headley achieved his batting crest amid the visit. He reviewed what number of bowlers endeavored to hit his cushions with the ball however Headley essentially flicked the ball away. Headley's exhibitions earned him determination as one of "Wisden's" Cricketers of the Year. The going with article called his visit "very nearly a triumphant walk" and depicted him as "the best batsman the West Indies have ever delivered." "Wisden" editorial manager Sydney Southerton likewise portrayed him as a mammoth in the group and stated: "From what we had been told by English players who had been toward the West Indies, we were completely arranged for Headley's prosperity, however all things considered, he bewildered a large portion of us." Headley bowled more than he had already: before the visit, he had taken three top of the line wickets, yet took 21 wickets in England at a normal of 34.33, bowling off turn. 

Amid the visit, Headley got news that his auntie had been slaughtered by floods in Kingston which had additionally decimated his home. Headley was extraordinarily influenced by the news, especially the idea of her passing. In spite of the fact that not ready to go to the memorial service, he needed to leave England on a prior ship than the remainder of the group, yet this couldn't be organized in time. 

Following his achievement in England in 1933, Headley was offered a two-year contract to play proficient cricket for Haslingden in the Lancashire League for £500 per season, the most elevated of a few offers. The cash was undeniably more than he was acquiring from filling in as a natural product picker in Jamaica, and in the wake of counseling the Jamaican Cricket Board, who exhorted him to acknowledge, he marked with the club on 8 September 1933. There was an extraordinary arrangement which permitted Headley to be discharged to play for West Indies. Living in Haslingden where there were barely any, other dark individuals, Headley confronted some bias from occupants. Be that as it may, he was for the most part invited and acknowledged. His first season was in 1934 and his first match was against Nelson, for whom Headley's West Indian Test partner Learie Constantine played. Headley had a troublesome match. As the expert, he was relied upon to open the bowling despite the fact that, as a spinner, he would regularly have bowled later in an innings. When he batted he was run out for a duck by Constantine in the wake of confronting one conveyance, and Haslingden lost the match. After this poor begin, Headley scored 1,063 keeps running in the season at a normal of 50.62, with three centuries. He changed his bowling style to medium pace and took 59 wickets at a normal of 16.59. In 1935 he scored more than 900 keeps running at a normal of 61.13, and took 34 wickets; his agreement was restored for an additional two years. In 1936 he again scored more than 900 runs, and took 54 wickets. In 1937 he broke the record for most runs scored by any player in a Lancashire League season, gathering 1,360 at a normal of 97.15, with five centuries; he likewise took 41 wickets. Headley's last two-year contract with the club secured the seasons 1938 and 1940, since he was relied upon to visit England with the West Indies group in 1939. The war averted him playing in 1940, so his last season with Haslingden was 1938. In spite of the fact that in that year his general batting execution declined, to 677 keeps running at a normal of 37.61, he took 76 wickets at 9.70 and had accomplishment in the Worsley Cup rivalry, including one innings of 189 not out in a match played more than five nights. 

Headley did not play any top of the line cricket in the West Indies in 1933– 34, yet came back to Jamaica in availability for the 1934– 35 MCC visit. The meeting group, under the captaincy of Bob Wyatt, was more grounded than English groups that had recently visited the Caribbean; notwithstanding a few deficiencies, "Wisden" and different commentators thought of it as sufficient for the assignment close by. 

The primary Test in Barbados was severely influenced by downpour which made the pitch practically difficult to bat on. West Indies batted first and were bowled out for 102; Headley's 44 was the most astounding score of the match. In answer, England had scored 81 for seven when Wyatt pronounced trying to make West Indies bat while the pitch was troublesome. In the second innings, Headley was out for a duck and Jackie Grant announced when West Indies had scored 51 for six, with the goal that England required 73 to win; they did as such subsequent to losing six wickets. In the second Test, Headley scored 25 in his first innings; in the second, he received a mindful methodology as his group driven by 44, hitting 93 of every 225 minutes. West Indies in this way bowled out England to win the match and level the arrangement. The downpour influenced third Test was drawn, with Headley's 53 his side's top score. 

The MCC went to Jamaica for the last leg of their visit. Headley played two counterparts for Jamaica against the visitors; he flopped in the primary diversion yet scored 127 in the second. The groups went into the fourth and last Test with the arrangement still dimension at one win each. West Indies batted first, confronting exact bowling. The neighborhood press censured the West Indies batsmen for moderate batting on the main day, however Headley scored 132. The "Day by day Gleaner" noticed that Headley kept up the controlled methodology he had set up in the season. On the second day, he took his score to 270 not out, and the "Gleaner" depicted him as "the virtuoso we as a whole know, scoring with all his old opportunity and dauntlessness." In complete, he batted for 495 minutes and hit 30 fours, recording the most astounding score by a West Indian batsman. It remained a West Indian record until Garfield Sobers scored 365 not out in 1958, and was the group's most astounding against England until Lawrence Rowe scored 302 out of 1974. West Indies scored 535 for seven and bowled out England twice to record their first triumph in a Test arrangement. Headley contributed 485 keeps running at a normal of 97.00. 

Headley came back to England to play for Haslingden in the 1935 English season, and played a solitary top of the line diversion, scoring a century for Sir L Parkinson's XI against Leicestershire. In the 1935– 36 season, the Yorkshire group visited Jamaica, playing three top of the line matches, winning one and drawing the others. The visiting region considered Headley the key batsman, and focused on him by bowling protectively trying to baffle him. Headley lost his wicket through restlessness in the principal coordinate, in spite of the fact that he scored a couple of fifties, however scored a century in the third diversion. Altogether, he scored 266 keeps running at a normal of 53.20, yet Yorkshire won the arrangement subsequent to winning the principal amusement, Jamaica's first annihilation at home in a five star diversion for a long time. The matches were played in a focused climate, however scoring was moderate and Yorkshire played attritional cricket. Amid the arrangement, Headley requested costs, which were not ordinarily conceded to the players. The Jamaican Board were hesitant to pay yet Headley called attention to that, as an expert cricketer, he was qualified for a similar treatment as the Yorkshire players, whose costs were given. The Board in the long run yielded before the arrangement finished. 

In 1936 Headley came back to England, and played not any more top of the line cricket until the two preliminary counterparts for the 1939 voyage through England. These matches were played in Trinidad where it was trusted the tangling pitches would most intently recreate English conditions; Jamaica played Trinidad and a mix group. At the point when Jamaica's skipper, Crab Nethersole, pulled back from the visit because of political duties, Headley drove Jamaica in the two matches and scored 160 and 103. Thusly, he was picked for his second voyage through England, under the captaincy of Rolph Grant. Headley opened his visit with fifties in his initial two matches and when the Test arrangement began, despite the fact that the sightseers had lost three matches, he had scored three centuries—103 against Cambridge University, 116 not out in a triumph over Essex and 227 as the travelers vanquished Middlesex. 

In the main Test, West Indies endured their solitary thrashing of the arrangement. Be that as it may, Norman Preston, the proofreader of "Wisden", expressed: "the match gave an individual triumph to Headley", as he turned out to be just the second cricketer after Herbert Sutcliffe to make two hundreds in a similar Test coordinate on two separate events, having recently done as such against England in 1930. He turned into the principal player to score two hundreds out of a Lord's Test, an accomplishment not rehashed until 1990. In the main innings, Headley scored 106 with 13 fours. Subsequent to offering a major association to Jeff Stollmeyer, he got little assistance from the other batsmen. He played carefully amid his 250-minute innings, as he knew that his group were depending on his prosperity. When West Indies batted once more, England had set up a lead of 127. Headley again batted protectively to score 107, taking two hours to achieve 50, as West Indies expected to bat for quite a while to verify a draw. Be that as it may, he scored keeps running from any free bowling and batted in for 230 minutes, hitting eight fours. Preston, writing in "Wisden", trusted the West Indians depended a lot on Headley's batting. He likewise noticed that Headley needed to play mindfully for his group and despite the fact that he hit incredible shots, "he was not the equivalent dashing batsmen that England knew in 1933." Headley had scored three centuries in continuous Test innings, however he couldn't forestall England winning this first Test by eight wickets. He kept on scoring vigorously in the visit matches, making an unbeaten 234 of every an innings prevail upon Nottinghamshire, trailed by 61 against Yorkshire on a sticky wicket, a standout amongst the best innings Neville Cardus had seen. 

The second Test was drawn, in the wake of being gravely influenced by downpour. Headley, albeit harried by the English bowling on a troublesome pitch, top-scored with 51 in West Indies' first innings however the other batsmen contributed nearly nothing. Headley scored only five in West Indies' concise second innings, finishing an arrangement of six fifties in progressive Test innings. After the Test, Headley scored 93 against Surrey however neglected to achieve fifty in his next three recreations, which included three single figure scores. West Indies expected to win the last Test to level the arrangement and the group set up a first-innings lead of 146. Headley played mindfully for 140 minutes, endeavoring to exhaust the bowlers, yet was run out for 65 of every a misconception with Vic Stollmeyer. The remaining batsmen played well, assaulting the English bowling. Preston trusted this match showed West Indies' capacity to contend at the largest amount. Be that as it may, England had the capacity to bat sufficiently long to verify a draw. In the Test arrangement, Headley scored 334 keeps running at a normal of 66.80, however did not play again on the visit after the last Test, as the group were encouraged to desert the last seven matches in view of the falling apart political circumstance in Europe. They landed in Canada on the day that Britain pronounced war on Germany. In all top notch matches amid the visit, Headley scored 1,745 keeps running at 72.70, putting him at the highest point of the period's top of the line midpoints. 

"Wisden" judged Headley to be the best batsman of the 1939 season, while different pundits evaluated him among the best batsmen on the planet, with good correlations with Bradman. C. B. Sear, a previous England commander turned columnist, composed that Headley's "center name ought to be Atlas", recommending that he conveyed the group on his shoulders. 

Following the episode of war, the Lancashire League clubs dropped experts' agreements, which means Headley did not finish his last year with Haslingden. Having come back to Jamaica, he worked in the Labor Department for the legislature and played cricket for Lucas, appreciating batting achievement and captaining his group to triumph in the Senior Cup on three events. Headley kept on playing for the group until 1947, when he left to play for the Kensington Club. Dissimilar to other Caribbean groups, Jamaica did not partake in between island rivalry, and in spite of the fact that Headley played some presentation coordinates in America in 1945, it was not until June 1946 that he participated in his next top notch coordinate. Trinidad played three matches in Jamaica and Headley scored 52 in the second diversion however possibly achieved his best structure when he scored 99 in the third. In any case, he was effective as a bowler, taking five for 33 in the main diversion, the main five wicket return of his vocation. This incorporated a spell of three wickets without yielding a keep running in 14 conveyances, provoking a pitch intrusion by the group. Headley additionally captained Jamaica in the last two matches of the arrangement against Trinidad after the official skipper was harmed amid the house group's success in the primary match—the other two were drawn. 

Preceding a visit by Barbados in March 1947, Headley was formally named as Jamaican commander. Past commanders of island groups had been solely white. Around this time, Headley mentioned the Jamaican load up offer help for low pay players with their pack and transport costs. In the primary diversion against Barbados, Headley scored 203 not out and 57 not out, took four for 40 in the visitors' first innings and another wicket in the second. In spite of the fact that the diversion was drawn, he had recorded Jamaica's most elevated score in a match between the Caribbean islands. The second match was additionally drawn; Headley made 79 preceding he needed to resign when he fell and harmed his knee. Another American visit pursued, in which Headley was joined by promising youthful players, before he drove the Jamaican group to British Guiana in October 1947. He played just two innings in the two matches, scoring 36 and 4 not out. Thumb damage in the main match implied he couldn't bat, in spite of the fact that he bowled 44 overs in the amusement. Headley was verbally mishandled by a segment of the group, who objected to a dark skipper; he was additionally disappointed with the unbiasedness of the umpires. Crab Nethersole, the Jamaican supervisor for the visit, announced that wounds to key players and the poor mentality of the group made the visit troublesome, in spite of the fact that Headley's captaincy was generally adulated. 

For reasons identified with class and race, it had been unbelievable before the war for the West Indies to name a dark Test skipper, yet the after war world saw social and political changes in the Caribbean. In spite of the fact that assessment was still partitioned over the benefits of a dark chief, Headley was selected as one of the West Indian commanders for the arrangement against the England group which visited the Caribbean in 1948. Crab Nethersole, the previous Jamaican commander and individual from the Board of Control for cricket, contended Headley ought to be inside and out skipper however a trade off was come to. Headley was booked to chief the first and fourth Test matches, played in Barbados and Jamaica, and the white players Gerry Gomez and John Goddard were given the captaincy of the second and third matches. In the occasion, Headley just played in the primary Test. In the principal innings, he scored 29 however stressed his back while handling. Batting towards the finish of West Indies' second innings, he scored seven not out. Downpour helped England to draw the match. Headley's back made him miss the second and third Tests, however he was fit enough to play for Jamaica when the sightseers landed there to play two diversions against the island before the fourth and last Test. After the main island amusement, in which he scored 65, Headley's solicitation to miss the second match to rest his back was denied by the Jamaican Board. He scored 36 not out, however disturbed his back torments and he pulled back from the last Test. West Indies won this amusement under the captaincy of Goddard, who had prior driven West Indies to triumph in the third Test. He was in this manner picked to commander West Indies in India in 1948– 49, in spite of Headley's accessibility and clearly better cases than the position. 

Chosen for the Indian visit after a particular solicitation by the Indian cricket experts, Headley did not have much accomplishment in the early matches and in the drawn first Test he scored just two of every an aggregate of 631. West Indies at that point moved to Pakistan; in a non top of the line diversion Headley accepting six wickets as a bowler, however then in a match against a delegate Pakistan XI he fell and harmed his side while endeavoring to take a catch. He batted in distress, scoring 57 not out. This damage implied that he had no further impact in the five-coordinate Test arrangement against India. Despite the fact that he kept on going with the group, he was unfit to play in any further matches until the last round of the visit, when he scored 100 against Ceylon Schools as the vacationers voyaged home by means of Ceylon. 

Headley played for the Kensington Club until 1950, when he continued association cricket in England; he returned for a last season with Kensington in 1955 preceding resigning from Senior Cup cricket. In the interim, he accepted another position as a protection specialist. This influenced his accessibility for cricket as he was never again ready to withdraw when playing for a group; on the off chance that he didn't work, he got no wages. Subsequently, he didn't acknowledge the captaincy of Jamaica amid the Test preliminaries for the 1950 voyage through England and did not go with the group. Press response was horrible towards Headley however the West Indies Board still needed to choose him for the visit. Be that as it may, Headley acknowledged an agreement with Bacup in the Lancashire League, to supplant Everton Weekes who was in the visiting party. 

For Bacup Headley scored 909 runs and took 20 wickets in 1950, preceding marking to play for Dudley in the Birmingham League in 1951. He and his family moved to Birmingham, and in each the following four seasons Headley found the middle value of more than 65 with the bat and under 17 with the ball. In his second season, the club bested the alliance. Altogether, he scored 2,878 keeps running for Dudley and, continuing off turn bowling, took 102 wickets. While in England amid this time, he played a few top of the line matches for a Commonwealth XI against an England XI; he scored 20 of every 1951 and gathered 98 and 61 out of 1952. 

Headley's prosperity for Dudley was observed definitely in Jamaica and reporters started to talk about his accessibility for the 1954 arrangement against England. An open membership to back his movement to Jamaica, opened by the "Every day Gleaner", raised over £1,000, and regardless of his reservations, Headley came back to Jamaica. Playing in a raising money coordinate, he continued hand damage and playing for the Combined Parishes in a minor match against the MCC, a short ball from Fred Trueman struck Headley's arm. The last damage kept him out of the top of the line coordinate among Jamaica and the MCC, yet he played in the second where, despite the fact that hampered by his damage, he scored 53 not out. The Test selectors had seen enough to incorporate Headley in the group for the main Test. Response among pundits was blended, and Headley, nearing his 45th birthday celebration, remains the most seasoned man starting at 2015 to play a Test coordinate for West Indies. Headley batted at number six, and it created the impression that England, under the captaincy of Len Hutton, let Headley score a simple raced to start his innings, which Hutton later affirmed to be the situation. In any case, Headley later contended that the run was given to guarantee that he was batting toward the start of the following over, with the goal that England could endeavor to get him out before he settled down. 

Headley scored 16 and 1 in the match, his last Test appearance. He utilized his experience to impact the commander, Jeff Stollmeyer, encouraging him not to implement the pursue on and to utilize leg hypothesis bowling to back off the sightseers' scoring. These strategies helped West Indies to a 140-run win in a match they may have lost; Stollmeyer pursued a comparative methodology in the accompanying match. In 22 Tests, Headley scored 2,190 keeps running at a normal of 60.83. 

Headley completed his vocation at Dudley toward the finish of 1954; his child Ron played for the club from 1957, having effectively played for its second group in 1952 as a 13-year-old. After his last Test coordinate appearance, Headley's solitary other top notch coordinate was in the Commonwealth XI apparatus in 1954, when he scored 64 in his last top notch innings. In a profession aggregate of 103 top notch amusements he totaled 9,921 keeps running at 69.86, with 33 centuries, and took 51 wickets at 36.11. 

Headley is viewed by pundits as a standout amongst the best batsmen from the Caribbean and one of the best batsmen ever. In his history of West Indies cricket, Michael Manley portrayed Headley as "the measuring stick against whom all other West Indian batsmen are estimated". In 1988, "The Cricketer" magazine set him in an untouched West Indian group, as completed a board of judges for another such group in July 2010, while in 2004, another board of specialists named him among the main five West Indian players. He was the principal world-class batsman from the West Indies who was dark, and was given the epithets "Map book" and "the Black Bradman" by analysts; some jested that Bradman ought to be classified "the White Headley". As per student of history Gideon Haigh, his job was made more earnestly by the shortcoming of his associates, as couple of exceptional players think that its simple to play in groups which lose often. In spite of the fact that he was a normally assaulting player, Headley wanted to play carefully inferable from the manner in which his group relied upon him. C. L. R. James trusted that no other extraordinary batsman needed to worry about such a concern for such a long time. In the years prior to the war, Headley scored 25.61% of the runs scored in Tests by West Indies, more than twice the same number of as the following best batsman, and 66% of the group's hundreds of years, scoring ten of the group's initial fourteen centuries in Test cricket. Headley as a rule batted at number three and as the opening batsmen were regularly rejected rapidly, he often started his innings early. 

Starting at 2014, Headley's normal in Test matches of 60.83 is third most noteworthy among those with 2,000 runs, behind Bradman and Graeme Pollock, and however for the Tests he played after the war, he would have been above Pollock. In all top of the line matches, he has the third most elevated normal with 69.86, behind Bradman and Vijay Merchant among the individuals who played 50 innings. He found the middle value of a century each fourth innings in which he batted, second again to Bradman, and did not endure a poor arrangement in his vocation before the war. 

Manley depicts Headley as simply under medium tallness with slanting shoulders. His developments were exact and prudent on the cricket field; his top was for the most part at a slight edge and his sleeves were fastened down to the wrist. "Wisden" noted in 1933 that his planning and arrangement of the ball was flawless. Particularly sharp witted, he watched the ball onto the bat more than some other batsman. As per "Wisden", every one of his shots were similarly great yet most prominent was his on drive played from the back foot. He hit the ball hard and was hard to get out. He confronted analysis for playing off the back foot so regularly, however R. C. Robertson-Glasgow trusted his square cut, late cut, and snare were especially great. Headley was especially viable on terrible batting wickets. C. L. R. James determined that Headley found the middle value of 39.85 and passed fifty on seven events in thirteen innings on troublesome wickets. As per James' retribution, Bradman in comparable conditions passed fifty once, and arrived at the midpoint of 16.66 in fifteen innings. Headley himself favored batting when the chances supported the bowlers as he needed to go for his shots and play his characteristic assaulting diversion. He expressed: "On an awful wicket, it was you and the bowler ...no jabber." 

Past cricket, Headley's prosperity was viewed as essential. Of Headley's gathering with the lord of England in 1939, the West Indian essayist Frank Birbalsingh stated: "That one of us—a dark man—could shake the hand of a ruler presented potential outcomes in the past undreamt of in our frontier backwater of racial inadequacy, mental subjection and political feebleness." Manley takes note of that Headley rose to progress during a period of political arousing in Jamaica, when the dark larger part of the populace were progressively resolved to end the minority standard of landowners and challenge the bigotry of the time. As per Manley, the white collar classes saw in Headley "the consolation which they required. He showed dark limit." The white high societies were glad for his accomplishments as a West Indian, yet Manley states "it was to the dark masses that Headley had the most profound significance ... [He] turned into the concentration for yearning of a whole people for verification: evidence of their own self-esteem, their very own ability. Moreover, they needed this confirmation to be laid at the entryway of the white man who claimed the world which characterized their conditions." Manley sees the title of "Chart book" in donning terms, yet in his conveying "the expectations of the dark, English-speaking Caribbean man ... He was dark perfection exemplified in a white world and in a white game." 

Following the 1955 cricket season, Headley was welcome to turn into a national mentor, a post made by the Jamaican government, which included working principally with youngsters. Headley and his second child made a trip back to Jamaica, while the remainder of the family stayed in England. Headley had an overwhelming outstanding task at hand, especially in rustic regions; together with his associate Dickie Fuller his job included urging younger students to watch and play cricket, and endeavoring to improve benchmarks and offices all through the nation. Headley ended up engaged with the choice of groups, taking some of them abroad. Right now, he found the future West Indian Test player Roy Gilchrist and future Jamaican cricketer Henry Sewell. In any case, pundits during the 1960s griped that there were insufficient Jamaicans in the Test side and accused Headley and Fuller, in spite of the fact that the administration stayed steady of their execution. In 1961, Headley instructed for a half year in Nigeria and earned commendation from the Nigerian Cricket Association. His official training job in Jamaica finished after another administration pulled back financing for instructing in 1962. 

Headley wedded Rena Saunders in 1939. He had nine kids altogether, including Ron Headley who was brought into the world two days after the finish of the Lord's Test of 1939. Ron Headley proceeded to play proficient cricket for the English areas Worcestershire and Derbyshire, and spoke to Jamaica before playing two Tests for West Indies in 1973. Another child, Lynn, achieved the semi-finals of the 100 meters and came fourth in the 100 meters hand-off at the 1964 Olympics; he additionally won a gold decoration with Jamaican run hand-off groups in the Central American and Caribbean Games of 1966 and silver with the transfer group at the Commonwealth Games of that year. Ron's child Dean, Headley's grandson, played Test cricket for England; the family therefore turned into the first to have three ages play Test cricket. 

After his retirement from instructing, Headley remained related with cricket, introducing grants and playing in agreeable matches. He was the official delegate of the Jamaican Cricket Board at Constantine's burial service in 1971. Official acknowledgment came Headley's direction when he was granted the M.B.E. in 1956 and was made a privileged life individual from the MCC in 1958. In 1969, a bronze model of his head was uncovered in Jamaica's National Stadium, and in 1973 the Norman Manley Foundation gave him the Award for Excellence in Sports. In the last year, he additionally got the Order of Distinction. He kicked the bucket in Kingston on 30 November 1983.