U.S. Highway 131 

US Highway 131 (US 131) is a north– south United States Highway, of which everything except 0.64 of its 269.96 miles (1.03 of 434.46 km) are inside the province of Michigan. The parkway begins in rustic Indiana south of the state line as a state street association with the Indiana Toll Road. As the street crosses into Michigan it turns into a state trunkline parkway that interfaces with the metropolitan zones of Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids before proceeding with north to its end at Petoskey. US 131 keeps running as an interstate from south of Portage through to Manton in the north. Some portion of this road runs simultaneously with Interstate 296 (I-296) as an unsigned assignment through Grand Rapids. US 131 shapes a vital passageway along the western side of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan, going through provincial ranch and timberland arrives just as urban cityscapes. Different names have been connected to the roadway throughout the years. The most established, the Mackinaw Trail, started from an Indian trail in the region while different names regarded legislators. An endeavor to commit the thruway to writer James Whitcomb Riley neglected to increase official help in Michigan. 

The primary state roadways along the US 131 passage were assigned as ahead of schedule as 1919. At the point when the US Highway System was framed on November 11, 1926, US 131 was made along the course of M-13 in Michigan. Initially finishing at Fife Lake on the north end, the roadway was stretched out to Petoskey in the late 1930s. Further changes were made, beginning during the 1950s, to change over portions of the way to a full interstate. The state began this transformation all the while at two areas: traveling north from Three Rivers, and heading both north and south from a point in southern Kent County. A third section was manufactured south of Cadillac and over resulting years Michigan filled the holes in the interstate. Cadillac and Manton were circumvent in the early piece of the 21st century, bringing about the present turnpike setup. Another huge scale development venture in 2000 remade a bizarre segment of the turnpike through Grand Rapids known as the S-Curve. Two extensions once in the past utilized by US 131 have been marked by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) as noteworthy structures; one of them has been recorded on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP). 

Plans to additionally expand the expressway have either been dropped or put back under investigation. Redesigns on the north end through Kalkaska stopped to be considered in 2000. South of Three Rivers, MDOT is concentrating conceivable moves up to US 131. One alternative for these updates is a full expressway, a choice that was at first rejected. The favored option in 2008 was a two-path sidestep of Constantine that opened in October 2013. 

Running in Indiana and Michigan, US 131 completely is recorded as a piece of the National Highway System, an arrangement of streets critical to the country's economy, barrier and versatility. As a state thruway in the two expresses, the roadway is kept up by the Indiana Department of Transportation (INDOT) and MDOT. The Michigan area incorporates roughly of interstate among Kalamazoo and Wexford areas. 

US 131 reaches out through Elkhart County, Indiana, between the passage to the Indiana Toll Road, a couple of hundred feet north of the Toll Road bridge, and the state line toward the north. State Road 13 (SR 13) runs simultaneously with US 131 in this segment however isn't signposted. INDOT reviews the streets under its control all the time to gauge the measure of traffic utilizing the state's thruways. These traffic includes are communicated as far as yearly normal every day traffic (AADT), a figuring of the normal day by day number of vehicles on a section of roadway. The 2007 review detailed normal every day traffic of 2,068 trucks. 

As a state trunkline parkway, US 131 runs roughly in Michigan, from the Indiana state line north to Petoskey. The thruway is an imperative connection between Grand Rapids and the vacationer regions of Northern Michigan. The trunkline enters Michigan around three miles () south of White Pigeon, crossing a part of the Michigan Southern Railroad before meeting US 12 on the west side of the town. The thruway goes through country farmland north to only south of Constantine, where US 131 swings northwestward to sidestep the downtown business area, crosses the St. Joseph River and proceeds with north to Three Rivers. The stretch of expressway among Constantine and the beginning of the partitioned roadway south of Three Rivers found the middle value of 1,045 trucks day by day in 2009 as indicated by MDOT, one of the most reduced AADT includes for the interstate in Michigan. 

US 131 goes through a business passageway along the west side of Three Rivers. M-60 runs simultaneously along this piece of US 131 until the two expressways meet the south end of the business circle through town. The principle street bends toward the upper east as it leaves town, and M-60 swings east to pursue Business US 131 (Bus. US 131) into downtown. The trunkline runs parallel to a part of the Grand Elk Railroad. North of the opposite end of the business circle, US 131 pursues a four-path surface parkway through rustic farmland in northern St. Joseph County. The expressway has at-level intersections with cross streets, however generally has restricted access from abutting property. This plan finishes on the south side of Schoolcraft, where the expressway advances to finish Grand Street town. North of town US 131 comes back to a freeway as the parkway proceeds through southern Kalamazoo County farmland. 

After a crossing point with Shaver Road, US 131 enlarges into a full interstate which passes the Gourdneck State Game Area as it enters the Kalamazoo metropolitan zone. US 131 meets I-94 southwest of Kalamazoo and grabs the Business Loop I-94 (BL I-94) assignment for a few miles. This optional assignment leaves the road at exit 36 and pursues US 131's business circle along Stadium Drive into downtown Kalamazoo close to the primary grounds of Western Michigan University. As the road passes the west side of Kalamazoo the environs change to a progressively forested and semi-local location. US 131 passes the northern end of Bus. US 131, an interstate goad available from the southbound paths of US 131. North of this fractional trade the expressway crosses into eastern Allegan County. 

As US 131 goes through the edges of Plainwell, it bends toward the upper east through a business zone revolved around the trade with M-89. North of this region US 131 crosses the Kalamazoo River and keeps running past the US 131 Raceway Park, a dragstrip near the M-222 exchange close Martin. The turnpike proceeds with north through blended ranch and woods land to the local locations that adjoin it in Wayland. Further north the parkway crosses into Kent County and the southern end of the Grand Rapids metropolitan territory. 

As the road proceeds with more distant north, and closer to Grand Rapids, it is fixed with progressively business and light mechanical properties. The unincorporated suburb of Cutlerville deceives the east as US 131 approaches M-6, the South Beltline Freeway, and meets in the biggest expressway trade in West Michigan. Picking up a third path toward every path, the trade extends over a half mile (0.8 km) in width and over a mile (1.6 km) long and envelops 27 bridges and 18 retaining dividers. US 131 proceeds with north through the city of Wyoming to the more rural local locations close to the southern city cutoff points of Grand Rapids north of M-11 (28th Street). 

The road proceeds through the southern end of Grand Rapids, close by local locations until Burton Street. A huge rail yard adjoins the trunkline on the east, and the interstate turns northeasterly on its way to deal with downtown. At Wealthy Street, the turnpike takes a sharp swing toward the west to cross the Grand River and quickly turns back north on a scaffold structure known as the S-Curve. The most astounding traffic volumes along US 131 are found north of this waterway crossing. In 2009, MDOT estimated an AADT of 5,992 trucks through the stretch between Market Avenue and Pearl Street. The trunkline proceeds past the Gerald R. Passage Museum and the Public Museum of Grand Rapids before the northbound carriageway traverses, at that point back under, the southbound paths, constraining traffic through this stretch to quickly drive on the left. North of I-196, US 131 grabs a second, concealed assignment on thruway stock logs called I-296, in spite of the fact that the number isn't signposted along the street. I-296/US 131 proceeds with the banks of the Grand River into Walker where the shrouded I-296 assignment swings toward the northwest along a progression of inclines to I-96 while US 131 bends toward the upper east along a twist in the stream. As it proceeds with the waterway the road goes through the unincorporated network of Comstock Park and close to Fifth Third Ballpark, home of the West Michigan Whitecaps nearby small time baseball crew. 

The trunkline turns north, far from the stream, as it nears the arena and goes through the rest of the northern suburb, changing to an increasingly rustic character as the road goes through the northern end of Kent County. M-46 joins US 131 from the west at Cedar Springs and the two thruways go into northwestern Montcalm County close Sand Lake. North of Pierson the scene is commanded by woodlands. M-46 turns east and leaves the turnpike close Howard City while US 131 proceeds into Mecosta County close to the Little Muskegon River. The road frames the eastern limit of the Manistee National Forest close to the waterway and north to Big Rapids. Further north M-20 joins the US 131 turnpike close Stanwood and the two roadways cross the Muskegon River while in transit to Big Rapids. The city is served by its own business circle and M-20 kills east the road along Bus. US 131 toward the fundamental grounds of Ferris State University. North of Big Rapids US 131 goes through country Osceola County to an intersection with US 10 at Reed City. 

Going through country Osceola County and giving access to rustic networks, for example, Le Roy and Tustin, US 131 approaches the south side of Cadillac in Wexford County. At exit 176, M-55 leaves a simultaneousness with M-115 and joins the US 131 road around the east side of Cadillac. This detour was worked in the mid 21st century and the old steering is presently a business circle through downtown. M-55 pursues the turnpike to exit 180 while US 131 proceeds around the east side of Cadillac and north around the east side of Manton. The most minimal expressway traffic tallies along US 131, 709 trucks in 2009, are on the upper east side of Manton, as the trunkline changes back to a two-path unified interstate before meeting the north end of Manton's business circle. 

The two-path thruway goes through the Pere Marquette State Forest and over the Manistee River, crossing the southeast corner of Grand Traverse County. It meets the southern end of M-113 in Walton, where it runs parallel to the Great Lakes Central Railroad. Going through Fife Lake, US 131 crosses into Kalkaska County and to South Boardman. The territory around South Boardman is set apart by farmland as the trunkline crosses the Boardman River in the little unincorporated network. The street indeed runs parallel to the railroad as it meets M-66/M-72 south of Kalkaska. The three thruways join and run simultaneously through downtown. North of town M-72 turns west toward Traverse City and US 131/M-66 proceeds with north through farmland into Antrim County. About north of town, remaining on the west side of the street, is the Shoe Tree. A nearby symbol since soon after the turn of the 21st century, the beginnings of the milestone are obscure. 

The trunkline pursues the railroad into Antrim and Mancelona. North of downtown Mancelona M-66 turns north toward Charlevoix and US 131 proceeds with the Mackinaw Trail, through Alba. M-32 pursues US 131 for a half mile (0.8 km) close to the network of Elmira. As it proceeds with more remote north US 131 enters the Mackinaw State Forest. Here, MDOT has determined the most reduced normal every day traffic checks of all on US 131: 448 trucks in 2009. The interstate goes through country Charlevoix County where the landscape has many moving slopes and starts to plunge to Lake Michigan. As the expressway enters the southern segment of the city of Petoskey it keeps running along Spring Street passing retail foundations and the Odawa Casino, possessed by the Little Traverse Bay Indian Reservation of the Odawa Indians. At the northern end of US 131, US 31 kills Charlevoix Avenue and pursues Spring Street toward the north. 

MDOT works 67 rest regions and 14 welcome focuses in the express, all named to pay tribute to resigned division representatives, in spite of the fact that sometimes an honoree's name might be dropped from the rest zone. Eight of these are along US 131, giving washroom offices, hound runs, cookout regions and for the most part candy machines. The rest regions close Kalamazoo, Rockford, Big Rapids and Tustin serve southbound traffic while those close Morley and Cadillac serve the northbound side of the interstate. The two close Manton and Fife Lake are open from the two bearings. A ninth rest zone used to exist close Cutlerville on the northbound side of US 131, yet this area was crushed on January 22, 2001, to clear path for the exchange with M-6. The division needed to assemble a substitution close Dorr, in northern Allegan County, however the plans were dropped in late 2001. 

MDOT has additionally manufactured carpool parcels for drivers along the expressway. There are 21 lots, everything except one neighboring a road trade. The office touts these parcels as an approach to set aside some cash and advantage nature, and has joined forces with a system of neighborhood organizations offering Local Rideshare Offices. 

Before Michigan turned into an express, the main land transportation halls were the Indian trails. The first Mackinaw Trail ran generally parallel to the course of the advanced US 131 from east of Kalkaska to Petoskey. In the nineteenth century, the Michigan Legislature contracted privately owned businesses to manufacture and work board streets or freeways in the state. These streets were initially made of oak boards, yet later enactment allowed rock also. Two lanes in the Grand Rapids region, Division and Plainfield roads, were initially board streets. The organizations were supported through the gathering of tolls. The framework was costly to keep up, and regularly the expressways fell into decay as the wood distorted and spoiled away. Imprint Twain once remarked that "the street couldn't have been awful on the off chance that some unconscionable rapscallion had not currently and, at that point dropped a board crosswise over it," after a stumble on the Kalamazoo and Grand Rapids Plank Road. By the primary decade of the twentieth century, just 23 of the 202 chartered freeways were still in activity; numerous organizations that got a contract never manufactured their predefined roadways. The rest of the board streets were swung over to the state or obtained by railroad organizations in the early piece of the century. 

The principal state-kept up thruway along the way of US 131 was M-13, an assignment connected to the street by July 1, 1919. US 131 appeared alongside the remainder of the underlying U.S. Expressway System on November 11, 1926, despite the fact that at the time it was appeared on maps from the Michigan– Indiana state line north to the little Northern Michigan people group of Acme in Grand Traverse County. The northernmost segment of the expressway between Fife Lake and Acme was not signposted in the field and the assignment finished rather at Fife Lake, about north of the state line. In the meantime, the Michigan State Highway Department (MSHD) redesignated the rest of M-13, between Fife Lake and Petoskey, as M-131. Open Act 131 of 1931 enabled the MSHD to assume responsibility for the city boulevards that brought state thruways through urban areas in the state. Until this point, the City of Grand Rapids discretionarily moved the course of state parkways through the city all the time. The division assumed responsibility for a progression of boulevards and fixed the steering of US 131 through the city after the entry of the demonstration. The expressway was moved between Three Rivers and Constantine toward the west side of the St. Joseph River in 1936. In late 1938 or mid 1939, the MSHD broadened US 131 northward over the southern area of M-131. After the progressions US 131 transformed eastbound into Fife Lake and north to Kalkaska and Mancelona before consummation in Petoskey. This expansion associated US 131 straightforwardly to its parent roadway, US 31, out of the blue. Before the finish of the 1930s, the MSHD under the initiative of future senator Murray Van Wagoner had moved accentuation to a program of street enhancements intended to make the state's streets "more secure and smoother for blossoming traffic volumes." 

In 1940, another roadway was opened, finishing the third side of a triangle between the intersection with M-113, Walton Corners and Fife Lake. US 131 was moved to the new interstate and the previous directing along the other opposite sides of the triangle turned out to be a piece of M-113 and M-186. A second realignment opened the next year between Fife Lake and Kalkaska. US 131 never again turned east along Boardman Road between South Boardman and Lodi. Rather the MSHD rerouted the parkway legitimately toward the upper east, from the finish of the past new directing north of Fife Lake to Kalaska. By 1945, a Bypass US 131 was made around the south and east sides of Grand Rapids, following 28th Street and East Beltline Avenue, while the primary interstate kept on going through downtown unaltered. After 10 years, mainline US 131 was rerouted around Grand Rapids over the previous detour course, and Business US 131 (Bus. US 131) was made for the previous course through downtown. A second business circle was made in Three Rivers, Michigan, after an interstate detour of the city's downtown was opened in mid 1954. Another interstate segment was opened among Mancelona and the M-32 intersection west of Elmira in late 1956. 

Before the finish of 1957, US 131 had been realigned as a turnpike from the Three Rivers sidestep to Moorepark. The segment of road in the Grand Rapids zone opened close to the southern province line north to 28th Street. This last road fragment was stretched out further south to Wayland by the center of 1958. By the center of 1960, the interstate was reached out to M-118 in Martin, where traffic utilized M-118 to associate back to the old steering. The southern end of US 131 was moved to another area on the state line. Rather than running simultaneously with US 112 between White Pigeon and Mottville, US 131 ran legitimately south of White Pigeon to the state line. All the while, the M-103 assignment was swapped with US 131. 

The MSHD had recommended that the area of US 131 south of Kalamazoo be worked as an electronic interstate under an offer through General Motors that year; the testing for such a roadway was at last done at Ohio State University. Another task, through the finish of 1961, stretched out the interstate south to Plainwell and north into downtown Grand Rapids. This augmentation was assigned as a major aspect of Bus. US 131 and opened in December 1961. The opening function for the scaffold over the Grand River incorporated the state roadway commission and the then-Miss Michigan, pulled by a group of sled hounds, to lead the main traffic over the stream. 

Until the mid 1960s, US 131 never left the territory of Michigan; the southernmost point was dependably at the Indiana state line. In 1961, the thruway assignment was reached out to its current southern end in rustic Elkhart County, Indiana at an association with the Indiana Toll Road in line with the province of Michigan. The MSHD asked the Indiana State Highway Department (ISHD) to stretch out US 131 more remote to reconnect with US 31 in Indiana close Indianapolis. Michigan State Highway Commissioner John C. Mackie said that authorities with the IHSD were "responsive to the thought" of a further expansion to Indianapolis which would give an "incredible advantage to Michigan's visitor industry". 

On December 17, 1962, the turnpike through downtown Grand Rapids was finished, including the area set apart as I-296. The business circle was expelled from the expressway when US 131 had its spot. East Beltline Avenue was renumbered as an expansion of M-44, while 28th Street holds the M-11/M-21 assignments it had notwithstanding US 131. I-296/US 131 keeps running nearby the Grand River between I-96 downtown and I-196 north of town. Toward the finish of I-296, US 131 tailed I-196 east toward the northern bit of the business circle at Plainfield Avenue and pursued Plainfield Avenue back to the rest of its steering north of Grand Rapids. The opposite end of the interstate was stretched out south to M-43 on the west side of Kalamazoo. Traffic there is guided along M-43 into downtown to associate with the rest of the interstate. 

Interstate development proceeded through the 1960s. Before the finish of 1963, the southern segment of turnpike was stretched out to Schoolcraft. The next year, a business circle in Kalamazoo was made. The new circle utilized a turnpike stub on the north and M-43 on the south to interface the fundamental parkway to the previous directing of US 131 along Westnedge and Park roads downtown. An irregular fragment of road, south of Cadillac into Osceola County, opened in September 1966. The interstate was broadened north from the Grand Rapids zone through the Comstock Park region in 1966. That year, the previous Grand Rapids Speedrome, a neighborhood race vehicle track was shut. Situated on North Park Street between the North Park Bridge and West River Drive, the track was in activity from 1950 until it was shut down for the turnpike development in 1966. The turnpike was stretched out further to M-57 (14 Mile Road) close Cedar Springs in 1969. 

In 1968, the area of road close Mancelona was downsized to a two-path roadway. The first roadway had been left set up when another parallel carriageway was worked in 1956. Amid the winter months, the first paths worked during the 1920s were shut in light of the fact that the level of the roadway aggregated extra snow and made it hard to furrow. The MSHD had considered reproducing the more established street to hold the turnpike setup, yet that would have cost $1.5 million while expelling it and for all time reconfiguring the 1956 roadway cost just $170,000 (identical to $ and $ in ). 

The 1970s saw the US 131 road grow to north of Grand Rapids. The area between the two M-57 intersections close Rockford and in Cedar Springs opened on September 21, 1973, at a devotion service highlighting then-Congressman Gerald R. Passage. Before the year's over, the interstate would be open as far north as Howard City. In the meantime, M-46 was realigned to stretch out south down the interstate to Cedar Springs and west to supplant M-57 west of Rockford. 

Development to finish these areas north of Grand Rapids had been postponed in 1967. Before the postponements, the MSHD wanted to have the hole in the interstate between Grand Rapids and Cadillac finished by 1974. The state even proposed including the expressway north of Grand Rapids to Petoskey, with a further continuation to Mackinaw City as a component of the Interstate Highway System with an end goal to get extra financing in 1968. In September 1972, the US 131 Area Development Association campaigned Congress to "assist subsidizing and need for the reproduction of US 131 in Michigan." 

The area of US 131 road south of the Wexford– Osceola province line was opened on November 9, 1976, at an expense of $7.4 million (equal to $ in ). By 1977, the state deferred any designs to finish the expressway north of Cadillac. The division refered to rising development material expenses and resistance to the road in Petoskey. Before the decade's over, I-296 signs were expelled from the area of road in Grand Rapids. Nonetheless, the road stays recorded as a piece of the Interstate Highway System. 

The following area of road opened between Howard City and Stanwood in 1980. Another portion was opened more distant north, bypassing Big Rapids by 1984. The previous course through town and a segment of M-20 were assigned as a business circle at the same time. US 131 pursued 19 Mile Road between the finish of the turnpike and the previous directing north of town. The hole was filled in when the turnpike section between Big Rapids and Osceola County was opened in 1986. The area of roadway along 19 Mile Road was exchanged to the Big Rapids business circle to interface it back to the new expressway. At the point when the developments finished, in the mid-1980s, it was normal that the US 131 road would finish at the south side of Cadillac, "maybe until the end of time". MDOT had finished all thought of extra turnpike mileage in 1981, refering to diminished gas charge incomes, diminished traffic and higher development costs. A 1979 report said that while traffic conjectures indicated proceeded with development, moves up to existing streets would be adequate to deal with traffic needs. 

One of the more uncommon segments of the US 131 expressway in the Grand Rapids zone is the S-Curve. This area of turnpike conveys US 131 over the Grand River with two sharp turns in the street, taking after the letter S. The plan for this structure was finished in 1952 and put the interstate on the most economical land in the territory, in spite of the information that it would sometime make issues. As substantiated by "The Grand Rapids Press" in 1981, "as far as possible on the S-Curve must be decreased as low as 25 mph [] on some awful climate days in light of the sharpness of the turns and [the] various mishaps [that] have happened there." 

On December 27, 1999, the state granted a $85.7 million contract (identical to $ in ) for the substitution of the S-Curve on US 131. Stores of gypsum under the roadway were dissolving and making it settle. A disintegrating span additionally constrained the reproduction of the turnpike through the zone. Development started on January 15, 2000, redirecting the generally 115,000 vehicles every day that utilized the stretch of street to alternate routes through the downtown zone. As a feature of the undertaking, a $1.2 million (proportionate to $ in ) de-icing framework was introduced. The framework is intended to shower a de-icing liquid on the roadway that would be conveyed via vehicle tires up to a mile (1.6 km) along the street surface. This liquid is required to liquefy ice at temperatures beneath the at which salt quits working. In contrast to salt, the non-destructive de-icer does not hurt the extension, however it is all the more expensive. The framework is intended to be initiated physically, or consequently through sensors along the street. In any case, furrowing would even now be required on the roadway. The thought behind the de-icing framework is to keep the asphalt wet and keep the arrangement of ice. 

Development delays were brought about by stream flooding amid spring downpours. A plan botch implied that one of the scaffolds in the structure was assembled a foot () excessively low, and Grandville Avenue was brought down to make up for the mistake. Prior to the opening, MDOT held a lace slicing function on the interstate to enable nearby inhabitants to stroll along the structure on August 12. The main northbound paths were opened to traffic in mid-August, three weeks in front of calendar. Lead temporary worker Kiewit Western, an organization whose "representatives have been known to work 13-hour days and 100-hour weeks", quickened their work routine through the span of the task to make up for the postponements and still completion the endeavor early. The rest of the paths opened to traffic on October 26, likewise in front of calendar. Extra work began after the primary roadway opened by shutting different slopes for recreation. This work additionally centered around reestablishing parking garages situated under or contiguous the interstate and testing the de-icing framework; the last inclines were opened toward the beginning of December 2000 and early January 2001. The final product of the development created an expressway structure that expanded the appraised traffic speed from . 

MDOT endorsed a $3.5 billion 10-year transportation plan (proportional to $ in ) in 1986 that incorporated an augmentation of the US 131 expressway north to Manton. Development began the Cadillac sidestep in 1999, and the main segment was opened to traffic in November 2000. This southern section kept running from US 131 south of town to M-55 east of downtown. US 131 remained directed through downtown, yet M-55 was rerouted to the detour. Neighborhood inhabitants were permitted to utilize the northern segment of the detour for recreational exercises until it was opened to traffic. The full detour around Cadillac was committed to Sidney Ouwinga in a service on October 27, 2001, and the street was opened to traffic on October 30, 2001. The previous steering through town was redesignated Bus. US 131 in the meantime. Ouwinga was a state official who kicked the bucket in 1991 while serving in the Michigan House of Representatives. He was likewise an individual from the US 131 Area Development Association which advanced further northern augmentations of the turnpike. The turnpike extension north around the city of Manton was opened in 2003. The previous directing was redesignated as a business circle at the time. The two detours cost $146 million (identical to $ in ) to finish. 

Configuration plans for the new scaffold over the St. Joseph River were declared in January 2011. The normal momentous on the endeavor was booked for February 4, 2013, with arranged culmination in 2014. Inhabitants in the network were isolated over the proposed thruway. Entrepreneurs look to the 3,000 cars and trucks that go through downtown Constantine every day for clients, traffic that would be redirected around the town by the new roadway. Then again, inhabitants that work outside of the little network were anticipating diminished drive times to their working environments. The detour opened on October 30, 2013. 

Initially, MDOT and its forerunner offices had intended to change over US 131 into an interstate right to Petoskey. They recommended adding the roadway to the Interstate Highway System in the late 1960s, when the central government took recommendations for options to the system of thruways. While further northward expansion of the turnpike from Manton to Kalkaska and past was deferred by the office during the 1970s, and dropped "maybe everlastingly" in the mid 1980s, MDOT made an endeavor to restore the augmentation to Kalkaska in 2000. The proposition was eventually surrendered when the year's transportation plan was settled. An extension substitution venture over the Manistee River in 2009– 10 guaranteed the finish of further thought by MDOT of the proposition. As indicated by the neighborhood venture chief, "at present, the office has no plans [to grow the freeway]. Some time or another it might occur, however not within a reasonable time-frame." 

A southerly expansion of the interstate to or close to the Indiana state line is still under investigation. Upgrades to the US 131 hall from Portage to the Indiana Toll Road have been in progress for quite a while and in spite of the fact that a late-2005 choice by MDOT to not seek after another controlled-get to course through St. Joseph County appeared to end the discourse, open clamor and reaction from nearby administrators constrained the division to reconsider its choice. State House Speaker Craig DeRoche was incredulous of the first choice, refering to the monetary advancement advantage such a street would convey to the region with regards to the proposed road. The past "no-fabricate choice" was repealed in April 2006. 

MDOT has started a task to redesign a fragment of US 131 in St. Joseph County, home of a standout amongst the most unsafe roadway segments in Southwest Michigan for auto crashes.<ref name="killian/parker"></ref> The last ecological effect explanation for the task was distributed in mid-2008 and the favored elective comprises of a two-path street bypassing the town of Constantine. The new roadway would keep up access to nearby streets by means of at-level crossing points, and the division would keep up locale of the old course through town. MDOT has expressed that present traffic requests don't warrant the expense of a full turnpike office on another arrangement from the Indiana Toll Road to north of Three Rivers, expressing that such a task would cost over $300 million (proportional to $ in ) to manufacture. Development plans were set on hold after a declaration in June 2009 as different proposition around the state, including the Constantine sidestep, were racked until subsidizing issues could be settled. Altogether, 137 road and connect ventures totaling $740 million were deferred to 2012 in light of the fact that the state couldn't coordinate accessible government subsidizing to pay for the work. 

US 131 and its forerunners bears a few remembrance assignments notwithstanding the Sidney Ouwinga Memorial Bypass close Cadillac. One of the most seasoned is the Mackinaw Trail, named after a previous Indian trail that kept running from Saginaw to Mackinaw City and Sault Ste. Marie. By 1915, the name was exchanged to the roadway that was later numbered US 131. The Mackinaw Trail Association was shaped that year to advance an all-climate parkway between Grand Rapids and Mackinaw City, utilizing a logo joining a trout for the street. The name was to be formally connected to the parkway in 1929, however the State Senate did not consent to the proposition. The official underwriting of the name came in 1959, after the opening of the Mackinac Bridge revived the thought. 

Amid World War I, families would show an administration banner if a relative was serving in the war. A blue star meant an administration part in real life, and a gold star symbolized somebody who kicked the bucket in the military. In St. Joseph County, the sections of the Daughters of the American Revolution and the American Legion needed to respect the nearby fallen fighters. Utilizing the banners as motivation, they planted 100 black walnut and four Norway spruce trees along the street south of Three Rivers. Devoted on May 4, 1924, this tribute was named the Gold Star Memorial Highway and kept running for along what is presently US 131 south of Three Rivers. 

In 1921, the segment of parkway south of Kalamazoo was named some portion of the Colgrove Highway. This assignment incorporated a few different streets in the Lower Peninsula, all named to pay tribute to Philip Colgrove, the main leader of the Michigan Good Roads Association. Colgrove was likewise the Barry County examiner and a state congressperson in the late nineteenth century. No maps reports the name, in spite of the fact that the first law stays in records. The Michigan Legislature proposed a bill in 2000 that would have canceled the 1921 resolution naming the Colgrove Highway, yet the bill eventually blurred, saving the name. 

In the age of the auto trails, it was regular for parkways to be named as opposed to numbered. An endeavor to make a trail, for example, the Lincoln Highway flopped in Michigan. Younger students in 1926 from Anderson, Indiana, needed to respect James Whitcomb Riley, the writer from the Hoosier State, with a parkway that associated the nation's mid year and winter resort territories. The Michigan fragment of the street going through the state was to pursue what might later be US 131. The James Whitcomb Riley Association advanced the parkway by painting white groups on utility poles with the name of the street in orange letters amid that August and September. Be that as it may, the street being referred to was at that point named the Mackinaw Trail, and the affiliation did not verify consent of the state thruway official, as was required by a 1919 Michigan law. The law made it illicit for any "relationship to portray or check some other courses or trails through the State of Michigan... except if the equivalent will be affirmed recorded as a hard copy by the State Highway Commissioner." accordingly, government authorities would not embrace the affiliation's proposition, and Michigan was rejected from the expressway. The endeavors of the national affiliation were hindered by the stopped advancement, and the roadway was disbanded by December 1926. 

The Michigan Trail, another auto trail from the 1920s, "pursued pretty much every significant trunk line around then in the Lower Peninsula and secured over a thousand miles [] of state parkways." The Michigan Trail began in Toledo, Ohio, and rushed to Detroit; its branches reached out to New Buffalo, Grand Rapids, and Port Huron. Different sections included US 131 among Kalamazoo and Petoskey, US 31 between New Buffalo and the Straits of Mackinac and a course between Port Huron and Big Rapids. The thruway flopped as an idea since it needed center, and a significant number of the fragments of roadway had effectively doled out names. 

The latest name connected to US 131 is identified with the first. Instituted in 2004, Public Act 138 added an extra name to the Mackinaw Trail from the M-66 intersection close Kalkaska to Petoskey, the "Green Arrow Route-Mackinaw Trail". Occupants of the state have scrutinized the insight of having a "compound street name whose billboards [would] be almost as long as the roadway itself." 

MDOT keeps up a posting of notable scaffolds that incorporates two which in the past conveyed US 131. In 1913, the State Trunk Line Act required the expressway division to fabricate and keep up scaffolds at the state's cost in the event that they were incorporated into the beginning parkway framework. Among the first of these state-assembled structures is the Division Avenue– Plaster Creek Bridge in Grand Rapids. The intersection is recorded on the NRHP for its compositional and designing noteworthiness. Worked as Trunk Line Bridge No. 3 over Plaster Creek in 1914 by the MSHD, the range cost simply over $6,000 (proportionate to $ in ). Division Avenue conveyed US 131 until the development of the expressway through Grand Rapids during the 1960s. The scaffold, a filled spandrel curve configuration, is , and was changed in 1935 to extend its deck from to the current . The structure was included to the NRHP December 17, 1999. 

The second scaffold recorded by MDOT is the intersection of the Little Muskegon River for 190th Avenue in southern Mecosta County. Like the Plaster Creek connect, this structure was likewise worked by the MSHD under the Trunk Line Act of 1913. Worked in 1916– 17 the , concrete through-support connect cost around $10,000 (proportionate to $ in ) to assemble. It was at first named Trunk Line Bridge No. 61. The range is the most established solid support connect structured by the MSHD. US 131 pursued 190th Avenue over the waterway until a realignment moved the parkway to another course in 1927.