Stone Mountain Memorial half dollar 

The Stone Mountain Memorial half dollar was an American fifty-penny piece struck in 1925 at the Philadelphia Mint. Its fundamental intention was to fund-raise for the benefit of the Stone Mountain Confederate Monumental Association for the Stone Mountain Memorial close Atlanta, Georgia. Planned by stone worker Gutzon Borglum, the coin includes a portrayal of Confederate commanders Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson on the front-side and the subtitle: "Remembrance to the Valor of the Soldier of the South" on the turn around. The piece was likewise initially proposed to be in memory of the as of late expired president, Warren G. Harding, yet no notice of him shows up on the coin. 

In the mid twentieth century, proposition were made to cut a substantial figure in memory of General Lee on Stone Mountain, a gigantic shake outcropping. The proprietors of Stone Mountain consented to exchange title on condition the work was finished inside 12 years. Borglum, who was, similar to others included, a Ku Klux Klan part, was locked in to plan the commemoration, and proposed extending it to incorporate a gigantic landmark delineating Confederate warriors, with Lee, Jackson, and Confederate President Jefferson Davis driving them. 

The work demonstrated costly, and the Association upheld the issuance of a dedicatory half dollar as a pledge drive for the remembrance. Congress affirmed it, however to pacify Northerners, the coin was additionally made to pay tribute to Harding, under whose organization work had started. Borglum structured the coin, which was over and over rejected by the Commission of Fine Arts. All reference to Harding was expelled from the structure by request of President Calvin Coolidge. 

The Association supported broad deals endeavors for the coin all through the South, however these were harmed by the terminating of Borglum in 1925, which estranged huge numbers of his supporters, including the United Daughters of the Confederacy. A 1928 review of the raising money demonstrated over the top costs and abuse of cash, and development stopped that year; a downsized figure was in the long run finished in 1970. Due to the substantial amounts issued—over a million stay surviving—the Stone Mountain Memorial half dollar stays reasonable contrasted and different U.S. commemoratives. 

The principal European-dropped pioneers possessed the land around Stone Mountain, Georgia, today in the east Atlanta rural areas, around 1790. They called the extensive outcropping, about long and high, "Shake Mountain". Rev. Adrel Sherwood of Macon, Georgia, first named it Stone Mountain in 1825. The town of New Gibraltar was established close-by in 1839; its name would be changed to Stone Mountain by the Georgia Legislature in 1947. From about the season of the American Civil War, the mountain was utilized as a quarry; this would not so much stop until the 1970s. 

John Gutzon de la mothe Borglum (more often than not called Gutzon Borglum) was conceived in Idaho Territory in 1867, to one of a few spouses of a Dane who had changed over to Mormonism. As a kid, Borglum lived in different places in the Far West. Swinging to workmanship as a vocation, he went to the San Francisco Art Academy, the Académie Julian, and the École des Beaux-Arts. Enormously affected by Rodin, whom he met, Borglum changed from painting to design in 1901. His "Horses of Diomedes" won a gold decoration at the 1904 Louisiana Purchase Exposition in St. Louis, and turned into the main work of figure to be acquired by the Metropolitan Museum of Art. 

In 1914, supervisor John Temple Graves wrote in the "Atlanta Georgian", proposing the foundation of a remembrance to Confederate General Robert E. Lee on Stone Mountain, "from this supernatural distinction let our Confederate legend tranquilly look history and the future in the face!" Others who required the foundation of a Confederate commemoration there included William H. Terrell, an Atlanta lawyer who trusted that while the North had burned through a huge number of dollars on landmarks to the Union, the South had not adequately regarded Confederate saints. Additionally dynamic in the beginning of the Stone Mountain proposition was Helen Plane (1829– 1925), who had been a beauty from Atlanta before the war, and whose spouse had given his life at the Battle of Antietam in 1862. She gave an incredible rest to protecting the memory of the Southern reason. 

The arrival of the film "The Birth of a Nation" in 1915 started expanded enthusiasm for the Confederate reason in the South. Plane, who was lifetime privileged leader of the Georgia association of the United Daughters of the Confederacy (UDC), solicited Borglum to cut the picture from General Lee on the mountain. The Stone Mountain venture was at first a UDC attempt. Authorities initially thought about a landmark of maybe by . Putting that on Stone Mountain, Borglum as far as anyone knows expressed, would resemble putting a postage stamp on an animal dwellingplace. He proposed an a lot bigger model, high and long, and attracted up plans his Stamford, Connecticut, studio. He imagined a tremendous delineation of the Confederate armed force, including big guns and infantry, just as 65 Confederate commanders, five to be designated by the legislative leader of each Southern state. In 1917, the Stone Mountain Confederate Monumental Association (the Association) was established to plug and raise assets for a gigantic model at Stone Mountain. Samuel H. Venable and his family, proprietors of the land, consented to deed it over for a landmark, on condition that if the task was not finished in 12 years, title would return to them. A formal commitment occurred in May 1916; the primer work was hindered by the US passage into World War I in 1917. 

Another association which checked out the Stone Mountain work was the as of late restored Ku Klux Klan, of which both Venable and Borglum were individuals. The Klan, through a great part of the 20th century, held ordinary settlements on or close Stone Mountain. Plane, in a 1915 letter to Borglum, expressed that the first Klan had spared the South from "Negro control" in the Reconstruction time, and proposed that the structure incorporate a little gathering of Klansmen in robes, found out yonder, drawing closer. 

Starting in 1920, the venture gradually went under the control of Atlanta agents, acquired to help with the enormous gathering pledges, and the UDC progressed toward becoming minimized. The work on the model continued on June 18, 1923, when Borglum started cutting Lee's consider along with the mountainside; he got ready for General Stonewall Jackson and Confederate President Jefferson Davis to be near to Lee. Borglum's arrangements were for a gigantic figure delineating the Confederates, a commemoration corridor cut from the rock at the base of the mountain in which fine arts and antiquities could be shown (just as moves of respect posting the givers) and a mammoth amphitheater adjacent. He assessed the absolute expense at $3.5 million. Rather, the extent of the task was downsized, however unique sources give shifting cost gauges and measurements. Borglum marked an agreement to finish the gathering of Lee, Jackson, and Davis inside three years for an expense of $250,000. 

The work was costly and by November 1923, the Association chose to advocate for a memorial coin which it could purchase from the legislature without needing any proof and sell at a higher cost than expected as a pledge drive. Two men each looked for acknowledge for coming up for the thought for a coin. Daniel W. Webb, official secretary of the Association, said he had thought of it subsequent to finding an Alabama centennial half dollar at home; columnist Harry Stillwell Edwards made a comparative case and clearly gathered a reward from the Association. 

On November 16, 1923, Edwards wrote to Bascom Slemp, secretary to President Calvin Coolidge (the past president, Warren G. Harding, had as of late passed on). Edwards organized a gathering between the President and himself, affiliation president Hollins N. Randolph (an Atlanta legal advisor and direct relative of early president Thomas Jefferson), and Borglum. President Coolidge consented to help approving enactment for a Stone Mountain coin. 

Borglum later expressed that the Association requested that he write to individuals in Washington in light of his contacts in the Republican Coolidge organization. He kept in touch with the ground-breaking Republican Massachusetts congressperson, Henry Cabot Lodge, asking him to help enactment for a Stone Mountain dedicatory coin; the intrigue clearly worked, as late in 1923 the advisory group executives having locale over coinage, Reed Smoot in the Senate and Louis Thomas McFadden in the House of Representatives, presented enactment for a Stone Mountain Memorial half dollar. McFadden later composed that he supported the enactment in view of his kinship with Borglum. With the danger of sectional restriction if the coin just regarded the South, the bill's backers included language making the new half dollar additionally in memory of the as of late expired Harding (an Ohioan), amid whose administration the reestablished work had started. The bill gone by consistent assent in the House on March 6, 1924, and in the Senate five days after the fact; Coolidge marked it on March 17. The bill approving the coin read: 

Borglum was occupied between the entry of the bill and the finish of May 1924, first taking a shot at the Children's Founders Roll decoration, and after that the half dollar. The Children's Founders Roll was available to white youngsters up to the age of 18 who contributed one dollar to the structure of the landmark. Borglum should in any case have been calibrating the landmark's structure; Jackson's stance on the award contrasts from that on the coin. Not at all like the issued coin, Borglum's models demonstrated the front piece of Davis' pony, in spite of the fact that the Confederate president is concealed, and walking warriors show up out of sight. Borglum met with Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon who addressed first why "In God We Trust" showed up straightforwardly over Lee's head; Borglum reacted that it was to pay tribute to the Confederates' confidence. Mellon at that point asked what the thirteen stars on the front spoke to; Borglum answered that those on the north side of the Mason– Dixon line could think about them to speak to the thirteen unique provinces (those south of it, the suggestion was, could believe them to be a tribute toward the Southern states). Mellon giggled and gave primer endorsement. On July 2, Mellon demonstrated the plans to President Coolidge; they were then sent to the Commission of Fine Arts for its individuals' sentiments. 

As per numismatists William D. Hyder and R.W. Colbert, "Borglum, to say it gently, was an inconsistent craftsman who figured out how to irritate most everybody with whom he worked". They note that "Borglum's past discourteousness had not abandoned him in the great graces of the workmanship network" and his plans met an antagonistic gathering at the commission. Stone carver part James Earle Fraser, architect of the Buffalo nickel, dismissed Borglum's underlying plan on July 22, eight days after they were gotten. The engraving on the turn around incorporated a tribute to Harding; Fraser regarded it inartistic. Borglum presented a second set on August 14, this was again dismissed; the commission scrutinized the structure, which appeared to be just a fragment of a bigger one, instead of explicitly intended to fit a half dollar. Borglum needed to overlook what he esteemed "damn trick recommendations", however the Association took steps to flame him in the event that he didn't total the coin. Borglum was concerned the invert was still excessively swarmed, and proposed leaving off the bird, yet space was spared when Coolidge disliked the reference to Harding, and it was excluded. With the hawk still set up on the turn around, Fraser at last affirmed the plans on October 10, 1924. On the whole, Borglum made nine mortar models for the plan. 

Despite the fact that every single important endorsement had been gotten, the Philadelphia Mint would not continue with arrangements due to the absence of the notice of Harding, which it accepted was congressionally commanded. Borglum wired Coolidge on October 31, advising him of the issue; the President affirmed his endorsement of the structure the next day. Regardless of the help of the government for the coin, the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR), an association of Union Civil War veterans, attempted to keep the issuance of a coin they accepted respected conspiracy by campaigning in late 1924 and mid 1925. Work on the figure moderated (the head of Jackson was then being cut) as a result of the artist being diverted by planning the coin, defects in the stone on Stone Mountain, and the way that the Association had stopped raising money endeavors fully expecting a battle to sell the coin. Incomes from the award were not adequate to meet costs. 

The front-side of the half dollar delineates Confederate commanders Lee and Jackson, the last with head exposed, mounted on horseback. Albeit both Lee and Jackson were regarded in the North, Davis would not have been worthy on a government coin, and he was precluded, in spite of the fact that he shows up on the Children's Founders Roll award which Borglum adjusted for the front-side of the half dollar. There are thirteen stars in the upper field of the front; they speak to the thirteen states which either joined the Confederacy or had Confederate groups. Borglum's initials, "GB", are found on the extraordinary right of the piece, close to the steeds' tails. The invert portrays a falcon with wings extended, agent of freedom, roosted upon a peak. There are 35 stars in the field, as far as anyone knows to speak to the quantity of states toward the beginning of the Civil War, in spite of the fact that there were in truth 34 of every 1861, and there were 35 states just from 1863 to 1864, between the confirmations of West Virginia and Nevada. 

Workmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule, writing in 1971, noticed that the half dollar speaks to a surprising condition in American craftsmanship, where a fashioner utilizes a coin as a "bozzetto" or little scale model of a work to be finished. Vermeule considered the kids' award a superior masterpiece, because of the consideration of Davis. He trusted that Borglum's unique plan, before its dismissal by the Commission of Fine Arts, was prevalent, as it incorporated a feeling of movement through the portrayal of walking troopers out of sight, adjusted by the consideration of the leader of Davis' steed, however the Confederate president himself is inconspicuous. As indicated by Vermeule, the first structure "would have made a wonderful coin, a bizarre pressure of monumentality and power into a constrained and unconventional verifiable space". 

The Medallic Art Company of New York changed over Borglum's models to coinage kicks the bucket. The initial 1,000 Stone Mountain Memorial half dollars were struck on an award press at the Philadelphia Mint on January 21, 1925, the 101st commemoration of General Jackson's introduction to the world; Borglum and authorities of the Association were available. The primary piece struck was mounted on a plate made of gold dug in Georgia for introduction to President Coolidge. The second was mounted on a silver plaque, and displayed to Secretary Mellon. The rest of the initial thousand were set in numbered envelopes; some were exhibited to authorities or those associated with the Stone Mountain venture. Among January and March 1925, that mint struck 2,310,000 of the approved mintage of 5,000,000, in addition to 4,709 pieces saved for assessment by the 1926 Assay Commission. Aside from the initial thousand, for which Randolph paid in gold, the pieces were sent to the Federal Reserve Bank in Atlanta, which best in class the assets to buy them from the legislature. 

Despite the fact that the Association disclosed the finished head of Lee on January 19, 1924 (the general's birthday), inside months, its relations with Borglum had turned out to be stressed. Specialized issues over the decoration and the work on the mountain caused strains, and political contrasts between Borglum, a Republican, and Randolph, a functioning Democrat, prompted poor relations between the two. Borglum, Venable, and Randolph sponsored diverse KKK individuals for national authority. Both Borglum and the Association blamed each other for join; the stone carver recommended that he structure a syndicate to buy the half dollars from the Mint and pitch them with the benefits to be connected straightforwardly to development costs. Randolph derided the recommendation, expressing that it would permit Borglum to cut "whatever he satisfied on the mountain". Borglum blamed Randolph for utilizing gifts for his very own advantage, and spending unreservedly on a business ledger. These disputes wound up open, and in February 1925, the Association terminated Borglum. Randolph expressed, as one explanation behind expelling the artist, that Borglum had taken seven months to plan the coin, when, he stated, any equipped craftsman could have done it in three weeks. He blamed Borglum for deferring with the goal that the Association would be humiliated. As per Freeman, "regardless of the considerable number of purposes of contention among Borglum and the board of trustees, it was really the dedicatory coin that finished his profession at Stone Mountain." 

After being rejected, Borglum destroyed his models for the landmark; the Association looked to have him imprisoned for obliteration of property. Borglum was tending to the women of the Atlanta section of the UDC when his aide, Jesse Tucker, burst in and rushed him out the entryway with at least clarification, just minutes before a sheriff's appointee landed to serve the warrant. He left the state, yet was captured in Greensboro, North Carolina, however immediately permitted safeguard, and the Association relinquished removal procedures. Liberated, the stone carver before long took up a venture in South Dakota, Mount Rushmore. The attention encompassing these occasions hurt the Association's raising support, as did charges that the Association had abused countless dollars set aside for the venture. 

The Association procured Augustus H. Lukeman as substitution artist; the majority of Borglum's work was in the end impacted away. Notwithstanding the debate with Borglum, the Association continued to showcase the half dollars; it enlisted New York marketing expert Harvey Hill to run the battle. The Association sought after the chance to show the principal coin to President Coolidge face to face as a methods for defeating the terrible attention; White House authorities carefully declined, composing that "horrible reason would be served by a formal introduction". The half dollars were authoritatively discharged on July 3, 1925 (however some were shown as ahead of schedule as May); they were sold at a cost of one dollar. They were sent to 3,000 banks by the Federal Reserve, with the returns from deals credited to the Association. White Southerners extolled the piece as symbolizing sectional compromise, the government paying respect to its Confederate legacy. 

The coins were to be circulated through banks, and the Federal Reserve System coordinated by moving coins as required, however at the Association's cost. The Association set up neighborhood members, with associations all through the South, just as Oklahoma and the District of Columbia. Each state's senator filled in as ostensible leader of the association inside his ward; on July 20, 1925, at a gathering of the Conference of Southern Governors required the reason, they (or their agents) settled that the Association assign deals quantities among the states on the "premise of white populace and bank stores". The pieces were to be sold at the cost of one dollar, and neighborhood associations were to produce advancements for offering them. The general drive to sell half dollars was named the "Reap Campaign" and started with the governors' gathering in July 1925. Georgia Governor Clifford Walker told his partners that the "South would be endlessly disfavored on the off chance that it neglected to acknowledge the test" of meeting the business objective of 2,500,000 coins; in any case, the governors committed brief period to the battle. 

Albeit volunteer eagerness was basic to the Association's arrangements in the Harvest Campaign, it didn't depend on it at the larger amounts; the state seats were redressed, both by compensation and commission. J.W. Gibbes, assistant of the South Carolina House of Representatives, was procured as that state's official chief; he attempted to sell 100,000 coins and got just shy of $3,500 in pay and commissions, all paid in 1926. Neighborhood volunteers sorted out Chamber of Commerce lunch meetings to sell coins all through the South; sections of the UDC obtained pieces to present to enduring Civil War veterans. The standard for Florida was 175,000 coins, with every town and city allocated its offer. Frequently, Kiwanis or Rotary gatherings endorsed nearby portions. Mrs. N. Burton Bass of Atlanta was accounted for to be the main merchant, once discarding 233 coins in an evening. A progression of move balls respected the UDC individuals who sold vast quantities of pieces. In any case, Hyder and Colbert recommended that there was "a general absence of more women, for example, Mrs. Bass"; numerous regions experienced difficulty discovering neighborhood seats. Outside the South, deals were advanced by three expert marketing specialists employed by the Association. To keep open intrigue high, the Association discharged Lukeman's originations for Stone Mountain, which were on a littler scale than Borglum's. Lukeman imagined a downsized idea, of the three Confederate pioneers on horseback. In spite of the crusade, deals were slower than anticipated. In late 1925, the Association offered Northern banks a commission of seven pennies a coin; it is questionable if any took up the offer. The proceeding with restriction of the GAR to the coins hosed deals in the North, and there was significant analysis of the coin issue in papers. 

One methods for gathering pledges that Harvest Campaign chairmen settled on was to counterstamp a portion of the coins at deal at premium costs. The letters and numbers are accepted to have been punched by the Association, as they are for the most part uniform. Some were given a state shortened form and a number, and were sent to be unloaded in different towns. Gibbes detailed that the counterstamped pieces sent to South Carolina sold for a normal of $23, running from $10 to $110, and suggested that the barterings be gone before with the record of the closeout of one in Bradenton, Florida, for $1,300. Which town got which number was the result of pure chance. Others were set apart with "U.D.C." and a state truncation, together with a number which most likely speaks to an enrollment or part number. These were proposed for introduction to individuals meriting unique respect, for example, a cordial president. They didn't sell well, as the Association had distanced numerous UDC individuals over the terminating of Borglum. The Association likewise reported a program available to be purchased to the Sons of Confederate Veterans, despite the fact that whether any coins were sold under this program is vague, as none have been distinguished. Pieces stamped "G.L." and "S.L." were considered by gatherers for a long time; A. Steve Deitert in the January 2011 release of "The Numismatist" recognized the markings as "Gold Lavalier" and "Silver Lavalier". These coins were given to region victors and sprinters up in a selling rivalry for young ladies. 

The Association sold coins through different methods. They requested that organizations buy them: the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad [B&O], the Southern Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, the Coca-Cola Company, and various banks, obtained a large number of pieces, a significant number of which were given away as advancements. Those outside the South could acquire coins by requests went through nearby banks. A bank in St. Louis gave away the half dollars to the individuals who opened a record with at any rate $5; the B&O utilized them in making change. 

The Association called a conclusion to the Harvest Campaign as of March 31, 1926, no doubt on the grounds that the deals did not legitimize the proceeded with pay costs. Coins staying at banks were to be sent to the Federal Reserve, and any credit adjusts transmitted to the Association. From that point, coins were accessible either through the Association or the Federal Reserve at an expanded cost of $2. With a cost increment and the conclusion to the crusade, deals plunged. All out deals from the Harvest Campaign were around 430,000 pieces. One exemption to the drop in deals was a drive in New York under the sponsorship of Mayor Jimmy Walker, which prevailing with regards to selling 250,000 coins in 1926, however at the first cost of one dollar. Bernard Baruch, at that point an unmistakable speculator and later an instructor of presidents, was privileged administrator of the sorting out board, and by and by bought in for a portion of the pieces. 

The Atlanta part of the UDC in 1927 distributed a pamphlet blaming the Association for unjustly terminating Borglum and squandering between a quarter and a half million dollars. A review of the Association's books was performed in 1928; the analysts discovered its records in great request, aside from those with respect to the Harvest Campaign, which were deficient. The review found that for each three dollars of income acquired from the half dollars, two were paid out in costs, a proportion Hyder and Colbert called "mind boggling". Of the all out total raised by the Association, just 27 pennies of every dollar went to the cutting. Venable expressed that the Stone Mountain landmark had "formed into the most goliath disappointment ever". 

The Association was ruined by the consequences of the review; the Georgia Senate casted a ballot to blame it for gross fumble of assets. Randolph surrendered when Venable made it unmistakable he would not arrange an expansion of the twelve-year due date except if he did. The Atlanta legal counselor had started a political profession; the outrage completed it. With assets evaporating, the Association halted take a shot at Stone Mountain on May 31, 1928, and when arrangements fizzled, the Venable family effectively sued to recover the property. Borglum was currently a society legend in Atlanta; he was called upon to come back to Stone Mountain in the mid 1930s, yet occupied with Mount Rushmore, he didn't. At the season of Borglum's demise in 1941, no work was being done on Stone Mountain. The State of Georgia casted a ballot assets to buy Stone Mountain in 1958 and after five years chose Walker Kirkland Hancock as draftsman. The figure, which portrays Lee, Jackson and Davis, and looks somewhat like Borglum's unique structure, was committed in 1970. At by , it is the biggest help design on the planet. 

In 1930, Secretary Mellon revealed that albeit no Stone Mountain Memorial half dollars were held by the Mint, it was his understanding that vast amounts of the piece were in the ownership of banks. In the long run, courses of action were made to restore a million half dollars to the Mint for liquefying. Disregarding this, the State of Georgia still had Stone Mountain half dollars available to be purchased at its show at the 1933 Century of Progress Exposition. A lot more were dumped into dissemination during the 1930s. An amount of half dollars once possessed by Baruch were sold for $3.25 each through a Georgia bank during the 1950s to back a structure out of appreciation for Baruch's mom, a Southerner, in Richmond, Virginia. A sum of 1,314,709 Stone Mountain Memorial half dollars were circulated, in the wake of deducting those pieces dissolved. 

Because of the substantial amounts surviving, Stone Mountain Memorial half dollars stay economical in correlation with different commemoratives. The 2014 release of "A Guide Book of United States Coins" records the piece at $65 in Almost Uncirculated condition (AU-50) with pieces in close immaculate MS-66 at $335. 

Books 

Different sources