Andjar Asmara 

Abisin Abbas (; 26 February 1902 – 20 October 1961), better known by his nom de plume Asmara (), was a producer and movie producer dynamic in the film of the Dutch East Indies. Conceived in Alahan Panjang, West Sumatra, he originally filled in as a columnist in Batavia (cutting edge Jakarta). He turned into an essayist for the Padangsche Opera in Padang, where he built up another, exchange driven style, which later spread all through the district. In the wake of coming back to Batavia in 1929, he went through over a year as a theater and film pundit. In 1930 he joined the Dardanella visiting troupe as an author. He went to India in a fruitless offer to film his stage play "Dr Samsi". 

In the wake of leaving Dardanella in 1936, Andjar set up his very own troupe. He additionally worked at a distributers, composing serials dependent on effective movies. In 1940 he was approached to join The Teng Chun's organization, Java Industrial Film, assisting with showcasing and filling in as a chief for two preparations. After the Japanese occupation, amid which time he remained in theater, Andjar made a concise come back to film. He coordinated three movies in the late 1940s and composed four screenplays, which were delivered as movies in the mid 1950s. He distributed a novel, "Noesa Penida" (1950). A while later he worked for an incredible rest composing serials dependent on nearby movies and distributing film analysis. Antiquarians remember him as a pioneer of theater and one of the principal local Indonesian movie executives, in spite of the fact that he had minimal inventive control of his preparations. 

Andjar was conceived Abisin Abbas in Alahan Panjang, West Sumatra, on 26 February 1902. He inclined toward customary auditorium at a youthful age after visits from the meandering Wayang Kassim and Juliana Opera "stambul" troupes; he claimed to act with his companions in stage plays which they had seen. In the wake of finishing his formal training up to the Meer Uitgebreid Lager Onderwijs (middle school) level – first in Malay-language schools then Dutch ones – he moved to Batavia (current Jakarta). He filled in as a correspondent for two every day papers, "Bintang Timoer" and "Bintang Hindia"; he may have additionally chipped away at a homestead. 

Around 1925, having had little achievement in Batavia, Andjar moved to Padang, where he was a columnist for the every day "Sinar Soematera". In the meantime, he worked with the city's Padangsche Opera, composing stage plays. As opposed to the standard melodic performance center of the time, "bangsawan", he advanced an increasingly common style, utilizing discourse rather than tune to pass on the story; he alluded to this as "toneel", in view of the Dutch word for theater. Among the works he composed for the Padangsche Opera were adjustments of "Melati van Agam", a 1923 work by Swan Pen, and "Sitti Nurbaya", a 1922 novel by Marah Roesli. These works were generally welcomed. 

In the late 1920s, in the wake of putting in around two years in Medan with the day by day "Sinar Soematra", Andjar came back to Batavia and in 1929 built up the magazine "Doenia Film", a Malay adjustment of the Dutch-language magazine "Filmland"; in spite of the fact that an adjustment, "Doenia Film" likewise contained unique inclusion of the local theater and film industry. At the time, the film of the Indies was getting to be set up: the primary residential film, "Loetoeng Kasaroeng" ("The Lost Lutung"), was discharged in 1926, and four extra movies were discharged in 1927 and 1928. Andjar composed broadly with respect to nearby true to life and dramatic preparations; for instance, the Indonesian film pundit Salim Said composes Andjar propelled the showcasing for 1929's "Njai Dasima", which underscored the solely local cast. In 1930 Andjar left "Doenia Film" and was supplanted by Bachtiar Effendi. 

Andjar turned into an author for the showy troupe Dardanella in November 1930, working under the gathering's originator Willy A. Piedro. Andjar trusted the troupe to be devoted to the advancement of the "toneel" as an artistic expression and not just spurred by money related premiums, similar to the prior "stambul" troupes. He composed and distributed many plays with the gathering's support, including "Dr Samsi" and "Singa Minangkabau" ("The Lion of Minangkabau"). Andjar likewise filled in as a theater pundit, composing a few pieces on the historical backdrop of neighborhood theater, now and again utilizing his original name and here and there his nom de plume. In 1936 Andjar ran with Dardanella to India to record a film adjustment of his dramatization "Dr Samsi", which pursued a specialist who was extorted after a corrupt Indo found he had an ill-conceived youngster. The arrangement failed to work out, in any case, and Andjar left India with his significant other Ratna. 

Upon his arrival to the Indies, Andjar shaped another showy troupe, Bolero, with Effendi, however left the troupe around 1940 to work at Kolf Publishers in Surabaya. Effendi was left as the head of Bolero, which at that point turned out to be more politicized. At Kolf Andjar altered the distributer's magazine "Poestaka Timoer". As his work involved composition summations and serials dependent on famous movies for Kolf's magazine, he turned out to be progressively associated with the film business. He was before long asked by The Teng Chun, with whom he had kept up a business relationship, to coordinate a film for his organization Java Industrial Film (JIF); with this Andjar wound up one of a few noted showy work force who moved to film following Albert Balink's 1937 hit "Terang Boelan" ("Full Moon"). 

In the wake of taking care of the promoting for "Rentjong Atjeh" ("Rencong of Aceh", 1940), Andjar made his directorial debut in 1940 with "Kartinah", a war-time sentiment featuring Ratna Asmara. "The scholarly world" was disparaging of the film, trusting it to need instructive esteem. In 1941 he coordinated "Noesa Penida", a catastrophe situated in Bali, for JIF; the film was changed in 1988. In these movies, he had minimal innovative control, and executed as what the Indonesian amusement writer Eddie Karsito depicts as a discourse mentor. Camera points and areas were picked by the cinematographer, who was by and large additionally the maker. 

Amid the Japanese occupation from 1942 to 1945, the country's film industry almost stopped to exist: everything except one studio were shut, and all movies discharged were purposeful publicity pieces to help the Japanese war exertion and advance the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. Andjar was not associated with these but rather was energized by the creative benefits of Japanese movies. Despite the fact that he composed a few short stories amid this time, three of which were distributed in the ace Japanese paper "Asia Raja" in 1942, Andjar concentrated on theater, shaping the troupe Tjahaya Timoer. He regularly visited the Cultural Center (Keimin Bunka Sidosho) in Jakarta, where two workers, D. Djajakusuma and Usmar Ismail, talked about filmmaking with him. Both wound up compelling movie chiefs amid the 1950s. 

After Indonesia's freedom, Andjar moved to Purwokerto to lead the day by day "Perdjoeangan Rakjat". After the paper crumbled, he came back to film, film a piece entitled "Djaoeh Dimata" for the Netherlands Indies Civil Administration in 1948. This was trailed by two extra movies, "Anggrek Bulan" ("Moon Orchid"; 1948) and "Gadis Desa" ("Maiden from the Village"; 1949), both dependent on plays he composed quite a while before. In 1950, Andjar distributed his solitary novel, "Noesa Penida", a study of the Balinese rank framework, which pursued sweethearts from various dimensions of the social chain of command. In the mean time, he kept on composing and distribute soft cover serials adjusted from neighborhood films. 

Andjar's screenplay "Dr Samsi" was at long last adjusted as a movie in 1952 by Ratna Asmara, who had turned into Indonesia's first female movie chief with her 1950 film "Sedap Malam" ("Sweetness of the Night"). The adjustment featured Ratna and Raden Ismail. It would demonstrate Andjar's last screenwriting credit amid his lifetime. Albeit never again composing movies, Andjar stayed dynamic in the nation's film industry. In 1955 he headed the debut Indonesian Film Festival, which was reprimanded when it gave the Best Picture Award to two movies, Usmar Ismail's "Lewat Djam Malam" ("After the Curfew") and Lilik Sudjio's "Tarmina". Pundits composed that "Lewat Djam Malam" was effectively the more grounded of the two and proposed that Djamaluddin Malik, "Tarmina" maker, had affected the jury's choice. 

In 1958 Asmara turned into the leader of the stimulation magazine "Varia", where the kindred chief Raden Ariffien filled in as his appointee. Asmara held the situation until his passing; among different jobs, he composed a progression of memoires on the historical backdrop of theater in the nation. He kicked the bucket on 20 October 1961 in Cipanas, West Java, amid an outing to Bandung and was covered in Jakarta. 

Andjar's "toneels" were commonly founded on everyday encounters, as opposed to the stories of rulers and old wars which were standard at the time. With respect to's "toneels", the Indonesian scholarly pundit Bakri Siregar composes that Andjar's stage plays, just as those of individual producer Njoo Cheong Seng, revived the class and made the works increasingly reasonable. In any case, he considered the contention in these attempts to have been ineffectively created. Andjar trusted that the Padangsche Opera's exhibitions affected different troupes in West Sumatra to adjust the "toneel" group, which later spread all through the Indies. 

Matthew Isaac Cohen, a researcher of Indonesian performing expressions, depicts Andjar as "Indonesia's first theater pundit amid the pioneer time frame", taking note of that he composed broadly on the historical backdrop of theater in the Indies. Cohen likewise trusts that Andjar additionally attempted to legitimize the "toneel" style and separation it from the prior "stambul". Indeed, even in the wake of entering the film business, Andjar considered the performance center more socially critical than film. In any case, the Indonesian writer Soebagijo I.N. composes that Andjar stays best known for his film work. 

Andjar was one of the principal local Indonesian movie chiefs, with Bachtiar Effendi, Soeska, and Inoe Perbatasari. Said composes that Andjar was compelled to pursue the impulses of the ethnic Chinese film big shots, which brought about the movies' work day toward business introduction, as opposed to the prioritization of imaginative legitimacy. The film student of history Misbach Yusa Biran composes that Andjar and his kindred columnists, after joining JIF, carried with them new thoughts that helped the organization thrive until it shut after the landing of the Japanese; the organization and its auxiliaries discharged fifteen movies in two years.