Scene 14 (Twin Peaks) 

"Episode 14", otherwise called "Desolate Souls", is the seventh scene of the second period of the American puzzle TV arrangement "Twin Peaks". The scene was composed by arrangement co-maker Mark Frost and coordinated by arrangement co-maker David Lynch. It highlights arrangement regulars Kyle MacLachlan, Michael Ontkean, Ray Wise and Richard Beymer; and visitor stars Frank Silva (uncredited) as Killer BOB, Hank Worden as The Waiter, Julee Cruise as Singer, and David Lynch as Gordon Cole. 

"Twin Peaks" fixates on the examination concerning the homicide of student Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee) in the little provincial town in Washington state after which the arrangement is named. In this scene, amid the continuous examination concerning Laura's passing, FBI specialist Dale Cooper (MacLachlan) and Sheriff Truman (Ontkean) keep on hunting down her executioner, the evil BOB, who has had a human host. Supported by Mike (Al Strobel), Cooper and Truman capture Benjamin Horne (Beymer), trusting him to be occupied by BOB. Soon thereafter, Cooper is cautioned by The Giant (Carel Struycken) that "it is going on once more", while BOB's genuine host, Leland Palmer (Wise), murders Madeline Ferguson (Lee). 

"Episode 14" was first communicated on November 10, 1990, on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) and was viewed by a crowd of people of 17.2 million family units in the United States, about 20 percent of the accessible gathering of people. The scene was generally welcomed, accumulating positive surveys after its underlying communicate and in consequent years, yet it has been reprimanded for unduly dragging out the disclosure of Laura's executioner. Scholastic readings of the passage have featured the subject of duality and the cinematography in the disclosure scene. 

The little anecdotal town of Twin Peaks, Washington, has been stunned by the homicide of student Laura Palmer (Sheryl Lee) and the endeavored homicide of her companion Ronette Pulaski (Phoebe Augustine). FBI specialist Dale Cooper (Kyle MacLachlan) has been sent to the town to explore, and has gone to the acknowledgment that the executioner was controlled by a satanic substance—Killer BOB (Frank Silva). MIKE (Al Strobel), a comparable soul, has addressed Cooper and his FBI unrivaled, Regional Bureau Chief Gordon Cole (David Lynch), clarifying the idea of their reality. 

In the interim, Madeline "Maddy" Ferguson (Lee), Laura's cousin, has landed in Twin Peaks from Missoula, Montana, and helps Laura's companions Donna Hayward (Lara Flynn Boyle) and James Hurley (James Marshall) research the murdering. Donna discovers Harold Smith (Lenny Von Dohlen), one of Laura's companions to whom she had given a mystery journal, and Donna and Maddy endeavor to take it from him. 

It is morning at the Sheriff's Station. Specialist Cooper, Chief Gordon Cole, Sheriff Harry S. Truman (Michael Ontkean), Deputy Andy Brennan (Harry Goaz), Deputy Hawk (Michael Horse), and Phillip Gerard (Al Strobel) are savoring espresso the anteroom. Truman illuminates that arrangements have been made for them at The Great Northern. Gerard, presently controlled by MIKE, mumbles his portrayal of Bob's present area. Truman advises Hawk to seek Harold Smith's loft. Cooper confesses to Hawk to look for Laura Palmer's mystery journal. Cole says goodbye to all and leaves for Bend, Oregon. 

Cooper, Doctor Hayward (Warren Frost), Brennan, and Gerard/MIKE are in the entryway of The Great Northern Hotel endeavoring to locate BOB's human host. The lodging is facilitating an unforeseen of mariners who are bobbing elastic balls in the inn entryway. MIKE is situated while inn visitors are conveyed to him one by one for "investigation." One after another, MIKE dismisses each. A furious Benjamin Horne (Richard Beymer) enters the anteroom requesting to recognize what is happening. Simply at that point, Gerard enters a fit and falls while getting a handle on at his missing arm. 

In the interim, Deputy Hawk visits the living arrangement of Harold Smith and discovers him draping dead among his orchids. Maddy declares to her Uncle Leland (Ray Wise) and Aunt Sarah (Grace Zabriskie) that she is leaving Twin Peaks to come back to her home in Missoula, Montana. Cooper, Truman, and a police group land at Smith's habitation. They find the destroyed survives from Laura Palmer's mystery journal strewn about, and a suicide note that peruses, "J'ai une âme solitaire." Cooper interprets, "I am a desolate soul." 

Somewhere else, Bobby Briggs (Dana Ashbrook) and Shelly Johnson (Mädchen Amick) talk about their money related concerns with respect to Shelly's mental spouse Leo (Eric Da Re). Audrey Horne (Sherilyn Fenn) defies her dad Ben over his responsibility for house of ill-repute One Eyed Jacks. He admits that he and Laura Palmer had a sexual relationship. At the point when Audrey inquires as to whether he killed her, he answers "I cherished her." Later, Shelly touches base for work at the Double R Diner and mournfully educates Norma Jennings (Peggy Lipton) that she needs to stop the burger joint to think about Leo full-time. Ed Hurley (Everett McGill) and his better half Nadine (Wendy Robie) enter the burger joint. Nadine, trusting she is an eighteen-year old secondary school understudy, gets some information about her association with Ed, to their humiliation. Nadine then unintentionally breaks her milkshake glass. At the Johnson habitation, Bobby Briggs and Mike Nelson (Gary Hershberger) tear open the impact point of Leo Johnson's boot, finding a microcassette covered up inside. 

Cooper analyzes the remaining parts of Laura's mystery journal at the police headquarters, finding rehashed references to BOB, and a depiction of sexual maltreatment since adolescence. Laura composed that BOB was a companion of her dad, and in another section stated, "Some time or another I'm going to inform the world concerning Ben Horne." Audrey then enters and enlightens Cooper regarding Ben and Laura's undertaking. After she leaves, Cooper helps Sheriff Truman to remember The Giant's message, "Without synthetic substances, he focuses". Cooper expresses that MIKE shows when his human host, Philip Gerard, isn't cured, and that MIKE blacked out that morning similarly as someone in particular moved toward him. Cooper shouts to Truman, "Harry, we need a warrant...a warrant for the capture of Benjamin Horne!" 

Later that night, Benjamin Horne is meeting with Mr. Tojamura at The Great Northern. Mr. Tojamura gives Horne a check for $5 million to buy the terrains of the Packard Sawmill. Following tolerating the check, Sheriff Truman, Deputy Hawk, and Agent Cooper enter Horne's office. Truman captures Horne for homicide. Horne endeavors to escape yet is controlled and cuffed. At the Palmer home, a seriously debilitated Sarah Palmer creeps down the stairs, crying to Leland for help. A phonograph is turning out of sight, its needle skipping toward the finish of the record. 

In the wake of imprisoning Horne at the Sheriff's Station, Cooper and Truman experience the Log Lady (Catherine E. Coulson), who tells Cooper, "...there are owls in The Roadhouse." Cooper answers, "Something is going on, isn't it, Margaret?" The moon is full, mostly darkened by a dim and shady sky. 

At the Packard living arrangement, Pete Martell (Jack Nance) is fixing himself a midnight nibble. He experiences Mr. Tojamura in obscurity, who generally grasps and kisses him, causing Pete to drop and break his plate. In a high dudgeon, Pete orders Tojamura to leave. Tojamura bashfully uncovers that he is really Catherine Martell (Piper Laurie) in camouflage. The two hold onto as Pete sincerely breaks down. 

Sarah Palmer slithers into her lounge room. She sees a dream of a pale white steed at that point goes out. Leland Palmer is fixing his tie in the mirror, overlooking her. 

Cooper, Truman, and The Log Lady visit The Roadhouse, which is loaded up with mariners. Donna Hayward (Lara Flynn Boyle) and James Hurley (James Marshall) are situated together talking about Harold's demise and Maddy's takeoff from Twin Peaks. Bobby Briggs is situated at the bar by the old server (Hank Worden) from The Great Northern. While an artist and band perform, Cooper has a dream of The Giant remaining solitary in front of an audience. The Giant says to Cooper, "It is going on once more." He rehashes this notice. 

At the Palmer home, Leland grins at himself in the mirror. Bounce gazes back at him from the reflection and chuckles frantically. Leland wears a couple of latex gloves. Maddy comes first floor whining of a consuming smell and sees Sarah oblivious on the floor. She sees Leland smiling at her, at that point sees BOB show up in Leland's place. She shouts in dread and endeavors to escape. Leland pursues Maddy up the stairs, and hauls her to the parlor. He chokes and punches her, at that point insults and pursues her around the family room. He corners her and punches her in the face until she is mental. He hits the dance floor with and cries over her limp body, calling her "Laura," while Bob kisses her. Leland/BOB at that point ends up irritated and shouts, "Leland says you're returning to Missoula, MONTANA!" as he smashes her head into a glass picture outline, the words "Missoula, Montana" in the lower corner of the image. Maddy breakdown, bloodied and dead. A crazed Leland places a pattern of the letter "O" under the nail of Maddy's left ring finger. 

Cooper's vision of The Giant closures, supplanted by the vocalist and band. The old server strolls over to Cooper and says, "I'm so heartbroken." Donna starts to wail. James comforts her, without much of any result. Bobby Briggs abandons the bar, defeated by pity also. Cooper gazes out, puzzled, as the band rehashes a despairing hold back. 

"Episode 14" was composed by arrangement co-maker Mark Frost, who had composed six past scenes and coordinated the main season finale, "Episode 7". Ice co-composed three further portions—"Episode 16", "Episode 26" and Episode 29"— and the majority of the scenes of the 2017 constrained arrangement. This scene was coordinated by Lynch, the fifth such scene of "Twin Peaks"; he later coordinated "Episode 29", the arrangement's finale, and the majority of the portions of the restricted arrangement. It was evaluated TV-14 in the United States amid beginning rebroadcasts; it was later re-appraised to TV-PG. Lynch has later expressed that he believes he had the capacity to demonstrate more on screen in the scene than he expected the system's benchmarks and practicies office to permit. He attributes this to the irregular symbolism utilized, including "if it's not exactly standard it sneaks through, yet it may be the case that the 'not exactly standard' things make it considerably additionally frightening and exasperating". 

The cast of "Twin Peaks" did not realize who might be uncovered as Palmer's executioner for quite a while. Astute had trusted his character Leland would not be the possible killer; as the parent of a young lady he was aggravated by depicting a man who had killed his little girl. Astute was assembled to a conference with Lynch, Frost, Sheryl Lee and Richard Beymer, amid which Lynch told those collected that Leland Palmer was the executioner: while tending to Wise, Lynch said "Beam, it was you, it was dependably you". Be that as it may, Wise felt that the final product was "excellent", and that it left him and his character "fulfilled and recovered". Prior to this gathering, the main individuals to realize the executioner's personality were Frost, Lynch, and Lynch's little girl Jennifer, who had been given the data so she could creator the 1990 tie-in novel "The Secret Diary of Laura Palmer". 

Lynch has referenced that he attempted to abstain from pondering the profound quality of the account, or how it would be gotten by blue pencils or commentators, feeling that on the off chance that he enabled that stress to influence him it would eventually drive him to make something that made him awkward, leaning toward rather to just create the scene he needed to and be set up to guard it if fundamental. He has likewise contrasted the scan for Laura's executioner with the focal account of the 1960s TV arrangement "The Fugitive", which included a progressing look for a one-furnished man. Differentiating the two, Lynch expressed "every week, you know, they [the authors for "The Fugitive"] barely ever managed that. What's more, that is the wonderful thing. You continue pondering, 'When will he discover this person and set everything straight?' But then you realized it would be the end". 

The climactic homicide of Madeline Ferguson in the scene highlights broad utilization of hop slices to depict Leland Palmer's soul ownership, exchanging quickly between on-screen characters Ray Wise and Frank Silva. The scene is curiously long for a homicide on TV, enduring more than four minutes. A portion of its components, including the inclusion of a paper letter under Ferguson's fingernail and the utilization of hop slices to occasions in the Roadhouse bar, are planned to resound comparative parts of "Pilot". 

Erica Sheen and Annette Davison, in their book "The Cinema of David Lynch: American Dreams, Nightmare Visions", have attracted thoughtfulness regarding the utilization of mise en scène right off the bat in the scene. A scene including Ferguson, Leland and Sarah Palmer sitting in the Palmers' lounge skillet over the family's "bric-à-brac". This system attracts thoughtfulness regarding the work of art with which Ferguson will be struck, and it features the likeness among Ferguson and Palmer by concentrating on "the well known homecoming ruler shot" of Palmer while Ferguson's face is unmistakable. Sheen and Davison contended that the scene features the "passionate claustrophobia" felt by Ferguson, and that the set encompassing her was purposely amassed to make this inclination. 

The disclosure scene, in which Bob is appeared to have occupied Leland Palmer, has been noted for its feeling of duality, a typical topic all through "Twin Peaks". In "Loaded with Secrets: Critical Approaches to Twin Peaks", David Lavery composed that upon The Giant's appearance to Dale Cooper, "The Giant has transmuted the open spot into something private". Lavery included that the homicide scene is "in the parlor, general society inside the private". He abridged that the vagueness between the open discernment and the private observation—"the external and the inward"— "resonates" all through the scene. In his view, Maddy Ferguson was Laura Palmer's "twofold" and Leland is "multiplied" by Bob. In any case, Lavery alluded to the duality of Leland and Bob as an "abstract development" and included that the utilization of bounce cuts "could be Maddy's perspective on Leland the same amount of as Leland's perspective on himself". 

This scene has likewise been noted by faultfinder Sue Lafky from the "Diary of Film and Video" as one of a few in the arrangement that recommend inbreeding and necrophilia. She theorized that "Leland/Bob may have assaulted the dead or passing on Maddie", contrasting this with the "necrophilic dreams" that Laura Palmer's carcass summons, and Ben Horne's accidental brush with inbreeding when he experiences his little girl Audrey at a massage parlor. Prior in the scene it is uncovered that Laura had been liable to sexual maltreatment by BOB, and certainly Leland, which was additionally investigated in the 1992 prequel film, "". 

"Episode 14" first circulated on the ABC organize on November 10, 1990. The underlying communicate was seen by 17.2 million family units in the United States, making it the fifty-first most-saw communicate scene for the week. These survey figures spoke to 20 percent of the accessible gathering of people and 10.4 percent of all families in the nation. This spoke to a noteworthy ascent in survey figures contrasted with the first scene, "Episode 13", which was seen by 11.3 million family units. Nonetheless, the accompanying scene, "Episode 15", endured a drop in review figures, pulling in 13.3 million family units. 

The scene was generally welcomed fundamentally. Composing for the "Chicago Sun-Times", Richard Roeper noticed that fans and commentators had started to lose enthusiasm for the arrangement by this point, however felt that "even at its most stressed and harsh, ["Twin Peaks"] shows more creative energy and exertion than nearly everything else in TV land". He included that watchers may have been put off by the arrangement's casing of time, clarifying that just two weeks of account time had slipped by since "Pilot", a moderate pace appeared differently in relation to the "quick forward, moment result rationality of generally TV". AllRovi's Andrea LeVasseur depicted the portion as "urgent", taking note of that it "answers a portion of the arrangement's long-running inquiries". 

Composing for "The A.V. Club", Keith Phipps appraised the scene "An", including "dislike there's any deficiency of activity". He felt that the impacts utilized in the scene were compelling and startling while as yet appearing to be serene. In his view, the scene's mixing of surrealism and ghastliness was like scenes from Lynch's 2001 film "Mulholland Drive". Phipps portrayed the climactic homicide as "a standout amongst the most aggravating minutes in the Lynch filmography", including that it was a repetitive Lynchian topic to speak as far as possible of honesty as a real demise. IGN's Matt Fowler incorporated the homicide at number 16 in a rundown of the "Top 20 Creepiest Moments on TV", depicting it as "bad dream fuel". Fowler felt the portrayal of the murdering was "savage" and bizarrely long for a TV scene; nonetheless, he included that the wild theory with regards to the character of the executioner implied that whoever it was uncovered to have been, it would be "fairly anticipated". 

Keith Uhlich, composing for "Inclination Magazine", portrayed the scene as "quintessential Lynch, maybe his best work", taking note of that the climactic homicide scene was all the more dominant due to its important utilization of suggestion and proposal. Notwithstanding, Uhlich felt that the portion was "an extreme demonstration to pursue", contending that the main consequent portions that rivaled it were the arrangement's finale and the 1992 suspenseful thrill ride film "", which depends on "Twin Peaks". DVD Talk's Jamie S. Rich depicted the portion as "a vicious, irritating disclosure". Rich felt that the passage's heavenly components guaranteed the group of onlookers that there was "a more amazing plan to the Laura Palmer story", raising the arrangement's long-running homicide plot past "only an arbitrary night celebrating with street pharmacists turned out badly".