Stocksbridge Park Steels F.C. 

Stocksbridge Park Steels Football Club is an English affiliation football club situated in the Stocksbridge zone of Sheffield, South Yorkshire. They play in Division One South of the Northern Premier League at level eight of the English football alliance framework. The club was framed in 1986 after a merger between two different clubs, and sports a yellow and blue home pack. They play at the Bracken Moor ground. 

They at first played in the Northern Counties East League and advanced through the NCEL's divisions before winning advancement to Division One of the Northern Premier League (NPL) in 1996. They achieved the Premier Division of the NPL in 2009, yet were consigned back to Division One South in 2014. 

Steels have taken an interest in the FA Cup each year since 1992, achieving the fourth passing round in 2003, and first entered the FA Trophy in 1996 after beforehand taking part in the FA Vase. 

Stocksbridge Park Steels F.C. was framed in 1986 as the consequence of the merger of Stocksbridge Works, the works group of the nearby British Steel Corporation plant, with another neighborhood club, Oxley Park Sports. The new club was quickly admitted toward the Northern Counties East League Division Two, the works club having recently played in Division Three of a similar alliance. 

The Steels burned through five seasons in Division Two preceding being put in Division One when the lower division was suspended upon alliance re-association in 1991. Around the same time Mick Horne was designated as the club's director, and he drove the group to the title of Division One in the 1991– 92 season. 

In Stocksbridge's first season in the Premier Division the group completed close to the base of the table, yet in the 1993– 94 season the Steels wound up Northern Counties East League champions. The club neglected to pick up advancement toward the Northern Premier League, in any case, as their arena did not fulfill the required guideline. The club completed second in the division two seasons later, losing the title on objective distinction to Hatfield Main, and on this event were admitted toward the Northern Premier League Division One. 

Stocksbridge completed in the top portion of the table in the club's initial five seasons at the larger amount, with a best completion of fourth spot in the 2000– 01 season, yet the accompanying season the Steels completed just two spots from the base of the group. In a matter of seconds before the finish of this season, chief Mick Horne offered his acquiescence following 11 years in control and was supplanted by his aide, previous Norwich City player Wayne Biggins. 

Under Biggins' administration, the Steels had their best ever keeps running in both the FA Cup and FA Trophy and set a club record with a 17– 1 annihilation of Oldham Town in the FA Cup fundamental round in August 2002, however stayed close to the base of the association table. After the Steels were vanquished 6– 0 by Shildon in the last passing round of the 2003– 04 FA Cup, Biggins endeavored to leave however the governing body influenced him to proceed in his activity. Be that as it may, he left in November 2003, with the club again battling a fight against transfer. 

Previous partner supervisor of neighborhood rivals Worksop Town Peter Rinkcavage was selected as Stocksbridge's new administrator, and in the 2005– 06 season he drove the group to a 6th spot complete, adequate to fit the bill for the play-offs for advancement toward the Northern Premier League Premier Division. In the wake of holding Kendal Town to a 1– 1 attract the semi-last, the Steels lost a punishment shoot-out, finishing their expectations of advancement. 

The accompanying season Stocksbridge again completed in 6th spot, despite the fact that with just two groups advanced, it was not sufficiently high to meet all requirements for the play-offs. Stocksbridge did, in any case, rout Worksop Town to win the Sheffield and Hallamshire Senior Cup. Following this success supervisor Rinkcavage surrendered so as to come back to his previous club, Worksop, as director, with Gary Marrow swapping him for the 2007– 08 season, for which the club was put in the Southern segment of the now-regionalised Division One. Stocksbridge again fit the bill for the play-offs, yet lost to Sheffield. In the 2008– 09 season, the Steels again fit the bill for the play-offs and vanquished Belper Town in the last to pick up advancement toward the Northern Premier League Premier Division out of the blue. Amid the accompanying season, Marrow surrendered as administrator and was supplanted by Simon Collins. The Steels went through five years in the Premier Division, failing to finish out of the base portion of the table, and were consigned toward the finish of the 2013– 14 season. 

In 2017, Stocksbridge fit the bill for the finish of season play-offs in their offer to come back to the Premier Division, yet were beaten in the semi-finals by Spalding United. 

The Steels have commonly worn a unit of yellow shirts with fluctuating measures of blue trim, blue shorts, and yellow tights amid their short history. The club identification is transcendently yellow and blue to mirror this, and highlights a portrayal of a clock tower situated on Nanny Hill, close to the club's arena. The elective peak was being used by the supporters club from 2006 to 2011 yet was never embraced by the club. The official peak was updated in 2011 is still being used (see top of page). The club is surprising in having a substitute peak for its away shirts with the hues turned around. The group's epithet is "Steels" or "The Steels". 

The Steels have constantly played their diversions at Bracken Moor, the previous home of Stocksbridge Works. In 2006 it was declared that the arena was to be supported by nearby paper "Look Local" for a term of five years, bringing about its official name being changed to the Look Local Stadium, an arrangement which was later reached out to 2013. The arena has a most extreme limit of 3,500, with 450 seats. 

The ground was a cricket pitch until not long after the Second World War, when it was acquired by a nearby steelmaking organization and changed over into a football arena. Stone-manufactured changing rooms were raised in the mid-1960s, supplanting a little cabin, similar to a situated stand and terracing. The principle stand has an unmistakable calculated overhang which stretches out from the belt and seats which originated from Sheffield Wednesday's Hillsborough Stadium. Floodlights were introduced at the arena in 1990 and the terracing mostly secured four years after the fact. 

As one side of the ground legitimately abuts a cricket pitch, the club was required to erect an isolating wall so as to pick up passage toward the Northern Premier League. The fence is impermanent in nature and is expelled amid the cricket season. It was halfway supported by cash raised from friendlies against Sheffield Wednesday and Sheffield United. 

The normal participation at the Look Local Stadium was 180 in the 2008– 09 season, the ninth most astounding of twenty groups in the Northern Premier League Division One South, with the biggest participation being 451 for the visit of Sheffield. The normal figure was a diminishing of 3 contrasted with the past season. The most noteworthy participation in the club's history was 2,000, for a well disposed match against Sheffield Wednesday to stamp the initiation of the ground's floodlights in October 1991. 

The club has a Supporters' Club which was set up in the mid-1990s. The Supporters' Club composes occasions to raise assets for the football club, and works the club shop at the Look Local Stadium. 

Frickley Athletic and Worksop Town are viewed as nearby adversaries to the Steels. Stocksbridge's most elevated ever class participation against their opponents is 610 for a match against Worksop. 

Stocksbridge's best class complete was a fourth-place complete in the Northern Premier League Division One, which at the time sat at the seventh dimension in the general English football alliance framework, in the 2000– 01 season. The biggest number of focuses the group has enlisted in a season was 76 in the 2006– 07 season, yet that was sufficiently just to verify a 6th spot wrap up. 

The club's best execution in the FA Cup was an appearance in the fourth and last qualifying round in the 2003– 04 season. In the wake of winning four matches to advance from the starter round, the Steels lost 6– 0 away to Shildon. In a similar season the club accomplished its best execution in the FA Trophy, achieving the second round legitimate just to lose 4– 2 away to Blyth Spartans. 

The club's record triumph was a 17– 1 prevail upon Oldham Town in the FA Cup in 2002. Striker Paul Jackson scored ten of the objectives, equalling the 55-year-old record for the most objectives scored by a solitary player in a FA Cup coordinate. Ted McDougall's nine objectives for AFC Bournemouth against Margate in 1971 remains the record in the FA Cup appropriate, though Jackson's ten is the record for the passing rounds. The Steels' record rout was a 7– 2 misfortune to Witton Albion in the 2001– 02 season. 

The record for the most appearances for the club is held by Gary Hurlestone with 254. The club's unequaled record goalscorer is Trevor Jones, who scored multiple times for the Steels. The biggest exchange expense paid for a Stocksbridge player is £15,000, paid by Wolverhampton Wanderers for Lee Mills in December 1992.