Atlantis: The Lost Empire 

Atlantis: The Lost Empire is a 2001 American enlivened science dream activity experience film made by Walt Disney Feature Animation—the main sci-fi film in Disney's vivified highlights standard and the 41st in general. Composed by Tab Murphy, coordinated by Gary Trousdale and Kirk Wise, and delivered by Don Hahn, the film includes an outfit cast with the voices of Michael J. Fox, Cree Summer, James Garner, Leonard Nimoy, Don Novello, Phil Morris, Claudia Christian, Jacqueline Obradors, Jim Varney (in his last job before his passing), Florence Stanley, John Mahoney, David Ogden Stiers and Corey Burton. Set in 1914, the film recounts to the tale of a young fellow who picks up ownership of a holy book, which he accepts will control him and a team of hired fighters to the lost city of Atlantis. 

Improvement of the film started after generation had completed on "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" (1996). Rather than another melodic, the generation group chose to complete an activity experience film propelled by crafted by Jules Verne. "Atlantis" was outstanding for receiving the particular visual style of comic book maker Mike Mignola. At the season of its discharge, the film had utilized PC created symbolism (CGI) than any of Disney's past generally enlivened highlights; it stays one of only a handful few to have been shot in anamorphic configuration. Etymologist Marc Okrand made a language explicitly for use in "Atlantis", with James Newton Howard giving the film's score. The film was discharged when gathering of people enthusiasm for enlivened movies was moving far from hand-drawn liveliness toward movies with full CGI. 

"Atlantis: The Lost Empire" debuted at the El Capitan Theater in Hollywood, California on June 3, 2001, and went into general discharge on June 15. Discharged by Walt Disney Pictures, "Atlantis" performed unobtrusively in the cinematic world. Planned at around , the film netted over around the world, of which was earned in North America. Because of the film's dreary film industry execution, Disney discreetly dropped both a turn off TV arrangement and a submerged fascination at its Disneyland amusement park. A few faultfinders adulated it as a special takeoff from common Disney energized highlights, while others despised it because of the misty target gathering of people and nonattendance of melodies. "Atlantis" was named for various honors, including seven Annie Awards, and won Best Sound Editing at the 2002 Golden Reel Awards. The film was discharged on VHS and DVD on January 29, 2002; the Blu-beam discharged on June 11, 2013. "Atlantis" is viewed as a religion top choice, due to a limited extent to Mignola's one of a kind masterful impact. A direct-to-video spin-off, "", was discharged in 2003. 

Numerous hundreds of years prior, a torrent takes steps to suffocate the island of Atlantis. Amidst a clearing from the capital city, the Queen of Atlantis is gotten by an odd, trancelike blue light and lifted up into the "Heart of Atlantis", an amazing precious stone ensuring the city. The gem expends her and makes a vault boundary that ensures the city's deepest locale. She deserts her young little girl, Princess Kida, as the island sinks underneath the sea. Her significant other, King Kashekim Nedakh, is blinded amid the occasion as he shields Kida from the light 

In 1914, Milo Thatch, a cartographer and language specialist at the Smithsonian Institution who is minimized for his exploration on Atlantis, trusts that he has discovered The Shepherd's Journal, an old composition that contains bearings to the lost island. In spite of the fact that the gallery board decays his proposition to look for the diary, a strange lady, Helga Sinclair, acquaints Milo with Preston B. Whitmore, an unconventional tycoon. Whitmore has effectively supported a fruitful exertion to recover the diary as reimbursement of an obligation to Milo's granddad, enlisting Milo to lead an endeavor to Atlantis, when he gets it. Whitmore additionally constructs a soldier of fortune team 200 - solid, outfitted with military level weapons and weapons. 

The campaign withdraws with a group of masters driven by Commander Lyle Rourke, who likewise drove the diary recuperation undertaking. They set out in the "Ulysses", an enormous submarine. Amid the voyage, they are assaulted by the huge Leviathan, an automated lobster-like animal that watches Atlantis' passage. The "Ulysses" is hence demolished, however Milo, Rourke, and part of the team getaway to a sinkhole, depicted in the diary as the passage to Atlantis. 

In the wake of going through a system of caverns and a lethargic spring of gushing lava, the group achieves the outskirts of Atlantis, where they are welcomed by Kida. In any case, Kida's dad, the King of Atlantis, isn't satisfied with the group's visit, however concurs with Rourke for a one-night remain. Kida enrolls Milo in interpreting the Atlantean composed language, long overlooked by the locals. By jumping profound inside the city's submerged destroys and interpreting submerged wall paintings, Milo helps Kida reveal the idea of the Heart of Atlantis: it supplies the Atlanteans with power and life span through the precious stones worn around their necks. He is astounded this isn't referenced in the diary yet reviews that a page is absent. 

Coming back to the surface with Kida, Milo finds Rourke has the missing page. Rourke and the team deceive Milo, aiming to convey the gem to the surface and offer it. Rourke mortally wounds the King while at the same time endeavoring to extricate data about the precious stone's area, however discovers it himself covered up underneath the King's honored position room. The precious stone identifies a risk and converges with Kida, whom Rourke and the soldiers of fortune lock in a carton, and after that get ready to leave the city. Realizing that when the precious stone is gone the Atlanteans will pass on, Milo scolds the group for selling out their hearts, and at last persuades them to leave Rourke and stay in Atlantis. The King discloses to Milo that the precious stone has built up an awareness; it blossoms with the aggregate feelings of the Atlanteans and will locate an imperial host when Atlantis is in peril. He at that point uncovers that the sinking of Atlantis was caused when he endeavored to utilize it as a weapon of war. As he passes on, he gives his precious stone to Milo, guiding him to spare Atlantis and Kida. Milo energizes the group and Atlanteans to stop Rourke. 

In the resulting fight inside the fountain of liquid magma, Helga, Rourke and his hired fighters are altogether murdered. Milo and the others effectively recover and fly the gem back to the city, as the spring of gushing lava ejects. With magma streaming towards the city, Kida (in her precious stone structure) ascends into the air and makes a defensive shield. The magma stops and splits away innocuously, demonstrating a reestablished Atlantis, and the precious stone returns Kida to Milo. The enduring team individuals come back to the surface and guarantee to keep the disclosure of Atlantis a mystery. Having gone gaga for Kida, Milo turns into the new ruler of Atlantis, alongside Kida as the new ruler, and remains behind to enable her to modify the lost domain. 

The thought for "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" was imagined in October 1996 when Don Hahn, Gary Trousdale, Kirk Wise, and Tab Murphy dined at a Mexican eatery in Burbank, California. Having as of late finished "The Hunchback of Notre Dame" the maker and executives needed to keep the "Hunchback" team together for another film with an Adventureland setting. Drawing motivation from Jules Verne's "A Journey to the Center of the Earth" (1864), they set out to make a film which would completely investigate Atlantis (contrasted with the concise visit portrayed in Verne's tale). While fundamentally using the Internet to inquire about the folklore of Atlantis, the producers ended up inspired by the insightful readings of Edgar Cayce and chose to consolidate a portion of his thoughts—quite that of a mother-precious stone which gives power, recuperating, and life span to the Atlanteans—into the story. They additionally visited exhibition halls and old armed force establishments to think about the innovation of the mid twentieth century (the film's timespan), and voyaged 800 feet underground in New Mexico's Carlsbad Caverns to see the underground trails which would fill in as a model for the way to deal with Atlantis in the film. 

The movie producers needed to stay away from the normal delineation of Atlantis as "disintegrated Greek sections submerged", said Wise. "From the get-go, we were focused on structuring it start to finish. How about we get the engineering style, apparel, legacy, traditions, how they would rest, and how they would talk. So we expedited individuals board who might enable us to build up those thoughts." Art chief David Goetz expressed, "We took a gander at Mayan design, styles of old, surprising engineering from around the globe, and the executives truly loved the vibe of Southeast Asian engineering." The group later took thoughts from other compositional structures, including Cambodian, Indian, and Tibetan works. Hahn included, "On the off chance that you take and deconstruct engineering from around the globe into one building vocabulary, that is the thing that our Atlantis resembles." The general structure and roundabout design of Atlantis were additionally founded on the works of Plato, and his statement "in a solitary day and night of adversity, the island of Atlantis vanished into the profundities of the ocean" was persuasive from the earliest starting point of generation. The group wore T-shirts which read "ATLANTIS—Fewer melodies, more blasts" due the film's arrangement as an activity experience (not at all like past Disney energized highlights, which were musicals). 

Marc Okrand, who built up the Klingon language for the "Star Trek" films, was procured to devise the Atlantean language for "Atlantis: The Lost Empire". Guided by the chiefs' underlying idea for it to be a "mother-language", Okrand utilized an Indo-European word stock with its own linguistic structure. He would change the words on the off chance that they started to sound an excessive amount of like a genuine, verbally expressed language. John Emerson planned the composed part, making several irregular representations of individual letters from among which the executives picked the best to speak to the Atlantean letters in order. The composed language was boustrophedon: intended to be perused left-to-directly on the primary line, at that point ideal to-left on the second, proceeding in a crisscross example to reproduce the stream of water. 

Joss Whedon was the principal author to be required with the film however before long left to chip away at other Disney ventures. As indicated by him, he "had not a shred" in the motion picture. Tab Murphy finished the screenplay, expressing that the time from at first examining the story to creating a content that fulfilled the film group was "around three to four months". The underlying draft was 155 pages, any longer than a run of the mill Disney film content (which generally runs 90 pages). At the point when the initial two acts were planned at 120 minutes, the chiefs cut characters and arrangements and concentrated more on Milo. Murphy said that he made the hundreds of years old "Shepherd's Journal" since he required a guide for the characters to pursue all through their voyage. An overhauled adaptation of the content disposed of the preliminaries experienced by the voyagers as they explored the caverns to Atlantis. This gave the film a quicker pace since Atlantis is found before in the story. 

The character of Milo J. Cover was initially expected to be a relative of Edward Teach, also called Blackbeard the privateer. The executives later related him to an adventurer so he would find his internal ability for investigation. The character of Molière was initially proposed to be "scholarly" however Chris Ure, a story craftsman, changed the idea to that of a "ghastly small tunneling animal with a wacky coat and weird headgear with expanding eyeballs", said Wise. Wear Hahn called attention to that the nonappearance of tunes introduced a test for a group familiar with energizing musicals, as exclusively activity scenes would need to convey the film. Kirk Wise said it gave the group an open door for additional on-screen character improvement: "We had more screen time accessible to complete a scene like where Milo and the voyagers are enjoying the great outdoors out and finding out around each other's chronicles. A whole arrangement is dedicated to eating and heading to sleep. That isn't normally something we would have the advantage of doing." 

Hahn expressed that the primary energized arrangement finished amid creation was the film's preface. The first form included a Viking war party utilizing "The Shepherd's Journal" to discover Atlantis and being quickly dispatched by the Leviathan. Close to the finish of creation, story chief Jon Sanford told the executives that he felt this preamble did not give watchers enough enthusiastic association with the Atlanteans. Regardless of realizing that the Viking preface was done and it would cost extra time and cash to modify the scene, the chiefs concurred with Sanford. Trousdale returned home and finished the storyboards later that night. The opening was supplanted by an arrangement portraying the decimation of Atlantis, which presented the film from the point of view of the Atlanteans and Princess Kida. The Viking introduction is incorporated as an additional component on the . 

At the pinnacle of its creation, 350 illustrators, craftsmen and experts were taking a shot at "Atlantis" at all three Disney movement studios: Walt Disney Feature Animation (Burbank, California), Disney Feature Animation Florida (Orlando), and Disney Animation France (Paris). The film was one of only a handful couple of Disney vivified highlights created and shot in 70mm anamorphic configuration. The executives felt that a widescreen picture was significant, as a nostalgic reference to old activity experience films introduced in the CinemaScope position (2.35:1), noticing "Pillagers of the Lost Ark" as a motivation. Since changing to the arrangement would require movement work areas and hardware intended for widescreen to be bought, Disney officials were at first hesitant about the thought. The creation group found a basic arrangement by illustration inside a littler casing on a similar paper and hardware utilized for standard perspective proportion (1.66:1) Disney-vivified films. Design chief Ed Ghertner composed a manual for the widescreen group for use by the format craftsmen and referenced that one favorable position of widescreen was that he could keep characters in scenes longer in light of extra space to stroll inside the edge. Insightful drew further motivation for the arrangement from movie producers David Lean and Akira Kurosawa. 

The film's visual style was firmly founded on that of Mike Mignola, the comic book craftsman behind "Hellboy". Mignola was one of four creation architects (alongside Matt Codd, Jim Martin, and Ricardo Delgado) enlisted by the Disney studio for the film. As needs be, he given style guides, primer character and foundation structures, and story thoughts. "Mignola's realistic, precise style was a key effect on the 'look' of the characters," expressed Wise. Mignola was astonished when previously reached by the studio to chip away at "Atlantis". His creative impact on the film would later add to a religion following. 

The last haul out scene of the motion picture, preceding the end-title card, was portrayed by the executives as the most troublesome scene in the historical backdrop of Disney movement. They said that the pullout endeavor on their earlier film, "The Hunchback of Notre Dame", "battled" and "needed profundity"; be that as it may, subsequent to making propels during the time spent multiplaning, they attempted the method again in "Atlantis". The scene starts with one 16-inch (40.5 cm) bit of paper appearing close-up of Milo and Kida. As the camera destroys far from them to uncover the recently reestablished Atlantis, it achieves what could be compared to a 18,000-inch (45,720 cm) bit of paper made out of numerous individual bits of paper (24 inches [61 cm] or littler). Each piece was deliberately drawn and joined with vivified vehicles all the while flying over the scene to make the watcher see a total, coordinated picture. 

At the season of its discharge, "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" was remarkable for utilizing more PC created symbolism (CGI) than some other Disney generally enlivened element. To build efficiency, the chiefs had the advanced craftsmen work with the conventional illustrators all through the creation. A few imperative scenes required overwhelming utilization of computerized activity: the Leviathan, the "Ulysses" submarine and sub-cases, the Heart of Atlantis, and the Stone Giants. Amid generation, after Matt Codd and Jim Martin planned the "Ulysses" on paper, Greg Aronowitz was contracted to manufacture a scale model of the submarine, to be utilized as a kind of perspective for illustration the 3D "Ulysses". The last film included 362 computerized impacts shots, and PC programs were utilized to flawlessly join the 2D and 3D fine art. One scene that exploited this was the "sub-drop" scene, where the 3D "Ulysses" was dropped from its docking cove into the water. As the camera glided toward it, a 2D Milo was attracted to show up inside, following the camera. The team noticed that it was trying to shield the gathering of people from seeing the distinction between the 2D and 3D illustrations when they were combined. The advanced generation likewise gave the executives a one of a kind "virtual camera" for entangled shots inside the film. With the capacity to work in the z-plane, this camera traveled through an advanced wire-outline set; the foundation and subtleties were later hand-drawn over the wire outlines. This was utilized in the opening flight scene through Atlantis and the submarine pursue through the undersea sinkhole with the Leviathan in interest. 

Since the movie would not include any tunes, the executives enlisted James Newton Howard to create the score. Moving toward it as a real to life film, Howard chose to have diverse melodic topics for the way of life of the surface world and Atlantis. On account of Atlantis, Howard picked an Indonesian instrumental sound fusing rings, chimes, and gongs. The chiefs revealed to Howard that the film would have various key scenes without discourse; the score would need to pass on candidly what the watcher was seeing on screen. 

Gary Rydstrom and his group at Skywalker Sound were enlisted for the film's sound generation. Like Howard, Rydstrom utilized diverse sounds for the two societies. Concentrating on the machine and mechanical hints of the early modern period for the wayfarers, he felt that the Atlanteans ought to have an "increasingly natural" sound using earthenware production and ceramics. The sound made by the Atlantean flying-fish vehicles represented a specific test. Rydstrom uncovered that he was sitting along the edge of a thruway recording one day when a semi-truck drove by at fast. At the point when the account was accelerated on his PC he felt it sounded natural, and that is what is heard inside the film. Rydstrom made the symphonious tolling of the Heart of Atlantis by scouring his finger along the edge of a champagne woodwind, and the sound of sub-cases traveling through water with a water pick. 

"Atlantis" was among Disney's first significant endeavors to use web showcasing. The film was advanced through Kellogg's, which made a site with scaled down amusements and a motion picture based computer game give-away for UPC names from uniquely stamped bundles of "Atlantis" breakfast grain. The film was one of Disney's first showcasing endeavors through versatile system administrators, and enabled clients to download amusements dependent on the film. McDonald's (which had a select permitting concession to all Disney discharges) advanced the film with Happy Meal toys, sustenance bundling and in-store stylistic theme. The McDonald's promoting effort included TV, radio, and print commercials starting on the film's discharge date. Frito-Lay offered free confirmation tickets for the film on extraordinarily stamped tidbit bundles. 

Prior to the film's discharge, correspondents guessed that it would have a troublesome kept running because of rivalry from DreamWorks' "Shrek" (a completely CGI highlight) and "" (an activity experience film from Paramount Pictures). As to market's day of work from customary liveliness and rivalry with CGI films, Kirk Wise stated, "Any conventional illustrator, including myself, can't resist the urge to feel a twinge. I think it generally comes down to story and character, and one structure won't supplant the other. Much the same as photography didn't supplant painting. In any case, perhaps I'm ignorant concerning it." Jeff Jensen of "Stimulation Weekly" noticed that CGI films, (for example, "Shrek") were bound to draw in the young statistic commonly not keen on movement, and called "Atlantis" an "advertising and imaginative bet". 

"Atlantis: The Lost Empire" had its reality debut at Disney's El Capitan Theater in Hollywood, California on June 3, 2001 and a restricted discharge in New York City and Los Angeles on June 8; a more extensive discharge pursued on June 15. At the debut, "Goal: Atlantis" was in plain view, highlighting off camera props from the film and data on the legend of Atlantis with computer games, shows, laser tag, and different attractions. The Aquarium of the Pacific additionally lent an assortment of fish for showcase inside the fascination. With a financial plan of $100 million, the film opened at #2 on its introduction end of the week, behind "Lara Croft: Tomb Raider" procuring $20.3 million out of 3,011 theaters. The film's global discharge started September 20 in Australia and different markets stuck to this same pattern. Amid its 25-week dramatic run, "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" earned over $186 million around the world ($84 million from the United States and Canada). Reacting to its baffling film industry execution, Thomas Schumacher, at that point leader of Walt Disney Feature Animation, stated, "It appeared as though a smart thought at the opportunity to not complete a sweet fantasy, however we missed." 

"Atlantis: The Lost Empire" was discharged on VHS and DVD January 29, 2002. Amid the main month of its home discharge, the film drove in VHS deals and was third in VHS and DVD deals joined. Deals and rentals of the VHS and DVD joined would in the end gather $157 million in income by mid-2003. Both a solitary circle DVD version and a two-plate authority's version (with extra highlights) were discharged. The single-circle DVD gave the watcher the choice of review the film either in its unique showy 2.35:1 perspective proportion or an altered 1.33:1 proportion (using container and sweep). Extra highlights accessible on the DVD form included sound and visual discourse from the film group, a virtual voyage through the CGI models, an Atlantean-language instructional exercise, a reference book on the legend of Atlantis, and the erased Viking preface scene. The two-circle authority's version DVD contained all the single-plate highlights and a plate with supplemental material itemizing all parts of the film's generation. The collector's-version film must be seen in its unique showy proportion, and furthermore highlighted a discretionary DTS 5.1 track. Both DVD adaptations, be that as it may, contained a Dolby Digital 5.1 track and were THX guaranteed. Disney carefully restored and discharged "Atlantis" on Blu-beam on June 11, 2013, packaged with its continuation "". 

The survey aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes reports that 49% of 141 expert commentators have given "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" a positive audit; the normal rating is 5.5/10. The site's accord is: ""Atlantis" gives a quick paced display, yet spells on such things as character advancement and a rational plot". Metacritic relegated the film a weighted normal score of 52 out of 100 dependent on 29 audits from standard pundits; this was considered "blended or normal surveys". CinemaScore surveys led amid the opening end of the week uncovered the normal evaluation film goers gave "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" was "An" on an A+-to-F scale. 

While faultfinders had blended responses to the film when all is said in done, some lauded it for its visuals, activity experience components, and its endeavor to speak to a more seasoned gathering of people. Roger Ebert gave "Atlantis" three-and-half stars out of four. He lauded the liveliness' "spotless brilliant visual look" and the "exemplary vitality of the comic book style", attributing this to crafted by Mike Mignola. Ebert gave specific acclaim to the story and the last fight scene and expressed, "The narrative of "Atlantis" is awakening in an old mash sci-fi kind of way, however the climactic scene rises above the rest, and stands without anyone else as one of the incredible energized activity arrangements." In "The New York Times", Elvis Mitchell gave high recognition to the film, calling it "a momentous treat", and expressed, ""Atlantis" is additionally a standout amongst the most attractive Disney kid's shows since Uncle Walt systematized the four-fingered glove." Internet film pundit James Berardinelli composed a positive audit of the film, giving it three out of four stars. He expressed, "overall, "Atlantis" offers an hour and a half of strong diversion, by and by demonstrating that while Disney might be dumbfounded with regards to delivering great real to life motion pictures, they are actually the contrary with regards to their vivified division." Wesley Morris of the "San Francisco Chronicle" composed emphatically of the film's methodology for a more established group of onlookers: "Yet just underneath the surface, "Atlantis" overflows with grown-up plausibility." 

Different pundits felt that the film was unremarkable with respect to its story and characters, and that it neglected to convey as a non-melodic to Disney's conventional group of onlookers. Owen Gleiberman of "Excitement Weekly" gave the film a C+ rating, composing that the film had "hmm marvel conventional character" and was "the quintessence of specialty without dream". Kenneth Turan of the "Los Angeles Times" said the storyline and portrayals were "antiquated" and the film had the retrograde look of a Saturday-morning animation, yet these inadequacies were balanced by its "energetic activity" and wild eyed pace. Todd McCarthy of "Assortment" expressed, "Disney pushes into all-talking, no-singing, no-moving and, at last, no-fun energized an area." Stephanie Zacharek of "Salon" composed of Disney's endeavor to make the film for a grown-up group of onlookers, "The enormous issue with Disney's most recent enlivened element, "Atlantis: The Lost Empire", is that it doesn't appear to be adapted to kids by any stretch of the imagination: It's adult to the point that it's hugely exhausting." Rita Kempley of "The Washington Post" panned the film, considering it "another molded yet old-fangled hash" and stated, "Incidentally Disney had wanted to refresh its picture with this somewhat occupying experience, yet the image hasn't generally split far from the time tested organization caricature in the far unrivaled "Shrek"." 

A few faultfinders and researchers have noticed that "Atlantis" plays unequivocally on subjects of against free enterprise and hostile to government. M. Keith Booker, scholastic and writer of learns about the verifiable messages passed on by media, sees the character of Rourke as being persuaded by "entrepreneur avarice" when he seeks after "his very own monetary profit" regardless of the information that "his burglary [of the crystal] will prompt the obliteration of [Atlantis]". Religion writer Mark Pinsky, in his investigation of good and otherworldly subjects in famous Disney films, says that "it is difficult to peruse the motion picture ... some other way" than as "a staggering, tenacious assault on free enterprise and American government". Max Messier of FilmCritic.com watches, "Disney even figures out how to lambast the industrialist way of life of the travelers plan on revealing the lost city. Damn the radicals!" According to Booker, the film additionally "conveys a fairly segregationist moral" by finishing up with the revelation of the Atlanteans stayed discreet from other surface-inhabitants so as to keep up a detachment between the two exceedingly dissimilar societies. Others considered "Atlantis" to be an intriguing take a gander at idealistic reasoning of the sort found in great works of sci-fi by H. G. Wells and Jules Verne. 

At the point when the film was discharged, a few watchers saw that "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" bore various similitudes to the 1990– 1991 Japanese anime TV program "" and the 1986 film "Mansion in the Sky" from Studio Ghibli, especially in its character configuration, setting, and story. In spite of the fact that Disney never reacted formally to cases of written falsification, co-executive Kirk Wise posted on a Disney liveliness newsgroup in May 2001, "Never knew about "Nadia" till it was referenced in this [newsgroup]. Long after we'd completed generation, I may include." Both "Atlantis" and "Nadia" were enlivened, to some extent, by the 1870 Jules Verne epic "Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea", of which Lee Zion (announcing for Anime News Network) expressed, "There are an excessive number of similitudes "not" associated with "20,000 Leagues" for the entire thing to be fortuitous event." Critics likewise observed parallels with the 1994 film "Stargate". Milo's qualities were said to look like those of Daniel Jackson, the hero of "Stargate" and its spinoff TV arrangement "Stargate SG-1"— which incidentally propelled its very own spinoff, titled "Stargate Atlantis". 

"Atlantis: the Lost Empire" was intended to give a springboard to an enlivened TV arrangement entitled "Group Atlantis", which would have exhibited the further experiences of its characters. Be that as it may, in view of the film's under-execution in the cinematic world, the arrangement was not delivered. On May 20, 2003, Disney discharged a direct-to-video continuation called "", comprising of three scenes anticipated the prematurely ended arrangement. Furthermore, Disneyland intended to restore its Submarine Voyage ride with an "Atlantis" subject with components from the film and the ride was advanced with a meet-and-welcome by the motion picture's characters. These plans were dropped and the fascination was re-opened in 2007 as the Finding Nemo Submarine Voyage, its topic dependent on the 2003 Disney·Pixar energized film "Discovering Nemo". 

The soundtrack to "Atlantis: The Lost Empire" was discharged on May 22, 2001. It comprises basically of James Newton Howard's score and incorporates "Where the Dream Takes You", composed by Howard and Diane Warren and performed by Mýa. It was likewise accessible in a constrained release of 20,000 numbered duplicates with a one of a kind 3D collection spread supplement portraying the Leviathan from the film. An uncommon special version (highlighting 73 minutes of material, contrasted with the 53 minutes on standard business releases) was proposed just for Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences voters yet was bootlegged and conveyed with fan-made fine art. Concerning the limited time release, Filmtracks stated, "Outside of around five minutes of unrivaled extra material (counting the monstrous opening, "Atlantis Destroyed"), the total introduction is for the most part excess. In any case, "Atlantis" is a cultivated work for its kind." 

There are a few computer games dependent on the film. "" (usually known as "Atlantis: Search for the Journal") was created by Zombie Studios and distributed by Buena Vista Games, a backup of Disney Interactive. It was discharged on May 1, 2001, for the Microsoft Windows stage and was a first-individual shooter diversion, the first of two amusements dependent on the film created by Zombie Studios and discharged for UPC marks from Kellogg's items for advancement. "" (usually known as "Atlantis: Trial by Fire") was the second amusement created by Zombie Studios and distributed by Disney Interactive, and was discharged May 18, 2001, for the Microsoft Windows stage. 

"Atlantis: The Lost Empire" is an activity amusement created by Eurocom for the PlayStation support which was discharged June 14, 2001. The player controls Milo, Audrey, Molière, Kida and Vinny as they navigate Atlantis, opening its insider facts. A few highlights in the amusement open others, (for example, a film) by discovering things covered up all through the diversion. THQ discharged "Disney's Atlantis: The Lost Empire" for the Game Boy Advance and Game Boy Color. It is a stage amusement in which the player controls Milo and three different characters from the film crosswise over 14 levels on a journey to find Atlantis. The amusement was met with normal to blended audits upon discharge. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 74% and 73 out of 100 for the PlayStation form; 65% for the Game Boy Color variant; and 56% and 51 out of 100 for the Game Boy Advance adaptation.