Alain Prost 

Alain Marie Pascal Prost (brought into the world 24 February 1955) is a resigned French dashing driver and a four-time Formula One Drivers' Champion. From 1987 until 2001 Prost held the record for most Grand Prix triumphs and is considered as one of the best F1 drivers ever. Michael Schumacher outperformed Prost's aggregate of 51 triumphs at the 2001 Belgian Grand Prix. In 1999, Prost got the "World Sports Awards of the Century" in the engine sport class. 

Prost found karting at 14 years old amid a family occasion. He advanced through engine game's lesser positions, winning the French and European Formula Three titles, before joining the McLaren Formula One group in 1980 at 24 years old. He completed in the focuses on his Formula One début at the San Martin Autodrome in Buenos Aires, Argentina (where he took his first platform a year later) and took his first race triumph at his home Grand Prix in France a year later, driving for the production line Renault group. 

Amid the 1980s and mid 1990s, Prost shaped a wild contention for the most part with Ayrton Senna, yet additionally Nelson Piquet and Nigel Mansell. In 1986, at the last race of the period, he beat Mansell and Piquet of Williams to the title after Mansell resigned late on in the race, and Piquet was pulled in for a late prudent pit stop. Senna joined Prost at McLaren in 1988 and the two had a progression of disputable conflicts, including a crash at the 1989 Japanese Grand Prix that gave Prost his third Drivers' Championship. After a year at a similar scene they impacted once more, yet this time Prost, driving for Ferrari, missed out. Before the finish of a winless 1991 season Prost was terminated by Ferrari for his open analysis of the group. After a vacation in 1992, Prost joined the Williams group, inciting ruling Drivers' Champion Mansell to leave for CART. With an aggressive vehicle, Prost won the 1993 title and resigned from Formula One driving toward the year's end. 

In 1997, Prost assumed control over the French Ligier group, running it as Prost Grand Prix until it went bankrupt in 2002. From 2003 to 2012 he contended in the Andros Trophy, which is an ice hustling title, taking 38 race triumphs and winning the title multiple times. 

Prost utilized a smooth, loosened up style in the driver's seat, purposely displaying himself on close to home saints like Jackie Stewart and Jim Clark. He was nicknamed "The Professor" for his scholarly way to deal with rivalry. In spite of the fact that it was anything but a name he especially thought about, he would concede later that it was a fitting summation of his way to deal with his hustling. Gifted at setting up his vehicle for race conditions, Prost would regularly save his brakes and tires from the get-go in a race, abandoning them fresher for a test toward the end. 

Alain Prost was brought into the world close to the town of Saint-Chamond, near the urban communities of Lyon and Saint-Etienne in the département of Loire, France, to André Prost and Marie-Rose Karatchian, conceived in France of Armenian plunge. Prost had one more youthful sibling called Daniel, who kicked the bucket of disease in September 1986. Albeit short, remaining at 1.67 m (5 ft 6 in) Prost was a functioning, athletic kid, who eagerly participated in different games, including wrestling, roller skating and football. In doing as such he broke his nose a few times. He thought about vocations as a rec center educator or an expert footballer before he found kart dashing at 14 years old while on a family occasion. This new game rapidly turned into his profession of decision. 

Prost was hitched to Anne-Marie (brought into the world 14 February 1955), yet they separated at some point later. They have two children, Nicolas (brought into the world 18 August 1981) and Sacha Prost (brought into the world 30 May 1990). Prost additionally has a little girl, Victoria. From 2014 to 2018, Nicolas dashed in Formula E for e.dams Renault, a group somewhat kept running by his dad. Prost lived in the place where he grew up, Saint-Chamond, until he and his Renault group dropped out in the mid 1980s. In April 1983 the Prost family moved to Sainte-Croix, Switzerland, and not long after to Yens, Switzerland. They moved to Switzerland after Renault specialists went to Prost's home in France and consumed his Mercedes-Benz and another of his street autos. They lived there until November 1999, when they moved to Nyon in a similar nation. In December 2015, Prost turned into a granddad with the introduction of Nicolas Prost's child Kimi. 

In 1985 Prost was granted the Légion d'Honneur by President François Mitterrand. 

Prost won a few karting titles in his youngsters. In 1974 he left school to turn into a full-time racer, supporting himself by tuning motors and turning into a kart wholesaler. His prize for winning the 1975 French senior karting title was a season in French Formula Renault, a class in which he won the title and everything except one race in 1976. 

Prost proceeded to win the 1977 Formula Renault European title before climbing to Formula Three (F3) in 1978. In 1979 he won both the French and European F3 titles, by which time he was on the shopping arrangements of a few Formula One groups. After cautiously thinking about his alternatives, he marked with McLaren for 1980. He shocked the British group by declining their idea of a race drive in a third vehicle at the last race of the 1979 season at Watkins Glen — thinking that the token exertion would profit neither him nor the group. 

Prost started his vocation with McLaren (being controlled by Teddy Mayer) in 1980 close by Ulsterman John Watson. On his presentation in Buenos Aires he completed in 6th spot procuring one point, something accomplished by just a bunch of drivers. Prost added four additional focuses to his count amid the season, scoring focuses at Interlagos, Brands Hatch and Zandvoort. Prost completed the year fifteenth in the Drivers' Championship, equalling focuses with previous best on the planet Emerson Fittipaldi. In spite of the empowering debut season, Prost had a few mishaps, breaking his wrist amid training at Kyalami and enduring a blackout amid training at Watkins Glen. He likewise resigned from the Canadian round in Montreal seven days sooner on account of back suspension disappointment. Toward the finish of the period, in spite of having two years staying on his agreement, he left McLaren and marked with Renault. Prost has said that he left on account of the expansive number of breakages on the vehicle and on the grounds that he felt the group reprimanded him for a portion of the mishaps. 

Prost was banded together with individual Frenchman René Arnoux for 1981. Engine sports creator Nigel Roebuck reports that there were issues among Prost and Arnoux from the beginning of the period, Prost being promptly faster than his progressively experienced partner. He didn't complete the initial two Grands Prix, because of impacts with Andrea de Cesaris in Long Beach and Didier Pironi at Jacarepaguá, however scored his first platform complete at Buenos Aires. He likewise did not complete in the following four races, and after that won his first Formula One race at his home Grand Prix in France at the quick Dijon circuit, completing two seconds in front of his old colleague John Watson. 

For Prost, his introduction triumph was significant generally for the change it made in his mentality. "Previously, you figured you could do it," he said. "Presently you realize you can." Prost drove from the begin the following 5 races, and won two additional races amid the season, took his first post position in Germany and completed on the platform each time he finished a race separate. He won again in Holland and Italy, and completed fifth in the Drivers' Championship, seven points behind hero Nelson Piquet. 

Prost won the initial two Grands Prix of the 1982 season in South Africa, where Prost recouped from losing a wheel, and Brazil, where he completed third yet was granted the success after Piquet (first) and Keke Rosberg (second) were precluded. He completed in the focuses on four different events, however did not win once more. In spite of resigning from seven races, Prost enhanced his Drivers' Championship position, completing in fourth, however with nine less focuses than the earlier year. His association with Arnoux disintegrated further after the French Grand Prix. Prost trusts that Arnoux, who won the race, backpedaled on a pre-race consent to help Prost amid the race. His association with the French media was likewise poor. He has since remarked that "When I went to Renault the writers composed beneficial things about me, however by 1982 I had turned into the trouble maker. I think, to be completely forthright, I had tragically won! The French don't generally like victors." 

In November 1982, three years before it turned into a series of the F1 World Championship, Prost, alongside individual F1 drivers Jacques Laffite and Nelson Piquet, made the excursion to Melbourne, Australia to drive in the non-title 1982 Australian Grand Prix at the short (1.609 km (1.000 mi)) Calder Park Raceway. Driving a Formula Pacific spec Ralt RT4 fueled by a 1.6 liter Ford motor, Prost sat on shaft for the race with a period of 39.18. He at that point drove each lap to win what might be the first of 3 Australian Grand Prix wins. He completed 15.32 seconds clear of Laffite, with 1981 AGP victor, youthful Brazilian driver Roberto Moreno completing third. 

Arnoux left Renault in 1983, and American Eddie Cheever supplanted him as Prost's accomplice purportedly in light of Renault's craving to sell more street vehicles in North America (3 of the period's 15 races were on the North American mainland). Prost earned a further four triumphs for Renault amid the season and completed second in the Drivers' Championship, two points behind Nelson Piquet. Piquet and the Brabham group updated Prost and Renault in the last couple of races of the period. Prost, who felt the group had been excessively moderate in building up the vehicle, got himself progressively inconsistent with Renault's administration, who made him the substitute for neglecting to win a title. Notwithstanding that, the French fans reviewed the unpleasant battle that had caused their top pick, Arnoux, to leave the group. Prost said in a meeting with ESPN amid the last race that his vehicle was "not aggressive" and that he "didn't lose by my own blame" Renault terminated Prost just two days after the South African race. He re-marked for McLaren for the 1984 season inside days and moved his family home to Switzerland after Renault assembly line laborers consumed the second of 2 of Prost's vehicles, one of them being a Mercedes-Benz. 

The Frenchman joined twofold best on the planet Niki Lauda at McLaren (presently being controlled by Ron Dennis) in , driving the John Barnard structured McLaren MP4/2 which utilized a 1.5 liter TAG-Porsche V6 motor. He lost the big showdown to Lauda in the last race of the period in Portugal significantly a point, notwithstanding winning seven races to Lauda's five, incorporating winning in Portugal. The half point originated from the Monaco Grand Prix, where Prost had been driving, but with Ayrton Senna (Toleman) and Stefan Bellof (Tyrrell) shutting on him quickly, when Clerk of the Course Jacky Ickx ceased the race at half separation because of substantial downpour, which was questionable as Ickx shown the warning without counseling the race authorities. Under Formula One guidelines, Prost got just 50% of the nine points regularly granted for a triumph. 

Prost's seven successes in 1984 equalled the record set by Jim Clark in . 

In Prost turned into the primary French Formula One World Champion. He won five of the sixteen Grands Prix amid the season. He had additionally won the San Marino Grand Prix, yet was excluded after his vehicle was observed to be 2 kg underweight in post-race scrutineering. Prost completed 20 in front of his nearest rival, Michele Alboreto. Prost's execution in 1985 earned him the Légion d'honneur refinement in France. 

Niki Lauda resigned for good toward the finish of 1985, and was supplanted at McLaren by World Champion Keke Rosberg for . Prost effectively guarded his title, in spite of his vehicle battling against the Honda-controlled Williams autos driven by Nelson Piquet and Nigel Mansell. Until the last phases of the last race of the 1986 season, the Australian Grand Prix, Prost seemed set to complete second in the Championship, behind Mansell. Prost had indistinguishable number of wins from Piquet, yet he had four second places to Piquet's three, along these lines putting him second before the last race. While running third behind Piquet, and straightforwardly behind Prost out and about (third was all he expected to win the title), Mansell endured a back tire disappointment at and smashed out. The Williams group at that point set Piquet to replace tires as a wellbeing precautionary measure, while Prost had effectively set before because of a cut and did not have to replace his tires once more. He at that point held the lead in front of a charging Piquet to the checkered banner and the Championship. 

Another significant race that year for Prost was at the San Marino Grand Prix. He was cruising to triumph when his vehicle started to come up short on fuel three corners from the checkered banner. Hysterically weaving the vehicle forward and backward to slosh the last drops of fuel into the pickup, he figured out how to keep it running sufficiently long to crawl over the line and win the race (Prost remarked after the race that when his vehicle began running dry he promptly contemplated internally ""crap, I will lose this race once more"", alluding to his 1985 preclusion at Imola). It happened again at the German Grand Prix: while running in fourth position, Prost's vehicle came up short on fuel on the completing straight of the last lap. Rather than resigning at once in the season when focuses were basic, Prost escaped his vehicle and endeavored to drive it to the completion, to extraordinary praise from the group. The end goal was excessively far, however, and he never achieved it. He was in the long run ordered 6th in the race, as the seventh-set vehicle (the Brabham-BMW of Derek Warwick) was a lap behind. 

With Rosberg resigning from Formula One toward the finish of 1986 season, underestimated Swede Stefan Johansson filled the McLaren situate nearby Prost for the season. Despite the fact that McLaren had presented the new Steve Nichols planned MP4/3 after three seasons with the MP4/2 display (Barnard had withdrawn for Ferrari), the TAG motors were not the power they had been formerly, falling behind in power and with shakiness beforehand concealed. He never surrendered however and tested Piquet and Mansell nearly until the end, winning three races and breaking Jackie Stewart's record for race triumphs by winning for the 28th time at the Portuguese Grand Prix. Prost considers his success in the opening round in Brazil as his best and most remunerating race ever. The Williams-Hondas had been predominant amid qualifying, and Prost began fifth on the lattice with a period three seconds slower than Mansell's post time. Realizing he didn't have the passing pace, he rather chipped away at his race set-up, and with every other person going for a high-downforce set-up, the Frenchman went the other way. The set-up implied less tire wear, on account of slower speeds in the corners while going quick down the straights. With his vehicle having less tire wear than his opponents, Prost had the capacity to get past the 61 laps of the grating Jacarepaguá Circuit with just two stops contrasted with the at least three by his adversaries (Piquet set for tires multiple times inside the initial 40 laps). Prost completed 40 seconds before Piquet, with Johansson a further 16 seconds back in third. 

When you win a race like this the inclination is, exceptionally great. There have been times when I have been level out to complete 6th, yet you can't see that all things considered. In I completed three or multiple times in seventh spot. I pushed like distraught, yet everybody was accumulated around the victor and they were imagining that I was simply trundling near. Be that as it may, that is engine hustling. So in reality the main thing you can make a decision in this game is the long haul. You can pass judgment on a profession or a season, yet not one race. 

Prost completed the 1987 season in fourth spot in the title behind Piquet, Mansell and Lotus driver Ayrton Senna. Prost completed 30 points behind hero Nelson Piquet. Other than his presentation season in 1980, and , it was the farthest away he would complete a season from the title lead. 

Regardless of Nelson Piquet winning the 1987 Drivers' Championship and Williams winning the Constructors' Championship, Honda chose not to supply the group with their motors, mostly because of Williams' refusal to dump Nigel Mansell and contract Japanese driver and Honda tester Satoru Nakajima (who appeared with Lotus in 1987), and rather provided the McLaren group for . Prost had persuaded Ron Dennis to sign Ayrton Senna to a three-year contract, which assumed a job in attracting Honda (Senna's capacity had been exceptionally respected by the Japanese monster when utilizing their motors with Lotus in 1987 and both were quick to proceed with their affiliation). In any case, this started the contention that pushed two of the game's most prominent drivers to uncommon statures of accomplishment and debate. McLaren-Honda ruled the season, winning 15 out of 16 races. Prost completed first or second in each race other than his two retirements at Silverstone and Monza. He won seven races and altogether outscored his new partner Ayrton Senna by 11 points, regardless of Senna winning one more race than Prost. Be that as it may, just the 11 best outcomes from the season tallied toward the title aggregate, and this gave Senna the title by three points. Prost proceeded to be an advocate of basically the 1990s scoring framework – all outcomes tallying to the last outcomes with the champ scoring 10, not 9. 

In November of that year, Prost had a gathering with the leader of Honda's R&D division and F1 dashing system, Nobuhiko Kawamoto in Geneva. He communicated his emotions that Honda was giving Senna particular treatment, and Kawamoto then affirmed Prost's feelings of trepidation, clarifying that the Honda engineers were of another age, and that they enjoyed Senna's panache and samurai-like driving. Kawamoto had the capacity to persuade Prost that he would work something out on the Honda end of the McLaren-Honda association for the 1989 season, however this was not to be. 

McLaren's mastery proceeded all through , and the Prost-Senna battle for matchless quality put them on an impact course. Common reverence swung to hard and fast disdain, with the Frenchman blaming his Brazilian colleague for ""unsafe driving"" and of accepting in excess of a decent amount of consideration from both McLaren and Honda. As far as concerns him, Senna blamed Prost for being in the pocket of FISA's French president Jean-Marie Balestre. The ill will between the two drivers reached a critical stage at Round 2 in San Marino. The drivers made an understanding between them that whoever won the begin would not be tested by the other going into the principal turn (for this situation, the Tosa twist on the Imola circuit). Prost kept to the understanding after Senna won the primary begin. Prost anyway won the restart (brought about by Gerhard Berger's red hot accident in his Ferrari), however was passed by Senna under brakes for Tosa. Prost went to a companion of his, a French columnist, and enlightened him concerning the broken understanding among him and Senna. Against Prost's desires, the columnist opened up to the world about the story. Amid testing at Pembrey in Wales, Senna denied in open any such understanding had ever existed among himself and Prost, yet the Frenchman's case was supported up by Marlboro's John Hogan who had been available when the understanding was made. 

Their disillusioned season finished the same number of intellectuals had dreaded. In the Japanese Grand Prix toward the finish of lap 46, Senna made his turn at the Casio Chicane. Prost, transforming into the corner, transformed into his partner's way bringing about an impact and the autos sliding interlocked down the departure street. Prost, thinking the World Championship was finished, move out of his slowed down vehicle. To isolate the autos, the marshals pushed Senna's McLaren in reverse onto the track. This left it in a perilous position, so they pushed it advances once more. As they did as such, Senna knock began the motor. He drove through the chicane and rejoined. The nose of his vehicle was harmed and he needed to pit, however he rejoined just five seconds behind the Benetton of Alessandro Nannini. On lap 50, Ayrton cut past Nannini at the chicane to lead the pack and won the race. In any case, it was Nannini who showed up on the top advance of the platform, race authorities having avoided Senna for missing the chicane. McLaren claimed the choice, however the FIA Court of Appeal maintained the choice as well as fined Senna US$100,000 and gave him a suspended half year boycott. In this manner Prost secured his third driver's title in dubious conditions. 

Be that as it may, Prost had the firm conviction that Honda and Ron Dennis saw Senna as the eventual fate of the group. Prost reviewed that by the Italian Grand Prix he had one vehicle with perhaps four or five mechanics, while his colleague had two autos and 20 individuals around him. Before the race Prost, who had declared in July 1989 that he would leave from McLaren, reported he was joining Ferrari. Despite the fact that Prost was compelled to make an open expression of remorse to both McLaren and Honda over his Monza remarks, he got support from Nigel Mansell (who might be his colleague at Ferrari), and previous partner Rosberg who guaranteed that once it ended up realized they would not be utilizing the Japanese motors the following season, their Honda motors did not appear to fill in just as was once ordinary. Prost really won the Italian Grand Prix, after Senna's motor blew with just 9 laps remaining. Until that point Prost's MP4/5 had not been a counterpart for Senna's on Monza's long straights, which had many, particularly those in the press, thinking about whether there was really truth to Prost's case that his Honda motors were not in the same class as the ones Senna had the capacity to utilize. 

As 1989 wore on, Prost consistently guaranteed his Honda V10s were not creating a similar measure of intensity as those in Senna's vehicle. It really came to the heart of the matter where Honda F1 manager Osamu Goto felt constrained to address the expert British media on the issue. He guaranteed that Senna's foot-tapping style with the quickening agent helped keep the RA109-E's revs up in the motor's mid-go where the greater part of the power was, while Prost's smoother style dropped the motors into low revs where they had a get issue. Obviously the discussion was persuading until a large portion of those present saw Goto persistently called them Ayrton and Prost individually (per Japanese traditions, tending to an individual by their first name as opposed to the surname demonstrates an a lot higher level of nature and privacy). A case of Prost's cases came amid the Mexican Grand Prix. Regardless of his vehicle running less wing than Senna's which hypothetically would give him more prominent top speed, Prost's McLaren was not ready to pass Senna's on the long front straight despite the fact that he fell off the last Peraltada Curve unmistakably quicker than the Brazilian and furthermore had the advantage of a tow. As a glaring difference, late in the race when Senna was lapping Prost (who was on new tires), Senna was effectively ready to control past Prost on the straight. 

Prost marked to join Ferrari in 1990 turning into the principal driver marked to the group after the demise of group author Enzo Ferrari in 1988. The Frenchman supplanted Gerhard Berger at Ferrari and was banded together with Britain's Nigel Mansell for 1990 (Berger sat down at McLaren). As authoritative best on the planet, Prost took over as the group's lead driver and was said to have played on Mansell's feeling of inadequacy. Mansell reviews one occurrence where at the 1990 British Grand Prix, the vehicle he drove didn't deal with equivalent to in the past race where he had taken post position, and later discovered from group mechanics that Prost considered Mansell to be having a prevalent vehicle and had them swapped without Mansell knowing. Prost won five races for Ferrari that year, in Brazil, Mexico, France, Britain and Spain. Remarkable among these was the Mexican Grand Prix, where he won in the wake of beginning in thirteenth position. In both the Mexican and Spanish races, he drove Mansell to Ferrari 1– 2 completions. The title by and by went to the penultimate round of the period in Japan with Prost trailing his McLaren enemy, Ayrton Senna, by nine points. As in 1989, a disputable impact between the two settled the race. At the primary corner Senna, as conceded a year later, deliberately drove his race vehicle into Prost's, removing them both from the race and fixing the title to support him. "What he did was nauseating," Prost said. "He is a man without esteem." Prost completed the season seven behind Senna, and his Ferrari group were sprinters up to McLaren. 

Mansell left the Scuderia because of his flimsy association with Prost, to rejoin Williams for the 1991 Formula One season. Mansell's substitution was Frenchman Jean Alesi, who had been noteworthy amid the past two years at Tyrrell. Ferrari had entered a downturn, mostly as their popular V12 motor was never again aggressive against the littler, lighter and more eco-friendly V10s of their rivals. The Ferrari frame, in spite of a noteworthy update by the French Grand Prix (F-643) was additionally not up to the dimension of the McLaren and the Williams models. Prost won no races, just getting onto the platform multiple times. He took this out in the group, freely censuring the group and the Ferrari 643, and therefore had his agreement ended before the finish of the period, quickly preceding the Australian Grand Prix. He was supplanted by Italian driver Gianni Morbidelli for the last race of the 1991 season and by another Italian, Ivan Capelli, for the accompanying season. In spite of being sacked, Prost got a noteworthy installment from Ferrari to not drive for some other group. 

It was the second time in his profession that Prost had been terminated by a processing plant sponsored group for his open analysis of the group and vehicle, having been terminated under comparable conditions by Renault toward the finish of the 1983 season. 

1991 was the first run through since his presentation year in 1980 in which Prost did not win a Formula One Grands Prix. 

Prost went on a vacation year in 1992, which was overwhelmed by Nigel Mansell in a Williams-Renault. Prost performed pre-season testing for Ligier from the get-go in 1992 and later turned down an idea to drive for the group. Subsequent to hearing that Prost would be his colleague again in 1993, Mansell left Williams to race in the CART arrangement. The Frenchman had a condition in his agreement which kept opponent Ayrton Senna from joining the group that year. Prost was a piece of another gaze driver line-toward Williams, with test pilot Damon Hill coming in to supplant Riccardo Patrese, who had left to join Benetton. 

Prost won his fourth, and last, title, however in a year where he was routinely tested by colleague Hill, and Ayrton Senna. Without further ado before the Portuguese Grand Prix in October 1993, Prost declared he would not guard his reality title, as the statement in the Frenchman's agreement did not reach out to 1994 and Senna would probably join Williams for the forthcoming season, and rather picked to resign as the driver with the record for most Grand Prix triumphs — a record which represented very nearly 10 years. On the platform in Adelaide in 1993, Prost's last race, he and Senna grasped. Prost was shocked by the motion, as Senna had declined a handshake the race previously. Prost's exhibitions earned him an OBE. 

German Michael Schumacher broke Prost's record of 51 Grand Prix wins amid the 2001 season. In any case, the Frenchman still holds the records for the most Grand Prix begins in turbo controlled vehicles (126), most successes at home Grand Prix (six at the French Grand Prix) and wins with most extraordinary groups (4: Renault, McLaren, Ferrari, and Williams). He likewise shares the record for beginning each race of the period from the first column (16 in ), with Ayrton Senna in , and Damon Hill in . 

He is additionally up to this point the latest Frenchman to win his home Grand Prix. 

Prost's fights with Ayrton Senna were especially prominent. The competition started in 1988, when Senna joined Prost at the McLaren group. The most outstanding occasion amid the season between the two happened amid the Portuguese Grand Prix, where Senna attempted to square Prost from leading the pack by driving the Frenchman to run near the pit divider at around ; Prost figured out how to edge Senna outwards, leading the pack as they went into the main corner yet he stayed irritated by the Brazilian's move. 

The competition strengthened after the 1989 San Marino Grand Prix, where the two drivers had an understanding that neither would get in one another's way to the main corner ("cf." 1982 San Marino Grand Prix). Toward the begin, Senna escaped ahead of the pack and Prost finished him the main corner without getting in Senna's direction. Gerhard Berger's accident on lap four halted the race. At the restart, it was Prost this time showed signs of improvement of the two; however Senna constrained his way past Prost in the primary corner, breaking the pair's understanding toward the beginning of the race, leaving the Frenchman angry with Senna. Senna contended it was the restart. Prost himself was incensed by McLaren clearly supporting Senna due to Senna's better association with motor provider Honda, so he reported mid-season that he had marked to race for Ferrari the accompanying season. 

The contention achieved its crest toward the finish of 1989, when the title was to be settled on Senna and Prost at Suzuka. The two McLarens crashed at the Casio Triangle chicane when Prost obstructed an endeavored go by Senna. Prost left while Senna came back to the track. Senna proceeded to win the race, yet was later excluded in an exceedingly questionable controlling over his way back to the track, as his vehicle was pushed through the street around the chicane. After a fruitless intrigue by McLaren, the Brazilian got a further US$100,000 fine and a six-month suspension, driving Senna to blame FIA president Jean-Marie Balestre for favoring his comrade Prost. Senna's preclusion implied that it was scientifically outlandish for him to redesign Prost's focuses all out, thus the 1989 Championship went to the Frenchman. There has been much discussion about whether Senna was overambitious in his overwhelming manoeuver, regardless of whether Prost deliberately kept running into Senna, or whether the crash was just a hustling occurrence between two colleagues who were upset with one another. 

The accompanying season saw the two drivers impact once more. With Senna driving Prost, presently in a Ferrari, on the planet Drivers' Championship, Prost qualified second for the penultimate race of the period in Suzuka with Senna on shaft. Between the finish of qualifying and race day, post position was changed to the opposite side of the track without clarification. Senna whined that never again being on the dashing line, his side of the framework was grimy, which means he would get less grasp and in this manner a slower begin contrasted with Prost who had been moved to the spotless side of the matrix. The Brazilian's intrigue was rejected. Toward the beginning of the race, Prost improved beginning of the two; however while braking for the primary corner, Senna would not back off and slammed into Prost at , securing the title for the Brazilian. Prost nearly resigned from the game, saying "What he did was disturbing. He is a man without esteem." after a year, Senna conceded that the move was planned, in countering for the impact at the chicane on a similar course the earlier year. 

There was another disputable occurrence in 1991. Prost's second rate Ferrari was unfit to set up a test routinely to Senna's frontrunning McLaren. At the German Grand Prix at Hockenheim, Prost struggled Senna for fourth spot, however he felt Senna shielded too forcefully and at the principal chicane constrained Prost to make keeping away from move by utilizing the departure street. Prost slowed down his vehicle rejoining the race. Unintentionally, Senna came up short on fuel on the last lap at a similar point. At the accompanying race, in Hungary, the FIA requested a sit-down gathering between the two men, enthusiastic about not having any rehashes of the occurrences from the past two years. 

The Frenchman took a holiday in 1992 in the wake of being terminated from Ferrari for openly censuring the vehicle and the group, while the Brazilian battled as McLaren was never again aggressive with Williams. Prost declared his marking with Williams for the forthcoming 1993 season. Senna had needed to join Williams as well, as they were the most aggressive, yet Prost had a proviso in his agreement disallowing the Brazilian as a colleague. A chafed Senna considered the Frenchman a "weakling" amid a question and answer session at Estoril, and denounced his reluctance to seek the Drivers' Championship on equivalent wearing terms: I think whether Prost needs to be known as the sole victor, three-times title holder, return a sportive way, perhaps win another title, he ought to be sportive. The way he's doing, he's carrying on like a quitter. What's more, on the off chance that he needs to be sportive, he should be set up to race anyone, at any condition, at equivalent terms. 

Amid the 1993 season, Prost and Senna proceeded their on-track competition. Prost was escorted by police to the Interlagos circuit for the 1993 Brazilian Grand Prix because of the antagonistic vibe of Brazilians towards him. The two proceeded their on-track fights at Silverstone where Senna forcefully protected his situation against Prost. At Prost's last Grand Prix, the 1993 Australian Grand Prix, he was pulled up by Senna onto the top advance of the platform for a grasp. 

On 1 May 1994, Ayrton Senna was murdered amid the San Marino Grand Prix. Prost was a pallbearer at the Brazilian's memorial service. Talking four years after the Brazilian's passing, Prost disclosed to Nigel Roebuck that he had "dependably would not talk about him". At the point when Senna passed on, Prost expressed that "a piece of himself had kicked the bucket additionally", in light of the fact that their vocations had been so bound together. Senna had likewise felt a similar when Prost had resigned toward the finish of 1993, when he admitted to a dear companion that he had acknowledged the amount of his inspiration had originated from battling with Prost. Just two or three days before his passing, when recording an in-vehicle lap of Imola for French TV station TF1, he welcomed Prost, by then an intellectual on the channel: "A unique hi to my...to our dear companion, Alain. We as a whole miss you Alain." Prost said that he was astonished and exceptionally contacted by the remark. 

Prost utilizes a cap configuration dependent on the three shades of the French banner, those being blue, white and red, alongside his name at the edge. Amid his initial vocation be that as it may, Prost utilized an essential structure of white done with some blue detail around the visor (blue protective cap with a white 180° flipped Y and red lines in the lower part of the flipped Y and in the upper branch, encompassing the top). Amid Prost's time at Renault, he utilized progressively blue subtleties, most eminently around the back of his head protector. Prost's protective cap changed in 1985, as his head protector currently had the blue detail around the front, encompassing the visor (with additionally a blue stripe as an afterthought locale, influencing the white territory to turn into a P) and a white ring with red lines encompassing the top (framing a white hover with a blue half in the back of the top). . Prost kept a comparable plan for his entrance at Ferrari and Williams. 

Here and there Prost utilized variations of his head protector plan. In 2007 he utilized his unique structure, yet with the circle top all red and a red line in the lower jaw territory. In 2010, he utilized a pearl white protective cap with silver blazes and a blue-white-red-white-blue stripe on the visor, structured by Kaos Design. 

Amid 1994 and 1995, Prost filled in as TV intellectual for the French TV channel TF1. He additionally worked for Renault as a PR man. Prost returned to his old group McLaren, functioning as a specialized counselor; he likewise finished L'Etape du Tour, a yearly mass-support bicycle ride that happens on a phase of the Tour de France. Despite the fact that not an official race, riders contend energetically for spots; Prost completed twelfth in his class, 42nd in general out of more than 5000 riders. 

Amid 1989 Prost started to mull over beginning his very own group, as his association with his McLaren partner, Ayrton Senna, had gone bad. Prost and John Barnard, previously boss architect at McLaren, verged on establishing a group in 1990; yet an absence of sponsorship implied this was unrealistic, so Prost moved to Ferrari and Barnard left Ferrari to join Benetton. In the wake of dropping out with the Italian group toward the finish of 1991, Prost ended up without a drive for 1992; after the disappointment of broad arrangements with Guy Ligier about purchasing his Ligier group, Prost chose to join Williams for 1993. By 1995, when Prost was working for Renault, individuals had accepted that a Prost-Renault group would be shaped. Renault declined Prost's solicitation to supply motors for his group, finishing the hypothesis. 

On 13 February 1997, Prost purchased the Ligier group from Flavio Briatore and renamed it "Prost Grand Prix". The day after he purchased the group, Prost marked a three-year manage French vehicle producer Peugeot, who might supply the group with motors from until . For the group's first season, Prost kept one of Ligier's 1996 drivers, Olivier Panis, who had won the Monaco Grand Prix the earlier year; Japanese driver Shinji Nakano was marked to accomplice Panis. The group hustled with the Mugen-Honda motors utilized by Ligier the past season, while the vehicle was really the initially expected Ligier JS45, yet was renamed the Prost JS45. Things looked encouraging toward the beginning of the period, as the group grabbed two points on its Grand Prix debut in Australia when Olivier Panis completed fifth. The group scored a further 13 points before Panis broke his leg in a mishap amid the Canadian Grand Prix. He was supplanted by Minardi's Jarno Trulli. From that point, things began to go downhill marginally, the group scored just five points amid Panis' recuperation. The Frenchman returned toward the finish of the period to race the last three Grand Prix. Prost GP completed 6th in the Constructors' Championship in its first season, with 21. 

Prost turned into the leader of Prost Grand Prix toward the beginning of 1998. With Peugeot providing the motors for Prost GP, Mugen-Honda chose to supply the Jordan group. Prost GP scored a solitary point amid the season, Jarno Trulli completing 6th in Belgium. 

Peugeot's last year as Prost's motor provider in 2000 saw some confidence, Prost procuring his 1991 Ferrari colleague Jean Alesi to drive the lead vehicle and German Nick Heidfeld, who had won the 1999 Formula 3000 title, to accomplice him. The season turned out to be one more heartbreaking one, with the AP03 ended up being to be inconsistent and sick taking care of. Things weren't helped when the two drivers slammed into one another in the Austrian Grand Prix. Recently enlisted specialized executive Alan Jenkins was terminated halfway as the year progressed. Prost rebuilt the group, procuring Joan Villadelprat as the overseeing executive and supplanting Jenkins with Henri Durand as the group's new specialized chief. 

Amid 2002, Prost invested energy with his family and contended in eight bike races, completing third in the "Rock – Mont Lozère". The Frenchman dashed in the Andros ice race arrangement in 2003, completing second in the title behind Yvan Muller; he additionally turned into an Ambassador for Uniroyal, a position he would keep until May 2006. 

Prost kept on contending in the Andros Trophy, winning the title with Toyota in 2006/07, 2007/08 and with Dacia in 2011/2012. 

For the 2010 Formula One season, the Sporting Regulations were changed with the goal that a previous driver sits on the stewards' board. Prost was the main such driver to take on this job, at the 2010 Bahrain Grand Prix. Prost likewise participated in the Race of Champions in 2010, a race sorted out for legends of engine game to contend in equivalent apparatus. 

In February 2012, Prost was named as Renault's new universal envoy, speaking to the organization in games shows and at occasions sorted out or gone to by Renault. 

Prost has completed the Absa Cape Epic, an eight-day 700 km trail blazing bicycle race in South Africa, twice. He previously finished the race in 2012 with accomplice Sebastien di Pasqua and afterward again in 2013, and began however did not complete the race in 2014. 

In October 2013 it was reported that Prost would unite with Jean-Paul Driot's DAMS dashing group to shape e.dams, a group which would contend in the FIA Formula E Championship for electric hustling vehicles from its initiation in September 2014. In June 2014 the group reported that its underlying driver line-up would comprise of Nicolas Prost and Sébastien Buemi. The group proceeded to win the debut Formula E groups title. In 2017 it was reported that Prost would be contracted as an uncommon guide for the Renault Formula One Team. 

Did not complete, yet was delegated he had finished over 90% of the race distance.<br> 

All Formula One race and title results are taken from: