Jewels (Rihanna tune) 

"Jewels" is a tune recorded by Barbadian vocalist Rihanna for her seventh studio collection, "Proud" (2012). It was composed by Sia Furler together with its makers, Benny Blanco and StarGate. The melody debuted on September 26, 2012, amid the "Elvis Duran and the Morning Show" and was carefully discharged the next day as the lead single from "Proud". Def Jam Recordings overhauled the single to contemporary hit radio in the United States on October 2. "Jewels" is a mid-beat pop, electronic and R&B ditty that highlights substantial synthesizers, symphonic sounds and electronic rhythms. The melody's verses fill in as a takeoff from the topics of unfortunate connections that were on Rihanna's past singles and contain a noticeable idea of adoration. 

"Precious stones" topped music graphs in more than twenty nations, including the United States, where it turned into Rihanna's twelfth number one single on the "Board" Hot 100 and tied her with Madonna and The Supremes for the fifth-most number one singles in the diagram's history. "Precious stones" was affirmed quintuple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and sold over 3.5 million advanced duplicates in the nation. By May 2013, it had sold over 7.5 million duplicates worldwide and ended up a standout amongst the top of the line singles ever. 

The melody's music video was shot by executive Anthony Mandler, an incessant colleague of Rihanna's, and portrays her in four conditions that speak to the components of earth, air, water, and discharge. The video got positive surveys and was adulated for its symbolism. A few faultfinders trust that the vigorously inked man interlaced with Rihanna's arm in the video looks like Chris Brown. The artist performed "Jewels" on TV programs, for example, "Saturday Night Live" and "The X Factor" and included it on the 777, Diamonds, Monster Tour and the Anti World Tour set records. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) remembered it as a standout amongst the most performed tunes of 2013 and 2014. The authority remix of "Jewels" highlighted rapper Kanye West and was discharged on November 16, 2012. The tune has been secured by different chronicle specialists, including Josef Salvat, who discharged his very own front of "Precious stones" as a solitary. 

In 2012, American musician and record maker Benny Blanco met with Norwegian creation team StarGate at a chronicle studio in New York City to compose new melodies, including one for Rihanna. StarGate had recently created her singles "Don't Stop the Music" (2007) and "Just Girl (In the World)" (2010). As per Blanco, he and StarGate needed to go astray from Rihanna's typical sound and produce just as the melody would be for a rapper, for example, Kanye West: "the one we weren't thinking Rihanna ... that transformed into the Rihanna record ... Yet, that is the way it generally happens like with me". They delivered the tune's drum machine beat after the other instrumental music was recorded. 

StarGate's Mikkel Eriksen told "The New York Times" that Blanco took a recorded bit of Eriksen's singing, changed it electronically, and made it sound "dirtier". He at that point connected timbre and utilized sound programming to make spooky backup lines. Eriksen portrayed Blanco's style as "unconventional, as he never plays the consoles yet tosses in peculiar examples and changes them to the correct pitch to run with the tune." Australian vocalist musician Sia later gone along with them and composed the verses for "Precious stones" in 14 minutes. 

After the melody was finished, they needed to play it to Rihanna, yet Blanco was doubtful about the response towards the tune in light of its moderate sound. After StarGate played it to her, they called Blanco from London and disclosed to him that she enjoyed the tune: "She's flippin' out. She played it like multiple times in succession. It's her main tune." Phil Tan and the right hand Daniela Rivera, blended and aced "Jewels". Reviewing it, in a meeting with "The Huffington Post", Blanco remarked, "we needed it recorded, the beat completed, blended and aced in 24 hours. She was recording in a different piece of the world, sending back the documents, we're completing the music and after that we're blending and acing it, and afterward it was out in a couple of days. It's screwing astonishing and unbelievable." Kuk Harrell created Rihanna's vocals on the melody and recorded them together with Marcos Tovar. 

On September 12, 2012, Def Jam France declared by means of Twitter that Rihanna would discharge another single the next week and that her seventh studio collection will be discharged in November. Notwithstanding, the tweet was in the blink of an eye erased and supplanted with another elucidating that more data will be given on September 13. In a meeting with iHeartRadio at their yearly music celebration in September, Rihanna affirmed "Precious stones" as her new single and said that it would initially be played on American radio starting September 26. She depicted it as an accommodating, however hopeful tune that is "upbeat and hippy" as opposed to move situated and said that the tune "gives me such an extraordinary inclination when I hear it out. The verses are confident and positive, yet it's about affection." 

The single's spread work of art was uncovered on September 24 and portrayed Rihanna moving precious stones in a way suggestive of joint rolling. On September 26, Rihanna posted the full verses of the tune in a PDF on her official site Rihanna7.com. "Jewels" debuted that day on the "Elvis Duran and the Morning Show", and on the next day, it was discharged as an advanced download on the 7 Digital store. In the United Kingdom, the melody was discharged to 7 Digital on September 28. Def Jam Recordings requested the single to contemporary hit radio in the United States on October 2. On November 5, it was discharged in Germany as a CD single, which it additionally contained the tune's Bimbo Jones Vocal Remix. On December 18, eight advanced remixes of the single were carefully discharged. 

"Jewels" has a length of three minutes and forty-five seconds. Allmusic pundit Andy Kellman portrayed it as a mid-rhythm pop ditty, while Michael Baggs of Gigwise depicted it as a mid-beat electronic tune. "Time Out's" James Manning depicted the tune as a "grave" R&B melody. It includes substantial synthesizers, symphonic sounds and electronic rhythms went with Rihanna's vocal execution. "Moving Stone" magazine composed that "the track's creation fundamentally avoids Rihanna's direction, giving the pop star a chance to construct snares with layers of her voice." In an audit of "Proud", Stacy-Ann Ellis of "Vibe" noticed that an improvement in the artist's singing is displayed by anthems, for example, "Precious stones" and "Remain". As indicated by EMI Music Publishing's computerized sheet music for the tune, "Precious stones" is made in the key out of B minor and set in like manner time signature, and has a reasonably moderate furrow of 92 beats for each moment. Rihanna's vocals range from the low note of F to the high note of F. 

Expressively, "Precious stones" is a takeoff from Rihanna's common subjects of undesirable connections on her different melodies, and contains a conspicuous idea of adoration. The main section presents the tune's idea: "Discover light in the excellent ocean/I be cheerful/You and I, you and I/We're similar to jewels in the sky." The snare proceeds with this allegory: "So sparkle splendid, today around evening time, you and I/We're delightful like precious stones in the sky/Eye to eye, so alive." According to Glenn Yoder of "The Boston Globe", the tune demonstrates Rihanna uniquely in contrast to how she is seen by the open due to verses, for example, "I be upbeat" and "We're similar to jewels in the sky". James Montgomery of MTV News remarked that she grasps the energy and satisfaction of an acknowledged relationship, especially with the line "When you hold me, I'm alive", and concedes "I realized that we'd turned out to be one immediately". Lindsay DiMattina of Hollywood.com translated that Rihanna is shouting out for her darling when she sings lines, for example, "When you hold me, I'm alive," and "At first sight I felt the vitality of sun beams/I saw the life inside your eyes." The "Messenger Sun" stated that the verses were in all probability propelled by Rihanna's private life. 

In a positive audit of the melody, Robert Copsey of Digital Spy gave it four out of five stars and adulated Rihanna's course towards a "milder and increasingly productive edge". Brittany Lewis of GlobalGrind called "Precious stones" an appealing tune and felt that it could be another hit for Rihanna. Glenn Gamboa of "Newsday" said that, in spite of the fact that it doesn't seem like a decided hit, the expressive substance of the melody portrays an "individual move" for Rihanna. As indicated by James Montgomery of MTV News, "Precious stones" is more positive than past singles, for example, "We Found Love" and "Where Have You Been", in spite of its moderate rhythm. Lindsey DiMattina of Hollywood.com said that Rihanna's singing is more grounded than at any other time. Contactmusic's commentator depicted it as a "laid-back track", and proposed that the expressive substance is identified with her previous beau Chris Brown. In a track-by-track audit of "Proud", Andrew Hampp of "Announcement" found the tune rousing and remarked that it "discovers Rihanna completing one of her throatiest, most ardent vocals to date". Andy Kellman of Allmusic refered to the tune as one of the features on "Proud", and gave it three and a half stars. 

In a less eager evaluate, Jon Caramanica of "The New York Times" compared "Precious stones" to a "James Bond" film signature tune, yet with "stale verses". Jim Farber of the "New York Daily News" felt that the melody isn't as suggestive as it endeavors to be and comes up short on the feeling of secret and connecting with creation found on "We Found Love". Kevin Blair of the "Irish Independent", Independent Woman, was incredulous of the tune for going amiss from Rihanna's past move and R&B tunes and rejected it as a "chugging, faintly teary, widely appealing pop tune". Chris Richards of "The Washington Post" panned the tune as an "influence number absent much influence". 

Ernest Baker and Lauren Nostro of "Complex" positioned "Jewels" on their rundown of The 10 Best Guilty Pleasure Songs of 2012 and composed that, in spite of the fact that the tune is not normal for Rihanna's more intense, more anthemic tunes, "evidently the world wants to see a milder side of her, as well." Black Entertainment Television put the single at number six on their 50 Best Songs of 2012 rundown and called it a standout amongst Rihanna's most emotive exhibitions. UK E! Online's analyst named it the fifth best tune of the year and said that Rihanna's vocal execution on the tune approves the consideration she had gotten since her leap forward with "Umbrella". "Irish Independent"s Jim Hayes positioned it as the year's tenth-best tune and portrayed it as "a laid back moderate burner that attacks and won't leave". An analyst from "The Huffington Post" named "Precious stones" one of The 12 Best Songs by Women in 2012. 

At the ASCAP Pop Music Awards, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) remembered it as a standout amongst the most performed melodies of 2013 and 2014 separately. "Jewels" got the "Board" honor for Top R&B Song at the 2013 honor function held at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. At the 2013 BET Awards, the tune was assigned for the Coca-Cola Viewer's Choice honor, be that as it may, it lost to "Began from the Bottom" by Drake. It likewise gotten designations for Best International Song at the NRJ Music Awards of 2013 in France and for Hit of the Year at the 2013 Echo Awards in Germany. "Jewels" got a designation for Best Song at the 2013 MTV Europe Music Awards. 

In the US, "Jewels" appeared at number 16 on the "Board" Hot 100 and sold 133,000 duplicates in its first week. In its fourth week, it moved to number eight on the diagram and turned into Rihanna's twenty-third top-ten single. For the week finishing December 1, 2012, the tune turned into Rihanna's twelfth number-one on the outline, which finished the nine-week rule of Maroon 5's "One More Night". With the accomplishment, Rihanna tied Madonna and Supremes as the craftsmen with the fifth-most number ones in the outline's history. Rihanna additionally passed Mariah Carey as the female craftsman to stamp 12 number-one tunes the quickest on the diagram by accomplishing the accomplishment in six years and seven months, which bested Carey's stretch of seven years, one month, and two weeks. "Precious stones" diagrammed for a second sequential week on the Hot 100, while her collection "Unashamed" topped the "Board" 200. Accordingly, Rihanna turned out to be just the second craftsman of 2012 to top both the "Bulletin" singles and collections diagrams all the while; the first to do as such was English vocalist Adele. 

On the Radio Songs graph, "Precious stones" appeared at number 28. In its fourth week, it moved to number ten, turning into Rihanna's nineteenth top ten, breaking a tie with Lil Wayne for the second-best whole in the rundown's 22-year history; just Mariah Carey (23) has more. For the issue dated December 15, the tune bested the diagram, turning into Rihanna's tenth number one and putting second for female specialists with the most outline toppers, just behind Mariah Carey (11). On the Pop Songs graph, "Precious stones" appeared at number 29, expanding Rihanna's lead as the craftsman with the most appearances on the diagram. On October 11, 2012, "Board" disclosed new philosophy for the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs outline, recently considering computerized download deals and gushing information into the 50-position rankings, alongside existing radio airplay information observed by Nielsen BDS. Because of this, "Precious stones" saw a tremendous jump from number 66 to number one, denoting Rihanna's second single as a lead craftsman to top the outline; it bested the graph for fourteen successive weeks. "Jewels" bested the Dance Club Songs diagram, turning into Rihanna's nineteenth number one, tying her with Janet Jackson for the second-most number ones in the graph's 36-year history. Just Madonna has more (43). "Jewels" was ensured sextuple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). 

In Canada, the tune appeared at number nine on the Canadian Hot 100 for the issue dated October 13, 2012. The tune crested at number one on the issue dated November 24, 2012, turning into Rihanna's 6th single to achieve number one on the diagram. It stayed on of it for four back to back weeks. It was confirmed platinum by Music Canada indicating offers of more than 80,000 duplicates. 

"Precious stones" showed up in Ireland on September 27, 2012, where it appeared at number 17. It achieved its pinnacle of number two on October 25, 2012. The single appeared at number one on both the United Kingdom's pop and R&B singles outlines on October 7, 2012, with more than 105,000 duplicates sold. This gave Rihanna her seventh number-one single in the nation. Following nine weeks on the pop diagram, "Precious stones" ascended from number ten to three, after Rihanna's execution of the tune on "The X Factor" the earlier week. From its introduction, the melody stayed on the R&B outline for three continuous weeks before being dismissed of the top spot by Labrinth and Emeli Sandé's "Underneath Your Beautiful". , "Jewels" has sold more than one million duplicates in the UK, and turned into Rihanna's fourth single to accomplish that accomplishment. With that, she turned out to be just the second craftsman to have four million-selling singles in the UK, just behind The Beatles, who have six. The single is the 30th top of the line melody ever by a female craftsman in the nation. 

"Jewels" appeared at number one in France, turning into Rihanna's fourth number-one single in the nation and staying at the top spot for three continuous weeks. "Jewels" likewise topped at number one in Germany for ten sequential weeks, turning into Rihanna's fifth number-one single in the nation and outperforming "Umbrella" (2007) as her longest-running German number-one single. The melody was put at number seven on the German 2012 Year-End singles graph and was ensured platinum, meaning offers of 300,000 duplicates in the nation. "Precious stones" stayed number one in Norway for eleven successive weeks, the Czech Republic for eight, Denmark for six, Switzerland for five, Austria for four, Finland for three weeks and Scotland one. 

"Precious stones" entered the New Zealand Singles Chart at number five on October 8, 2012. Following two months in the main ten, the melody crested at number two. The single has gotten a twofold platinum affirmation from the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand, signifying offers of 30,000 duplicates. "Precious stones" appeared at number eight on the Australian Singles Chart on October 14, 2012. The melody achieved a pinnacle of number six on November 4, 2012. The melody has been guaranteed five-times platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association, meaning offers of 350,000 duplicates. By May 2013, it had sold over 7.5 million duplicates worldwide and ended up a standout amongst the top of the line singles ever. 

Rihanna started to film the music video for "Jewels" on October 21, 2012, at the Mojave Desert in Lancaster, California. It was coordinated by her normal teammate Anthony Mandler, who recently guided her recordings for "Russian Roulette" (2009) and "Man Down" (2011). Photos of the generation spilled to the press that day and indicated Rihanna in a white and dark dress before a flame. Ethan Sacks of the "New York Daily News" commented that she "resembled a diamond on the arrangement of her video shoot." Rihanna said that she needed the video's unique scenes to catch the suitable feeling for the gathering of people. Mandler tried to make a "more extensive scene" by proposing and transfiguring thoughts for watchers through the video: "[T]hey expected to feel like dream vignettes, similar to, when you wake up from a fantasy, you understand what you were envisioning about isn't generally what it was about, it was tied in with something different." He additionally attempted to relate the video's idea to Rihanna's own life: "What's fact or fiction? You know 'Would she say she is suffocating, or would she say she is in finished rapture? Are those hands breaking apart, or are they finding one another?' ... we attempted to raise these more profound inquiries that identify with tune and her life and discovering excellence in confusion and discovering magnificence in agony and discovering torment in magnificence." On November 7, an in the background video was posted on MTV's authentic site. It included Rihanna in a "panther print" robe as she rose up out of a trailer and made a beeline for the shooting set. The scenes were intercut with cops who pursue outfitted contenders. Rihanna remains in a left scene in the video's different scenes. The music video for "Precious stones" debuted November 8 on MTV. The video was additionally made accessible for gushing at Rihanna.MTV.com. It was carefully discharged on November 14 by means of the iTunes Store. 

The music video opens with a perspective on Rihanna lying in vast waters, as different scenes of precious stones being come in a way suggestive of making a joint are intercut – a scene reminiscent of the single's craftsmanship. As the video advances Rihanna is appeared on a thruway. In a high contrast scene, Rihanna licks the joint and starts smoking it. The picture blurs to dark as the melody starts. Rihanna performs in a similar high contrast setting while in a dark bodice. Pictures of Rihanna on a bed in a room while singing are appeared, with items breaking, shades falling and roses consuming backward impact. Rihanna is appeared on the expressway, fleeing from what has all the earmarks of being the headlights of a pursuing vehicle. She at that point stops as she admires the night sky at an aurora see. All through the video, Rihanna's hand is appeared with that of a vigorously inked man, whose face isn't appeared in the video. As the second section begins, Rihanna is appeared in a desert where ponies run openly. Scenes of a road fight are later appeared, consuming autos and broken glass around the earth. As the video proceeds, the artist and her sweetheart's hands are appeared slipping separated, with just their fingertips contacting towards the finish of the video. The video closes with Rihanna by and by skimming alone in the vast waters. 

James Montgomery of MTV News called it outwardly striking and watched a lot of "reminiscent symbolism (marvelous high contrast close-ups, thick tufts of translucent smoke, oversaturated slope scapes, shrewdly outlined stallions)". He said that, similar to the melody, the video is by turns pompous and exceptionally private. The site's Jocelyn Vena felt that it had illusory and surrealistic pictures of Rihanna, who travels through set-ups that are once in a while remarkable. E! Online's Bruna Nessif said that the video demonstrates a plenitude of expound symbolism, stories, and particularly a "strange and attractive" Rihanna. Moreover, she thought that it was evident that the body of an intensely inked man's arm, which Rihanna sticks to urgently, is a reference to Chris Brown. "NME" magazine watched Rihanna being appeared four situations that speak to the four components of the earth, air, water and flame. Billy Johnson Jr. of Yahoo! Canada felt the video had neglected to catch the tune's distinctive festival of a relationship and expressed, "It appears just as [Rihanna is] in turmoil, considering more joyful occasions." Marc Hogan of "Turn" inferred that the video was an "affirmation of Rihanna's cumbersome segue into grown-up contemporary-dom." The video for "Jewels" was Vevo's fourth most-saw visual of 2013. 

Rihanna first performed "Precious stones" on November 7, 2012, at the Victoria's Secret Fashion Show, where she wore dark unmentionables with dark thigh high tights and lower leg boots; the show was publicized by CBS on December 4. On November 10, Rihanna played out the tune on "Saturday Night Live". "New York" magazine's Joe Reid said that her execution was the feature of the show's scene and favored the digitized foundation specifically, which he portrayed as "clear irregularity" that was eventually "entirely charming". Tess Lynch of Grantland was inspired by Rihanna's "extraordinary singing" and composed that the foundation symbolism was an "incredible" and "insane scene that shocked watchers". Lynch concurred with scene have Anne Hathaway, who had said that Rihanna was "a goddess." "Precious stones" was incorporated on the set rundown for Rihanna's 2012 special visit, the 777 Tour. 

On November 25, the artist played out the tune on arrangement 9 of "The X Factor" in the UK. The execution included the artist wearing a dark outfit on a square stage. As the tune started, water impacts poured down around her outwardly of the stage. By the last melody, the water focused into the stage and wet the artist. Hayes of "Irish Independent" lauded the execution and expressed that it "put everything – and everybody – else to disgrace." On December 8, Rihanna played out the tune on "Wetten, dass..?" (""Wanna wager that..?"") in Germany. She additionally performed "Precious stones" on "La Chanson de l'année" (""The tune of the Year"") in France, on December 10, 2012, which was communicated on December 29, 2012. The single was incorporated as the end melody on the set rundown of Rihanna's fifth overall visit titled the Diamonds World Tour (2013). 

Rihanna performed "Precious stones" at the 2013 American Music Awards on November 24, 2013, amid the acknowledgment of the Icon Award. The execution highlighted the artist wearing a long dark dress dove down to her navel and precious stone decorations in her hair. She was joined by a symphony that incorporated a director which went with her as a musical crew created the beat. Kory Grow of "Moving Stone" magazine named the execution as "staggering". Moreover, out of a complete sixteen exhibitions at the service, he put Rihanna's version of "Jewels" at number one composition, "she gave an act that indicated she could satisfy the respect". "Los Angeles Times"' Mikael Wood expressed that amid the execution Rihanna commanded the stage pointing that she resembled a youthful rendition of Grace Jones. The single was incorporated on the set rundown of Rihanna's joint 2014 visit with rapper Eminem, The Monster Tour. Rihanna performed "Precious stones" on November 11, 2014 amid the Concert for Valor held in Washington, D.C. Rihanna played out the single amid her shows some portion of the Anti World Tour in 2016. 

On BBC Radio 1's live parlor, Jessie Ware played out a marginally snazzy form of the tune, which "Turn" magazine's Marc Hogan said was musically reminiscent of the xx and vocally like D'Angelo. Sia Furler, who co-stated "Precious stones", performed it with a console backup at the Norwegian-American Achievement Ceremony on November 18. On November 15, American artist musician Zola Jesus recorded a spread form of "Precious stones". "Jewels" was utilized in the special video of Istanbul's offered for the 2020 Summer Olympics. Mentors Ricky Martin, Delta Goodrem, Joel Madden and Seal amid the second period of "The Voice Australia". On April 7, 2015, the tune was secured by Team Adam Levine (comprised of Brian Johnson, Deanna Johnson, Joshua Davis, Nathan Hermida and Tonya Boyd-Cannon) from the eighth period of "The Voice". On May 14, 2015, mentors Jennifer Lopez, Keith Urban and Harry Connick, Jr. shrouded the melody in a blend with Bruno Mars' 2013 single, "Bolted Out of Heaven" amid the last show of the fourteenth period of "American Idol". The tune was additionally secured by German metalcore band Any Given Day. 

"Precious stones" was remixed by rapper Flo Rida, whose rendition was debuted on November 12 by American magazine "Rap-Up". He had recently performed on informal remixes of Rihanna's "We Found Love" and "Where Have You Been". The authority remix of "Precious stones", which included rapper Kanye West, was discharged on November 16 as an advanced download by means of SoundCloud and iTunes. West's section begins toward the start of the remix, as he raps lines, for example, "We the reason for all the upheaval/Your mouth runnin' by where is you goin?". He likewise cites the signature tune from "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air", while declaring to be "on his Brad Pitt". MTV News' James Montgomery composed that "there's unquestionably no deficiency of Kanye's licensed swagger, and the new remix likewise adds some clubby pummel to the laid-back track." Henna Kathiya of MTV Rapfix commented that West includes "some exemplary Ye season" to the first melody. On December 4, another remix released on the web. It included Eve, who rapped lines, for example, "You sparkle so wonderful, invaluable/Listen to me, I need you to know/How you can change my entire world." 

Swedish craftsman Josef Icemen secured "Precious stones" for his collection "The Acoustic Sessions 2013" (2013). The track got discharged as 

a limited time single online which can be found on SoundCloud, Myspace and YouTube. 

Australian craftsman Josef Salvat secured "Jewels" in his EP "In Your Prime" (2014). The track ended up mainstream after Sony utilized it in its advertisement "Ice Bubbles" for its new 4K Ultra HD TV screen. The Sony advertisement was recorded in Mount Whisler, Nunavut, Canada utilizing Salvat's form of "Jewels". Josef Salvat's form has achieved number 2 on French SNEP Official Singles Charts likewise making it to number 11 on the German Singles Chart and number 18 on the Belgian Ultratop diagrams. 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Unashamed".