Oliver Bosbyshell 

Oliver Christian Bosbyshell (January 3, 1839 – August 1, 1921) was Superintendent of the United States Mint at Philadelphia from 1889 to 1894. He additionally professed to have been the main Union trooper injured by adversary activity in the Civil War, expressing that he got a wound on the temple from an item tossed by a Confederate sympathizer while his unit was walking through Baltimore in April 1861. 

Bosbyshell was conceived in Mississippi. His folks were of old Philadelphia stock, and he was brought up in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. After quickly taking a shot at the railroad and afterward considering law, Bosbyshell enrolled in the Union reason on the flare-up of war. Following a concise time of administration in the 25th Pennsylvania Volunteer Regiment, he joined the 48th Pennsylvania, staying in that regiment for a long time. He saw activity in such fights as Second Bull Run and Antietam. He rose to the position of major and drove his regiment, however was assembled out upon the lapse of his term of administration in October 1864, having been rejected a time away. 

Subsequent to leaving the military, Bosbyshell came back to Pennsylvania and worked in two ineffective organizations; he likewise included himself in Republican governmental issues and in the exercises of the Grand Army of the Republic, a veterans' gathering. He was named to a post at the Philadelphia Mint in 1869, and wound up boss coiner in 1876 and administrator in 1889, serving for a long time. One of Bosbyshell's subordinates at the mint stole gold bars and, as they were not all recuperated when the guilty party was captured, Bosbyshell was considered in charge of the misfortune by ideals of his office. He was cleared of this obligation by demonstration of Congress in 1899. In his later years, he was an officer of an insurance agency; he passed on in 1921. 

Oliver Christian Bosbyshell was conceived in Vicksburg, Mississippi, on January 3, 1839, the child of Oliver Christian and Mary Ann (Whitney) Bosbyshell. The two his folks were from old Philadelphia families; the couple had moved to Vicksburg. The senior Oliver Bosbyshell was occupied with the commission business. He contracted bronchitis while battling a flame that decimated his distribution center, and kicked the bucket in Philadelphia after an ocean voyage taken in the desire for recouping his wellbeing. After two months, his child was conceived, and Mary Bosbyshell came back from Mississippi with him to her dad's home in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. Youthful Oliver grew up there, and went to nearby state funded schools. At age 15, he left school to turn into a broadcast detachment and for the following three years took different employments in that field before choosing to seek after a vocation in the law. He previously considered with lawyer Francis W. Hugbee, at that point with his uncle, William Whitney; both were in Pottsville. He was as yet connected as an understudy in 1861, when the Civil War broke out. 

On April 15, 1861, President Abraham Lincoln called for 50,000 volunteers to battle to safeguard the Union. The next day, Bosbyshell joined the Washington Artillerists, a nearby state army organization, which rapidly set out for Washington. On the way, the organization needed to walk through the avenues of Baltimore on April 17. An antagonistic horde of Confederate sympathizers assembled; as indicated by records in his lifetime, he was struck by a rocket differently depicted as a stone or a block. Despite the fact that it gave him a huge wound and immediately staggered him, the item drew no blood; Private Bosbyshell was purportedly the primary man injured in the Union reason, while an African-American hireling, hit a couple of minutes after the fact by a rocket which broke the skin, was considered the principal man to have shed his blood for the Union. Be that as it may, official records don't list Bosbyshell among the losses of the Baltimore riots. 

In Washington, the organization was quartered in the Ladies' Gallery of the Senate Chamber, in the Capitol. The 350 Pennsylvania troops who originally achieved Washington on April 18 wound up known as the First Defenders and, after the war, the survivors framed a relationship with that name. While they were held up at the Capitol, President Lincoln, Secretary of State William H. Seward, and Secretary of War Simon Cameron visited. Bosbyshell reviewed Lincoln, "indeed, here, overshadowing all in the room was the incredible focal figure of the war. I recollect how I was inspired by the benevolence of his face and clumsy hanging of his arms and legs, his clear modesty within the sight of these first warriors of the Republic, and with it each of the a grave, rather forlorn bearing in his mentality." 

The Washington Artillerists were redesignated as Company H of the 25th Pennsylvania Volunteers, and were sent down the Potomac River to Fort Washington, where the organization went through three months reinforcing the strongholds. Bosbyshell was offered a first lieutenancy in the standard Army, which he declined, expressing that he favored volunteer administration. At the point when the organization's tour of duty terminated, Bosbyshell rejoined Union powers as a second lieutenant in Company G, 48th Pennsylvania Volunteers, to serve a three-year term from October 1, 1861. 

For about a month after his re-selection, Bosbyshell was regimental enlisting officer in Harrisburg, yet on November 11, cruised with his regiment from Fortress Monroe, Virginia, to Hatteras, North Carolina. There he filled in as acting auxiliary of his regiment, and as judge advocate for courts-military. At the point when General Ambrose Burnside propelled an assault on New Bern, he took six organizations of the 48th with him, just as Bosbyshell, however Company G was excluded among the Union powers. In April and May 1862, Bosbyshell got progressive advancements to first lieutenant and commander and was doled out to order his organization, which he did at such fights as Second Bull Run, Antietam, and Fredericksburg. After Fredericksburg, he was again alloted to serve in courts-military; when the regiment was moved west in mid 1863, Bosbyshell was allocated as executive marshal of Louisville, Kentucky. While positioned at Louisville, he returned home to Pennsylvania on time away to wed Martha Stem, girl of a pastor. 

At the point when the regiment was requested to Tennessee in September 1863 to partake in Union activities there, Bosbyshell was made Acting Assistant Adjutant-General for the First Brigade of the Ninth Corps, of which the 48th was part. He battled at Blue Springs and Campbell's Station, and participated in the attack of Knoxville. In 1864, he came back to Pennsylvania again to help convey the regiment up to quality. Coming back to his unit post, he told African-American troops in the Wilderness Campaign. 

On July 10, 1864, Bosbyshell was elevated to major and requested to direction the 48th, however he stayed at his detachment post incidentally. As of now, Union powers were blockading Petersburg, south of the Confederate capital, Richmond, Virginia. The acting authority of the 48th, Lieutenant Colonel Henry Pleasants, in regular citizen life a mining engineer, imagined burrowing under the Confederate lines and detonating a goliath bomb. Following quite a while of arrangement, the bomb was detonated on July 30, making a gigantic pit in the ground and an opening in the Confederate lines. After starting stun, the Confederates revived and shocked the endeavor to break the lines, supported by Union screwing up. Bosbyshell drove African-American troops vigorously in the Battle of the Crater; they endured more than 400 setbacks. With Pleasants elevated to General Robert B. Potter's staff, Bosbyshell took order of the 48th on August 2, 1864. 

Bosbyshell drove his direction at Globe Tavern and at Peebles' Farm. In September 1864, he looked for time away to profit to Pennsylvania for private issue. At the point when this was can't, and with his three-year term of administration having lapsed, he was gathered out on October 1, 1864. 

Having come back to Pottsville, Bosbyshell entered first the financial business, and after that the book and stationary exchange, each time with "awful" results. A Republican, he kept running for prothonotary of Schuylkill County in 1866, yet was crushed. 

Not long after the war, the Grand Army of the Republic (GAR), a Union veteran's gathering, was established. Amid Bosbyshell's battle to progress toward becoming prothonotary, he was approached to arrange the Schuylkill County branch, however declined due to his status as a competitor. The next year, be that as it may, he joined the GAR, sorting out Post 24 in Pottsville. He progressed toward becoming Schuylkill County locale administrator of the GAR before long, and in 1869 was chosen Pennsylvania's GAR division authority. 

In 1869, Bosbyshell was procured as Register of Deposits of the Philadelphia Mint, and moved to that city. The Chief Coiner, A. Loudon Snowden, was awed by Bosbyshell, and elevated him to Assistant Coiner in 1872. At the point when Snowden left the Mint to acknowledge a situation as postmaster in 1876, President Ulysses Grant advanced Bosbyshell in his place. Give selected Bosbyshell on December 14, 1876; he was affirmed by the Senate on December 26. As indicated by numismatic history specialist Q. David Bowers, Bosbyshell, while filling in as Chief Coiner, utilized Mint offices and obsolete bites the dust to strike uncommon three-dollar pieces, including the 1873, 1875, and 1876 issues. Amid Bosbyshell's residency, amounts of example mint pieces, restrikes, and pieces struck in various metals streamed to all around associated authorities and sellers, and Bosbyshell sold an expansive individual gathering of such pieces not long after leaving office. 

Bosbyshell filled in as Chief Coiner until mid 1885; with the moving toward appearance of the principal Cleveland organization, Democrats would be designated as Mint authorities, and Bosbyshell verified a situation as boss assistant in the Philadelphia City Controller's office. Bosbyshell was contracted, regardless of the way that he was a Republican in a Democratic-run city organization, in light of his fellowship with Controller Robert Dechert. 

Having kept up his association in the GAR, Bosbyshell was responsible for the board of trustees on courses of action for the Tenth National Encampment of the GAR, at Philadelphia in 1876. In 1879, he was chosen as officer of Post 2 in that city. He likewise joined the Second Regiment of the Pennsylvania National Guard, and was chosen major in 1878 and lieutenant colonel in 1880. 

On October 17, 1889, President Benjamin Harrison charged Bosbyshell as administrator of the Philadelphia Mint. As the Senate was not sitting, Bosbyshell got a break arrangement. Bosbyshell recorded his vow of office on November 1, 1889. On his first day at work, he was welcomed with a bunch of roses and a huge heap of mail from office-searchers. He gave receipts for the Mint property he was currently in charge of, and found no blunders in the records of his antecedent. On December 16, 1889, with the Senate in session, Harrison assigned Bosbyshell. The next day, Vermont Senator Justin Morrill, for the benefit of the Senate Finance Committee, to which Bosbyshell's assignment had been alluded, prescribed that he be affirmed. The Senate did as such on December 19. 

In 1890, Bosbyshell saved $4,200 of government assets in the Keystone National Bank, which at that point went bankrupt. Bosbyshell was in charge of the obligation, which was just $300 not as much as his yearly compensation, and paid it off by stages, finishing the installments in 1894. In August 1890, Bosbyshell was chosen colonel of his National Guard regiment; the vote was out of the blue close, as he was disdained by a portion of his individual officers. Following the Homestead Riots in July 1892, Pennsylvania Governor Robert E. Pattison requested volunteer army to the strike-torn town to reestablish request. Bosbyshell drove his gatekeeper regiment to Homestead, where the strikers offered no opposition. In August 1893, he left the regiment. 

Before Congress canceled the training in 1873, the administration made silver legitimate delicate nearby gold. This prompted one of the incredible political discussions of the late 1800s, the same number of required an arrival to pre-1873 laws, which would require the administration to take all the silver offered it and afterward return it, struck into silver dollars. On January 3, 1891, two "free silver" advocates called at the Philadelphia Mint with a substantial ingot of silver, and requested it to be begat. At the point when the gauging representative declined, they requested to see Bosbyshell, who got them, yet denied their interest. He did, notwithstanding, compose at their solicitation a letter expressing that the laws precluded coinage of silver given by people in general. 

Bosbyshell was Mint Superintendent while the Mint made new coin structures, including the Barber coinage, Columbian half dollar, and Isabella quarter. On account of the quarter, issued in 1893, Bosbyshell was engaged with the meetings inside the Mint over the plan, and sent a letter to Caroline Peddle, who was at first contracted to structure the piece, necessitating that the picture of Queen Isabella on the coin not wear a crown. Before long, Peddle pulled back from the undertaking. 

Cleveland was chosen for a second non-back to back term in November 1892. With the Democrats in power once more, new Mint Director Robert Preston in late March 1894 arranged Bosbyshell to turn over the Philadelphia Mint to his successor, Dr. Eugene Townsend. This required the including of each coin in the office, including pennies and nickels. In the wake of counseling with the sureties on his bond as administrator, Bosbyshell protested leaving until the tally (expected to take three months) was finished, however all things considered left office as coordinated on March 31, 1894. 

Bosbyshell had been chosen VP of the Fidelity National Life Insurance Company in February 1893; in December of that year he was chosen treasurer rather, a post regardless he held starting at 1908. President McKinley selected him an individual from the 1898 Assay Commission. 

In September 1893, a noteworthy burglary at the Philadelphia Mint had been found. Henry Cochran, gauging assistant, had been clandestinely extricating gold bars from a vault fixed in 1887, not with a strong entryway but rather with a latticed one that was to some degree free. Bosbyshell, in taking guardianship of the Philadelphia Mint's advantages from his ancestor, Daniel Fox, had not requested the gold to be gauged. At the point when the gold was taken out to be changed over into coin in 1893, the deficiency was found. Albeit a portion of the gold was recouped, there was as yet a lack of $12,810.82, and the legislature brought suit against Bosbyshell after he left office in 1894, verifying judgment against him and the sureties on his bond. Bosbyshell spoke to the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit, which ruled against him. The region court had ruled for Bosbyshell on the matter of 733 silver dollars said to miss, leaving just the topic of the gold. Bosbyshell requested survey by the Supreme Court, yet in addition looked for authoritative alleviation, and on February 2, 1899, Congress exculpated him of the obligation, putting forth the court defense disputable. 

With the episode of the Spanish– American War in 1898, Bosbyshell composed and filled in as colonel of the Nineteenth Pennsylvania National Guard Regiment, which was utilized for country barrier. He stayed in that limit from August 1898 until November 1899. 

Just as the GAR, Bosbyshell had numerous interests and exercises. An Episcopalian, he was a vestryman of the Church of the Savior in Philadelphia; for a long time he directed the choir and included himself in Sunday school work, frequently as director. He memorialized his regiment's wartime encounters with "The 48th in the War", distributed in 1895, and was an individual from a few different veterans social orders. He was likewise director of the Board of Trustees of the University Lodge of Masons. Looking into family history, around 1910 he distributed "Relatives of Christian and Elizabeth (Oliver) Bosbyshell 1782– 1910". 

Oliver Bosbyshell passed on August 1, 1921, subsequent to enduring a stroke. He was made due by one of his kids, Oliver, and by a few grandkids. He had four children with his significant other Martha, who kicked the bucket in 1914; their oldest child Nathan passed on in Los Angeles in 1888 at age 23. 

Books 

Different sources