Henry Cornelius Burnett 

Henry Cornelius Burnett (October 25, 1825 – October 1, 1866) was an American government official who filled in as a Confederate States Senator from Kentucky from 1862 to 1865. From 1855 to 1861, Burnett served four terms in the United States House of Representatives. A legal counselor by calling, Burnett had held just a single open office—circuit court representative—before being chosen to Congress. He spoke to Kentucky's first congressional area promptly preceding the Civil War. This region contained the whole Jackson Purchase locale of the state, which was more thoughtful to the Confederate reason than some other region of Kentucky. Burnett guaranteed the voters of his region that he would have President Abraham Lincoln summoned for conspiracy. Unionist paper supervisor George D. Prentice portrayed Burnett as "a major, husky, uproarious mouthed individual who is everlastingly raising purposes of request and protests, to humiliate the Republicans in the House". 

Other than advocating the Southern reason in Congress, Burnett likewise worked inside Kentucky to reinforce the state's help of the Confederacy. He managed a sway tradition in Russellville in 1861 that shaped a Confederate government for the state. The representatives to this tradition picked Burnett to venture out to Richmond, Virginia to verify Kentucky's admission to the Confederacy. Burnett additionally raised a Confederate regiment at Hopkinsville, Kentucky, and quickly served in the Confederate States Army. Camp Burnett, a Confederate enrolling post two miles west of Clinton in Hickman County, Kentucky, was named after him. 

Burnett's activities were regarded treasonable by his partners in Congress, and he was ousted from the House in 1861. He is one of just five individuals from the House of Representatives ever to be removed. Following his removal, Burnett served in the Provisional Confederate Congress and the First and Second Confederate Senates. He was arraigned for injustice after the war, yet never attempted. He came back to the act of law, and kicked the bucket of cholera in 1866 at 40 years old. 

Henry Cornelius Burnett was destined to Dr. Isaac Burnett (1801-1865) and his significant other, the previous Martha F. Garrett on October 25, 1825, in Essex County, Virginia. In his initial youth, the family moved to Cadiz, Trigg County, Kentucky. Henry was taught secretly at an institute in Hopkinsville, the neighboring Christian County government situate. He at that point read law and was an individual from the Cadiz Christian Church. 

On April 13, 1847, Burnett wedded Mary A. Terry, the little girl of an unmistakable Cadiz trader. They had four kids: John, Emeline, Henry, and Terry (who kicked the bucket soon after birth). The more youthful Henry C. Burnett (instructed at the University of Virginia after his dad's demise) turned into a fruitful legal advisor in Paducah and, later, Louisville. 

Admitted to the bar in 1847, Burnett set up his legitimate practice in Cadiz. He additionally started owning captives of his own. He possessed five slaves in Trigg County in 1850. After ten years, in 1860, Burnett possessed seven slaves in Cadiz, just as rented three captives to J.L. Parrish in Christian County. 

In the main race following the approval of the Kentucky Constitution of 1850, Trigg County voters chose Burnett representative of the circuit court; he crushed James E. Thompson. Burnett surrendered in 1853 to keep running for Congress. 

Soon thereafter, he was chosen as a Democrat to the 34th Congress, succeeding Speaker of the House Linn Boyd. He was re-chosen to the three succeeding Congresses; amid the 35th Congress, he led the Committee of Enquiry with respect to the closeout of Fort Snelling and served on the Committee on the District of Columbia. 

Burnett bolstered individual Kentuckian John C. Breckinridge for president in the 1860 presidential race, yet Breckinridge lost to Abraham Lincoln. Lincoln had crusaded against the extension of subjugation past the states in which it previously existed. His triumph in the race brought about seven Southern states pronouncing their severance from the Union. Regardless of this, most Americans trusted the Union could at present be spared. Burnett, in any case, oppose this idea. In the January 7, 1861 issue of Paducah's "Tri-Weekly Herald", he pronounced, "There isn't the smallest any expectation of any settlement or alteration of existing inconveniences." Despite his negativity, Burnett supported the doomed Peace Conference of 1861. 

Following the quick withdrawals of Mississippi, Florida, Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, and Texas, Congress started setting up the country for war, including by fortifying the military and naval force and raising assets for the treasury. Burnett endeavored to evade these measures by proposing a revision stipulating that none of these new allotments could be utilized to quell or make war against any of the southern states, yet the correction was crushed. 

To deflect war at that point, the Kentucky General Assembly required a gathering of outskirt states to meet in Frankfort on May 27. Kentucky's twelve representatives to the tradition were to be picked by uncommon race on May 4. Be that as it may, after the Confederates terminated on Fort Sumter on April 12, the secessionist competitors pulled back from the race. Communicating the perspective on most of these representatives, Burnett opined in the "Tri-Weekly Herald" that the tradition would not happen. He wasn't right; the tradition was held as planned, however it neglected to achieve anything of essentialness. 

President Lincoln called for unique congressional races to be held in Kentucky in June 1861. The voters of the First District's Southern Rights party assembled a conference to be held May 29, 1861 at the Graves County town hall in Mayfield. The reason for the gathering was apparently to re-name Burnett for his congressional seat, yet a few Unionists trusted a ulterior thought process was in play. George D. Prentice, editorial manager of the Unionist "Louisville Journal", composed on May 21, 1861 that "the object of [the Mayfield Convention], however not formally clarified, is accepted to be the partition of the First District from Kentucky if Kentucky stays in the Union, and its extension to Tennessee". 

The majority of the records of the Mayfield Convention were lost, probably in a flame that decimated the town hall in 1864. The most broad enduring record originates from the notes of James Beadles, a Unionist spectator of the procedures. After various talks were conveyed, a larger part advisory group led by Paducah circuit judge James Campbell displayed a report containing seven goals. The goals announced the locale's compassion for the South, despite the fact that it swore to maintain Kentucky's present approach of lack of bias. It denounced President Lincoln for pursuing a vile war, and commended Governor Beriah Magoffin for rejecting Lincoln's call for troops. The report likewise denounced the government for outfitting Union sympathizers in the state with purported "Lincoln weapons". A minority advisory group report was given by Ballard County inhabitant and future U.S. Delegate Oscar Turner. This report called Kentucky's lack of bias "purposeless" and "fainthearted," guaranteed to ward off any intrusion by the North, and prescribed calling for help from Tennessee and the Confederate States in case of such an attack. It further cautioned that if the whole state did not embrace this position, the Purchase district would withdraw and adjust itself to Tennessee. 

Burnett, alongside Lyon County's Willis B. Machen and Union County's Benjamin P. Cissell, at first embraced Campbell's larger part report. After some discussion, Burnett proposed four goals in lieu of the two reports. The goals censured President Lincoln for the war against the South and the central government for the arrangement of the "Lincoln weapons". They additionally commended Governor Magoffin for rebuking Lincoln's call for troops and urged him to head out any Union attack of the state. Burnett's goals were passed by extensive edges in inclination to both the dominant part and minority reports. 

At last, the tradition swung to the issue of selecting Burnett. Four others, including Turner, Machen, and Cissell, were likewise offered as chosen people. Burnett got 124 of 155 votes on the primary poll and was picked collectively on the second tally. In his acknowledgment discourse, Burnett announced that he was uncertain concerning whether he would make the vow of office whenever chose. This announcement implied a before remark by Turner that "no man who is occupied with the reason for the South could go to Congress and make the vow of office without prevaricating himself." Burnett guaranteed that in the event that he assumed his seat, he was resolved to summon President Lincoln for conspiracy. 

In the extraordinary races, Burnett vanquished Lawrence Trimble of Paducah. He was the main states' rights hopeful chosen in the statewide solicit. He won helpfully in the Jackson Purchase locale, which was by a long shot the most master Southern zone of the state. Nonetheless, outside the Purchase, he won just his home area of Trigg, and that by a thin edge of 20 cast a ballot. (Other than the Purchase provinces, the First District likewise included Caldwell, Crittenden, Hopkins, Livingston, Lyon, Trigg, Union, and Webster areas.) 

Burnett sat down in the 37th Congress; sources make no notice of his creation great on his danger not to make the vow of office. Only days after the First Battle of Bull Run, Burnett's kindred Kentuckian, John J. Crittenden proposed a goals accusing the war for the backstabbing Southerners and characterizing the war's point as protection of the Union without obstruction in the rights or organizations of the states. Burnett asked that the inquiry be partitioned. His solicitation was in all actuality, however he just discovered one partner willing to cast a ballot with him against reprimanding Southerners for the war. 

After Congress dismissed on August 6, 1861, Burnett returned home to Cadiz and talked at various professional Southern encourages. On September 4, 1861, Confederate Major General Leonidas Polk abused Kentucky's nonpartisanship by requesting Brigadier General Gideon Johnson Pillow to involve Columbus. Accordingly, Ulysses S. Allow caught Paducah on September 6, 1861. With impartiality no longer a viable alternative, Burnett managed a meeting of Kentucky's Southern sympathizers that happened at Russellville between October 29 and October 31, 1861. Oneself designated agents to this gathering required a sway tradition on November 18, 1861 to establish a Confederate government for the state. 

In the meantime between the two traditions, Burnett headed out to Hopkinsville, where he and Colonel W.C.P. Breckinridge raised a Confederate regiment named the eighth Kentucky Infantry. On November 11, 1861, Burnett himself enrolled in the Confederate States Army at Camp Alcorn; he was picked as colonel of the eighth Kentucky, yet never took order. 

The power tradition accumulated at the William Forst House in Russellville as planned on November 18, 1861. Burnett additionally managed this tradition. Dreading for the security of the representatives, he initially proposed delaying procedures until January 8, 1862, yet Scott County's George W. Johnson persuaded most of the agents to proceed. By the third day, the military circumstance was tenuous to the point that the whole tradition must be moved to a pinnacle on the grounds of Bethel Female College, a now-old establishment in Russellville. 

The tradition passed a law of withdrawal and set up a temporary Confederate government for Kentucky. Burnett, William Preston of Fayette County and William E. Simms of Bourbon County were picked as officials for the temporary government and were dispatched to Richmond, Virginia to consult with Confederate President Jefferson Davis to verify Kentucky's admission to the Confederacy. For reasons unexplained by the agents, Dr. Luke P. Blackburn, a local Kentuckian living in Mississippi, was welcome to go with the officials. In spite of the way that Kentucky's chosen government in Frankfort had restricted withdrawal, the magistrates persuaded Davis to prescribe Kentucky's admission to the Confederacy; the Confederate Congress formally conceded Kentucky on December 10, 1861. 

Following his effective mission to Richmond, Burnett joined the eighth Kentucky at Fort Donelson. On February 16, 1862, Ulysses S. Allow drove a consolidated Federal armed force naval force assault against the stronghold. A large portion of the Confederate battalion was caught, including the eighth Kentucky, yet Burnett got away in General John B. Floyd's retreat following the annihilation. This fight finished Burnett's military administration. 

Burnett's rebellious exercises did not go unnoticed by his partners in Congress. He was missing when the body reconvened December 2, 1861. The next day, Indiana delegate W. McKee Dunn acquainted a goals with remove Burnett from Congress. The goals passed effectively, expelling Burnett from the seat he had involved ceaselessly since 1855. 

Burnett spoke to Kentucky in the Provisional Confederate Congress from November 18, 1861 to February 17, 1862, and filled in as an individual from that body's Finance Committee. He was then chosen as a representative to the First and Second Confederate Congresses, serving from February 19, 1862 to February 18, 1865. In the Confederate Senate, he served on the Engrossment and Enrollment and Military Affairs Committees. 

On March 29, Confederate president Jefferson Davis approached the Confederate Congress to pass an induction bill. The bill would require a three-year term of administration for all healthy white men between the ages of 18 and 35. At first, the bill was disliked, however as the military circumstance developed progressively edgy for the Confederacy, the two houses immediately passed it. All things considered, the measure made some inquiry Davis' military choices; among them was Burnett, normally one of Davis' staunchest partners. In an April 19, 1862 location to the governing body, Burnett impugned Davis' inclination for the individuals who were, similar to Davis himself, alumni of West Point. The discourse drew such an incredible positive reaction from the exhibition that the absolute most passionate must be evacuated. 

Following the finish of the Civil War, Burnett looked for a crowd of people with President Andrew Johnson, an old congressional partner, yet Johnson instructed him to return home. Burnett was arraigned for treachery at Louisville, yet discharged on bond and never indicted. He joined forces with Judge John R. Beauty and continued the act of law in Cadiz. He kicked the bucket of cholera in Hopkinsville on September 28, 1866. At first covered in the Old Cadiz Cemetery, he was moved toward the East End Cemetery in Cadiz. His headstone bears no notice of his Confederate administration.