Joaquim José Inácio, Viscount of Inhaúma 

Joaquim José Inácio, Viscount of Inhaúma (; 1 August 1808 – 8 March 1869), was a maritime officer, government official and monarchist of the Empire of Brazil. He was conceived in the Kingdom of Portugal, and his family moved to Brazil two years after the fact. After Brazilian freedom in 1822, Inhaúma enrolled in the Brazilian naval force. Right off the bat in his vocation amid the last 50% of the 1820s, he took an interest in the curbing of secessionist uprisings: first the Confederation of the Equator, and afterward the Cisplatine War, which hastened a long global furnished clash with the United Provinces of the River Plate. 

All through the mayhem that described the years when Emperor Dom Pedro II was a minor, Inhaúma stayed faithful to the legislature. He subdued a military uprising in 1831 and was engaged with stifling a portion of different uprisings that emitted amid that disturbed period. He saw activity in the Sabinada somewhere in the range of 1837 and 1838, trailed by the Ragamuffin War from 1840 until 1844. In 1849, in the wake of going through two years in Great Britain, Inhaúma was given order of the armada that was instrumental in curbing the Praieira revolt, the last defiance in supreme Brazil. 

Amid the 1850s, Inhaúma held a progression of bureaucratic positions. He entered legislative issues in 1861 as an individual from the Conservative Party. He turned into a bureau part and was given the situation of naval force serve. Inhaúma likewise turned into the principal individual to hold the Ministry of Agriculture portfolio, yet quickly. The principal proficient fireman corps in Brazil was framed amid his residency as horticulture serve. In late 1866, Inhaúma was named president of the armada occupied with the Paraguayan War. Amid the battling, he accomplished the position of chief of naval operations, the most noteworthy in the Brazilian fleet. He was additionally granted a respectable title, inevitably being raised from nobleman to viscount. In 1868, he was chosen to the national assembly's lower house, however never expected office. 

Despite the fact that he effectively arraigned his activities in the war against Paraguay, Inhaúma's authority was burdened by his faltering and dawdling conduct. While in direction in the combat area, he turned out to be rationally depleted and gotten an obscure infection. Genuinely sick, Inhaúma came back to the national capital in mid 1869 and passed on presently. Albeit chronicled works have not given much inclusion to Inhaúma, a few history specialists respect him among the best of the Brazilian naval force officers. 

Joaquim José Inácio was conceived in Lisbon, Kingdom of Portugal. In spite of the fact that the date on his introduction to the world authentication was 30 July 1808, his mom guaranteed that the right birthdate was two days after the fact, on 1 August. He by and by confirmed that the later date was precise, as did his more youthful sibling, who was his biographer. In any case, a few biographers, including Joaquim Manuel de Macedo and Carlos Guilherme Haring, have continued refering to the date erroneously entered on the birth endorsement. 

Joaquim Inácio's folks were José Vitorino de Barros and Maria Isabel de Barros. In 1808, the Portuguese Royal family moved to Brazil, at that point the biggest and wealthiest province of Portugal. After two years, on 10 July 1810, José de Barros touched base in the Brazilian capital, Rio de Janeiro. As a group individual from the frigate "D. Carlota", he was accused of transporting what survived from the individual property of Prince Regent Dom João, later King Dom João VI to Brazil. José de Barros likewise expedited his family the voyage, including Joaquim Inácio, who was then one year and eight months old. Joaquim Inácio had a more established sister named Maria and six more youthful kin (who were brought into the world after the landing in Brazil), among them Bento José de Carvalho and Antônio José Vitorino de Barros. 

As was regular at the time, Joaquim Inácio started his training at home and was later taken a crack at "Seminário de São José" (Saint Joseph School) and from that point onward, in "Seminário São Joaquim" (Saint Joachim School), which progressed toward becoming Pedro II School in 1837. His educators included Januário da Cunha Barbosa, who later ended up one of the main figures in the Brazilian freedom development. Joaquim Inácio pursued his dad, a maritime officer who accomplished the position of second lieutenant, in his decision of a vocation. On 20 November 1822 at 14 years old, Joaquim Inácio was conceded as "aspirante a guarda-marinha" (hopeful sailor or maritime cadet) at the Navy Academy. On 11 December 1823, he moved on from the institute, studying arithmetic, with the position of "guarda-marinha" (sailor). As he had in past investigations at different schools, Joaquim Inácio turned out to be a splendid understudy. Among his partners at the foundation was Francisco Manuel Barroso da Silva (later Baron of Amazonas) whom he got to know. 

At the point when Prince Dom Pedro (later Emperor Dom Pedro I), child and beneficiary of King João VI, drove the development for the autonomy of Brazil, Joaquim Inácio was one of a few Portuguese-conceived inhabitants who agreed with the Brazilian reason and joined the task force (as the Brazilian Navy was brought in the supreme period). On 16 January 1824, he started his administration on board the "D. Pedro I", a ship of the line and lead of First Admiral Thomas Cochrane, Marquis of Maranhão. Joaquim Inácio did not battle in any fights, as the Portuguese foe powers had surrendered at that point. His rite of passage came a couple of months after the fact with the approach of the Confederation of the Equator, a secessionist insubordination in Brazil's northeastern areas. He was given the direction of the shaper "Independente" and helped in the concealment of revolutionaries in Rosário do Itapecuru, a town in the territory of Maranhão. The defiance was over by mid 1825, and on 25 February Joaquim Inácio was elevated to second lieutenant. 

In June 1825, Joaquim Inácio headed out to Brazil's far south to suppress a secessionist disobedience in the area of Cisplatina. The extremists were supported by the United Provinces of the River Plate (later Argentina), which prompted the Cisplatine War. Joaquim Inácio filled in as first officer on board the patache "Pará", which was positioned in Colônia de Sacramento (present-day Colonia del Sacramento), the second most imperative town in Cisplatina. By late February 1826, Sacramento was assaulted by adversary powers. Joaquim Inácio was sent shorewards and put accountable for the "Santa Clause Rita" battery, made out of mariners and guns from the Brazilian boats. He took a functioning part in effectively repulsing adversary assaults upon Sacramento on 7 February, 26 February and 14 March. 

The evening of 10 March 1826 and amidst the attack of Sacramento, Joaquim Inácio boarded a little, unarmed watercraft joined by a solitary armed force officer and went unnoticed through a line of nineteen foe dispatches under front of murkiness. He achieved the principle Brazilian armada on the morning of the following day and mentioned help from Vice-Admiral Rodrigo José Ferreira Lobo, the president of the maritime powers working in the war. Joaquim Inácio came back to Sacramento two days after the fact under substantial adversary fire alongside three water crafts conveying supplies and arms. In spite of the fact that invited as a saint in the attacked town, he was disregarded for an advancement. Dismissal for this accomplishment was because of his absence of riches and family associations, a weight which kept on upsetting his profession for quite a long time to come. 

In February 1827, Joaquim Inácio was exchanged to the team of the corvette "Duquesa de Goiás", in which he was to partake in the intrusion of Carmen de Patagones, a town in the upper east of the United Provinces that filled in as a port for corsairs. The "Duquesa de Goiás" sank amid the endeavor, executing a few team individuals. Joaquim Inácio demanded being the last officer to leave the vessel. He was next given the order of the boat "Constança". The intrusion of Carmen was a finished disappointment, and the Brazilian land powers were crushed and taken prisoner. On 7 March, while Joaquim Inácio anticipated updates on the intrusion, the "Constança" and another yacht were encompassed by foe vessels. After a frantic fight, he was abducted in the wake of declining to surrender. 

The Brazilian detainees were put together on board a brig destined for Buenos Aires, capital of the United Provinces. They endured serious hardship, starving and practically stripped. Under the administration of Joaquim Inácio, the Brazilians arranged an uprising, assumed responsibility for the ship and made detainees of their captors. The ship effectively evaded two corvettes and one boat brig that had sought after them, and cruised on to Montevideo, capital of Cisplatina, which they came to in security on 29 August 1827. Regardless of Joaquim Inácio's challenging salvage of Brazilian detainees of war from both the intrusion's territory based powers and from the two yachts, he was reviled by the president Vice-Admiral Rodrigo Pinto Guedes, Baron of Rio da Prata (who had supplanted Rodrigo Lobo) for the loss of the "Constança". 

Joaquim Inácio came back to Rio de Janeiro in October, his voyage through obligation having kept going three years. He was then sent back to Cisplatina on board the frigate "Niterói" and in December he turned into the primary officer of the barque "Grenfell". On 17 February 1828, he battled in the Battle of Quilmes. Amid the commitment, the Brazilian barque-brig (three-masted barque) "Vinte e nove de agosto" steered into the rocks and was going to be boarded. Seeing this, Joaquim Inácio situated the "Grenfell" close to the undermined vessel and secured her until she could be liberated by the rising tide. The two boats came back to the fight, which brought about a Brazilian triumph. Brazil's endeavors in the war were at last futile, as it in the long run surrendered Cisplatina, which turned into the free country of Uruguay. In July 1829, Joaquim Inácio again came back to Rio de Janeiro, and on 17 October he was elevated to first lieutenant. 

On 17 March 1831, Joaquim Inácio wedded Maria José de Mariz Sarmento. Her dad was an officer in the Portuguese naval force whose possess father and fatherly granddad had likewise been military officers. Maria José de Mariz Sarmento had a place with the respectable Portuguese group of Mariz and was a parent of Antônio de Mariz, one of the authors of Rio de Janeiro, as described in 1857 by José de Alencar in his novel The Guarani. Joaquim Inácio and Maria José had a few youngsters: Ana Elisa de Mariz e Barros, Joaquim José Inácio, Antônio Carlos de Mariz e Barros and Carlota Adelaide de Mariz e Barros. The couple additionally had a young lady and a kid, named Constança and Manuel individually, both of whom passed on in early stages. 

A month and a half after Joaquim Inácio's marriage, Emperor Pedro I renounced and cruised to Europe. Since the previous head's child and beneficiary Dom Pedro II was a minor, a regime was framed, and over a time of unsteadiness and strife resulted. On 6 October 1831, naval force artillerymen, held under doubt of plotting a revolt, got away from the "presiganga" (jail send) in which they had been bound. Joaquim Inácio told the yacht "Jaguaripe" which, alongside different vessels, had been guarding the jail send. Seeing that the artillerymen had set sail for Rio de Janeiro, Joaquim Inácio and a couple of men took a pontoon to caution the city. They experienced flintlock fire from the artillerymen, who at that point changed course for the close-by Ilha das Cobras (Island of the Snakes) notwithstanding solid restriction from the terrain. They were crushed the following day when three sections of men from the Volunteer Soldier-Officers Battalion and Permanent Municipal Guard Corps attacked the island. 

In January 1833, in number breezes constrained the old and ineffectively assembled "Jaguaripe" on solid land off Santa Marta shoreline in the southern territory of Santa Catarina, where it sank. Joaquim Inácio was again the last to desert send. The whole group was safeguarded, however he himself scarcely endure. Joaquim Inácio and his more youthful sibling Bento José (who was likewise a naval force officer) remained above water by clutching a calfskin bin until achieving the shore. A while later, Joaquim Inácio was court martialed and cleared of any bad behavior. On 5 April 1833, he was given direction of the barque-brig "Vinte e nove de agosto" (a similar ship he had spared in 1828) and cruised to the territory of Maranhão. The last time he had been in the region was in 1825. He remained positioned in the commonplace capital (São Luís) as head of the port until his arrival to Rio de Janeiro on 30 December 1836. He was exchanged to the steam barque "Urânia" in 1837 and later, on 19 July of that year, to the brig "Constança" (an unexpected vessel in comparison to the clipper he lost in 1827). 

Joaquim Inácio left Rio de Janeiro on 11 August 1837 for Salvador, capital of the territory of Bahia. He had been accused of conveying the detainee Bento Gonçalves (pioneer of the defiance known as the Ragamuffin War that had assaulted Rio Grande do Sul since 1835) to a military post. On 7 September 1837, Joaquim Inácio was elevated to skipper lieutenant. A few months after the fact, the Sabinada insubordination ejected in Salvador. The dissidents liberated Bento Gonçalves, who got away back to Rio Grande do Sul. Joaquim Inácio participated in the barricade of that city until the finish of the defiance in March 1838. His absence of family associations and political impact again obstructed his vocation in 1839, when he was ignored for a merited advancement. 

On 23 July 1840, Pedro II was proclaimed of age and Joaquim Inácio was among the maritime officers speaking to the naval force in the assignment that welcomed the youthful sovereign. The ascent of Pedro II to head the focal government brought about a moderate, yet consistent, reclamation of request in the nation. On 17 December, Joaquim Inácio was named "inspetor do stockpile de marinha" (auditor of the naval force shipyard) in Rio Grande, the second most critical town in Rio Grande do Sul. The region was as yet agitated by the Ragamuffin insubordination. He drove the mariners keeping an eye on the channels encompassing Rio Grande and battled the Ragamuffins when they assaulted the town in July 1841. 

The Ragamuffin threat was stopped when the legislature dispatched field marshal (present-day divisional general) Luís Alves de Lima e Silva (at that point Baron, later Duke of Caxias) in 1842. The Baron of Caxias had been the second in order of the Volunteer Soldier-Officers Battalion when it put down the uprising of naval force artillerymen in 1831. He and Joaquim Inácio set up a nearby, long lasting kinship. Joaquim Inácio was elevated to frigate skipper on 15 March 1844. Before long a short time later, Joaquim Inácio was diminished of order, at his own solicitation, subsequent to winding up always inconsistent with his prevalent. On 2 April 1845, he was relegated order of the frigate "Constituição" and in October came back to Rio Grande do Sul, which at that point had been appeased. He escorted the Emperor amid his voyage through the Brazilian southern regions. Pedro II was positively inspired with the character of the ship's commander. Dull haired and of normal tallness, Joaquim Inácio was upbeat and lovely. He was likewise dedicated, astute and very much learned. Notwithstanding his local Portuguese, he could likewise talk and write in Latin, English and French. 

In August 1846, Joaquim Inácio cruised the "Constituição" to Devonport (at that point known as Plymouth Dock) in the United Kingdom, where the ship was to experience fixes. He visited there to the old Thomas Cochrane, Marquis of Maranhão, who questioned him with respect to Brazil's situation. Joaquim Inácio came back to Brazil in May 1847 and was relegated to bureaucratic undertakings. In April 1848, he was positioned, again in charge of the "Constituição", in Bahia area. Soon thereafter, the Praieira revolt ejected in the close-by region of Pernambuco. Toward the beginning of November, Joaquim Inácio expected the direction of the armada ensuring Recife, capital of Pernambuco. He sent a large number of his mariners shorewards to help in the town's barrier. Recife was assaulted by agitators on 2 February 1849. The guerilla assailants were vanquished, and soon a while later the last insubordination of Brazil's magnificent period arrived at an end. Joaquim Inácio, who battled in the avenues with his men, later commented: "It was anything but a fight, yet a wicked chase from which I have gotten away by marvel." He was granted with an advancement to commander of ocean and war on 14 March. 

On 26 May 1850, Joaquim Inácio was selected examiner of the maritime shipyard at Rio de Janeiro. He assumed no job in the Platine War that hollowed the Empire against the Argentine Confederation (the successor condition of the United Provinces of the River Plate), which endured from late 1851 until mid 1852. He spent that period in the capital directing the development and fix of a few cruising vessels and steamships for the Brazilian fleet. He was elevated to head of division (cutting edge back chief of naval operations) on 3 March 1852. 

All through the 1850s, Joaquim Inácio was doled out to a progression of for the most part bureaucratic positions. In the wake of being expelled from the workplace of monitor on 8 November 1854, after eleven days he was named chief of the port of Rio de Janeiro (for both the city and area). From 1854 until 1860, he was designated an individual from different naval force sheets that managed issues going from advancements and hardware buys to war crown jewels and institutionalization of maritime regalia. On 2 November 1855, Joaquim Inácio was named auxiliary (identical to aide general) to the naval force serve. On 2 December 1856, he was elevated to head of armada (present day bad habit chief naval officer) and made a "Fidalgo Cavaleiro da Casa Imperial" (Knight Nobleman of the Imperial Household), which raised him to a position positioning over the individuals from valor orders and underneath the titled nobles (noblemen, checks, and so forth.). Joaquim Inácio additionally turned into a part and VP of the maritime committee (a warning load up) on 24 July 1858. 

As had additionally been the situation with his antecedents, the position of aide was seen by Joaquim Inácio as a shame. Inside the fleet organization, it signified the most imperative office, as it was filled by an officer who went about as the naval force pastor's immediate agent in the naval force. All things being equal, the title of "aide" was itself seen as belittling. Joaquim Inácio later whined: "In what part of the world ... does the naval force serve have a general officer as an assistant? What is an assistant, other than a youthful officer who transmits arranges, and even messages, he gets from his boss?" He closed: "Along these lines the title of aide can't hamper an officer who oversees the naval force's control and responds in due order regarding it." His solicitation to have the assignment for the position changed to an increasingly proper title was overlooked. He likewise felt insulted that a large number of his proposition to the naval force sheets with respect to upgrades were not followed up on, and on 21 November 1860, he requested to be expelled from all positions. 

Liberated from the requests of his previous payments, Joaquim Inácio invested his energy deciphering Jean-Félicité-Théodore Ortolan's "Et Diplomatie De La Mer" (The Diplomacy of the Sea) from French into Portuguese. He was a refined individual whose inclinations included verse. He was likewise inspired by plays and he was a chosen individual from the Dramatic Conservatory (which supported the national theater) from 8 June 1856. Joaquim Inácio was exceptionally religious and he regularly referenced God and Catholic holy people in his letters. Amid the Paraguayan War in the late 1860s, after discovering that he was being derided and reprimanded by the Paraguayans for his religious commitment, Joaquim Inácio just answered: "Abandon me my convictions and let them consider me anything they desire." He was an excited individual from the "Santa Clause Casa de Misericórdia" (Holy House of Mercy), a magnanimous association in Rio de Janeiro. At the point when the national capital was attacked by yellow fever in 1854, he went from way to entryway requesting gifts to support the wiped out. 

Regardless of his staunch Catholicism, Joaquim Inácio turned into a freemason, joining the "Loja Integridade Maçônica" (Freemasonry Integrity Lodge) in 1828. He in the end rose to the most noteworthy positions of that hold up, getting to be Deputy Grand Master in 1863. He was additionally concurred participation in other Brazilian cabins, turned into a privileged individual from Portuguese Freemasonry and was a delegate of the Grand Orient de France in Brazil. Freemasonry opened new scenes for Joaquim Inácio, furnishing him with associations and impact he had recently needed and which were basic to propelling his political vocation. On 2 March 1861, his companion Caxias, additionally a freemason and staunch Catholic, ended up executive. He welcomed Joaquim Inácio, who turned into an individual from the Conservative Party, to expect the maritime service's portfolio. It was typical in Brazil for high-positioning military officers to take part in governmental issues. 

He filled in as the main leader of the recently made Ministry of Agriculture, Commerce and Public Works from 2 March 1861 until 21 April. Despite the fact that made by a declaration of 1856 (after a recommendation made by Joaquim Inácio in 1851), the principal proficient fireman corps in Brazil was successfully shaped under his residency at the leader of the Ministry of Agriculture. The bureau surrendered on 24 May 1862 in the wake of losing its larger part in the Chamber of Deputies (the national council's lower house). Joaquim Inácio came back to his situation on the maritime committee on 2 July and left that post when he turned into an individual from the Supreme Military and Justice Council on 2 October 1864. 

In December 1864, the despot of Paraguay, Francisco Solano López, requested an attack of the Brazilian area of Mato Grosso (at present the territory of Mato Grosso do Sul), setting off the Paraguayan War. After four months, Paraguayan troops attacked An argentine area in anticipation of an assault on Rio Grande do Sul. The intrusions brought about a union between Brazil, Argentina and Uruguay. Following the abdication of Caxias' administration in 1862, successor cupboards were going by the Progressive League, the adversary of the Conservative Party. As a Conservative, Joaquim Inácio ended up to a great extent sidelined. He amusingly remarked that the Progressives "have not lifted my expulsion by giving me a superior apportion of soup [i.e., any direction of importance], consequently I will stay on an eating regimen". In October 1865, Joaquim Inácio was sent toward the north of Brazil, accused of enlisting volunteers, however before long surrendered that commission and selected to dedicate his opportunity to the Holy House of Mercy. 

The partners attacked Paraguay in April 1866, yet their development via land was hindered by strongholds at Humaitá and maritime powers confronted the impediment of dug in barriers along the Paraguay River. The Progressive bureau chose to make a brought together direction over Brazilian land and maritime powers working in Paraguay. It depended the order to Caxias, who thus mentioned that Joaquim Inácio head the Brazilian armada in Paraguay. On 22 December, Joaquim Inácio supplanted his dear companion Vice-Admiral Joaquim Marques Lisboa (at that point Baron and later Marquis of Tamandaré) as armada leader. For appearances, the new position was ostensibly "professional tempore", since Tamandaré had for all intents and purposes been compelled to leave. On 5 February 1867, Joaquim Inácio was elevated to bad habit naval commander (identical to display day squadron bad habit naval commander), and after sixteen days he was made changeless president. 

The united target was to enclose Humaitá and power its capitulation by attack. On 15 August 1867, under overwhelming flame, Brazilian warships constrained the section of Curupayty, an external line of resistance of Humaitá. Joaquim Inácio told from the extension of the ironclad "Brasil", which occupied with the task. Joaquim Inácio was a short time later granted the respectable title of "Barão de Inhaúma" (Baron of Inhaúma) on 27 September. The name originated from Inhaúma, an area (presently an area) close to the city of Rio de Janeiro. His better half had adult there, and he himself possessed an espresso ranch in the territory. Those landowners, including the Baron of Inhaúma, who created espresso (the most important Brazilian fare ware) were the wealthiest and most persuasive individuals in Brazil's southeast. They were proprietors of slaves, and a large number of them framed the center of the Conservative Party (the ultraconservative wing called "saquarema") and were associated with one another through family and political ties. 

After Inhaúma had punched through the safeguards at Curupayty, he experienced three substantial chains extended over the stream at Humaitá that avoided further advancement upriver past the post. He moored his boats in a bay that wound up known as "Porto Elisiário" (Elisiário Port). For a half year, the Brazilian warships remained positioned among Curupayty and Humaitá, shelling the two fortifications without creating any genuine harm. The circle of Humaitá couldn't be finished until the Allies dealt with the waterway. The Allied president, Argentine president Bartolomé Miter, had squeezed Inhaúma for quite a long time to execute that objective. The Brazilian had, be that as it may, grew apprehensions about the endeavor and procrastinated. He accepted—unreasonably—that Miter would respect the pulverization of Brazil's warships, seriously debilitating the Empire militarily and geopolitically. 

There were different elements that provoked Inhaúma to have qualms. The dimension of the stream had fallen and as the circle ashore had not been finished, even "if the Brazilian boats managed to move beyond the batteries they could well end up stranded, with practically no fuel and conceivably no supporting Allied troops on the banks". Inhaúma additionally contended that the ironclads were excessively expansive and had restricted mobility in the limited channel at Humaitá, being more qualified to seagoing tasks than on a stream. He wanted to hang tight for the shallow-draft screens that were under development in Rio de Janeiro. 

Following a year in Paraguay, Inhaúma had likewise turned out to be sick with a waiting sickness (not emphatically recognized, in spite of the fact that jungle fever is suspected) and had fallen into despondency, getting to be what history specialist Francisco Doratioto themed "close to an apparition of a naval commander". By January 1868 Humaitá had been totally cut off from land fortification and the shallow-draft screens had arrived. Both Inhaúma and his officers shied away from putting the new vessels without hesitation. It was Inhaúma's child in-law, Captain of Sea and War Delfim Carlos de Carvalho (soon Baron of Passagem) who volunteered to lead a squadron. On 19 February, the Brazilian ironclads effectively made a section up the Paraguay River under overwhelming flame, dealing with the stream and in this manner disconnecting Humaitá from resupply by water. 

On 2 March 1868, gatherings of Paraguayans in kayaks covered by foliage and brush boarded Brazilian ironclads moored in Tayí. The endangered vessels dispatched a watercraft to caution Inhaúma, who was on board the leader "Brasil" downriver at Elisiário Port. When he arrived, the Brazilians had bolted themselves inside their boats and the Paraguayans had assumed responsibility for the decks. Inhaúma requested the "Brasil" and two different vessels to start shooting, destroying the Paraguayans and sparing the ironclads. Multi day later he was raised from nobleman to viscount by Pedro II. On 25 July, the partners involved Humaitá after the Paraguayans had surrendered it and withdrawn further upriver. 

Obscure to Inhaúma and just a couple of days before the fall of Humaitá, the Progressive bureau in Rio de Janeiro had surrendered following a political emergency. The Emperor called the Conservatives, under the initiative of Joaquim Rodrigues Torres, Viscount of Itaboraí, once more into power on 16 July 1868. Amid the Progressive organization, Inhaúma had built up a confiding in kinship with the capable, youthful Navy Minister Afonso Celso de Assis Figueiredo (later Viscount of Ouro Preto). The arrival of the Conservatives brought about Inhaúma's race to the Chamber of Deputies as an agent for the territory of Amazonas, despite the fact that he could never accept office. In the new political atmosphere, Inhaúma was additionally viewed as a contender for a senatorial seat speaking to the territory of Rio de Janeiro. 

In the mean time, Caxias had sorted out a strike on the new Paraguayan resistances which López had hurled along the Pikysyry, south of Asunción (Paraguay's capital). This stream managed a solid guarded position which was tied down by the Paraguay River and by the swampy wilderness of the Chaco area. Caxias had a street sliced through the as far as anyone knows impervious Chaco, situated on the opposite side of the Paraguayan River where the Allied armed force was stayed outdoors. The Brazilian boats conveyed the Allied troops over the stream, where they moved over the street which had been done in December. The Allied powers defeated the Paraguayan lines and assaulted from the back. The joined united powers demolished the Paraguayan armed force and on 1 January 1869 Asunción was involved. 

Inhaúma achieved the Paraguayan national capital on 3 January 1869, progressively wiped out and discouraged. He mourned in his private diary that the contention "can't be known as a war however a murdering of individuals, killing of the Paraguayan country". Inhaúma incidentally exchanged his order to his child in-law, the Baron of Passagem, on 16 January. On 28 January, Inhaúma was formally released from that post and elevated to chief of naval operations, the most noteworthy position in the naval force. Having gotten consent from the Conservative bureau to leave, he left for Rio de Janeiro on 8 February, arriving ten days after the fact. In spite of the fact that invited "with the best exhibitions of energy", Inhaúma was weak to the point that he must be conveyed from the docks to his carriage. Alfredo d'Escragnolle Taunay, Viscount of Taunay in his journals said that Pedro II, after learning of Inhaúma's landing, would not visit him. It had turned out to be regular for officers to guarantee ailment so they could pull back from the war. The Emperor before long understood that Inhaúma was to be sure sick and requested every day reports on his condition. 

Inhaúma's wellbeing consistently weakened, and he kicked the bucket on 8 March at around 04:30 in the first part of the day. As indicated by student of history Eugênio Vilhena de Morais, jungle fever was the reason for death. His pine box was put in a carriage held for the burial services of individuals from the magnificent family. It was escorted by three mounted force squadrons and pursued by three hundred carriages, while spectators swarmed the two sides of the avenues along the parade's course. Tamandaré and the future Viscount of Ouro Preto were among the pallbearers. He was covered in the "São Francisco Xavier" burial ground (famously known as Caju Cemetery) in Rio de Janeiro. 

Not long after his passing, the Viscount of Inhaúma was hailed as "one of the best figures of the Brazilian task force" in the Brazilian Senate. He was amazingly prominent in the fleet and was affectionately called "Uncle Joaquim" by his subordinates. The Brazilian naval force's slang expression, ""andar na Inácia"", which intended to carry on effectively, was gotten from his name. Since 1870, no far reaching memoir of Inhaúma has been distributed, despite the fact that he, as per Francisco Eduardo Alves de Almeira, "is, and dependably will be, imperative to the naval force of Brazil for his precedent as an unassuming and devoted boss". The Inhaúma-class corvette, worked during the 1990s, was named after him. Notwithstanding the sparse consideration paid him in authentic writing, there are a few antiquarians who share an exceptionally positive perspective on Inhaúma. Américo Jacobina Lacombe said that he was "one of the best names in our [Brazilian] military history". Max Justo Guedes respected him among the best supreme naval force officers, and Adolfo Lumans thought of him as one of the best naval force officers in Brazilian history.