Emma Stone 

Emily Jean "Emma" Stone (conceived November 6, 1988) is an American performing artist. The beneficiary of various honors, including an Oscar, a BAFTA Award, and a Golden Globe Award, she was the most generously compensated performing artist on the planet in 2017. Stone has showed up in "Forbes" Celebrity 100 out of 2013 and 2017, and was highlighted by "Time" as one of the 100 most compelling individuals on the planet. 

Brought up in Scottsdale, Arizona, Stone started going about as a tyke, in a theater creation of "The Wind in the Willows" in 2000. As a youngster, she migrated to Los Angeles with her mom and made her TV debut "In Search of the New Partridge Family" (2004), an unscripted TV drama that created just an unsold pilot. After little TV jobs, she made her film debut in "Superbad" (2007), and got positive media consideration for her job in "Zombieland" (2009). The 2010 teenager parody "Simple A" was Stone's initially featuring job, procuring her designations for the BAFTA Rising Star Award and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress. This achievement was pursued with further accomplishment in the lighthearted comedy "Insane, Stupid, Love" (2011) and the show "The Help" (2011). 

Stone increased more extensive acknowledgment as Gwen Stacy in the 2012 superhuman film "The Amazing Spider-Man", and its 2014 continuation. She was named for an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for playing a recouping drug someone who is addicted operating at a profit satire "Birdman" (2014). Her Broadway debut arrived in a recovery of the melodic "Supper club" (2014– 2015). She won an Academy Award for Best Actress for playing a hopeful on-screen character in the sentimental melodic "Fantasy world" (2016). Stone proceeded to depict Billie Jean King in the personal games film "Clash of the Sexes" (2017) and Abigail Masham in the verifiable satire show "The Favorite" (2018). Her execution in the last earned her another designation for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. Additionally in 2018, she featured in the Netflix dull satire miniseries "Insane person". 

Emily Jean Stone was conceived on November 6, 1988, in Scottsdale, Arizona, to Krista Jean Stone ("née" Yeager), a homemaker, and Jeffrey Charles Stone, the organizer and CEO of a general-contracting organization. Stone lived on the grounds of the Camelback Inn resort from the age of 12 to 15. She has a more youthful sibling, Spencer. Her fatherly granddad, Conrad Ostberg Sten, was from a Swedish family that anglicized their surname to "Stone" when they moved to the United States through Ellis Island. She additionally has German, English, Scottish, and Irish family. 

As a newborn child, Stone had infant colic and cried much of the time; she thusly created knobs and calluses on her vocal strings while she was a kid. Stone has depicted herself as having been "boisterous" and "bossy" while growing up. She was taught at Sequoya Elementary School and went to Cocopah Middle School for the 6th grade. In spite of the fact that she didn't care for school, she has expressed that her controlling nature implied that "I ensured I got all As". Stone endured alarm assaults as a kid, which she says caused a decrease in her social aptitudes. She experienced treatment yet expresses that it was her interest in nearby venue plays that helped fix the assaults. 

Stone began acting at age four; she needed a profession in sketch parody at first, however moved her concentration toward melodic theater, and took voice exercises for quite a while. Her acting presentation, at 11 years old, arrived in a phase creation of "The Wind in the Willows", filling the role of Otter. The on-screen character was self-taught for a long time, amid which time she showed up in sixteen preparations at Phoenix's Valley Youth Theater—including "The Princess and the Pea", "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland", and "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat"— and performed with the theater's improvisational satire troupe. Around this time, she ventured out to Los Angeles and tried out fruitlessly for a job in Nickelodeon's "All That". Her folks later sent her for private acting exercises with a neighborhood acting mentor, who had worked at the William Morris Agency during the 1970s. 

Stone went to Xavier College Preparatoryan all-young lady Catholic high schoolas a first year recruit, however dropped out after one semester to turn into a performing artist. She arranged a PowerPoint introduction for her folks titled "Undertaking Hollywood" (highlighting Madonna's 2003 melody "Hollywood") to persuade them to let her turn to California to seek after an acting profession. In January 2004, she moved with her mom to a loft in Los Angeles. She reviews: "I went up for each and every show on the Disney Channel and tried out to play the little girl on each and every sitcom", including, "I wound up getting none." Between tryouts for jobs, she took a crack at online secondary school classes, and worked low maintenance at a canine treat pastry shop. 

At the point when Stone enlisted for the Screen Actors Guild, the name "Emily Stone" was at that point taken. She at first passed by "Riley Stone", however after visitor featuring in the NBC dramatization "Medium" and the Fox sitcom "Malcolm in the Middle", she concluded that she was progressively alright with "Emma". She utilized "Emma" to pay tribute to Emma Bunton, otherwise known as Baby Spice from the Spice Girls. She made her TV debut as Laurie Partridge on the VH1 ability rivalry unscripted TV drama "In Search of the New Partridge Family" (2004). The subsequent show, retitled "The New Partridge Family" (2004), remained an unsold pilot. She pursued this with a visitor appearance in Louis C.K's. HBO arrangement "Fortunate Louie". She tried out to star as Claire Bennet in the NBC sci-fi dramatization "Saints" (2007) yet was ineffective and later called this her "absolute bottom" understanding. In April 2007, she played Violet Trimble in the Fox activity dramatization "Drive", however the show was dropped after seven scenes. 

Stone made her component film debut in Greg Mottola's parody "Superbad" (2007), co-featuring Michael Cera and Jonah Hill. The film recounts to the tale of two secondary school understudies who experience a progression of comic misfortunes after they intend to purchase liquor for a gathering. To assume the job of Hill's sentimental intrigue, she colored her hair red. A commentator for "The Hollywood Reporter" discovered her "engaging", yet felt that her job was ineffectively composed. Stone has depicted the experience of acting in her first film as "amazing ... [but] altogether different than different encounters I've had from that point forward". The film was a business achievement, and earned her the Young Hollywood Award for Exciting New Face. 

The next year, Stone featured in the satire "The Rocker" (2008) playing Amelia Stone, the "straight face" bass guitarist in a band; she figured out how to play the bass for the job. The performing artist, who depicts herself as "a major smiler and laugher", has conceded that she thought that it was troublesome depicting a character whose identity qualities were so unique in relation to her own. The film, and her execution, got negative audits from commentators and was a business disappointment. Her next discharge, the lighthearted comedy "The House Bunny", performed better in the cinematic world, turning into a moderate business achievement. The film sees her play the leader of a sorority, and play out a spread form of the Waitresses' 1982 melody "I Know What Boys Like". Surveys for the film were commonly negative, however she was adulated for her supporting job, and "television Guide" Ken Fox composed of Stone that: "She's decidedly radiant, illuminating a motion picture that would be quite diminish without her." 

Stone showed up in three movies discharged in 2009. The first of these was inverse Matthew McConaughey, Jennifer Garner and Michael Douglas in Mark Waters' "Apparitions of Girlfriends Past". Approximately dependent on Charles Dickens' 1843 novella "A Christmas Carol", the lighthearted comedy makes them play a phantom who frequents her previous sweetheart. Basic response to the film was negative, however it was an unobtrusive business achievement. Her most monetarily beneficial endeavor that year was Ruben Fleischer's $102.3 million-netting awfulness satire film "Zombieland", in which she includes close by Jesse Eisenberg, Woody Harrelson and Abigail Breslin. In the film, she showed up as a rascal and overcomer of a zombie end of the world, in a job which "Realm" Chris Hewitt observed to be "to some degree guaranteed". In a progressively positive audit, the pundit for "The Daily Telegraph" expressed: "[T]he colossally encouraging Stone... [is] an extreme treat who extends the quality of being savvier than her years." Stone's last discharge in 2009 was Kieran and Michelle Mulroney's "Paper Man", a parody show which disillusioned commentators. 

Stone gave the voice of an Australian Shepherd in "Marmaduke" (2010), a satire from chief Tom Dey, which depends on Brad Anderson's long-running funny cartoon of a similar name. Her achievement came that year with a featuring job in "Simple An", a high schooler satire coordinated by Will Gluck. Somewhat dependent on Nathaniel Hawthorne's 1850 authentic romance book "The Scarlet Letter", the film recounts to the narrative of Olive Penderghast (Stone), a secondary school understudy who winds up entangled in a comic sex embarrassment after a bogus talk flows that she is explicitly unbridled. Stone read the content before the task was optioned for generation, and sought after it with her chief while creation subtleties were being finished. She found the content "so extraordinary and exceptional from anything I'd perused previously", saying that it was "interesting and sweet". At the point when Stone found that the film had started generation, she met with Gluck, communicating her energy for the undertaking. A couple of months after the fact, the tryout procedure began and she met again with Gluck, getting to be one of the main on-screen characters to try out. The film got positive basic audits, and Stone's execution was viewed as its prime resource. Anna Smith of "Time Out" remarked: "Stone gives a breathtaking exhibition, her realizing drawl suggesting acumen and lack of concern with hidden warmth." With an absolute film industry of $75 million, the film was a business achievement. Stone was designated for a BAFTA Rising Star Award and a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Musical or Comedy, and won the MTV Movie Award for Best Comedic Performance. 

In October 2010, Stone facilitated a scene of NBC's late-night sketch satire "Saturday Night Live"; her appearances incorporated a sketch playing off her likeness to Lindsay Lohan. Stone depicted it as "the best seven day stretch of my life". She facilitated it again in 2011, showed up in a scene in 2014, and in its 40th commemoration exceptional in 2015. A short appearance in the sex satire "Companions with Benefits" (2011) rejoined her with Gluck. She pursued this with a supporting job in Glenn Ficarra and John Requa's lighthearted comedy "Insane, Stupid, Love" (2011) close by Steve Carell, Ryan Gosling and Julianne Moore. The film includes her as a graduate school graduate, and the adoration enthusiasm of Gosling's character. Regardless of discovering "some inescapable falls into tradition" in the film, Drew McWeeny of HitFix composed that Stone "integrates the entire film". At the 2012 Teen Choice Awards, she won the Choice Movie Actress – Comedy grant for her execution in the film. "Insane, Stupid, Love" was a film industry achievement, netting $142.9 million worldwide with a creation spending plan of $50 million. 

Frustrated at being pigeonholed as the "snide enthusiasm of the person", Stone co-featured with Viola Davis in Tate Taylor's period dramatization "The Help" (2011), a film she observed to challenge. The film depends on Kathryn Stockett's 2009 novel of a similar name and is set in 1960s Jackson, Mississippi. She met with Taylor to express a craving to work in the film. Taylor has stated: "Emma was totally ungainly and dorky, with her rough voice, and she sat down and we got somewhat inebriated and had an awesome time, and I just idea, 'God! God! This is Skeeter." She was given a role as Eugenia "Skeeter" Phelan, a hopeful author finding out about the lives of the African-American house cleaners. In anticipation of the part, she prepared to talk in a Southern tongue; she additionally instructed herself on the Civil Rights Movement through writing and film. With an overall gross of $216 million against a financial plan of $25 million, "The Help" turned into Stone's most economically fruitful film to that point. The film, and her execution, got positive audits from pundits. Composing for "Realm", Anna Smith imagined that Stone was "good natured and gigantically affable" in spite of discovering imperfections in the character. The film was selected for an Academy Award for Best Picture, and won Best Ensemble Cast from the Women Film Critics Circle and the Broadcast Film Critics Association. 

Stone declined a job in the activity satire film "21 Jump Street" in the wake of marking on to Marc Webb's 2012 film "The Amazing Spider-Man", a reboot of Sam Raimi's "Insect Man" arrangement. She depicted Gwen Stacy, the adoration enthusiasm of the title character (played by Andrew Garfield). Stone came back to a fair hair shading for the job, having colored it red beforehand. She told "The Vancouver Sun" that she felt capable to instruct herself about Spider-Man and conceded that she had not perused the funnies: "My experience was with the Sam Raimi movies ... I constantly accepted that Mary Jane was his first love", including that she was just acquainted with Stacy's character from Bryce Dallas Howard's depiction in "Creepy crawly Man 3". "The Amazing Spider-Man" was a business achievement and was the seventh most elevated earning film of 2012 with worldwide incomes of $757.9 million. "Stimulation Weekly" Lisa Schwarzbaum discovered Stone "overwhelming", and Ian Freer of "Domain" magazine was especially awed with Stone's and Garfield's exhibitions. At the yearly People's Choice Awards function, she was assigned for three honors, including Favorite Movie Actress. Soon thereafter, Stone voiced a job in the wrongdoing based computer game, "Dozing Dogs", which earned her a Spike Video Game Award for Best Performance by a Human Female designation. 

Stone started 2013 with a voice job in DreamWorks' "The Croods", an enlivened component designated for an Academy Award for Best Animated Feature. This pursued with an appearance in "Motion picture 43", a treasury film which comprises of sixteen short stories—she assumed the title job in the portion entitled "Veronica". The performing artist worked together with Ryan Gosling and Sean Penn in Ruben Fleischer's "Hoodlum Squad" (2013), a wrongdoing spine chiller set in Los Angeles amid the 1940s. "The New York Times" A. O. Scott rejected the film as "a rushed clutter of fedoras and zoot suits", yet commended her blending with Gosling. Stone communicated a craving to work with Gosling on more ventures. 

In 2014, Stone repeated the job of Gwen Stacy in "The Amazing Spider-Man 2". In a meeting with "All out Film", the performer clarified that her character was not subject to the film's hero. "She spares him more than he spares her. She's extraordinarily useful to Spider-Man ... He's the muscle, she's the minds." Her execution was generally welcomed by faultfinders; a "Domain" commentator adulated her for emerging in the film: "Stone is the Heath Ledger of this arrangement, accomplishing something surprising with an effectively rejected supporting character." The job earned her the Favorite Movie Actress grant at the 2015 Kids' Choice Awards. Soon thereafter, Stone took on a job in Woody Allen's lighthearted comedy "Enchantment in the Moonlight", a humble business achievement. A. O. Scott reprimanded her job, and matching with Colin Firth, depicting it as "the sort of pompous jabber that is intended to imply predominant astuteness". 

The dark satire dramatization "Birdman", from chief Alejandro González Iñárritu, was Stone's last film discharge in 2014. Co-featuring Michael Keaton and Edward Norton, the film includes her in the job of Sam Thomson, the recuperating junkie little girl of on-screen character Riggan Thomson (Keaton), who turns into his collaborator. Iñárritu made the character dependent on his involvement with his little girl. "Birdman" was widely praised, and was the best film at the 87th Academy Awards; it was designated for nine honors, winning four, including Best Picture. The Movie Network thought of it as a standout amongst Stone's best exhibitions to date and Robbie Collin of "The Daily Telegraph" was inspired with a monolog she conveys, which he thought was "like a weaving needle to the gut". She got various honors for her depiction, including assignments for an Academy, a BAFTA, a Golden Globe, a Screen Actors Guild, and a Critics' Choice Movie grant for Best Supporting Actress. 

From November 2014 to February 2015, Stone featured in a recovery of the Broadway melodic "Men's club" as Sally Bowles, assuming control over the job from Michelle Williams. Believing it to be "the most harrowing thing ever", Stone told the "Stimulation Weekly" magazine that she tuned in to a French radio station to rationally set herself up for the job. "Variety"s Marilyn Stasio was condemning of her singing and discovered her execution "somewhat tight as an enthusiastic stage, yet a brilliant decision for her acting abilities, the ideal fit for her sharp insight and motor vitality." Both of Stone's 2015 filmsthe lighthearted comedy dramatization "Salaam", and the riddle show "Unreasonable Man"were basic and business disappointments, and her jobs were panned by faultfinders. In Cameron Crowe's "Salud", she assumed the job of an aviation based armed forces pilot nearby Bradley Cooper, and in the Woody Allen-coordinated "Nonsensical Man", she depicted the sentimental enthusiasm of Joaquin Phoenix's character, a rationality educator. The previous was dubious for whitewashing the cast, as Stone's character was intended to be of Asian, Hawaiian, and Swedish plunge; Stone later lamented the undertaking, recognizing whitewashing as an across the board issue in Hollywood. In spite of the analysis, she was designated for Choice Movie Actress – Comedy at the 2015 Teen Choice Awards. Stone would likewise in 2015 star in the music video for Win Butler's single "Anna" 

Amid her "Supper club" appear, Stone met chief Damien Chazelle, who, inspired with her execution, cast her in his melodic parody show "Fantasy world". The undertaking, which denoted her third cooperation with Gosling, included Stone as Mia Dolan, a hopeful on-screen character living in Los Angeles. Stone acquired a few genuine encounters for her character, and in arrangement, viewed "The Umbrellas of Cherbourg" and movies of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. For the melodic's soundtrack, she recorded six tunes. "Fantasy world" filled in as the opening film at the 2016 Venice Film Festival, and got profoundly positive audits. Other than being Stone's most elevated appraised film on the audit aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film was fruitful in the cinematic world, gaining over $440 million against its $30 million spending plan. Composing for "The Guardian", Peter Bradshaw surveyed, "Stone has never been something more: magnificently brilliant, clever, helpless, her colossal doe eyes transmitting insight even, or particularly, when they are loading up with tears." Stone got an Academy, BAFTA, Golden Globe and a SAG Award for Best Actress. 

Stone's sole film arrival of 2017 was the games dramatization "Skirmish of the Sexes", in light of the 1973 eponymous match between tennis players Billie Jean King (Stone) and Bobby Riggs (Steve Carell). In readiness, Stone met with King, watched old film and meetings of her, prepared with a tongue mentor to talk in King's articulation, and drank fatty protein shakes to pick up . The film debuted to positive audits at the 2017 Toronto International Film Festival, and certain commentators believed Stone's execution to be the best of her profession. Benjamin Lee of "The Guardian" applauded her for playing against sort, and credited her for being "solid" and "persuading" in the part. All things being equal, the film earned not as much as its $25 million spending plan. Stone got her fourth Golden Globe designation for it, and went to the service with King. 

In 2018, Stone and Rachel Weisz featured as Abigail Masham and Sarah Churchill, two cousins battling for the fondness of Queen Anne (Olivia Colman), in Yorgos Lanthimos' verifiable parody show "The Favorite". Stone thought that it was testing being an American among a British cast, and experienced issues in acing the complement. The film debuted at the 75th Venice International Film Festival in August. Michael Nordine of IndieWire lauded Stone for taking on a striking job after "Fantasy world", and named the three driving women "a grand triumvirate in a period piece that is as terrible as it is diverting." For "The Favorite", Stone got her fifth Golden Globe designation and third Oscar selection. That September, she highlighted in and filled in as an official maker for the Netflix dull parody miniseries "Insane person", co-featuring Jonah Hill and coordinated via Cary Fukunaga. Stone and Hill played two outsiders, Annie Landsberg and Owen Milgrim, whose lives are changed because of a strange pharmaceutical preliminary. An admirer of Fukunaga's work, Stone consented to the task without perusing the content. Lucy Mangan of "The Guardian" applauded Stone and Hill for playing against sort and for conveying vocation best exhibitions; Judy Berman of "Time" was comparably inspired with their development as on-screen characters since "Superbad" and observed the intricacy in their exhibitions. Around the same time, Stone showed up nearby Paul McCartney in a music video for his tune "Who Cares". 

Stone will next star in "", in the dramatization "Love May Fail", in view of Matthew Quick's 2015 novel, and in a real life turn off of "One Hundred and One Dalmatians" titled "Cruella", coordinated by Craig Gillespie, in which she will depict Cruella de Vil (initially played by Glenn Close in the 1996 real life adjustment). She is likewise set to return as the voice of Eep Crood in the continuation of "The Croods". 

Stone moved from Los Angeles to Greenwich Village, New York City, in 2009. In 2016, she moved back to Los Angeles. Notwithstanding incessant media inclusion, the performer has wouldn't talk about her private life. Worried about carrying on with a "typical" life, she has said that she discovers little an incentive in media consideration. She has communicated her affection for her calling, and has refered to performing artist Diane Keaton as an impact, who is (in Stone's words) "a standout amongst the most concealed on-screen characters ever". She has likewise named performing artist and vocalist musician Marion Cotillard as one of her motivations. 

Stone has a cozy association with her family. She says: "I am honored with an incredible family and extraordinary individuals around me that would most likely kick me in the shins on the off chance that I ever for one moment got lost up in the mists. I've been extremely fortunate in that sense." During the creation of "The Amazing Spider-Man" in 2010, Stone dated co-star Andrew Garfield. The idea of their relationship was very much archived by the media, with continuous hypothesis around a looming commitment or a separation. The couple would not discuss it openly, however they showed up together. In 2014, on an event in New York, Stone and Garfield urged paparazzi to visit sites which spread consciousness of causes, for example, chemical imbalance. In 2015, they were accounted for to have separated. 

As indicated by Stone, she experiences asthma, which she found in the wake of experiencing issues breathing while at the same time shooting "Simple A". Her mom was determined to have triple-negative bosom disease and was relieved in 2008. Stone and her mom celebrated by getting tattoos of winged animals' feet, structured by Paul McCartney, a reference to the Beatles' "Blackbird", which is a melody she and her mom love. She showed up in a Revlon battle that advanced bosom malignant growth mindfulness. In 2011, the on-screen character included in a cooperative video between "Star Wars" and Stand Up to Cancer, which expected to raise assets for malignancy look into. After two years, she went to an occasion by Gilda's Club, an association working for a comparable reason. From 2012 to 2014, she facilitated the Entertainment Industry Foundation's Revlon Run/Walk, which helps battle ladies' disease. 

Stone, nearby three different famous people, was available at the 2012 Nickelodeon HALO Awards, a TV uncommon that profiled five youngsters who are "Aiding And Leading Others" (HALO). She went to the 2014 Earth Hour, an overall development for the planet sorted out by the World Wide Fund for Nature. In 2015, she was a piece of a gathering pledges occasion in help of the Motion Picture and Television Fund, which helps individuals in the TV and film industry with restricted or no assets. In 2018, she teamed up with 300 ladies in Hollywood to set up the Time's Up activity to shield ladies from provocation and separation. 

A few media distributions think about Stone one of her age's most gifted on-screen characters. Remarking on her execution in "The Help", Kirk Honeycutt of "The Hollywood Reporter" called her "one of our absolute best youthful on-screen characters". She is known for featuring both in prominent, standard creations and in low-spending autonomous movies. "Time" Daniel D'Addario depicts the last as "substantive hazard" and includes that playing a job in them gives her a chance to "have a go at something new and to get validity". Investigating her on-screen persona, Jessica Kiang of Indiewire noticed that Stone "ordinarily [plays] the congenial, practical, young lady nearby sort, [and] in person she exhibits a large number of those characteristics as well, alongside a flat out refusal to pay attention to herself as well." 

As her vocation in Hollywood movies has created, Stone has turned into an effective and famous performing artist. In 2008, she beat "Saturday Night Magazine" Top 20 Rising Stars Under 30 and was incorporated into a comparative rundown ordered by Moviefone. LoveFilm put her on their rundown of 2010 Top 20 Actresses Under 30, and her execution in "Simple A" was incorporated into "Time" Top 10 Everything of 2010. She showed up in the 2013 Celebrity 100, an arrangement of the 100 most influential individuals on the planet, as chose every year by "Forbes". The magazine announced that she had earned $16 million from June 2012 to June 2013. That equivalent year, she was positioned first in the magazine's Top 10 Best Value Stars. In 2015, "Forbes" distributed that she had turned out to be one of the most generously compensated performing artists with profit of $6.5 million. The magazine would rank her as the world's most generously compensated performer two years after the fact with yearly income of $26 million. In 2017, she was highlighted by "Time" as one of the 100 most powerful individuals on the planet. 

Stone is viewed as a style iconthe media refers to her hair, eyes, and imposing voice as her trademarks. "Vogue" credits the on-screen character for her "modern, consummately set up together looks", composing that "her moxy, both on-screen and off-, has enchanted many." In 2009, she included in AskMen's Top 99 Women, "FHM" 100 Sexiest Women in the World, and "Proverb" magazine's Hot 100; the last likewise put her on the rundown on three other occasions2010, 2011, and 2014. She kept on being highlighted in AskMen's yearly excellence records from 2010 to 2015, positioning among the main forty every year. In 2011, she showed up in Victoria's Secret's rundown of What is Sexy? as the Sexiest Actress. She was referenced in a few other news source records that year, including "Individuals" magazine's 100 Most Beautiful Women, each of "FHM" and "FHM Australia" 100 Sexiest Women in the World, and "Men's Health" magazine's 100 Hottest Women. She positioned 6th on "Domain" rundown of the 100 Sexiest Movie Stars in 2013. Stone was named the best dressed lady of 2012 by "Vogue" magazine and was included in comparative postings by "Marvelousness" in 2013 and 2015, and "Individuals" in 2014. In 2017, Buzznet named her one of the world's most wonderful ladies. 

As indicated by the survey aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes and the movies site Box Office Mojo, Stone's most widely praised and financially effective movies are "Superbad" (2007), "Zombieland" (2009), "Simple A" (2010), "Insane, Stupid, Love" (2011), "The Help" (2011), "The Amazing Spider-Man" (2012), "The Amazing Spider-Man 2" (2014), "Birdman" (2014), "Fantasy world" (2016), "Clash of the Sexes" (2017), and "The Favorite" (2018). 

Stone has been named for three Academy Awards: Best Supporting Actress for "Birdman" and "The Favorite", and Best Actress for "Fantasy world"; and three British Academy Film Awards: BAFTA Rising Star Award, Best Supporting Actress for "Birdman", and Best Actress in a Leading Role for "Fantasy world"; winning both of her designations for "Fantasy world". She won Best Actress in a Comedy or Musical at the 74th Golden Globe Awards and Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role for her job in "Fantasy world".