Pitfour bequest 

The Pitfour bequest, in the Buchan zone of north-east Scotland, was an old barony including a large portion of the broad Longside Parish, extending from St Fergus to New Pitsligo. It was bought in 1700 by James Ferguson of Badifurrow, who turned into the principal Laird of Pitfour. 

The domain was considerably redesigned by Ferguson and the accompanying two ages of his family. At the tallness of its improvement in the eighteenth and nineteenth hundreds of years the property had a few lavish highlights including a two-mile racecourse, a counterfeit lake and an observatory. The first manor house was stretched out before being modified. The encompassing parklands were arranged, significant remodels were embraced, and habits, for example, a little reproduction Temple of Theseus were developed, in which George Ferguson, the fifth laird, was thought to keep crocodiles in a virus shower. 

The initial three lairds changed the bequest into a significant resource. Ruler Pitfour, the second laird, obtained extra terrains including Deer Abbey and Inverugie Castle. Pitfour's child, James Ferguson, who turned into the third laird, kept on improving and extend the home by including the lake and connects, and building up arranged towns. The third laird kicked the bucket a lone ranger without any youngsters, so the domain go to the old George Ferguson, who was just possessing the property for a couple of months. George was at that point an affluent man, owning lands in Trinidad and Tobago, yet regardless of not legitimately improving the Pitfour domain he increased the value of the legacy go to his ill-conceived child. The lavish ways of life of the fifth and 6th lairds prompted the sequestration of the home, which was sold off piecemeal to pay their obligations. 

What survived from the home was sold after the First World War. The chateau house was devastated in around 1926, and its stone used to manufacture committee houses in Aberdeen. In later occasions a portion of the rest of the structures, including the sanctuary, the extensions and the stables, have been named at high hazard by Historic Scotland on the grounds that their condition has turned out to be poor. The house of prayer was completely revamped and changed over to a private living arrangement in 2003; the observatory was bought and reestablished by Banff and Buchan District Council (presently Aberdeenshire Council) and can be gotten to by people in general. The racecourse has been forested since 1926, and the lake is utilized by individuals from a private angling club. 

The Pitfour home in Mintlaw reached out from St Fergus to New Pitsligo and included the greater part of the broad Longside Parish. The significance of "Pitfour" is given in the 1895 records of the Clan Fergusson as "cool croft", yet the history specialist John Milne breaks the name into two sections and demonstrates the importance as "Pit" being place and "feoir" or "feur" being grass. The Pitfour home is appeared old maps as Petfouir or Petfour. It was earlier one of Scotland's biggest and best-delegated homes and was alluded to as "The Blenheim of Buchan", "The Blenheim of the North" and "The Ascot of the North" by the structural student of history Charles McKean. 

Sparse early records exist of the terrains however Alexander Stewart (Alexandro Senescalli), the common child of King Robert II of Scotland, was given the Pitfour lands together with those of Lunan by his dad in 1383. In any case, writing in 1887 Cadenhead states the terrains were sold to Stewart by Ricardus Mouet, otherwise called Richard Lownan. Amid the following three centuries the terrains had a few unique proprietors. Exchanges show it go to a burgess of Aberdeen in 1477 from Egidia Stewart; Walter Innes of Invermarkie increased medieval prevalence over all Pitfour arrives in 1493; and in 1506 the land was acquired by Thomas Innes, who kicked the bucket the next year. His child, John, acquired the property. It stayed in the ownership of the Innes family until something like 1581, when it was claimed by James Innes and his significant other Agnes Urquhart. Somewhere in the range of 1581 and 1667 the grounds were purchased by George Morrison. His child William acquired the property in 1700, and promptly sold the bequest to James Ferguson, who turned into the principal Laird of Pitfour. 

The grounds acquired by Ferguson were recorded in 1667 of every a contract conceded by Charles II and were expressed as enveloping "the terrains and Barony of Toux and Pitfour in the Parish of Old Deer and Sheriffdom of Aberdeen including the towns and grounds of Mintlaw, Longmuir, Dumpston in the Parish of Longside, and County of Aberdeen." Several different grounds, including "the Barony of Aden with the Tower, Fortaliss, Mains and Manor Place therof and pertinents of the equivalent called Fortry, Rora Mill thereof, Croft Brewerie, Inverquhomrie and Yockieshill" were exclusively recorded. State papers from the reign of Queen Anne in the eighteenth century record the grounds for James Ferguson. 

first laird 

James Ferguson—known as the Sheriff, mirroring the post he held, perceived by the Society of Advocates—purchased the Pitfour domain in the wake of selling the grounds of Badifurrow. He had acquired Badifurrow in the wake of requesting that his uncle Robert Ferguson ought to show up in court on the off chance that he wished to challenge the legacy. Robert, nicknamed the Plotter, was sequestered from everything to maintain a strategic distance from charges of injustice, and after his non-appearance in court James Ferguson's legacy was affirmed in mid-June 1700. Around then the bequest contained just a little nation house. 

second laird 

James was laird until his demise in 1734, after which the home go to his oldest child, likewise called James, who was conceived at Pitfour not long after it was acquired. A specialist like his dad, he was elevated to the seat in 1764 and moved toward becoming Lord Pitfour. He kept on growing and improve the domain until his demise in 1777, and set up the arranged town of Fetterangus in 1752. 

Master Pitfour bought the grounds of the last Earl Marischal, George Keith, which were adjoining Pitfour, in 1766. They were viewed as the Earl Marischal's most noteworthy property and had been relinquished when the Earl Marischal dropped out of support. He had repurchased it from the York Buildings Company for £31,000, yet Pitfour just paid £15,000 for it. The of land included Deer Abbey and Inverugie Castle, however comprised prevalently of peat marshes, woods and uncultivated land. This expansion made the Pitfour bequest the biggest in the zone, at more than extending from Buchanhaven to Maud along the course of the River Ugie. 

third laird 

The third laird, likewise named James, acquired the domain in 1777; he was typically alluded to as the Member to separate him from past ages. Like his progenitors, he was a backer yet in addition turned into a Member of Parliament. He too kept on night think about expanding and improve the home; he developed a lake and a channel, and constructed the new chateau. He likewise extended and adjusted Longside toward the beginning of the 1800s, established Mintlaw in 1813, aided the expansion of New Deer and expanded Buchanhaven. 

The Member passed on unmarried, childless and intestate in 1820. In ordinary conditions his sibling Patrick would have been his beneficiary, however he kicked the bucket fighting in October 1780. 

fourth laird 

In 1820 the domain was acquired by the Member's more youthful sibling, George Ferguson, who was by then in his seventies. He was known as the Governor, mirroring his arrangement as Lieutenant Governor of Tobago. He was laird from September 1820, however kicked the bucket in December that year. The Governor had gone through a large portion of his time on earth in Trinidad and Tobago, where he was a key landowner, and had acquired the Castara Estate on Tobago from Patrick. George was selected Lieutenant Governor of Tobago in 1779, and after a fight with the French in 1781 surrendered the island to the French on 2 June. The Governor came back to Britain, in spite of the fact that the terms of the surrender implied regardless he claimed the Castara bequest and every one of the slaves who dealt with it. George had ill-conceived kids with an obscure lady. He kept on purchasing homes in the Caribbean and returned there in 1793, remaining until 1810. 

fifth laird 

The bequest began to fall apart after it was acquired by the Governor's ill-conceived child George Ferguson, known as the Admiral as a result of his maritime profession. He was at that point vigorously in the red when he turned into the fifth laird in 1821, yet despite everything he delighted in a luxurious way of life and attempted much lavish development on the home, including the erection of indiscretions. To cover his significant betting obligations, he started to sell packages of home land, and after acquiring Pitfour he started selling furniture, books, ranch gear and different things, acknowledging more than £9,000. 

sixth laird 

After the Admiral's demise in March 1867, the home go to his child, George Arthur Ferguson, the 6th and last laird. He served in the Grenadier Guards and inevitably turned into a commander. He wedded Nina Maria Hood, the oldest little girl of Alexander Nelson Hood, first Viscount Bridport, in February 1861. Soon thereafter Captain Ferguson was presented on Canada, where he was elevated to Lieutenant Colonel and where his initial two children, Arthur and Francis William, were conceived. His oldest child, Arthur, moved toward becoming Inspector of Constabulary for Scotland. Coming back to Britain in 1864, the family had an itinerant way of life, however the 6th laird and his better half were luxurious and routine players. In June 1909, a trust deed was enrolled, and what survived from the bequest was put available. After expansive pieces of the land had been sold under the responsibility for 6th laird the home was recorded by Bateman in 1883 as being only over with a pay of £19,938; at the stature of its improvement the home had involved , and was esteemed at £30 million. 

The last laird kicked the bucket in 1924 and is covered in Luton. 

Following its twentieth century decrease the bequest changed hands a few times until nearby rancher Hamish Watson acquired it in December 2010. The nearby history specialist Alex Buchan summed up the destruction of the domain: "They thought the home was here to furnish them with cash, to bet, to travel, to just misuse and in all respects rapidly, inside two or three decades, they had squandered the entire part." He included, "Whimsy added up to simply wasting cash." 

The first little nation house was first modified amid the mid eighteenth century. In 1809 the Sheriff's grandson James Ferguson, the third laird, utilized the planner John Smith to structure new settlement. The subsequent three-story house, square and high, is rumored to have had 365 windows. At the point when the fourth laird, George (the Governor), kicked the bucket in 1820, the home was worth £300,000 with nearly £35,000 of moveable resources. George Ferguson, the fifth laird (the Admiral) included a vast, coated exhibition when he acquired the house. The Admiral had an extravagant way of life and regardless of having a solid salary brought about substantial obligations. 

At the point when the Admiral passed on following 46 years of dealing with the bequest it was sold for £250,000, in spite of the clearance of some of the grounds initially incorporated into it. The house fell into decay under the responsibility for Arthur, the 6th and last laird, who had acquired his dad's way of life. The whole bequest was put available in September 1909 yet stayed unsold until after the First World War; the house and what survived from the domain were at long last acquired by a theorist, Edgar Fairweather, from London in 1926. Fairweather purchased a few other Scottish bequests, including those close-by at Auchmeddan and Strichen; he constantly diminished the domains into littler property that he at that point sold on or leased. The house was sold to an Aberdeen building organization and was obliterated at some point somewhere in the range of 1927 and 1930. After destruction, the chateau's veranda was introduced at the front of Kinloch Farmhouse in St Fergus. Different stays from the manor have been found at the farmhouse, including a peak over the center entryway and tiles engraved with the Ferguson of Pitfour family peak. The stone from the manor was transported to Aberdeen and used to build Torry Junior Secondary School. 

The Fergusons were Episcopalian, and in 1766, the second laird, Lord Pitfour had a little Qualified Chapel based on the domain at Waulkmill. It was an extensive, plain structure that could suit up to 500 individuals. Saplinbrae, a house that was at first utilized as a training hotel after it was worked under guidance from Lord Pitfour in 1756, was utilized as the priest's chateau for the primary church. 

An increasingly current house of prayer was worked in 1850 after the Admiral had a contention with the Reverend Arthur Ranken, the clergyman at Old Deer. This was a little, private house of prayer for the utilization of the Pitfour home. It was worked in the Gothic style from rubble yet was recast in 1871. A pinnacle with a battlemented top is at its western end. The sanctuary fell into decay, and by the 1980s it was a roofless ruin. 

In 1990 Historic Scotland said that Kinloch Farmhouse, in St Fergus included a seat and seat rescued from the Pitfour Chapel. In 2003, the second house of prayer was revamped and changed over to a private habitation. The sanctuary rebuilding won a "Very recognized" grant for craftsmanship from Aberdeenshire Council in 2010; the gathering said the craftsmanship "took into consideration the maintenance of the ministerial soul and trustworthiness to stay pervasive both inside and remotely." It was additionally "Exceedingly Commended" in the protection class. 

The stables were worked in 1820, amid the early piece of the Admiral's responsibility for domain, in view of a structure by John Smith; the structures are sited to the back of the manor house. Worked in a horseshoe-shape, neo-traditional plan, the two-story building was developed in stuck rubble with rock dressings; dim stone was utilized for the parapet and quoins. The primary structures were initially harled. A layered asbestos hipped rooftop was sooner or later substituted for the first slate rooftop. It includes a lined rotunda over a timber clock tower, which has a finial and domed copper rooftop. The pedimented highlight of the symmetrical front rise is a segmental curve and has three boards set back between segments. Each side is flanked by wings of three bayous with single-straight structures. 

The stables are associated with an abutting two-story house. They gave settlement to ten steeds and included four free boxes, an outfit room and a coachman's home; six rooms above were for hirelings. Two mentor houses were later utilized as carports. The stables building was promoted in 1997 for roughly £70,000. Charles McKean depicts the stables as "straddling the horizon like a royal residence". The stables are recorded by Historic Scotland as being at high hazard, and were depicted in 1997 deal writing as unused and incapacitated. 

An indoor riding school somewhat toward the north-west of the stables estimated by . It was utilized to engage visitors when the offices at the chateau house were not sufficiently expansive. In excess of two hundred neighborhood ranchers and different landowners commended the wedding of George Arthur, the 6th laird, in the riding school in 1861. In 1883 it was again used to engage; on that event it was adorned with banners and Chinese lights, and pine flooring was laid. Afterward, it was utilized as indoor tennis courts before being wrecked. 

James Ferguson, the third laird, claimed the home amid the Industrial Revolution in Britain. He started chip away at a channel among Pitfour and Peterhead in 1797, in spite of wild restriction from connecting landowners. The trench was proposed to cover around ten miles following the course of the River Ugie. Pitfour's trench is in some cases called the St Fergus and River Ugie Canal. Ferguson had pondered constructing the channel since 1793, yet it was never finished in light of "troubles in affecting the vital game plans with neighboring heritors." Objections were raised by the Merchant Maiden Hospital, which possessed the arrive on the south side of the Ugie. In spite of being encouraged to take out a prohibit to keep the work, in January 1797 the clinic thought its case was not sufficient. The medical clinic connected for a prohibit four months after the fact be that as it may, when of the trench had been burrowed to the point where the north and south Ugie went along with; it was conceded in July 1797. 

A couple of years in the wake of beginning work on the trench, Ferguson had a lake based on level land to the front of the manor house. The scene plant specialist William S. Gilpin was completing work on the contiguous Strichen domain at about a similar time, and it is expected he assisted with the work at Pitfour. The lake stretches out to nearly and is above ocean level. Planned in a similar style as the lake in Windsor Great Park, the lake was loaded with trout, both rainbow and dark colored; there were three extensions and four islands. The siting of the lake implied the carport must be moved, and fancy scaffolds were developed to cross the water. Worked from rock, the northern extension has three curves with ashlar starlings, the southern scaffold has a solitary curve and the third, littler extension crosses a substantial stream that channels into the lake. 

The neighboring Russell group of Aden were concerned their territory would be overwhelmed when the lake was assembled, and their ill will was completely shown when a scaffold must be together built by the two landowners over the River Ugie. It was sufficiently wide for carriages on the Pitfour side however excessively thin on the Russells' half. 

Close by the lake was a six-sound Greek Doric sanctuary, a little copy styled after the Temple of Theseus. Its careful date of development is obscure; it might have been worked amid the season of James Ferguson, the third laird, or under the guidance of George Ferguson, the fifth laird. The neighborhood history specialist Alex Buchan credits it to James, the third laird; as indicated by Historic Scotland, it was manufactured "presumably around 1835". Like the chateau house, the sanctuary is credited to the designer John Smith. Estimating by , it has six sections at the two finishes and thirteen segments down each side. It had a level rooftop with a fancy wooden entablature and contained a cool water shower in which George, the fifth laird was accepted to have kept crocodiles. the sanctuary is in a ruinous state; it has been held up by platform since 1992 and is recorded by Historic Scotland as being in basic condition. 

George Ferguson (the Admiral) had a racecourse about long and wide worked close White Cow Woods, a region which is very level. This prompted the home being known as the "Ascot of the North". 

In 1845 the Admiral had an observatory constructed, again planned by the engineer John Smith. It is an octagonal pinnacle with a crenelated parapet and is symmetrical in structure. The observatory remains at the highest point of a slope above ocean level. The pinnacle is high and is the greater part a mile () from the racecourse. It has three stories with square windows on the upper floor, and was completely redesigned by Banff and Buchan District Council (presently Aberdeenshire Council) in 1983. 

Offers of nation domains wound up regular around the 1920s. The yearly expense payable had spiraled and was multiple times more noteworthy than in 1870 bringing about the separation of numerous bigger land-property. Pitfour was no special case and the dispersal of the home proceeded with piecemeal after the sequestration of George Arthur, the 6th laird. The primary home arrangements including the lake and other land were obtained by Bernard Drake in November 1926 when he purchased Saplinbrae, the previous priest's home. Drake was an accomplice in the electrical building organization, Drake and Gorham. 

After sixty years, in 1986 the BBC Domesday Project does not give any proprietorship subtleties but rather shows a large number of the structures are in poor condition. Other enduring structures are utilized for capacity by a rancher who likewise "deals with the land". 

Toward the finish of 2012 Aberdeenshire Council gave the thumbs up for the present proprietor's arranged reclamation take a shot at the sanctuary and extensions, which he trusted would upgrade existing offices at adjacent Drinnies Wood encompassing the Observatory, White Cow Woods and Aden Country Park. The lake is utilized routinely by nearby anglers, and an angling club with around 120 individuals was set up in 2011. The remainder of the home is only from time to time utilized by neighborhood occupants, a considerable lot of whom are totally uninformed of it.