At work (2013 film) 

At work (condensed OTJ) is a 2013 Philippine neo-noir wrongdoing spine chiller movie coordinated by Erik Matti, who co-composed it with Michiko Yamamoto. Featuring Gerald Anderson, Joel Torre, Joey Marquez and Piolo Pascual, it recounts to the tale of two contract killer detainees (Anderson and Torre) who are briefly liberated to complete political executions, and two law masters (Marquez and Pascual) entrusted with researching the medication related homicide case associated with the jail weapon for-procure business. The film additionally includes Angel Aquino, Shaina Magdayao, Empress Schuck, Leo Martinez, Michael de Mesa, Vivian Velez, and Rayver Cruz. 

The motivation for "At work" originated from a Viva Films group part who professed to have been briefly discharged from jail to submit contract killings before he was reincarcerated. Star Cinema at first would not deliver the film in 2010, considering it too fierce contrasted and their typical rom-com ventures; by 2012, nonetheless, they consented to co-produce it with Reality Entertainment (Matti's free film organization). Taping occurred in Manila and kept going 33 days, on a generation spending plan of ₱47 million (about US$1.1 million). 

"At work" was appeared as a major aspect of the Directors' Fortnight at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival on May 24, where it was applauded and got an overwhelming applause. The film was discharged in the Philippines on August 28, 2013, and in the United States and Canada on September 27 of that year. It got great audits from remote and household commentators. The film's continuation, "Hands on 2", is planned to be discharged on June 12, 2019. 

In a Philippines overflowing with brutality, debasement and destitution, hired gunmen Mario and Daniel are detainees who are often discharged and paid to submit contract killings for their supervisor, Thelma. Mario spends his profit on his little girl's graduate school educational cost and on his repelled spouse, Lulette. Daniel (the more youthful and that's just the beginning neglectful accomplice) sends settlements to his family and spends the lay on products and benefits in jail; he has come to consider Mario to be a tutor and father figure. After they murder tranquilize master Tiu and come back to jail, Tiu's homicide case is doled out to NBI Agent Francis Coronel through Congressman Manrique (the operator's dad in-law). Coronel's dad, additionally a cop, kicked the bucket in the midst of bits of gossip about defilement. Whenever Coronel and his accomplice, Bernabe, touch base at the nearby area they conflict with PNP Officer Joaquin Acosta, who trusts that the case was taken from him for political reasons. 

Mario and Daniel do a hit on a lady named Linda, whose spouse Pol looks for assistance from Acosta, his previous associate on the power. Pol uncovers that Tiu's homicide is one of a few deaths requested by Manrique's dear companion General Pacheco, a military officer battling for the Philippine Senate. Pacheco runs a weapon for-enlist activity utilizing detainees, and slaughters others associated with the business to ensure his crusade. Acosta consents to secure Pol, and heads to the station; en route, however, he encounters Coronel and Bernabe. Daniel shoots Pol meanwhile, however his gun sticks before he can discharge a lethal shot. The three officers join on them, driving Daniel and Mario to escape. At a clinic, Daniel shoots the janitor to make a preoccupation so Mario can execute the senseless Pol. They split up to get away; Coronel and Bernabe pursue Daniel, and Acosta seeks after Mario. Amid the pursuit Bernabe is shot, and Acosta gets a look at Mario's face. 

Coronel goes up against Manrique amid a battle meeting, disclosing to him that he expects to capture Pacheco. Manrique cautions Coronel that Pacheco's arraignment will cause their ruin; he considers Pacheco his final retreat in the wake of having depleted all his different alternatives to stay wealthy. Prior to seeking after governmental issues, Manrique was a customer of Pacheco's business twice. Acosta transfers Mario's composite sketch to the police to be communicated on TV. Coronel chooses to work with Acosta, who reveals to him that his dad was not degenerate; actually, he was murdered attempting to uncover debasement. Acosta was additionally downgraded for attempting to get rid of debasement. At the point when Coronel finds Mario's personality, he visits Lulette and sees her cutting loose with Mario's companion Boy. Coronel (whose cross examination of Lulette is ineffective) informs Acosta regarding the issue, and Acosta utilizes it as influence when he questions Mario. In spite of the fact that Acosta is fruitless, Mario later communicates to Daniel his feeling of disloyalty by his family's deserting. 

Tiu's dad tells Acosta and Coronel that he can give them the proof they have to capture Pacheco. Coronel leaves Acosta en route to visit Pacheco, who conceded slaughtering Coronel's dad "to spare the nation, actually". Coronel utilizes his cellphone to subtly record a discussion among Pacheco and his men about the homicide of Tiu's dad. 

Coronel's significant other Nicky is irate with his goal to bring down Pacheco, and implicates Manrique. Daniel executes Coronel before police home office for his next hit. The angered Acosta assaults Pacheco and Manrique's security detail and, after a concise shootout, Pacheco orders them to hold their flame. Mario acknowledges upon the arrival of his parole that he has no motivation to leave, since his family never again needs anything to do with him. Disheartened, he wounds Daniel to death to remain imprisoned. Coronel's passing is grieved by many (counting Nicky), and Acosta is summarily expelled. In the wake of going to Daniel's wake from a far distance, Mario returns home, murders Boy before his family and comes back to jail. At some point later, a recuperated Bernabe glances through Coronel's assets and orders the telephone Coronel utilized against Pacheco as proof. 

Chief Erik Matti was propelled by a Viva Films administration driver, an ex-convict who said that he used to be briefly liberated from jail to submit contract killings and reincarcerated. Matti retired his thought until he finished his break from coordinating with "The Arrival", a short film he discharged to positive reaction at a few film celebrations in 2009. He opened the screenings with an eight-minute trailer for "At work", with Joel Torre endeavoring to pitch the film. The trailer additionally had a positive reaction, especially from Twitch Film proofreader Todd Brown, who inquired as to whether the undertaking had entered generation. At the point when Matti disclosed to him that the film did not yet have a screenplay, Brown urged him to compose it while he searched for financing. Amid the content's ninth correction, screenwriter Michiko Yamamoto settled the rest of the draft. Four uncredited specialists were additionally employed to create subtleties of the story. 

Amid the composition procedure and after the last draft was finished, Brown was unfit to pull in financial specialists; some felt that the story was unreasonably nontraditional for Philippine film or too vast a hazard for the abroad market. Star Cinema (the Philippines' biggest generation organization) would not make the film in 2010, regarding it too fierce contrasted and their typical lighthearted comedy ventures. Matti offered the venture to two of Star Cinema's abilities, who likewise declined because of the film's brutality. The task was again put on hold as Matti entered the after generation phase of his ghastliness dream film, "" (2012). He was then reached by a Star Cinema operator, who mentioned the overhauled content; after three days, the studio consented to finance the film. 

Reality Entertainment, a free film organization helped to establish by Matti, co-delivered "At work" with Star Cinema. Reality Entertainment fellow benefactor Dondon Monteverde, Lily Monteverde's child, said that numerous studios were inspired by the content yet were hesitant to fund a major spending activity film. Despite the fact that the generation group thought about cutting the film's financial plan, they ruled against it in the desire for moving far from low-spending films. Monteverde remembered contending that it was "truly time to accomplish something significant spending plan and exhibit it, instead of making something little and guaranteeing budgetary confinements. This time we didn't give ourselves any reasons. We went the whole distance". The film's generation cost ₱47 million (about US$1.1 million of every 2013). 

Joel Torre, who plays Mario "Tatang" Maghari in the film, had just been cast before Matti's content modification. Torre said about the job, "[Mario] stayed with me, battled for me. Furthermore, that gave me a great deal of certainty, a Bushido Blade samurai." Matti asked Piolo Pascual to play lawyer Francis Coronel Jr. The job of Daniel was initially composed for John Lloyd Cruz, who was intrigued yet needed to decay because of booking clashes; it went rather to Gerald Anderson. After a dialog among Pascual and Anderson about the film, Anderson marked for the job. He had just two weeks to film his scenes, since he was included with a cleanser musical drama shoot at the time. The job of Sergeant Joaquin Acosta was to be played by Richard Gomez, however he chose to seek after a political profession in Ormoc. Matti later cast Joey Marquez; in spite of the fact that Marquez was seen principally as a humorist, the chief trusted that he could play a beguiling, unpalatable character. 

Richard V. Somes was the film's creation fashioner and activity choreographer. To get ready for the jail scenes, the creation group constructed a set in a surrendered structure in Marikina and procured 200 additional items to play convicts. Chief photography took 33 days on area in various Manila zones, including City Hall, a Light Rail train station, and Caloocan. The opening scenes were shot amid the yearly Basaan Festival in San Juan. Recording was done in more than 70 areas, and the group in some cases shot in a few zones on a given day. On picking Manila as the film's key area, Matti stated: 

Francis Ricardo Buhay III, who had additionally taken a shot at Matti's "Tiktik" and "Rigodon" (2013), was the film's cinematographer. As opposed to setting up and changing lights for specific shots, Buhay taped with the Red EPIC camera; with the Red EPIC's accessible lighting capacity (counting the capacity to light a whole set), the film had a cutting edge noir style without seeming low-spending plan. 

Erwin Romulo, proofreader in-head of the Philippine version of "Esquire" until 2013, was "At work" melodic chief. At their first gathering, Matti procured Romulo as the music boss; Romulo's job changed, in any case, since he needed to deliver the greater part of the tracks he had made arrangements for the film. Romulo utilized lesser-known unique Pilipino music tracks from something else noticeable Filipino artists, for example, "Maskara" and "Pinoy Blues" by the Juan de la Cruz Band. He moved toward Dong Abay and Radioactive Sago Project bassist Francis de Veyra to play out the melodies, which were organized by Armi Millare. Extra tracks were performed by Ely Buendia, the late FrancisM, and neighborhood band Bent Lynchpin. Bowed Lynchpin part Fred Sandoval was likewise the film's music manager. 

Romulo refered to works by Lalo Schifrin and executive Ishmael Bernal's long-term writer, Vanishing Tribe, as impacts on the soundtrack. He additionally considered DJ Shadow's collection "Endtroducing..." a huge impact, "though unwittingly". 

"At work" had its reality debut in the Directors' Fortnight segment of the 2013 Cannes Film Festival on May 24. Despite the fact that it didn't win the Caméra d'Or prize, it got a two-minute overwhelming applause from the gathering of people. The film had its Philippine discharge on August 28, 2013, and netted in the cinematic world in three weeks. 

It was discharged in North America by Well Go USA Entertainment on September 27, 2013. Well Go USA had purchased the North American rights for the film before its debut at Cannes, and furthermore obtained its DVD, Blu-beam, and video on interest appropriation rights. The understanding was made by Well Go USA president Doris Pfardrescher and XYZ Films authors Nate Bolotin and Aram Tertzakian. "At work" played at 29 North American performance centers in three weeks, earning $164,620. It was discharged in France by Wild Side Films, and in Australia by Madman Entertainment. The arrangements with the French and North American circulation organizations verified $350,000 (). The film was likewise made accessible on the North American market through Netflix by Well Go USA. 

It was discharged on DVD and Blu-beam by Well Go USA on February 18, 2014. Extraordinary highlights incorporate creation of film and erased scenes. Justin Remer of DVD Talk applauded the Blu-beam's video and sound exchanges, for the most part censuring its uncommon highlights. Kevin Yeoman of "High-Def Digest" and Jeffrey Kauffman of "Blu-ray.com" evaluated the discharge 3.5 out of 5, and concurred about the exchanges and exceptional highlights. "At work" amassed $167,128 in North American video deals. 

"At work" got great surveys from commentators; as per an ABS-CBN analyst, it "absolutely conveyed back the activity to Philippine film in more ways than one". A few faultfinders commended the cast, with their exhibitions called "all around acted" and "choice". Mikhail Lecaros commended the lead on-screen characters' "parallel portrayal of the connection among dads and children" in GMA News; as per Philippine Entertainment Portal's Mari-A Santos, they "give the core of the story". In "Assortment", Justin Chang adulated Torre's takeoff from his standard thing "hero persona with an eminently threatening yet human execution". Santos said that Pascual "stands his ground, yet with a reliably amazing troupe, his acting fails to measure up"; as indicated by Lecaros, he "vindicates himself well as a law implementer whose emergencies of confidence would be comfortable in a Johnnie To ("Election", "Breaking News") or Michael Mann ("Collateral", "Miami Vice") film." Although Santos commended the female jobs, "Film Business Asia" Derek Elley called them "insignificant and not particularly paramount"; a "Mind boggling" magazine commentator called them "basically talking props, which reduces the effect of improvements". 

Faultfinders adulated the film as connecting with and well-made, however considered its plot tangled. Neil Young, in "The Hollywood Reporter", discovered Matti and Yamamoto's content traditional and "a significant number of the discourse scenes operat[ing] on a practically common dimension". Lecaros and Santos lauded the content, which Lecaros said "puts customary ideas of right, wrong, family, and steadfastness through the wringer—to say the very least!" Although the police procedural subplot was depicted as "especially beautiful" by IndieWire, "The A.V. Club" Ignatiy Vishnevetsky called it dull and "sporadically graceless". Youthful said that Matti's "strong treatment of quick paced activity successions reliably inspires", and "The New York Times" Jeannette Catsoulis composed that his "brutal perspective on Filipino society might stifle, however his recording is wondrously alive". Catsoulis made "At work" her "commentator's pick", and Rappler Carljoe Javier said it "fills in as a dose of adrenaline, not exclusively to the hearts of [Filipino] watchers, however ideally likewise to standard [Philippine] film". 

The audit total site Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 93 percent (in light of 14 surveys) and a weighted normal of 6.48 out of 10. At Metacritic it has a score of 70 out of 100 (in view of 11 audits), specifying "by and large ideal surveys". In the Philippines, individuals from the Cinema Evaluation Board gave the film an "A" grade. 

Notwithstanding being highlighted at the Cannes Film Festival, "At work" was screened at the seventeenth Puchon International Fantastic Film Festival in Bucheon, South Korea. Joel Torre won the Best Actor grant, and the film got the Jury Prize. At the 62nd FAMAS Awards, the movie won six of its twelve assignments: Best Picture, Best Director (Matti), Best Screenplay (Matti and Michiko Yamamoto), Best Editing (Jay Halili), Best Story (Matti), and Best Sound (Corinne de San Jose). Piolo Pascual likewise got the Fernando Poe Jr. Commemoration Award for Excellence for his execution. The film got eight designations at the 37th Gawad Urian Awards, winning two: Best Actor (Torre) and Best Sound (de San Jose). 

"Assortment" announced in December 2018 that shooting had started for "Hands on 2", which is booked to be discharged on June 12, 2019. As per Matti, the spin-off would be trailed by a five-section miniseries. 

An American variant of the movie was affirmed in June 2013, which would be coordinated by Icelandic producer Baltasar Kormákur and delivered by Kormákur's Blueeyes Productions. XYZ Films, the generation and deals organization holding the global rights, will co-produce the film and discharge it around the world.