Spanish triumph of Petén 

The Spanish triumph of Petén was the last phase of the success of Guatemala, a drawn out clash amid the Spanish colonization of the Americas. A wide marsh plain secured with thick rainforest, Petén contains a focal seepage bowl with a progression of lakes and regions of savannah. It is crossed by a few scopes of low karstic slopes and ascends toward the south as it nears the Guatemalan Highlands. The victory of Petén, an area currently consolidated into the cutting edge republic of Guatemala, peaked in 1697 with the catch of Nojpetén, the island capital of the Itza kingdom, by Martín de Ursúa y Arizmendi. With the annihilation of the Itza, the last autonomous and unconquered local kingdom in the Americas tumbled to European colonizers. 

Sizeable Maya populaces existed in Petén before the success, especially around the focal lakes and along the waterways. Petén was isolated into various Maya commonwealths occupied with a mind boggling web of collusions and ill wills. The most essential gatherings around the focal lakes were the Itza, the Yalain and the Kowoj. Different gatherings with regions in Petén incorporated the Kejache, the Acala, the Lakandon Chʼol, the Xocmo, the Chinamita, the Icaiche and the Manche Chʼol. 

Petén was first entered by Hernán Cortés with a sizeable undertaking that crossed the domain from north to south in 1525. In the principal half of the sixteenth century, Spain set up neighboring provinces in Yucatán toward the north and Guatemala toward the south. Spanish preachers laid the foundation for the expansion of provincial organization in the outrageous south of Petén from 1596 onwards, however no further Spanish passage of focal Petén occurred until 1618 and 1619 when teachers touched base at the Itza capital, having gone from the Spanish town of Mérida in Yucatán. 

In 1622 a military campaign set out from Yucatán driven by Captain Francisco de Mirones and joined by Franciscan monk Diego Delgado; this endeavor was a calamity, and the Spanish were slaughtered by the Itza. In 1628 the Manche Chʼol of the south were put under the organization of the frontier legislative head of Verapaz inside the Captaincy General of Guatemala. The Manche Chʼol ineffectively opposed Spanish control in 1633. In 1695 a military undertaking attempted to achieve Lake Petén Itzá from Guatemala; this was followed in 1696 by evangelists from Mérida and in 1697 by Martín de Ursúa's endeavor from Yucatán that brought about the last annihilation of the autonomous kingdoms of focal Petén and their joining into the Spanish Empire. 

The advanced division of Petén is situated in northern Guatemala. It is verged on the west by the Mexican territory of Chiapas; this outskirt to a great extent pursues the course of the Usumacinta River. On the north side Petén is flanked by the Mexican territory of Campeche and on the northwest by the Mexican province of Tabasco; Petén is verged on the east by Belize and on the south side by the Guatemalan divisions of Alta Verapaz and Izabal. 

The Petén marshes are shaped by a thickly forested low-lying limestone plain highlighting karstic geology. The territory is crossed by low east– west arranged edges of Cenozoic limestone and is described by an assortment of backwoods and soil types; water sources incorporate commonly little waterways and low-lying occasional marshes known as "bajos". A chain of fourteen lakes keeps running over the focal waste bowl of Petén; amid the stormy season a portion of these lakes become interconnected. This waste territory measures around east– west by north– south. The biggest lake will be Lake Petén Itzá, close to the focal point of the waste bowl; it quantifies . A wide savannah expands south of the focal lakes; it has a normal height of above mean ocean level with karstic edges achieving a normal elevation of . The savannah includes a reduced red earth soil that is too poor to even think about supporting substantial development, which brought about a moderately low dimension of pre-Columbian occupation. It is encompassed by slopes with abnormally soak southern slants and gentler northern methodologies; the slopes are secured with thick tropical woodland. Toward the north of the lakes area "bajos" become increasingly visit, scattered with woods. In the furthest north of Petén the Mirador Basin frames another inside waste locale. Toward the south Petén achieves a height of around as it ascends towards the Guatemalan Highlands and meets Paleozoic changeable rocks. 

The atmosphere of Petén is isolated into wet and dry seasons, with the blustery season enduring from June to December, despite the fact that these seasons are not plainly characterized in the south. The atmosphere fluctuates from tropical in the south to semitropical in the north; temperature shifts between , in spite of the fact that it doesn't ordinarily drop underneath . Mean temperature changes from in the southeast around Poptún to around Uaxactún in the upper east. Most noteworthy temperatures are come to from April to June, and January is the coldest month; all Petén encounters a hot dry period in late August. Yearly precipitation is high, differing from a mean of in the upper east to in focal Petén around Flores (Nojpetén). The extraordinary southeast of Petén encounters the biggest varieties in temperature and precipitation, with precipitation coming to as much as in a year. 

The principal huge Maya urban areas created in Petén as far back as the Middle Preclassic (c. 600– 350 BC), and Petén shaped the heartland of the antiquated Maya progress amid the Classic time frame (c. AD 250– 900). The incredible urban communities that ruled Petén had fallen into ruin by the start of the tenth century AD with the beginning of the Classic Maya breakdown. A critical Maya nearness stayed into the Postclassic time frame after the relinquishment of the significant Classic time frame urban communities; the populace was especially thought close lasting water sources. 

In spite of the fact that there is deficient information to precisely appraise populace sizes at the season of contact with the Spanish, early Spanish reports recommend that sizeable Maya populaces existed in Petén, especially around the focal lakes and along the streams. Before their thrashing in 1697 the Itza controlled or impacted a lot of Petén and parts of Belize. The Itza were warlike, and their military ability awed both neighboring Maya kingdoms and their Spanish adversaries. Their capital was Nojpetén, an island city upon Lake Petén Itzá; it has formed into the cutting edge town of Flores, which is the capital of the Petén branch of Guatemala. The Itza talked an assortment of Yucatecan Maya. 

The Kowoj were the second in significance, and they were antagonistic towards their Itza neighbors. The Kowoj were situated toward the east of the Itza, around the eastern lakes: Lake Salpetén, Lake Macanché, Lake Yaxhá and Lake Sacnab. Different gatherings are less notable, and their exact regional degree and political cosmetics stays cloud; among them were the Chinamita, the Kejache, the Icaiche, the Lakandon Chʼol, the Mopan, the Manche Chʼol and the Yalain. 

The Yalain seem to have been one of the three predominant countries in Postclassic focal Petén, close by the Itza and the Kowoj. The Yalain domain had its most extreme expansion from the east shore of Lake Petén Itzá eastwards to Tipuj in Belize. In the seventeenth century the Yalain capital was situated at the site of that name on the north shore of Lake Macanché. At the season of Spanish contact the Yalain were aligned with the Itza, a union established by intermarriage between the elites of the two gatherings. In the late seventeenth century Spanish pilgrim records report threats between Maya bunches in the lakes area, with the invasion of the Kowoj into previous Yalain destinations including Zacpeten on Lake Macanché and Ixlu on Lake Salpetén. 

The Kejache involved a domain toward the north of the Itza, between the lakes and what is presently Campeche. Toward the west of them was Acalan, occupied by a Chontal Maya-talking bunch with their capital in the south of what is currently Campeche state. The Chʼolan Maya-speaking Lakandon (not to be mistaken for the cutting edge occupants of Chiapas by that name) a controlled area along the tributaries of the Usumacinta River crossing southwestern Petén in Guatemala and eastern Chiapas. The Lakandon had a savage notoriety among the Spanish. The Xocmo were another Chʼolan-talking gathering; they involved the remote backwoods some place toward the east of the Lakandon. Never vanquished, the Xocmo got away rehashed Spanish endeavors to find them and their inevitable destiny is obscure; they might be predecessors of the cutting edge Lacandon individuals. The Manche Chʼol held domain in the extraordinary south of what is currently the Petén office. The Mopan and the Chinamita had their commonwealths in the southeastern Petén. The Manche domain was toward the southwest of the Mopan. 

Christopher Columbus found the Americas for the Kingdom of Castile and León in 1492. By 1580 this had bound together with neighboring kingdoms to frame one Spanish kingdom. Private explorers from that point went into contracts with the Spanish Crown to vanquish the newfound grounds as a byproduct of duty incomes and the ability to run the show. In the principal decades after the revelation, the Spanish colonized the Caribbean and set up a focal point of activities on the island of Cuba. They heard gossipy tidbits about the rich domain of the Aztecs on the territory toward the west and, in 1519, Hernán Cortés set sail with eleven boats to investigate the Mexican coast. By August 1521 the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan had tumbled to the Spanish. Inside three years of the fall of Tenochtitlan the Spanish had vanquished a vast piece of Mexico, reaching out as far south as the Isthmus of Tehuantepec. The recently vanquished domain turned out to be New Spain, headed by an emissary who offered an explanation to the Spanish Crown by means of the Council of the Indies. Cortés despatched Pedro de Alvarado with a military to overcome the Mesoamerican kingdoms of the Guatemalan Sierra Madre and neighboring Pacific plain; the military period of the foundation of the Spanish settlement of Guatemala kept going from 1524 to 1541. The Captaincy General of Guatemala had its capital at Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala and secured a wide region that additionally incorporated the Mexican province of Chiapas just as El Salvador, Honduras and Costa Rica. The Spanish forced pioneer rule over Yucatán somewhere in the range of 1527 and 1546, and over Verapaz from the sixteenth to the seventeenth hundreds of years, leaving the territory between – basically Petén and a lot of Belize – free long in the wake of encompassing people groups had been oppressed. 

A solitary officer touching base in Mexico in 1520 was conveying smallpox and consequently started the staggering infections that cleared through the local populaces of the Americas. The European ailments that attacked the indigenous occupants of the Americas likewise seriously influenced the different Maya gatherings of Petén. It is assessed that there were roughly 30,000 Chʼol and Chʼoltiʼ Maya in western Petén toward the beginning of the sixteenth century. Somewhere in the range of 1559 and 1721 they were crushed by a blend of infection, war and authorized migrations. 

At the point when Nojpetén fell in 1696 there were roughly 60,000 Maya living around Lake Petén Itzá, including a significant number of exiles from different territories. It is assessed that 88% of the occupants kicked the bucket amid the primary decade of pilgrim rule as a result of malady and war. In spite of the fact that sickness was in charge of most of passings, internecine fighting between adversary Maya gatherings and Spanish endeavors likewise incurred significant damage. 

Conquistadors frequently wore steel protection that included chainmail and caps. The Spanish were adequately awed by the knitted cotton shield of their Maya foes that they received it in inclination to their own steel defensive layer. Maya weaponry was not adequately incredible to legitimize the inconvenience of wearing European shield. Sewn cotton reinforcement, albeit still awkwardly hot, was adaptable and gauged substantially less. The Maya protective layer was adjusted by the Spanish, who utilized knee-length knitted cotton tunics and Spanish-style tops. Horsemen wore since quite a while ago knitted cotton leg defenders; their ponies were likewise ensured with cushioned cotton protective layer. After the last push to the Petén lakes in mid 1697, the Spanish recorded that they left with their battalion more than 50 Dutch-and French-made guns, three bore light guns ("piezas") cast from iron and mounted on carriages, four iron and two bronze "pedreros" (2-loaded stone-launchers) and six of something like eight bronze light guns (known as "esmiriles"). 

The Spanish portrayed the weapons of war of the Petén Maya as bows and bolts, discharge honed posts, stone headed lances and two-gave swords known as "hadzab" that were created from solid wood with the sharp edge formed from inset obsidian; these were like the Aztec "macuahuitl". They had a dainty, wide wooden shaft with obsidian or stone edges set into directs in the wood. The pole was up to long and was made from the hard, dim wood of a blooming tree ("Apoplanesia paniculata") called "chulul" by the Maya. The bows utilized by the Maya were portrayed as nearly as high as a man and were produced using the equivalent "chulul" wood as the "hadzab", with the bowstring molded from henequen fiber; the bow was known as a "chuhul". Bolts were produced using reeds with rock, bone or fishtooth sharpened stones and flights created from plumes. Close by to-hand battle the Maya utilized knifes with obsidian or stone edges set into a "chulul"- wood handle, they were about long. Maya lances were alluded to as "nabte"; in some cases the tip was fire-solidified, here and there they were set with a stone cutting edge. Lances were chiefly used to push and cut yet they could likewise be tossed as a lance. The Maya utilized a few unique sizes of lance with the littler lances most likely utilized as a rocket; the more drawn out lances were a comparative size as those utilized by the Spanish. 

Recognized Maya warriors entered fight wearing defensive layer. The chest area was secured by a short coat that was loaded up with shake salt, and the lower arms and legs were ensured with tight ties of fabric or cowhide. The salt-stuffed cotton covering was extreme enough that even bolts couldn't infiltrate it. Protection could be finished and was frequently decorated with quills. Normal people did not wear covering in fight, generally just wearing an undergarment and warpaint. Warriors conveyed shields produced using two right-calculated wooden bars with deerskin extended crosswise over them. 

The Spanish knew that the Itza Maya had turned into the focal point of against Spanish obstruction and occupied with an arrangement of circling their kingdom and cutting their exchange courses through the span of right around two hundred years. The Itza opposed this enduring infringement by enlisting their neighbors as partners against the Spanish development. The Spanish occupied with a methodology of moving local populaces in recently established frontier towns, or "reducciones" (otherwise called "congregaciones"). Local protection from the new nucleated settlements appeared as the trip of the indigenous occupants into distant areas, for example, the woodland or joining neighboring Maya bunches that had not yet submitted to the Spanish. Those that stayed behind in the "reducciones" regularly succumbed to infectious illnesses. 

Notwithstanding military endeavors, an agreement for success was issued to the Dominican Order, which connected with preachers for the tranquil placation of local populaces so they would acknowledge Roman Catholicism and submit to Spanish standard. This strategy worked in the neighboring piles of Verapaz toward the south, in spite of the fact that their prosperity there was supported by the risk of Spanish armies positioned inside striking separation. In the swamp Petén this methodology was not all that fruitful, since the Maya could vanish effectively into the rainforest leaving the Spanish with betrayed settlements. In like manner, the Franciscan Order occupied with commonly serene endeavors to consolidate the Maya into the Spanish Empire by means of the endeavored Christian change of local pioneers. The Franciscan Order routinely grasped the act of evangelist viciousness, including beating and the guard of the possibility of "sacred war" against non-Christians. As a rule the Maya stayed Christian just while the evangelists were available, and they would promptly end up renegade when the monks left. In Guatemala in the late seventeenth century, the Franciscan monk Francisco de Asís Vázquez de Herrera contended that war against defector Indians was required. Minister infiltration of Petén was not hazard free, and numerous evangelists were slaughtered in the district. 

Autonomous Maya much of the time assaulted Christianised Maya settlements and urged such settlements to forsake their new religion and oppose the Spanish. As Spanish military undertakings were propelled against the Maya with expanding recurrence, free Maya people group started to demand the nearness of ministers to stay away from equipped clash. The Itza endeavored to utilize neighboring Maya gatherings, for example, the Yalain, as a support against Spanish infringement; they may likewise have incited uprisings by neighboring gatherings that were at that point experiencing joining into the Spanish Empire. With Spanish endeavors to infiltrate the district partitioned between commonly free pioneer experts in Yucatán and Guatemala, on occasion the Itza would make tranquil suggestions on one front while battling on the other. 

In 1525, after the Spanish triumph of the Aztec Empire, Hernán Cortés drove a campaign to Honduras over land, cutting over the Itza kingdom in what is presently the northern Petén Department of Guatemala. His point was to repress the defiant Cristóbal de Olid, whom he had sent to vanquish Honduras; Olid had set himself up freely on his entry in that domain. Cortés had 140 Spanish officers, 93 of them mounted, 3,000 Mexican warriors, 150 steeds, a crowd of pigs, cannons, weapons and different supplies. He additionally had with him 600 Chontal Maya transporters from Acalan. They touched base at the north shore of Lake Petén Itzá on 13 March 1525. 

The Roman Catholic clerics going with the undertaking commended mass within the sight of Aj Kan Ekʼ, the lord of the Itza, who was said to be impressed to the point that he promised to adore the cross and to annihilate his deities. Cortés acknowledged a welcome from Kan Ekʼ to visit Nojpetén (otherwise called Tayasal), and crossed to the Maya city with 20 Spanish warriors while the remainder of his military proceeded around the lake to meet him on the south shore. On his takeoff from Nojpetén, Cortés left behind a cross and a weak steed that the Itza treated as a divinity, endeavoring to encourage it poultry, meat and blossoms, however the creature soon kicked the bucket. The Spanish did not formally contact the Itza again until the entry of Franciscan clerics in 1618, when Cortés' cross was said to in any case be remaining at Nojpetén. 

From the lake, Cortés proceeded with south along the western inclines of the Maya Mountains, an especially challenging voyage that took 12 days to cover , amid which he lost more than 66% of his steeds. When he went to a waterway swollen with the steady exuberant downpours that had been falling amid the campaign, Cortés swung upstream to the Gracias a Dios rapids, which took two days to cross and cost him more ponies. 

On 15 April 1525 the campaign touched base at the Maya town of Tenciz. With nearby aides they headed into the slopes north of Lake Izabal, where their aides relinquished them to their destiny. The undertaking ended up lost in the slopes and approached starvation before they caught a Maya kid who drove them to security. Cortés found a town on the shore of Lake Izabal, maybe Xocolo. He crossed the Dulce River to the settlement of Nito, some place on the Amatique Bay, with around twelve allies, and sat tight there for the remainder of his military to regroup throughout the following week. At this point the leftovers of the undertaking had been decreased to a couple of hundred; Cortés prevailing with regards to reaching the Spaniards he was scanning for, just to find that Cristóbal de Olid's own officers had just put down his insubordination. Cortés then came back to Mexico via ocean. 

From 1527 onwards the Spanish were progressively dynamic in the Yucatán Peninsula, setting up a few states and towns by 1544, incorporating Campeche and Valladolid in what is currently Mexico. The Spanish effect on the northern Maya, including intrusion, pestilence maladies and the fare of up to 50,000 Maya slaves, made numerous Maya escape southwards to join the Itza around Lake Petén Itzá, inside the cutting edge fringes of Guatemala. 

Dominican preachers were dynamic in Verapaz and the southern Petén from the late sixteenth century through the seventeenth century, endeavoring peaceful change with restricted achievement. In the seventeenth century, the Franciscans arrived at the resolution that the assuagement and Christian transformation of the Maya would not be conceivable as long as the Itza held out at Lake Petén Itzá. The steady stream of escapees escaping the Spanish-held domains to discover shelter with the Itza was a channel on the workforce overseen by the "encomienda" framework. 

The principal Catholic teachers entered southern Petén in 1596 to change over the Manche Chʼol and the Mopan. The Qʼeqchiʼ of Verapaz long had close ties with the Manche Chʼol. The pilgrim Maya towns of Cobán and Cahabón, in Alta Verapaz, exchanged quetzal quills, copal, chile, cotton, salt and Spanish-delivered iron devices with their swamp Lakandon and Manche Chʼol neighbors, accepting cacao and achiote in return. Numerous Qʼeqchiʼ from Verapaz fled Spanish control to settle among the Lakandón and Manche Chʼol. These escapees reinforced the current ties between the autonomous Chʼol and the Spanish-controlled Maya of Verapaz; the steady stream of Maya between provincial Verapaz and free Petén prompted religious syncretism that the Spanish religious experts were unfit to counteract. This relationship did not impede the Spanish from utilizing the Qʼeqchiʼ to help vanquish and lessen the Manche Chʼol. 

From the center of the sixteenth century the Dominican Order had been entrusted with the serene transformation of the Chʼol of Verapaz and southern Petén, and their focus into new pilgrim towns. The Itza ended up frightful that the recently changed over Manche Chʼol would lead the Spanish to Nojpetén. In 1628 the towns of the Manche Chʼol were set under the organization of the legislative head of Verapaz, with Dominican monk Francisco Morán as their clerical head. Morán favored a progressively powerful way to deal with the change of the Manche and moved Spanish officers into the locale to shield against assaults from the Itza toward the north. The new Spanish battalion in a zone that had not recently observed a substantial Spanish military nearness incited the Manche to revolt, which was trailed by deserting of the indigenous settlements. The Itza, stressed over the southern ways to deal with their region, may have affected a Manche resistance that occurred in Lent 1633. 

Towards the finish of the seventeenth century Spanish needs changed, and the disappointment of the serene endeavors of the Dominicans to change over the Chʼol joined with the expanding British nearness in the Caribbean drove the frontier specialists to end the Dominican imposing business model and enable the Franciscans and different requests to enter the locale; military choices were likewise seen all the more positively. Somewhere in the range of 1685 and 1689, the Qʼeqchiʼ of Cobán and Cahabón were compelled to help the Spanish in their furnished campaigns against the Manche Chʼol and in persuasively migrating them to Verapaz. These activities eradicated the southern Petén and prompted the breakdown of the exchange courses connecting provincial Guatemala with the autonomous Maya of Petén. From 1692 to 1694, Franciscan ministers Antonio Margil and Melchor López were dynamic among the Manche and Lakandon Chʼol. They were in the end ousted by the Chʼol; upon their arrival to Santiago de Guatemala they proposed three intrusion courses into southern Petén and neighboring Chiapas. All through the seventeenth century, Spanish teachers experienced impressive hesitance among the Manche, until the Spanish at long last chose to move them to a territory where they could be all the more effectively controlled. At the season of contact there were maybe 10,000 Manche; these were crushed by war and sickness, with the survivors migrated to Rabinal in the cutting edge branch of Baja Verapaz. After 1700 the Manche Chʼol stopped to have any influence in the historical backdrop of Petén. 

The Mopan populace has been evaluated at somewhere in the range of 10,000 and 20,000 individuals at the season of contact. In 1692 the Council of the Indies requested that the Manche Chʼol and the Mopan be managed unequivocally. The populace endured the impacts of war and infection, and the couple of survivors were moved into Spanish "reducciones" in southeastern Petén, before being moved to pilgrim settlements in different pieces of Petén. In 1695 the provincial specialists chose to follow up on an arrangement to interface the territory of Guatemala with Yucatán, and warriors directed by Jacinto de Barrios Leal, leader of the Royal Audiencia of Guatemala, vanquished a few Chʼol people group. The most vital of these was Sakbʼajlan on the Lacantún River in eastern Chiapas, presently in Mexico, which was renamed as Nuestra Señora de Dolores, or Dolores del Lakandon, in April 1695. This was one piece of a three-pronged assault against the autonomous occupants of Petén and neighboring Chiapas; a second gathering cooperated with Barrios Leal having walked from Huehuetenango. The third gathering, under Juan Díaz de Velasco, walked from Verapaz against the Itza. Barrios Leal was joined by Franciscan minister Antonio Margil who filled in as a counselor just as his own questioner and cleric to his troops. The Spanish assembled a fortress and garrisoned it with 30 Spanish officers. Mercederian minister Diego de Rivas was based at Dolores del Lakandon, and he and his individual Mercederians purified through water a few hundred Lakandon Chʼols in the next months and set up contacts with neighboring Chʼol people group. 

Opposition against the Spanish proceeded, and threatening Chʼol murdered a few recently sanctified through water Christian Indians. Toward the beginning of March 1696 such was the accomplishment of the monks that chief Jacobo de Alzayaga and the Mercederians chose to attempt to achieve Lake Petén Itzá. They traveled eastwards towards the Pasión River with 150 intensely furnished troopers in addition to local aides, going in five substantial kayaks. They got similar to the savannah toward the southeast of the lake before turning back for obscure reasons. Antonio Margil stayed in Dolores del Lakandon until 1697. The Chʼol of the Lacandon Jungle were resettled in Huehuetenango in the mid eighteenth century. 

Nojpetén tumbled to a Spanish ambush on 13 March 1697, over 150 years after the triumph of the remainder of the Yucatán Peninsula and over 160 years after the success of the Guatemalan Highlands. The extensive deferral in vanquishing the Petén locale was because of a mix of its topographical remoteness and inhospitality and the savage notoriety of its Maya occupants. Amid this time the Itza utilized the Yalain as an eastern cradle against Spanish methodology from Belize. The long roundabout contact between the Itza and the Spanish trespassers enabled the Itza to build up a comprehension of Spanish procedure and strategies that was sharpened over the time of very nearly two centuries that the Itza were encompassed by European-ruled domains. This understanding recognized the triumph of Petén from the sixteenth century victories of the Aztecs, Maya and Incas. Conversely, the Spanish had an exceptionally poor comprehension of the Itza and their neighbors and saw them as oblivious savages whose kingdom was shielded by Satan from the Christianising endeavors of the Spanish Empire and the Roman Catholic Church. From the time that Hernán Cortés crossed Petén in the mid sixteenth century, the Spanish erroneously trusted the lord of the Itza (the "Aj Kan Ek"') was the overlord of the whole focal Petén area. 

Following Cortés' visit, no Spanish endeavored to visit the warlike Itza occupants of Nojpetén for just about a hundred years. In 1618 two Franciscan monks set out from Mérida in Yucatán set for endeavor the serene change of the still agnostic Itza in focal Petén. Bartolomé de Fuensalida and Juan de Orbita were joined by some Christianised Maya. Andrés Carrillo de Pernía, a "Criollo" who was the "alcalde" of Bacalar (a pioneer official), joined the gathering at Bacalar and escorted them upriver to the extent Tipuj, coming back to Bacalar once he was sure of the monks accepting a decent welcome there. Following a difficult half year venture the explorers were generally welcomed by the current Kan Ekʼ. They remained at Nojpetén for some days trying to proselytize the Itza, however the Aj Kan Ekʼ would not disavow his Maya religion, in spite of the fact that he demonstrated enthusiasm for the majority held by the Catholic teachers. Kan Ekʼ educated them that as indicated by antiquated Itza prescience it was not yet time for them to change over. In the time since Cortés had visited Nojpetén, the Itza had made a statue of the revered pony. Juan de Orbita was shocked when he saw the icon and he quickly crushed it into pieces. Fuensalida had the capacity to spare the lives of the guests from the chafed locals by methods for an especially articulate lesson that brought about them being excused. Endeavors to change over the Itza fizzled, and the ministers left Nojpetén on well disposed terms with Kan Ekʼ. 

The monks returned in 1619, touching base in October and remaining for eighteen days. Again Kan Ekʼ invited them in a well disposed way, yet this time the Maya organization were threatening and envious of the evangelists' impact upon the lord. They influenced Kan Ek's significant other to persuade him to remove the unwelcome guests. The preachers' lodgings were encompassed by outfitted warriors, and the ministers and their going with hirelings were escorted to a holding up kayak and trained to leave and stay away for the indefinite future. Juan de Orbita endeavored to oppose and was rendered oblivious by an Itza warrior. The preachers were removed without nourishment or water yet endure the adventure back to Mérida. 

Prior to the mid seventeenth century, the western Petén had been intensely populated by Chʼol and Chʼoltiʼ Maya and was a vital exchange course for the Itza. By the mid-seventeenth century, these populaces had been crushed by war, malady and the authorized development of the occupants into frontier settlements, refuting the monetary significance of the locale for the Itza. In the meantime the Kejache were getting to be vital delegates between the Itza and Yucatán. The Putun Acalan subgroup of the Kejache had recently exchanged legitimately with the Itza yet had been migrated by the Spanish. The remaining Kejache, crushed by malady and subject to the exceptional considerations of Spanish ministers, were never again ready to supply the Itza legitimately and progressed toward becoming brokers. 

In March 1622, legislative leader of Yucatán Diego de Cardenas requested skipper Francisco de Mirones Lezcano to dispatch an attack upon the Itza; he set out from Yucatán with 20 Spanish fighters and 80 Mayas from Yucatán. His campaign was later joined by Franciscan minister Diego Delgado. The undertaking initially stayed outdoors at IxPimienta; in May they moved to Sakalum, southwest of Bacalar, where there was an extensive postponement while they sat tight for fortifications. In transit to Nojpetén, Delgado trusted that the officers' treatment of the Maya was unreasonably coldblooded, and he left the endeavor to make his own specific manner to Nojpetén with eighty Christianised Maya from Tipuj in Belize. Meanwhile the Itza had educated of the moving toward military endeavor and had turned out to be solidified against further Spanish minister endeavors. At the point when Mirones scholarly of Delgado's takeoff, he sent 13 fighters to convince him to return or proceed as his escort should he deny. The troopers made up for lost time with him just before Tipuj, however he was resolved to reach Nojpetén. From Tipuj, Delgado sent a dispatcher to Kan Ekʼ, requesting that consent travel to Nojpetén; the Itza lord answered with a guarantee of safe section for the teacher and his partners. The gathering was at first gotten in harmony at the Itza capital, however when the Spanish officers let their watchman down, the Itza seized and bound the fresh debuts. The warriors were yielded to the Maya divine beings, with their souls cut from their chests and their heads speared on stakes around the town. After the penance of the Spanish officers, the Itza took Delgado, cut his heart out and eviscerated him; they showed his head on a stake with the others. The destiny of the pioneer of Delgado's Maya partners was no better. With no word from Delgado's escort, Mirones sent two Spanish officers with Bernardino Ek, a Maya scout, to get familiar with their destiny. When they touched base upon the shore of Lake Petén Itzá, the Itza took them crosswise over to their island capital and detained them. They disappeared to a kayak by the lakeshore yet the two Spanish, hindered by their bonds, were before long recovered. Ek got away and came back to Mirones with the news. 

Before long thereafter, on 27 January 1624, an Itza war party driven by AjKʼin Pʼol found Mirones and his fighters napping and unarmed in the congregation at Sakalum and butchered them. Spanish fortifications driven by Juan Bernardo Casanova arrived past the point of no return; the Spanish fighters had been yielded, hanged and guillotined, with their cadavers consumed and pierced on stakes at the passageway to the town; Mirones and the Franciscan minister had been bound to the congregation posts and afterward relinquished with their souls cut out. Various neighborhood Maya people had likewise been hanged yet not executed, and the aggressors had consumed the town. 

Following these slaughters, Spanish armies were positioned in a few towns in southern Yucatán, and prizes were offered for the whereabouts of AjKʼin Pʼol. The Maya legislative head of Oxkutzcab, Fernando Kamal, set out with 150 Maya bowmen to follow the warleader down; they prevailing with regards to catching the Itza commander and his devotees, together with flatware from the plundered Sakalum church and things having a place with Mirones. The detainees were reclaimed to the Spanish skipper Antonio Méndez de Canzo, grilled under torment, attempted, and sentenced to be hanged, drawn and quartered. They were executed, and the heads were shown in the courts of towns all through the pioneer "Partido de la Sierra" in what is presently Mexico's Yucatán state. These occasions finished every Spanish endeavor to contact the Itza until 1695. During the 1640s inner struggle in Spain diverted the legislature from endeavors to overcome obscure terrains; the Spanish Crown came up short on the time, cash or enthusiasm for such pilgrim undertakings for the following four decades. 

In 1692 Basque aristocrat Martín de Ursúa y Arizmendi proposed to the Spanish lord the development of a street from Mérida southwards to connect with the Guatemalan province, in the process "lessening" any free local populaces into pioneer "congregaciones"; this was a piece of a more prominent arrangement to enslave the Lakandon and Manche Chʼol of southern Petén and the upper ranges of the Usumacinta River. The first arrangement was for the area of Yucatán to construct the northern segment and for Guatemala to fabricate the southern bit, with both gathering some place in Chʼol domain; the arrangement was later changed to pass further east, through the kingdom of the Itza. 

In December 1695 the Spanish frontier experts in Mérida got a conciliatory visit sent by the Aj Kan Ekʼ. The political contact had been consulted by Spanish commander Francisco Hariza y Arruyo, "alcalde" of Bacalar-at-Chunjujubʼ. Hariza had sent a Christian Maya minister to Nojpetén from Tipuj in April 1695, who touched base around a similar time that the Itza were planning to protect themselves against a Spanish gathering entering from Guatemala; in any case the emissary was gotten in harmony and despatched back to Hariza with guarantees of accommodation to Spain. In August Hariza headed out to Mérida in the organization of a gathering of seven Tipuj locals offering accommodation to Spain. Four individuals from this gathering were not from Tipuj by any stretch of the imagination, however were Itza representatives sent in secret from Yalain to talk about conceivable quiet contacts with the provincial specialists. The pioneer of the Itza designation was AjChan, a nephew of the Itza ruler. At the point when minister Avendaño was in Mérida in September 1695 between endeavors to reach Nojpetén, he met with the Itza– Yalain assignment and had the capacity to give a record of them when he went through Yalain in the wake of visiting Nojpetén in January 1696. AjChan and his partners came back to Nojpetén in November yet did not remain well before leaving for Mérida once more. 

In December, Kan Ekʼ despatched AjChan to arrange harmony with Spain, with three Itza colleagues. They were joined to Mérida by few Mopans from the Tipuj locale. AjChan, through family ties and marriage, had a key job as a broker between the Itza, Yalain and Kowoj; he additionally had family ties with the semi-Christianised Maya at Tipuj, and his mom was from Chichen Itza in the northern Yucatán. His marriage to a Kowoj lady had been an endeavor, at last fruitless, to defuse Itza– Kowoj antagonistic vibe. Kan Ekʼ sent AjChan to Mérida with a message of serene accommodation to the Spanish Empire trying to harden his very own situation as sole leader of the Itza, regardless of whether this implied relinquishing Itza freedom from Spain. The Itza lord's uncle and the Kowoj were generally restricted to any dealings with the Spanish and saw AjChan's government office as bad form. The Spanish were ignorant of the pressures between various Maya groups in focal Petén, which at this point had swelled into a condition of between Maya fighting. AjChan was absolved as Martín Francisco on 31 December 1695, with Martín de Ursúa, legislative head of Yucatán, going about as his back up parent. 

The entry of AjChan and his consequent submersion was an imperative strategic upset for Ursúa, who utilized the visit for his very own political progression, advancing the international safe haven as the quiet last accommodation of the Itza kingdom to the Spanish Crown. This formal accommodation of the Itza kingdom to Spain was a basic defining moment, since from a Spanish legitimate perspective the Itza were currently subjects and the illustrious disallowance on military victory could be avoided. AjChan left Mérida with his allies and a Spanish escort amidst January 1696 and touched base back at Tipuj around the month's end. Following a couple of days at Tipuj he learnt of rough occasions unfurling around Lake Petén Itzá including the fight at Chʼichʼ and the resulting killing of two Franciscans. Dreading the reaction of his Spanish escort, he relinquished them and fled back to Yalain. 

The legislative head of Yucatán, Martín de Ursúa y Arizmendi, started to manufacture the street from Campeche south towards Petén. Toward the start of March 1695, Ursúa requested chief Alonso García de Paredes to investigate this street; García drove a gathering of 50 Spanish troopers, joined by local aides, muleteers and workers. García had past understanding from military campaigns around Sajkabʼchen (close present day Xcabacab in southern Campeche express) The undertaking propelled some route south of Sajkabʼchen into Kejache domain, which started at Chunpich, about north of the advanced fringe among Mexico and Guatemala. He gathered together a few locals to be moved into pioneer settlements, however met with outfitted Kejache obstruction. An encounter followed at a Kejache town, bringing about the passings of eight Kejache warriors. Detainees taken amid the engagement educated García that numerous autonomous Maya lived in the territory, both Kejache and others. García chose to withdraw around the center of April, likely to escort caught Kejache back to Sajkabʼchen to be given something to do on García's "encomienda". Commander García detailed back to Ursúa on 21 April 1695. 

In March 1695, chief Juan Díaz de Velasco set out from Cahabón in Alta Verapaz with 70 Spanish fighters, joined by a substantial number of Maya toxophilite from Verapaz, and local muleteers; four Dominican ministers driven by "Criollo" monk Agustín Cano went with the undertaking. Hypothetically the Spanish troopers were given exclusively as an escort to the Dominicans. The Guatemalan campaign, compelled of President Jacinto de Barrios Leal, were furtively endeavoring to achieve the Itzas before Martín de Ursúa could contact them from Yucatán; the presence of the undertaking was deliberately covered amid all correspondences among Guatemala and the legislative head of Yucatán. It shaped a piece of a three-pronged assault against the free occupants of Petén and neighboring Chiapas; the other two campaigns were propelled against the Lakandon. 

The campaign continued northwards through Chʼol domain and into Mopan region; there they stayed outdoors at Mopan town (present day San Luis). Because of their dread of their warlike Itza neighbors, both the Chʼol and the Mopans asserted not to know about any ways to Lake Petén Itzá. The Spanish were held up at Mopan for a few days by supply issues and abandonments among their local transporters. The Dominicans exploited the postponement to convert the Mopans and Cano composed that he had changed over four "caciques" (local boss) there, in spite of the fact that Taxim Chan, lord of the Mopans, had fled with a considerable lot of the neighborhood occupants. Cano trusted that the Mopans were governed by the lord of the Itzas. 

The Spanish trusted that by squeezing ahead to Lake Petén Itzá they would connect up with a concurrent undertaking headed by President Barrios himself, uninformed that Barrios had not achieved the locale. Díaz de Velasco conveyed an exploring gathering of 50 musketeers joined by local bowmen on 6 April. They before long discovered proof of late Itza camps in the zone, evaluated to be a month old. The scouts found a reasonable street traveling north to the Itza kingdom, and the military set off along it. The primary power stayed outdoors around ten associations (26 miles or 42 km) south of the lake, while a littler exploring party was sent off ahead; this comprised of two Spanish officers, two bowmen and two muleteers from Verapaz, with two Chʼol-talking local translators. The exploring party progressed to the savannah just toward the south of Lake Petén Itzá, where they experienced around 30 Itza seekers equipped with lances, shields and quits, chasing hounds. The seekers drew their weapons and arranged to battle, yet the Mopan translator was told to clarify that the Spanish party were dealers who came in harmony, joined by ministers. The Spanish started to presume that the translator was plotting against them with the Itza seekers, and one of the Verapaz bowmen hauled him out from among the seekers. The experience declined into a fight, and the Itzas by and by drew weapons. The Spanish terminated their black powder rifles, lethally injuring two seekers, and a Verapaz Indian accused the Itzas of a cleaver. The seekers fled, leaving the exploring party possessing the nourishment and bolts at the chasing camp. 

Five days after this encounter, Antonio Machuca drove a gathering of 12 musketeers, 25 bowmen and 13 muleteers to endeavor to discover President Barrios, to scout a waterway course to the lake and to catch another mediator, the past one never again being trusted. The primary party landed on the savannah close to the lake. The next night one of the development party returned into camp with an Itza detainee, caught after a wild battle with the scouts. Cross examination of the detainee uncovered that he was from a high-positioning Itza genealogy, and that he had been conveyed to locate the Spanish party and to check whether they came as merchants or trespassers. The remainder of Machuca's exploring party before long come back to the primary camp, detailing that they had stayed outdoors four classes (roughly 10.4 miles or 16.7 km) from the lake, where they experienced another chasing gathering of around "twelve" Itzas. The Spanish endeavored to utilize their translator to converse with them yet the Itzas reacted with a volley of bolts. The Spanish musketeers endeavored to react with musketfire, yet found their black powder too wet to even consider firing legitimately. The Itza warriors endless supply of lances, tomahawks and blades, and the resulting hand-to-hand fight endured 60 minutes, amid which six of the Itzas were killed; the rest at long last withdrew. Because of their cushioned cotton shield, the Spanish party got no wounds from the conflict. The Spanish sought after the escaping Itzas and another savage clash resulted, enduring one more hour amid which the vast majority of the remaining Itzas were killed. Three Itzas got away, and their pioneer was rendered oblivious with cleaver hits to the head; he was taken prisoner and later made a full recuperation. Machuca's gathering achieved the lakeshore and could see Nojpetén over the water, yet observed such an extensive power of Itzas that they withdrew south, back to the fundamental camp. 

An Itza record of this experience achieved the pilgrim experts in Yucatán through Tipuj. The Itza revealed that the Guatemalan party drew closer on horseback to inside sight of Nojpetén, and around thirty inquisitive Itzas assembled to converse with the interlopers, whereupon they were assaulted by the Spanish, bringing about the passings of thirty Itzas, the catch of one but then increasingly injured. A Christian Maya emissary from Bacalar-at-Chunjujubʼ, Yucatán, was in Nojpetén around this time, and revealed that the Itza accumulated 3,000– 4,000 warriors prepared to shock Díaz de Velasco's gathering. 

On 24 April, the principal detainee got away from the fundamental camp; that day that the harmed second detainee was taken in by Machuca and his men. Cross examination of the new detainee, who ended up being an Itza aristocrat, uncovered that the Itza kingdom was in a condition of high cognizant to repulse the Spanish. Monk Cano met with his kindred Dominicans to talk about what ought to be done, having had data from both Machuca and his detainee that the Itza were prepared for war. The Dominicans were profoundly condemning of the Spanish officers' preparation to start shooting at inadequately outfitted locals who offered no genuine danger to them, and suspected that President Barrios was not even close to the lake; moreover the Spanish were starting to capitulate to ailment, and the Verapaz Indian enlisted people were forsaking every day. Díaz concurred with the Dominicans; two muleteers had as of now passed on from affliction, and he perceived that the extent of his endeavor was not adequate for a full showdown with the Itza country. The campaign very quickly pulled back to Cahabón. The new detainee, AjKʼixaw was later reclaimed to Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala, where the Dominicans addressed him in detail. In Guatemala AjKʼixaw learnt Spanish and came back to Petén in 1696 as a guide and translator for another endeavor, before turning on his captors. After the Spanish withdrew to Guatemala, bits of gossip ran overflowing among the Itza and Kowoj that they would come back to participate in discount butcher of the Maya populace; expansive tracts of region were surrendered accordingly, incorporating numerous towns in a zone extending from Lake Petén Itzá eastwards to Tipuj and southwards to Mopán. 

At the point when skipper García de Paredes surprisingly came back to Campeche toward the beginning of May 1695, representative Martín de Ursúa was at that point getting ready fortifications for his endeavor. With García's entry, he was promptly allotted the additional troopers. On 11 May Ursúa requested García to start a second undertaking southwards and was assigned 100 salaried Maya to go with him. These laborers were to be paid three pesos for every month and got a suspension of their commitments to supply "encomienda" work and tribute. García paid for extra Spanish officers from his very own assets, as did José Fernández de Estenos, a Campeche occupant who was to fill in as second-in-order. The last power numbered 115 Spanish fighters and 150 Maya musketeers, in addition to Maya workers and muleteers; the last count was in excess of 400 individuals, which was viewed as an impressive armed force in the devastated Yucatán region. Ursúa additionally requested two organizations of Maya musketeers from Tekʼax and Oxkʼutzkabʼ to join the campaign at Bʼolonchʼen Kawich, some southeast of the city of Campeche. Bonifacio Us was chief of the Tekʼax organization; Diego Uk was that of the Oxkʼutzkabʼ organization. Marcos Pot was by and large "cacique chief" of these two Maya organizations; every one of the three officers were Maya. A Maya organization from Sajkabʼchen filled in as tip top musketeers accused of gathering together backwoods Maya into the "reducciones"; this organization was pardoned from overwhelming work obligations. Non-Maya troopers were a blend of Spanish, mestizos (blended race Spanish and local) and mulattos (blended race Spanish and dark). 

On 18 May Ursúa mentioned three evangelists to help the endeavor from the Franciscan common predominant, minister Antonio de Silva; by 30 May three monks were prepared to join the Spanish power, joined by a lay sibling who had not yet taken promises. Also, Silva sent another gathering of Franciscans driven by minister Andrés de Avendaño, who was joined by another monk and a lay sibling. This second gathering was just to stay with García while advantageous for them to do as such, and were to proceed onwards freely to Nojpetén to reach the Itzas, with the unsaid endorsement of Ursúa. Actually Avendaño and his gathering left Mérida on 2 June, seven days before the gathering doled out to García. On 23 June Ursúa got a message educating him of the control of Sakbʼajlan (Dolores del Lakandon) by Guatemalan troops. At this point García was at Tzuktokʼ, close to the Kejache outskirt. In spite of the fact that Ursúa's indicated arrangement, as approved by the Spanish crown, was to assemble a street joining Yucatán with Guatemala, he presently understood that he was in a race to vanquish the Itza kingdom; President Barrios of Guatemala had come to Sakbʼajlan and was coming back to Santiago to set up another undertaking, and Guatemalan warriors had just achieved the lakeshore of Petén Itzá. Any connecting street to Dolores del Lakandon would have gone through a scantily occupied area; rather the Yucatecan surveyor plotted a course due south straightforwardly to the lake where it could interface with the south street by means of Cahabón in Verapaz. This course would leave Dolores del Lakandon and the Lakandon Chʼol detached toward the west. Ursúa issued new requests to García dissimulating his longing to vanquish the Itza. His letter requested García to interface up with President Barrios at Dolores del Lakandon, and gave him an exact course that would take him rather to the lake. A brief timeframe subsequent to accepting these requests, García requested the development of a fortress at Chuntuki, somewhere in the range of 25 alliances (around 65 miles or 105 km) north of Lake Petén Itzá. This would fill in as the principle army installation for the "Camino Real" ("Royal Road") venture; the supply base was at Kawich, under the order of Juan del Castillo y Arrué. On 27 July Ursúa approved the making of three new state army organizations of 25 men each to strengthen García. Two were Spanish organizations and one was a blended race organization comprising of mestizos and pardos. 

The Sajkabʼchen organization of local musketeers pushed ahead with the street developers from Tzuktzokʼ to the first Kejache town at Chunpich, which the Kejache had fled, abandoning a significant measure of nourishment. The organization's officers sent for fortifications from García at Tzuktokʼ however before any could arrive somewhere in the range of 25 Kejache came back to Chunpich with crates to gather their deserted nourishment. The anxious Sajkabʼchen guards expected that the occupants were returning as a group and released their guns at them, with the two gatherings at that point withdrawing. The musketeer organization at that point touched base to strengthen their guards and dashed into fight against drawing closer Kejache bowmen. A few musketeers were harmed in the resulting engagement, and the Kejache withdrew along a woodland way without damage, ridiculing the intruders. The Sajkabʼchen organization pursued the way and discovered two increasingly left settlements with a lot of relinquished sustenance. They caught the nourishment and withdrew back along the way. 

Around 3 August García pushed his whole armed force ahead to Chunpich, and by October Spanish officers had built up themselves close to the wellspring of the San Pedro River. By November Tzuktokʼ was garrisoned with 86 warriors and more at Chuntuki; in that month García by and by came back to Campeche. By December 1695 Ursúa was experiencing strain to finish the victory of the Itza, and he endorsed the despatch of fortifications along the "Camino Real" to join the fundamental army. The fortifications included 150 Spanish and pardo officers and 100 Maya troopers, together with workers and muleteers. A development gathering of 150 blended Maya and non-Maya warriors got together with García at Campeche and continued southwards along the "Camino Real" towards the San Pedro River. The remainder of the fortifications did not leave Campeche until March 1696. 

In May 1695 Antonio de Silva had named two gatherings of Franciscans to set out toward Petén; the principal aggregate was to get together with García's military undertaking. The second gathering was to set out toward Lake Petén Itza freely. This second gathering was going by monk Andrés de Avendaño. Avendaño was joined by monk Antonio Pérez de San Román, lay sibling Alonso de Vargas and six Maya Christians selected from Mérida and towns on the way to Campeche. This last gathering left Mérida on 2 June 1695 and advanced toward Juan del Castillo y Arrué's supply base at Kawich, set up to help García's military campaign. On 24 June Avendaño's gathering left Kawich and set off crosswise over an inadequately occupied area. On 29 June they touched base at a deserted Maya sanctuary, which he alluded to by the name Nojku, signifying "Huge Temple". The Spanish had just gone through and had broken many "icons" however the ministers climbed the sanctuary and figured out how to discover around 50 extra formal models, which they decimated; they additionally set a cross inside. The other gathering of monks, on their approach to join García, went through Nojku a couple of days after the fact and found that neighborhood Maya had officially set new contributions inside. Avendaño's gathering proceeded with southwards and discovered expanding indications of residence and touched base at the military camp of skipper José Fernández de Estenos at the abandoned Maya town of Nojtʼubʼ, which had been cleared by the Spanish under García exactly sixteen years beforehand. 

Avendaño proceeded with south along the course of the new street, finding expanding proof of Spanish military action, with the gathering together of nearby occupants and striking of fields and plantations for arrangements by Spanish troops. The Franciscans overwhelmed García at Bʼukʼte, about before Tzuktokʼ. Avendaño's gathering touched base at Tzuktokʼ, close to the Kejache fringe, by 10 July and left two weeks after the fact, around a similar time that García landed there with his prisoners gathered together at Bʼukʼte for constrained work. Prior to leaving, the Franciscans dissented to García and his officers about the poor treatment of the neighborhood occupants; the officers guaranteed better treatment of the Maya in future. On 3 August García progressed to Chunpich however endeavored to induce Avendaño to remain behind to clergyman to the detainees from Bʼukʼte. Avendaño rather part his gathering and left stealthily with only four Christian Maya partners, looking for the Chunpich Kejache that had assaulted one of García's development organizations and had now withdrawn into the backwoods. He was unfit to discover the Kejache yet managed to get data with respect to a way that drove southwards to the Itza kingdom. He met four depleted Sajkabʼchen musketeers who were conveying a letter routed to him from chief Fernández de Estenos. This letter clarified that further south there were different betrayed Maya towns with just spoiled maize deserted by their occupiers. Avendaño came back to Tzuktokʼ and rethought his arrangements; the Franciscans were shy of provisions, and the compellingly congregated Maya that they were accused of changing over were vanishing once again into the backwoods day by day. Furthermore, the Spanish officers disregarded the worries of the ministers and García was snatching nearby Maya ladies and kids to be reclaimed to his "encomienda" for constrained work. The Franciscans set upon an alternate, eventually fruitless, plan; they would pursue the street back north to Jopʼelchʼen close Campeche city and endeavor to achieve the Itza through Tipuj. This course was blocked when the mainstream pastorate kept the Franciscans from endeavoring it. Antonio de Silva requested Avendaño to come back to Mérida, and he touched base there on 17 September 1695. The other gathering of Franciscans, driven by Juan de San Buenaventura Chávez, kept after the roadbuilders into Kejache region, through IxBʼam, Bʼatkabʼ and Chuntuki (current Chuntunqui close Carmelita, Petén). 

Juan de San Buenaventura's little gathering of Franciscans had touched base in Chuntuki on 30 August 1695, and found that the military had opened the street southwards for another seventeen alliances (roughly 44.2 miles or 71.1 km), practically most of the way to Lake Petén Itzá, however came back to Chuntuki because of the regular downpours. San Buenaventura was joined by monk Joseph de Jesús María, lay minister Tomás de Alcoser and lay sibling Lucas de San Francisco. With Avendaño's arrival to Mérida, commonplace predominant Antonio de Silva despatched two extra monks to join San Buenaventura's gathering: Diego de Echevarría and Diego de Salas. One of these was to change over the Kejache in Tzuktokʼ, and the other was to do likewise at Chuntuki. Albeit at first hesitant to allow the gathering to proceed into Itza domain, by late October García de Paredes had yielded and submitted to de Silva's directions for San Buenaventura and his unique partners to keep on nojpetén, despite the fact that it gives the idea this never occurred. On 24 October San Buenaventura kept in touch with the common predominant revealing that the warlike Kejache were presently assuaged and that they had disclosed to him that the Itza were prepared to get the Spanish in fellowship. On that day 62 Kejache men had deliberately come to Chuntuki from Pakʼekʼem, where another 300 Kejache lived. San Buenaventura sent lay sibling Lucas de San Francisco to persuade them to migrate to the Chuntuki mission. Lucas de San Francisco devastated the icons in Pakʼekʼem yet the occupants were not conveyed to the mission in view of stresses over sustaining the fresh debuts. Rather, toward the beginning of November 1695, monk Tomás de Alcoser and sibling Lucas de San Francisco were sent to build up a mission at Pakʼekʼem, where they were generally welcomed by the cacique and his agnostic cleric. Pakʼekʼem was adequately a long way from the new Spanish street that it was free from military impedance, and the ministers administered the structure of a congregation in what was the biggest mission town in Kejache domain. A second church was worked at Bʼatkabʼ to take care of more than 100 Kʼejache outcasts who had been assembled there under the stewardship of monk Diego de Echevarría; a further church was built up at Tzuktokʼ, directed by Diego de Salas. 

Franciscan Andrés de Avendaño left Mérida on 13 December 1695, and landed in Nojpetén around 14 January 1696; he pursued the new street beyond what many would consider possible then proceeded towards Nojpetén with nearby Maya guides. He was joined by monks Antonio Pérez de San Román, Joseph de Jesús María and Diego de Echevarría, and by lay sibling Lucas de San Francisco; a portion of these he gathered on his adventure south along the "Camino Real". On 5 January they got up to speed with and passed the principle unforeseen of the military at Bʼatkabʼ, proceeding to Chuntuki. From Chuntuki they pursued an Indian trail that drove them past the wellspring of the San Pedro River and crosswise over soak karst slopes to a watering gap by certain remnants, which was recorded as Tanxulukmul by Avendaño. From Tanxulukmul they pursued the little Acté River to a Chakʼan Itza town called Saklemakal. They touched base at the western end of Lake Petén Itzá to an eager welcome by the nearby Itza. 

Obscure to the Franciscans, the northern Chakʼan Itza area of the Itza kingdom was aligned with the Kowoj and was at war with the Itza ruler. The Chakʼan Itzas stole away the vast majority of the endowments that the Spanish party had brought for the Itza lord, with an end goal to prevent neighborly relations creating. The next day, the current Aj Kan Ekʼ traversed the lake with eighty kayaks to welcome the guests at the Chakʼan Itza port town of Nich, on the west shore of Lake Petén Itza. The Franciscans came back to Nojpetén with Kan Ekʼ and sanctified through water more than 300 Itza kids over the accompanying four days. Avendaño endeavored to persuade Kan Ekʼ to change over to Christianity and surrender to the Spanish crown, without progress. The Franciscan monk attempted to persuade the Itza lord that the Kʼatun 8 Ajaw, a twenty-year Maya calendrical cycle starting in 1696 or 1697, was the correct time for the Itza to at long last grasp Christianity and to acknowledge the ruler of Spain as overlord. The lord of the Itza, similar to his ancestor, refered to Itza prediction and said the time was not yet right. He requested that the Spanish return in four months, at which time the Itza would change over and swear fealty to the King of Spain. 

On 19 January AjKowoj, the ruler of the Kowoj, landed at Nojpetén and talked with Avendaño, contending against the acknowledgment of Christianity and Spanish principle. The talks between Avendaño, Kan Ekʼ and AjKowoj uncovered profound divisions among the Itza – and the obvious unfairness of the Itza lord in offering his kingdom to the Spanish undermined Kan Ek's control over his very own kin. Kan Ekʼ scholarly of a plot by the Kowoj and their Chakʼan Itza partners to trap and murder the Franciscans, and the Itza ruler exhorted them to come back to Mérida by means of Tipuj. The Itza ruler's endeavors to spare his Spanish visitors viably finished his capacity to lead; starting there on against Spanish opinion administered Itza reactions to the Spanish. The Franciscans were guided to Yalain where they were generally welcomed however while they were there the Yalain heard gossipy tidbits about fight and a Spanish development towards Lake Petén Itzá. The Franciscans were demonstrated a way that prompted Tipuj however their Yalain manages before long surrendered them. The Spanish monks ended up lost and endured extraordinary hardships, including the demise of one of Avendaño's partners, however following a month meandering in the timberland found their way back to Chuntuki and from that point advanced back to Mérida. 

Kan Ekʼ had sent emissaries to Mérida in December 1695 to educate Martín de Ursúa that the Itza would calmly submit to Spanish standard. By mid-January chief García de Paredes had progressed from Bʼatkabʼ to the development part of the "Camino Real" at Chuntuki. At this point he just had 90 warriors in addition to workers and doormen, with a considerable lot of his troopers betraying as the power progressed towards Lake Petén Itzá; they were additionally deferred by the need of structure a paddle fueled longboat (or "piragua") to cross the San Pedro River. Not long after Avendaño's flight eastbound from Nojpetén, a gathering of 60 Maya warriors entered Chuntuki in full warpaint and bearing weapons; they professed to have been sent by Avendaño to gather religious formal attire and another monk. This was not the situation, and they were very likely an exploring party sent by the Kowoj and their Chakʼan Itza partners to perceive what advance the Spanish armed force was making along the street. They talked with García and afterward quickly left without taking any of the things that they had as far as anyone knows been sent to gather. García despatched two Kejache scouts to the lakeshore to find Avendaño's whereabouts; in the meantime Avendaño's Kejache guides were coming back to Chuntuki from Nojpetén with updates on Avendaño's flight. The Itzas at the lake gave over an open letter composed by Avendaño before his takeoff from Nojpetén as a token of companionship between the Itza and the Spanish. Monk Juan de San Buenaventura was enthused by the letter and wished to head out on to Nojpetén himself. 

García sent chief Pedro de Zubiaur, his senior officer, on towards the lake. He touched base at Lake Petén Itza with 60 musketeers, minister San Buenaventura and another Franciscan and partnered Yucatec Maya warriors. They were likewise joined by around 40 Maya doormen. On 2 February the endeavor was drawn nearer by two Itza warriors who let them know of an ongoing fight between a Guatemalan undertaking and the Itza; these two Itzas guided the gathering to an adjacent Itza settlement, and the letter from Avendaño was appeared to skipper Zubiaur, persuading him that he could progress securely. The port town of Chʼichʼ was surrendered however countless drew nearer, made a decision to be upwards of 300 by the Spanish skipper, bearing maybe 2,000 Itza warriors. The warriors started to blend uninhibitedly with the Spanish party and started to stack the Spanish supplies into the kayaks with a guarantee of transporting the campaign crosswise over to Nojpetén, with one trooper in each kayak. The Franciscans promptly boarded the kayaks, with two officers as an escort. A fight at that point broke out; twelve a greater amount of the Spanish party were constrained into kayaks, and two watchmen were pounded the life out of. One of the caught Spanish warriors was quickly beheaded. Now the Spanish warriors opened flame with their black powder rifles, and the Itza withdrew over the lake with their detainees. 

The Spanish party withdrew from the lake shore and regrouped on open ground where they were encompassed by around 2,000 Itza warriors who endeavored to incapacitate them; the Itzas figured out how to catch another Spaniard and quickly struck off his head. Now around 10,000 Itza toxophilite showed up from kayaks disguised among the lakeside mangroves, and Zubiaur requested his men to flame a volley that slaughtered somewhere in the range of 30 and 40 Itzas. Understanding that they were miserably dwarfed, the Spanish withdrew towards Chuntuki, surrendering their caught partners to their destiny. A Christian Maya musketeer and six different Indians fled toward the beginning of the fight and took news to García that the whole undertaking had been butchered; Zubiaur and the overcomers of his campaign walked once more into the base camp at Chuntuki two days after the fact. Ursúa later announced that the Spanish detainees were reclaimed to Nojpetén where they were altogether murdered; this was additionally affirmed by AjChan sometime in the not too distant future. The bones of the dead were said to have been found by the Spanish after the last attack on Nojpetén in 1697; AjKʼin Kan Ekʼ, the Itza devout cleric, later revealed that he had bound San Buenaventura and his buddy into cross shapes and cut out their souls. 

This unforeseen development persuaded Martín de Ursúa that Kan Ekʼ would not surrender calmly, and he started to arrange a full scale strike on Nojpetén. The enrollment of recently approved fortifications was presently dire, yet was upset when 70 of 100 officers mutinied and never achieved García's camp. Work out and about was intensified and about a month after the fight at Chʼichʼ the Spanish touched base at the lakeshore, presently bolstered by mounted guns. Again an extensive number of kayaks assembled, and the anxious Spanish troopers opened flame with guns and guns; no setbacks were accounted for among the Itza, who withdrew and raised a white banner from a sheltered separation. 

The Guatemalan specialists were uninformed of progressing contacts between the frontier experts in Yucatán and the Itza. In the second 50% of 1695 President Barrios started arranging another undertaking against the Itza from Verapaz, following brutal analysis of Juan Díaz de Velasco's retreat from close Lake Petén Itzá in April of that year. Barrios kicked the bucket in November, and "oidor" José de Escals wound up acting leader of the Guatemalan pilgrim organization. He designated "oidor" Bartolomé de Amésqueta to lead the following undertaking against the Itza. Amésqueta walked his men through heavy downpour from Cahabón to Mopán, touching base on 25 February 1696; the Guatemalans were as yet unconscious of the conflicts between García's powers and the Itza. Amésqueta's campaign was experiencing deficiencies of local work and supplies. Twenty-five of his 150 men were wiped out, and his development slowed down as the power rested up at Mopán. Skipper Díaz de Velasco volunteered to lead a gathering of 25 men ahead to the lake; he was joined by Dominican monks Cristóbal de Prada and Jacinto de Vargas. He was likewise joined by AjKʼixaw, the Itza aristocrat who had been taken prisoner on Díaz's past campaign, who filled in as a confided in guide, scout and interpreter. They set out from Mopán on 7 March and left some wiped out fighters with certain provisions following five days, they at that point made up for lost time with a development gathering of roadbuilders and their military escort at Río Chakal. The two powers consolidated, giving Díaz a power of 49 warriors and 34 watchmen and bowmen from Verapaz. When they touched base at IxBʼol, close to the shore of Lake Petén Itzá, AjKʼixaw was sent ahead as an emissary to Nojpetén. 

Back in Mopán, Amésqueta had gotten extra supplies and chosen to make up for lost time with his development party. He left Mopán on 10 March 1696 with monk Agustín Cano and around 10 fighters. He touched base at Chakal seven days after the fact yet there was still no word from Díaz or AjKʼixaw. On 20 March Amésqueta left Chakal with 36 men and four days' provisions to discover Díaz's gathering, whom he expected would be adjacent. Following two days going in extreme warmth they got together with some Verapaz doormen that Díaz had deserted. They pursued Díaz's trail to the shore of Lake Petén Itzá close to the Itza capital. As they explored along the south shore they were shadowed by around 30 Itza kayaks, and more Itzas drawn closer via land yet kept a sheltered separation. There were ample signs that Díaz's gathering had passed that way, and Amésqueta expected that they had crossed to Nojpetén. He composed a letter to Díaz, which was passed to an Itza passerby who showed he would convey it. Different Itzas now moved toward the gathering, including an aristocrat who traded endowments with Amésqueta. Amid different endeavors at correspondence to check Díaz's whereabouts the Itza ended up disturbed and reacted furiously, albeit nobody in the Spanish party could comprehend the Itza language. The Itzas showed that the Spanish ought to continue to the lakeshore along a tight way and leave in the little kayaks that were positioned adjacent. One of Amésqueta's officers perceived an Indian among the Itzas as a Mopan who had filled in as a fighter in Díaz's first undertaking and imagined that the Mopan was attempting to let him know not to confide in the Itzas. 

Amésqueta was incredibly suspicious of the little kayaks being provided, realizing that the Itza had 30-man kayaks; he was likewise mindful that deceiving foes into little kayaks was a favored strategy among the marsh Maya to separate and murder Spanish gatecrashers. He presumed that AjKʼixaw had sold out them and this was correctly what had happened to Díaz and his men. As sunset drew closer, low on proportions, in a helpless area and with no indication of Díaz and his men, Amésqueta withdrew from the lakeshore and his men took up positions on a little slope adjacent. In the early hours of the morning he requested a retreat by evening glow, utilizing only a couple of lights. They touched base back at Chakal on 25 March and from that point withdrew to San Pedro Mártir on 9 April, assailed by exacerbating conditions, a tropical storm, affliction and gossipy tidbits about foes. The battered campaign set up a base camp nine groups (around 23.4 miles or 37.7 km) north of Mopan. 

Composing after the fall of Nojpetén, monk Cano depicted a definitive destiny of Díaz de Velasco and his sidekicks; he professed to have gotten the data from meetings with the troopers from Yucatán who had raged the Itza capital and from Chʼol witnesses, despite the fact that there were no Chʼol at Nojpetén. Díaz's gathering touched base at the lakeshore and were told by neighborhood Itza that Franciscan ministers were at Nojpetén. They were vigilant at first and requested confirmation, whereupon an Itza delivery person presented to them a rosary as a token. Looking over the lake they saw men dressed as ministers calling to them to go over, these were Itza wearing the propensities for the two Franciscans who had as of late been executed at the island. Díaz and his associates at that point loaded up the Itza kayaks, leaving thirty Maya doormen with their donkeys and supplies. 

Once on the lake the Itza toppled a portion of the kayaks and slaughtered a portion of Díaz's men; others were injured and hauled aground to be executed. Díaz, the Dominicans and two other men were in a vast kayak that was not toppled and were taken to Nojpetén where a wild battle followed as Díaz endeavored to protect himself with his sword, murdering a few Itzas. The two other men were promptly slaughtered while the monks were pulsated and attached to X-molded crosses before having their hearts removed. Over the lake, the Itza assaulted the watchmen guarding the endeavor supplies and murdered every one of them. The Itza murdered a sum of 87 undertaking individuals, including 50 troopers, two Dominicans and around 35 Maya partners. The remaining parts of the little gathering that were executed on Nojpetén were later recovered by the Spanish after the fall of the city and were reclaimed to Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala for entombment. 

Over the next weeks investigates were sent to attempt to reach nearby Mopan and Chʼol people group, including Chok Ajaw, AjMay, IxBʼol and Manche without progress – a large portion of the locals had fled, leaving the timberland betrayed. At San Pedro Mártir he got updates on AjChan's consulate to Mérida in December 1695 and the formal surrender of the Itza to Spanish specialist. Unfit to accommodate the news with the loss of his men at Lake Petén Itzá, and with horrifying conditions in San Pedro Mártir, Amésqueta surrendered the incomplete fortification. Minister Cano prescribed to the new Guatemalan president that the Chʼol be moved to Verapaz where they could be appropriately regulated. Because of the fizzled endeavor, Cano's suggestion was acknowledged, the stronghold was destroyed and any Maya that could be caught over a wide swathe of southern Petén was persuasively migrated to Belén close Rabinal in Verapaz. This movement was merciless and heartless and was censured by a few high-positioning pilgrim authorities, including "oidor" José de Escals and even by Amésqueta. 

The Itzas' proceeded with obstruction had turned into a noteworthy shame for the Spanish pilgrim specialists, and warriors were despatched from Campeche to take Nojpetén for the last time. The last ambush was made conceivable by the steady opening of the street from Mérida to Petén; by December 1696 this street had achieved the lake shore in spite of the fact that it was incomplete and still practically blocked in spots. At this point the profound divisions between the political pioneers of the Itza were with the end goal that a brought together guard of the Itza kingdom had turned out to be unimaginable. 

In late December 1696 the Chakʼan Itza assaulted the huge Kejache mission town of Pakʼekʼem; they stole practically every one of the occupants and consumed the congregation. The crippled Spanish army at Chuntuki covered their weapons and ammo and withdrew five classes (around 13 miles or 21 km) back towards Campeche. From late December 1696 to the center of January 1697 Ursúa sent gatherings of fighters and laborers along the street towards the lake; the primary gathering was directed by Pedro de Zubiaur and had guidelines to start constructing a "galeota", a substantial paddle fueled warship. This gathering was trailed by fortifications bringing supplies, including light and overwhelming weapons, black powder and sustenance. On 23 January Ursúa left Campeche with more troopers and muleteers, bringing the all out number of officers touching base as fortifications to 130. The Spanish braced their situations at Chʼichʼ and conveyed substantial big guns for its safeguard. 

Martín de Urzúa y Arizmendi touched base on the western shore of lake Petén Itzá with his officers on 26 February 1697, and once there constructed the intensely furnished "galeota" assault vessel, which was gathered at Chʼichʼ over a space of 12 days toward the beginning of March. The "galeota" had a bottom of 30 cubits or ; it had 12 paddles on each side and a rudder with an iron screw. The "galeota" conveyed 114 men and no less than five ordnance pieces, including a "pieza" (light gun) and four "pedreros" (mortars). The "piragua" longboat used to cross the San Pedro River was likewise transported to the lake to be utilized in the assault on the Itza capital; this vessel had 6 paddles and a rudder. 

From 28 February onwards the Spanish undertaking was more than once drawn nearer by threatening Itzas, who now and then shot bolts toward the interlopers yet incurred no losses. In the meantime, little gatherings of inquisitive Itzas blended uninhibitedly with the Spanish and got knickknacks from them, for example, belts, pieces of jewelry and hoops. 

On 10 March, Itza and Yalain emissaries landed at Chʼichʼ to consult with Ursúa. First came AjChan who had just met him in Mérida; he was trailed by Chamach Xulu, the leader of the Yalain. Kan Ekʼ then sent a kayak with a white banner raised bearing emissaries, including the Itza consecrated cleric, who offered tranquil surrender. Ursúa got the consulate in harmony and welcomed Kan Ekʼ to visit his place to stay three days after the fact. On the selected day Kan Ekʼ neglected to touch base; rather Maya warriors massed both along the shore and in kayaks upon the lake. 

Ursúa chose that any further endeavors at tranquil fuse of the Itza into the Spanish Empire were silly, and a waterbourne strike was propelled upon Kan Ek's capital on the morning of 13 March. The settlement at Chʼichʼ was left shielded by 25 Spanish fighters, three Maya musketeers and a few big guns pieces. Ursúa boarded the "galeota" with 108 warriors, two common ministers, five individual workers, the sanctified through water Itza emissary AjChan and his brother by marriage and an Itza detainee from Nojpetén. The assault pontoon was paddled east from Chʼichʼ towards the Itza capital; most of the way over the lake it experienced a huge armada of kayaks spread in a circular segment over the way to deal with Nojpetén, covering about starting with one shore then onto the next – Ursúa essentially gave the request to push through them. Countless had assembled along the shore of Nojpetén and on the tops of the city. As the "galeota" drew nearer, more kayaks put out from the shore and the Spanish were encompassed. When they had encompassed the "galeota", Itza bowmen started to shoot at the trespassers. Ursúa offered requests to his men not to flame but rather bolts injured a few warriors; one of the injured troopers released his black powder gun and by then the officers lost control of their men. The guarding Itza before long fled from the shriveling Spanish gunfire. 

The city fell after a brief yet wicked fight in which numerous Itza warriors kicked the bucket; the Spanish endured just minor losses. The Spanish siege caused overwhelming death toll on the island; the enduring Itza relinquished their capital and swam crosswise over to the terrain with many biting the dust in the water. After the fight the enduring safeguards softened away into the backwoods, leaving the Spanish to involve a relinquished Maya town. Martín de Ursúa planted his standard upon the most elevated purpose of the island and renamed Nojpetén as "Nuestra Señora de los Remedios y San Pablo, Laguna del Itza" ("Our Lady of Remedy and Saint Paul, Lake of the Itza"). The Itza respectability fled, scattering to Maya settlements all through Petén; accordingly the Spanish scoured the area with inquiry parties. Kan Ekʼ was before long caught with assistance from the Yalain Maya ruler Chamach Xulu; The Kowoj lord (Aj Kowoj) was additionally before long caught, together with other Maya nobles and their families. With the thrashing of the Itza, the last free and unconquered local kingdom in the Americas tumbled to the European colonizers. 

Martín de Ursúa had little enthusiasm for controlling the recently vanquished region and assigned its control to military officers who he did almost no to help, either militarily or monetarily. With Nojpetén securely in the hands of the Spanish, Ursúa came back to Mérida, leaving Kan Ekʼ and other high-positioning individuals from his family as detainees of the Spanish battalion at Nuestra Señora de los Remedios y San Pablo, confined among the antagonistic Itza and Kowoj who still overwhelmed the territory. The battalion was fortified in 1699 by a military campaign from Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala, joined by blended race "ladino" regular citizens who came to establish their very own town around the military camp. The pioneers carried infection with them, which murdered numerous troopers and homesteaders and cleared through the indigenous populace. The Guatemalans remained only three months before coming back to Santiago de los Caballeros de Guatemala, taking the hostage Itza ruler with them, together with his child and two of his cousins. The cousins kicked the bucket on the long adventure to Santiago; Ajaw Kan Ekʼ and his child spent the remainder of their lives under house capture in the pilgrim capital. 

At the point when the Spanish vanquished the Petén lakes in 1697, the Yalain were at first agreeable and aided the catch of the lord of the Itza. Right now Yalain was managed by Chamach Xulu. The Yalain authority energized Christian transformation as a methods for keeping up harmony with the involving Spanish powers. As time went on, Yalain participation with the Spanish seems to have diminished. Not long after the triumph, the Yalain fled their settlements to abstain from searching Spanish gatherings that were snatching Maya ladies for "administration" at their sleeping quarters. Right now, such was the threatening vibe that was felt towards the possessing powers that the occupants of the Yalain settlements wanted to consume their fields and break all their earthenware instead of leave anything for the Spanish. The Yalain capital is recorded as having been scorched in 1698. 

In the late seventeenth century, the little populace of Chʼol Maya in southern Petén and Belize was persuasively evacuated to Alta Verapaz, where the general population were ingested into the Qʼeqchiʼ populace. After the triumph, the provincial organization of Petén was partitioned between the clerical experts in Yucatán and mainstream organization as a major aspect of the Captaincy General of Guatemala. There was never a solid Spanish nearness in the zone, which stayed remote, in spite of the fact that the Spanish manufactured a stronghold jail, the Castillo de Arismendi; it was done in 1700. 

The separation from Nuestra Señora de los Remedios y San Pablo (once in the past Nojpetén) to Mérida, joined with the troublesome territory and the threatening vibe of the locals prompted the street from Yucatán falling into a condition of dilapidation. In 1701 Ursúa y Arezmendi understood that the street was in such a poor express, that the Spanish battalion couldn't be provided from Yucatán. He kept in touch with the King of Spain, mentioning that Petén be exchanged from the purview of Yucatán to the "Audiencia Real" of Guatemala. In 1703 Ursúa's request was in truth, with the condition that the clerical specialist over Petén would go to the Dominican Order. 

Somewhere in the range of 1703 and 1753, "reducciones" were set up at San José and San Andrés on Lake Petén Itzá, Santa Ana only south of the lake, and at San Luis, Santo Toribio and Dolores in the south (not to be mistaken for Dolores del Lakandon). Every one of these mission towns had its very own pastor who offered an explanation to the "vicario general" with the Spanish battalion at Nuestra Señora de los Remedios y San Pablo. In the principal many years of the eighteenth century, houses of worship were worked in five provincial towns: Dolores, Remedios, San Andrés, San José and Santo Toribio. The congregation in Dolores was worked in 1708; the development was likely administered by Juan Antonio Ruiz y Bustamante. In 1699 there were nine clerics in Petén however from that point there was normally a lack of ministry in pilgrim Petén. Notwithstanding the protests of the Dominicans who had been working in southern Petén, the Franciscans kept on giving ministry from Yucatán, and it was the Franciscans who directed the profound welfare of Petén amid the frontier time frame. 

AjTut was one of the rulers of the northern Chakʼan Itza territory of the vanquished Itza kingdom; minister Avendaño had met him amid his endeavor to Nojpetén. After the success he moved from the north shore of Lake Petén Itzá to Mompana, an area lying between Lake Yaxha and the Classic time frame vestiges of Tikal. For certain years after the victory he built up the Mompana area as an asylum from the Spanish and occupied with internecine war against the enduring Kowoj toward the south. 

At the season of the fall of Nojpetén, there are assessed to have been 60,000 Maya living around Lake Petén Itzá, including countless from different regions. It is evaluated that 88% of them kicked the bucket amid the initial ten years of provincial principle inferable from a mix of infection and war. In spite of the fact that infection was in charge of most of passings, Spanish campaigns and internecine fighting between indigenous gatherings likewise had their influence. 

Catholic ministers from Yucatán established a few mission towns around Lake Petén Itzá in 1702– 1703. The main towns to be moved into pilgrim "reducciones" were Ixtutz, which turned into the new town of San José, and neighboring San Andrés, both on the north shore of Lake Petén Itzá. They were first oppressed by one of Ursúa's officers, Cristobal de Sologaistoa, before being passed into the consideration of the Dominican ministers for the Christian change of the occupants. Enduring Itza and Kowoj were resettled in the new frontier towns by a blend of influence and power. Kowoj and Itza pioneers in these mission towns defied their Spanish overlords in 1704 and nearly retook Nojpetén, yet albeit very much arranged, the resistance was immediately squashed. Its pioneers were executed, and the majority of the mission towns were deserted; by 1708 just around 6,000 Maya stayed in focal Petén. The decreases flopped in huge part in light of the fact that the evangelists accused of changing over the occupants couldn't talk the Itza language. 

Martín de Ursúa utilized his success of the Itza as a venturing stone to accomplishing the pined for post of Governor-General of the Philippines, which he took up in 1709. European-presented infections crushed the local populace of Petén, with the impacts of illness intensified by the mental effect of annihilation. The populace around Lake Petén Itzá numbered somewhere in the range of 20,000 and 40,000 out of 1697. By 1714, a registration recorded a little more than 3,000 people in Spanish Petén, including non-Indians. This number would not have incorporated the supposed "wild" Maya living in the woodland a long way from Spanish organization and control. By 1700 the new provincial capital of Petén was fundamentally possessed by homesteaders, officers and convicts. Amid the second 50% of the eighteenth century, grown-up male Indians were intensely exhausted, frequently being constrained into obligation peonage. Western Petén and neighboring Chiapas remained scantily populated, and the Maya occupants evaded contact with the Spanish. 

San José, on the northwest shore of lake Petén Itzá, is the home of the last enduring speakers of the Itza language. The surname Kowoj still endures, however the Kowoj and Itza have completely combined and never again exist as discrete ethnicities. In present day times there is a past filled with struggle between San José (the previous Itza town of Chakokʼot) and neighboring San Andrés (the previous Kowoj-unified town of Chakʼan), and this shared antagonistic vibe most likely speaks to antiquated threatening vibe between the Itza and the Kowoj. 

Hernán Cortés portrayed his campaign to Honduras in the fifth letter of his "", in which he subtleties his intersection of what is presently Guatemala's Petén Department. Bernal Díaz del Castillo went with Cortés on the endeavor to Honduras. He composed a long record of the victory of Mexico and neighboring districts, the "Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España" ("True History of the Conquest of New Spain"). His record was done around 1568, exactly 40 years after the crusades it portrays; it incorporates his very own depiction of the campaign. In 1688 pioneer student of history Diego López de Cogolludo point by point the campaigns of the Spanish preachers Bartolomé de Fuensalida and Juan de Orbita in 1618 and 1619 in his "Los trés siglos de la dominación española en Yucatán o ocean historia de esta provincia" ("The three centuries of Spanish control in Yucatán, or the historical backdrop of this area"); he put together it with respect to Fuensalida's report, which is currently lost. 

Franciscan minister Andrés Avendaño y Loyola recorded his very own record of his late seventeenth century voyages to Nojpetén, written in 1696 and entitled "Relación de las entradas que hize a la conversión de los gentiles Ytzaex" ("Account of the undertakings that I made to change over the Itza barbarians"). At the point when the Spanish at long last vanquished Petén in 1697 they created an immense amount of documentation. Juan de Villagutierre Soto-Mayor was a Spanish provincial authority who originally held the post of relator of the Royal Chancery of Vallodalid and later as that of the Council of the Indies. All things considered he approached the extensive measure of provincial reports put away in the General Archive of the Indies. From these he delivered his "Historia de la Conquista de la Provincia de el Itza, reduccion, y progressos de la de el Lacandon, y otras naciones de indios barbaros, de la mediacion de el Reyno de Guatimala, a las provincias del Yucatan en la América Septentrional" ("History of the Conquest of the Province of the Itza, decrease, and advances in that of the Lakandon, and different countries of primitive indians, and the intercession of the Kingdom of Guatemala, and the areas of Yucatan in Northern America"). This was first distributed in Madrid in 1701 and definite the historical backdrop of Petén from 1525 through to 1699. 

Ursúa alluded toward the western port town of Chʼichʼ as "Nich". The cutting edge name for a point on the south side of the cove is Punta Nijtún, which is most likely gotten from the frontier Yucatec "nix tun", which means stone incline. Archeologists completed unearthings at the lake shore at Punta Nijtún and found a stone incline there, which was most likely worked by Ursúa's troops to dispatch his "galeota".