George Robey 

Sir George Edward Wade, CBE (20 September 1869 – 29 November 1954), referred to expertly as George Robey, was an English entertainer, artist and on-screen character in melodic theater, who wound up known as one of the best music corridor entertainers of the late nineteenth and mid twentieth hundreds of years. As an entertainer, he blended regular circumstances and perceptions with comic craziness. Aside from his music lobby acts, he was a well known Christmas emulate entertainer in the English areas, where he exceeded expectations in the woman jobs. He scored prominent accomplishments in melodic revues amid and after the First World War, especially with the tune "On the off chance that You Were the Only Girl (In the World)", which he performed with Violet Loraine in the revue "The Bing Boys Are Here" (1916). A standout amongst his best-known unique characters in his six-decade long profession was the Prime Minister of Mirth. 

Conceived in London, Robey originated from a white collar class family. In the wake of tutoring in England and Germany, and a progression of office occupations, he made his presentation on the London arrange, at 21 years old, as the straight man to a comic subliminal specialist. Robey before long built up his very own demonstration and showed up at the Oxford Music Hall in 1890, where he earned positive notification singing "The Simple Pimple" and "He'll Get It Where He's Gone to Now". In 1892, he showed up in his first emulate, "Whittington Up-to-date" in Brighton, which conveyed him to a more extensive gathering of people. Increasingly common commitment followed in Manchester, Birmingham and Liverpool, and he turned into a pillar of the famous Christmas emulate scene. 

Robey's music corridor act developed in the main decade of the 1900s, and he embraced various remote visits. He featured in the Royal Command Performance in 1912 and consistently engaged before privileged. He was an enthusiastic sportsman, playing cricket and football at a semi-proficient dimension. Amid the First World War, notwithstanding his exhibitions in revues, he fund-raised for some war philanthropies and was named a CBE in 1919. From 1918, he made representations dependent on his Prime Minister of Mirth character and utilized an ensemble he had planned during the 1890s as a reason for the character's clothing. He made a fruitful change from music corridor to theatrical presentations and featured in the revue "Round in Fifty" in 1922, which earned him still more extensive notice. Except for his exhibitions in revue and emulate, he showed up as his Prime Minister of Mirth character in the various amusement media including assortment, music lobby and radio. 

In 1913 Robey made his film debut, however he had just unassuming accomplishment in the medium. He kept on performing in assortment theater in the between war years and, in 1932, featured in "Helen!", his first straight theater job. His appearance conveyed him to the consideration of numerous compelling executives, including Sydney Carroll, who marked him to show up in front of an audience as Falstaff in "Henry IV, Part 1" in 1935, a job that he later rehashed in Laurence Olivier's 1944 film, "Henry V". Amid the Second World War, Robey fund-raised for philanthropies and advanced enlistment into the powers. By the 1950s, his wellbeing had weakened, and he went into semi-retirement. He was knighted a couple of months before his demise in 1954. 

Robey was conceived at 334 Kennington Road, Kennington, London. His dad, Charles Wade, was a structural specialist who spent quite a bit of his vocation on tramline plan and development. Robey's mom, Elizabeth Mary Wade Keene, was a housewife; he additionally had two sisters. His fatherly progenitors began from Hampshire; his uncle, George Wade, wedded into privileged in 1848, a connection which gave a pleased point of discussion for future ages of the Wade family. At the point when Robey was five, his dad moved the family to Birkenhead, where he helped in the development of the Mersey Railway. Robey started his tutoring in close-by Hoylake at a lady school. After three years the family moved back to London, close to the outskirt among Camberwell and Peckham. At around this time, cable cars were being acquainted with the zone, furnishing Charles Wade with an ordinary, generously compensated employment. 

To satisfy an idea of work, Charles Wade moved the family to Germany in 1880, and Robey went to a school in Dresden. He committed his relaxation hours to visiting the city's historical centers, craftsmanship exhibitions and musical drama houses and picked up a sensible familiarity with German when he was 12. He delighted in life in the nation and was inspired with the numerous operatic creations held in the city and with the Germans' high respect for expressions of the human experience. When he was 14, his dad enabled him to move in with a priest's family in the German wide open, which he utilized as a base while considering science at Leipzig University. To gain cash, he instructed English to his proprietor's kids and disapproved of them while their folks were grinding away. Having effectively selected at the college, he contemplated workmanship and music and remained with the family for a further year and a half so he could total his examinations before coming back to England in 1885. He later guaranteed, obviously untruthfully, to have learned at the University of Cambridge. 

At 18 years old Robey headed out to Birmingham, where he worked in a structural architect's office. It was here that he ended up keen on a profession on the stage and frequently longed for featuring in his own carnival. He figured out how to play the mandolin and turned into a talented entertainer on the instrument. This drew enthusiasm from a gathering of nearby performers and, together with a companion from the gathering who played the guitar, Robey ventured to every part of the neighborhood hunt of commitment. Before long a while later, they were enlisted to play at a philanthropy show at the nearby church, St Mary and St Ambrose in Edgbaston, an execution that prompted increasingly neighborhood appointments. For the following appearance, Robey played out an extemporaneous form of "Killaloo", a comic jingle taken from the vaudeville "Miss Esmeralda". The positive reaction from the group of onlookers urged him to surrender playing the mandolin to focus rather on singing comic tunes. 

By 1890 Robey had turned out to be achy to go home, thus he came back to South London, where he took work in a structural building organization. He likewise joined a neighborhood office of the Thirteen Club, whose individuals, huge numbers of whom were beginner artists, performed in little settings crosswise over London. Becoming aware of his ability, the author of the club, W. H. Branch, welcomed Robey to show up at Anderton's Hotel in Fleet Street, where he played out the prevalent new comic tune "Where Did You Get That Hat?". Robey's execution verified him various private commitment for which he was paid a guinea a night. By the early long periods of 1891, Robey was much popular, and he chose to change his stage name. He swapped "Swim" for "Robey" subsequent to working for an organization in Birmingham that drag the last name. It was at around this time he met E. W. Rogers, a built up music lobby arranger who composed melodies for Marie Lloyd and Jenny Hill. For Robey, Rogers composed three melodies: "My Hat's a Brown 'Un", "The Simple Pimple" and "It Suddenly Dawned Upon Me". 

In 1891 Robey visited the Royal Aquarium in Westminster where he watched "Teacher Kennedy", a vaudeville mesmerist from America. After the execution, Robey visited Kennedy in his changing area and offered himself as the sap for his next appearance. They concurred that Robey, as his young disciple, would be "entranced" into singing a comic tune. At a later practice, Robey arranged an arrangement to sing one of the comic tunes that had been composed for him by Rogers. Robey's turn was an incredible achievement, and thus he verified a changeless showy residency at the setting. Soon thereafter, he showed up as a performance demonstration at the Oxford Music Hall, where he played out "The Simple Pimple" and "He'll Get It Where He's Gone to Now". The showy press before long wound up mindful of his demonstration, and "The Stage" considered him an "entertainer with a pretty comical inclination [who] conveys his melodies with extensive point and meets with all achievement". In mid 1892, together with his exhibitions at the Royal Aquarium and the Oxford Music Hall, Robey featured nearby Jenny Hill, Bessie Bonehill and Harriet Vernon at the Paragon Theater of Varieties in Mile End, where, as indicated by his biographer Peter Cotes, he "stole the notification from experienced troupers". 

That mid year, Robey led a music corridor voyage through the English regions which started in Chatham and took him to Liverpool, at a scene claimed by the mother of the compelling London director Oswald Stoll. Through this commitment Robey met Stoll, and the two wound up deep rooted companions. Toward the beginning of December, Robey showed up in five music lobbies a night, including Gatti's Under the Arches, the Tivoli Music Hall and the London Pavilion. In mid-December, he made a trip to Brighton, where he showed up in his first Christmas emulate, "Whittington Up-to-Date". Emulate would turn into a worthwhile and normal wellspring of work for the humorist. Cotes considers Robey's merry exhibitions the "foundation of his comic craftsmanship", and the wellspring of "a portion of his most prominent triumphs". 

Amid the 1890s Robey made various music corridor characters focused on regular daily existence. Among them were "The Chinese Laundryman" and "Clarence, the Last of the Dandies". As Clarence, Robey wearing a top cap and gown coat and conveyed a malacca stick, the clothing of a cliché Victorian man of honor. For his drag pieces, the humorist set up "The Lady Dresser", a female tailor who was edgy to out-dress her high class clients, and "Daisy Dillwater, the District Nurse" who touched base in front of an audience with a bike to share carefree embarrassment and tattle with the crowd before hastily cycling off. 

With Robey's notoriety came an enthusiasm to separate himself from his music lobby rivals, thus he concocted a mark outfit when showing up as himself: a larger than average dark coat secured starting from the neck with substantial, wooden catches; dark, unkempt, loose pants and an incompletely bare wig with dark, whispery strands of unbrushed, grimy looking hair that jabbed underneath an expansive, rumpled top-cap. He connected thick white face paint and overstated the redness on his cheeks and nose with brilliant red make-up; his eye line and eyebrows were additionally improved with thick, dark greasepaint. He held a short, deformed, wooden strolling stick, which was bended at the top. Robey later utilized the ensemble for his character, The Prime Minister of Mirth. The outfit helped Robey become in a flash conspicuous on the London music corridor circuit. He next made a begin at structure his collection and purchased the rights to comic melodies and monologs by a few settled music corridor journalists, including Sax Rohmer and Bennett Scott. For his schedules, Robey built up a trademark conveyance portrayed by Cotes as "a sort of assault rifle staccato shake through each polysyllabic line, finishing suddenly, and holding the delay while he fixed his gathering of people with his basilisk gaze." 

Toward the beginning of 1894, Robey made a trip to Manchester to take part in the emulate "Jack and Jill", where he was paid £25 per week for a three-month contract. He didn't show up in "Jack and Jill" until the third demonstration however satisfied the occasion swarms in any case. Amid one execution the landscape component fizzled, which constrained him to extemporize out of the blue. Robey manufactured a story that he had recently feasted with the Lord Mayor before itemizing precisely what he had eaten. The routine was such a hit, that it was consolidated into the show as a feature of the content. 

In the last a very long time of 1894, Robey came back to London to respect an agreement for Augustus Harris at the Theater Royal, Drury Lane, the subtleties of which are obscure. In September he featured in a progression of stand-up satire demonstrates that he would play out each September somewhere in the range of 1894 and 1899. These short exhibitions, in English shoreline resorts including Scarborough and Bournemouth, were structured mostly to upgrade his name among commonplace gatherings of people. For the 1895 and 1896 Christmas emulates, he showed up in Manchester and Birmingham, individually, in the title job of "Dick Whittington", for which he got good audits and commendation from groups of onlookers. In spite of the show's prosperity, Robey and his co-stars despised the experience. The performing artist Ada Reeve felt that the creation had an awful back-arrange climate and was appreciative when the season finished, while the comic Barry Lupino was disheartened at having his job, Muffins, extensively decreased. 

On 29 April 1898, Robey wedded his first spouse, the Australian-brought into the world melodic theater on-screen character Ethel Hayden, at St Clement Danes church in the Strand, London. The assembly was comprised of different showy partners; J. Pitt Hardacre was his best man, and author Leslie Stuart was the organist. Robey and Ethel dwelled quickly in Circus Road, St John's Wood, until the introduction of their first tyke Edward in 1900. They at that point moved to 83 Finchley Road in Swiss Cottage, Hampstead. Family life fit Robey; his child Edward reviewed numerous cheerful encounters with his dad, including the nighttimes when he would go with him to the about six music lobbies at which he would seem every night. 

By the beginning of the new century, Robey was a major name in emulate, and he had the capacity to pick his jobs. Emulate delighted in wide prevalence until the 1890s, however when Robey had achieved his pinnacle, enthusiasm for it was on the disappear. A sort of character he especially delighted in taking on was the emulate woman, which verifiably was played by comics from the music lobby. Robey was propelled by the more established humorists Herbert Campbell and Dan Leno, and, in spite of the fact that post-dating them, he equaled their capriciousness and fame, winning the bubbly stimulation another crowd. In his 1972 account of Robey, Neville Cardus felt that the comic was "at his fullest as an emulate Dame". 

In 1902 Robey made the character "The Prehistoric Man". He dressed as a cave dweller and talked about present day political issues, frequently grumbling about the administration "slapping another pound of shake on his assessments". The character was gotten positively by gatherings of people, who thought that it was anything but difficult to identify with his topical perceptions. That year he discharged "The Prehistoric Man" and "Not That I Wish to Say Anything" on shellac circles utilizing the early acoustic account process. 

Robey marked a six-year contract in June 1904 to show up every year at, among different scenes, the Oxford Music Hall in London, for an expense of £120 per week. The agreement additionally expected him to perform amid the spring and harvest time seasons somewhere in the range of 1910 and 1912. Robey debated this piece of the agreement and expressed that he consented to this just as an individual support to the music corridor administrator George Adney Payne and that it ought to have turned out to be void on Payne's demise in 1907. The administration of the Oxford counter-asserted and disallowed Robey from showing up in some other music corridor amid this period. The issue went to court, where the judge found to support Robey. 

Robey was locked in to assume the title job in the 1905 emulate "Ruler of Hearts". The show was considered racy by the showy press. In one scene Robey incidentally sat on his crown before crying "Help! Methinks I have sat upon a hedgehog"; in another sketch, the humorist pondered, "At that point there's Mrs Simkins, the chic! Numerous' the crush she's had of my blue sack on washing day." Robey scored a further hit with the demonstrate the next year, in Birmingham, which Cotes depicts as "the most renowned of all well known Birmingham Theater Royal mimes". Robey fused "The Dresser", a music corridor sketch taken from his very own collection, into the show. Throughout the following couple of years he kept on visiting the music corridor circuit both in London and the English regions and recorded two melodies, "What Are You Looking at Me For?" and "The Mayor of Mudcumdyke", which were later discharged by the Gramophone and Typewriter Company. 

Off-arrange, Robey drove a functioning way of life and was a sharp beginner sportsman. He was glad for his solid build and kept up it by performing continuous exercise and following a watchful eating regimen. When he was in his mid-thirties, he had played as a novice against Millwall, Chelsea and Fulham football clubs. He sorted out and played in numerous philanthropy football coordinates all through England, which were depicted by the wearing press as being of an extremely elevated requirement, and he remained a functioning football player a ways into his fifties. Robey moved toward becoming related with cricket by 1895 when he drove a group of novice players for a match at Turney Road in Dulwich. In September 1904, while showing up in Hull, he was asked by the cricketer Harry Wrathall to participate in a philanthropy cricket coordinate at the Yorkshire County Cricket Club. Robey played so well that Wrathall requested that he return the next Saturday to participate in an expert diversion. That weekend, while holding up in the structure before the amusement, Robey was drawn closer by an operator for Hull City A.F.C., who requested that the entertainer play in a match that equivalent evening. Robey concurred, swapped his cricket woolen clothes for a football pack and played with the group against Nottingham Forest as an inside right. 

By 1903 Robey was playing at a semi-proficient dimension. He was marked as an inside forward by Millwall Football Club and scored numerous objectives for them. He likewise showed a decent dimension of capacity in vigoro, an Australian game got from both cricket and baseball which was brief in England. After two years he turned into an individual from the Marylebone Cricket Club and played in minor recreations for them for a long time. He picked up a notoriety at the club for his comic tricks on the field, for example, raising his eyebrows at the moving toward bowler trying to divert him. The essayist Neville Cardus was complimentary about Robey's cricket ability and called him "a rich player" whose exhibitions on the cricket field were as engaging as they were on the stage. Despite the fact that an adaptable player, Robey thought of himself as a "medium-paced, right-gave bowler". 

Robey was approached to help sort out a philanthropy football coordinate in 1907 by companions of the Scottish football mentor James Miller, who had passed on the earlier year. Robey gathered a group of beginner footballers from the dramatic calling and met Miller's previous group Chelsea Football Club at their home ground. The match raised impressive continues for Miller's widow. Robey was glad for the match and clowned: "I simply needed to ensure that Chelsea remain in the primary division." 

In his extra time, Robey made violins, a pastime that he originally took up amid his years in Dresden. He turned into a talented expert of the instrument, in spite of the fact that he never planned for them to be played out in the open. Talking during the 1960s, the musician and writer Yehudi Menuhin, who played one of Robey's violins for an open act amid that decade, called the humorist's done instrument "proficient". He was charmed by the possibility that a man as well known as Robey could deliver such a "flawlessly completed" instrument, unbeknown to general society. Robey was additionally a craftsman, and a portion of his pen and ink self-cartoons are kept at the National Portrait Gallery, London. 

Robey's first prominent welcome came in the principal decade of the 1900s from Hugh Lowther, fifth Earl of Lonsdale, who enlisted him as excitement for a gathering he was facilitating at Carlton House Terrace in Westminster. Before long thereafter, the entertainer showed up out of the blue before eminence when King Edward VII had Robey enlisted for a few private capacities. Robey played out a progression of tunes and monologs and presented the "City hall leader of Mudcumdyke", which was all met with much acclaim and profound respect from the illustrious watchers. He was later contracted by Edward's child, the Prince of Wales (the future King George V), who masterminded an act at Carlton House Terrace for his companion Lord Curzon. 

In July 1912, at the welcome of the manager Oswald Stoll, Robey participated without precedent for the Royal Command Performance, to which Cotes traits "one of the prime factors in his proceeding with ubiquity". Ruler George V and Queen Mary were "pleased" with Robey's comic sketch, in which he played out the "Civic chairman of Mudcumdyke" in broad daylight out of the blue. Robey observed the regal show to be a less overwhelming knowledge than the various private direction exhibitions that he gave amid his profession. 

At the episode of the First World War, Robey wished to enroll in the military in any case, presently in his 40s, he was too old for dynamic administration. Rather, he volunteered for the Special Constabulary and fund-raised for philanthropy through his exhibitions as an entertainer. It was normal for him to complete at the venue at 1:00 am and afterward to watch as an uncommon constable until 6:00 am, the place he would as often as possible help out amid dirigible assaults. He consolidated his non military personnel obligations with work for a volunteer engine transport unit towards the finish of the war, in which he filled in as a lieutenant. He submitted three evenings every week to the corps while sorting out exhibitions amid the day to profit war philanthropies. Robey was a solid supporter of the Merchant Navy and suspected that they were regularly ignored when it came to magnanimous gifts. He raised £22,000 at an advantage held at the London Coliseum, which he gave in the naval force's support. 

Robey's first involvement in film was in 1913, with two early solid film shorts: "And Very Nice Too" and "Great Queen Bess", made in the Kinoplasticon procedure, where the film was synchronized with phonograph records. The following year, he endeavored to copy his music corridor partners Billy Merson and Charlie Austin, who had set up Homeland Films and discovered accomplishment with the "Squibs" arrangement of movies featuring Betty Balfour. Robey met movie producers from the Burns Film Company, who connected with him in a quiet short entitled "George Robey Turns Anarchist", in which he played a character who neglects to explode the Houses of Parliament. He kept on showing up sporadically in film all through the remainder of his vocation, failing to achieve in excess of an unassuming measure of accomplishment. 

In 1914, without precedent for some years, Robey showed up in a Christmas emulate as a male when he was locked in to assume the title job in "Sinbad the Sailor"; Fred Emney Sr assumed the woman job. Despite the fact that the pundits were shocked by the throwing, it spoke to groups of onlookers, and the scenes highlighting Robey and Emney together demonstrated the most paramount. Amid the war the interest for light amusement in the English areas ensured Robey visit appointments and an ordinary pay. His appearances in Manchester, Liverpool, Newcastle and Glasgow were as well known as his yearly exhibitions in Birmingham. His better half Ethel went with him on these visits and every now and again featured close by him. 

By the First World War, music lobby stimulation had dropped out of support with gatherings of people. Showy history specialists accuse the music lobby's decay for the expanding pay rates of entertainers and the corridors' failure to introduce productively the twenty or thirty acts that the crowds expected to see. Revue spoke to wartime gatherings of people, and Robey chose to gain by the medium's prominence. Stoll offered Robey a rewarding contract in 1916 to show up in the new revue "The Bing Boys Are Here" at the Alhambra Theater, London. Partitioning his time between three or four music lobbies a night had turned out to be unappealing to the entertainer, and he savored the chance to show up in a solitary theater. He was given a role as Lucius Bing inverse Violet Loraine, who played his adoration intrigue Emma, and the couple duetted in the show's mark tune "In the event that You Were the Only Girl (In the World)", which turned into a global achievement. 

This London commitment was another experience for Robey, who had just been acquainted with common mimes and week-long, limited satire appears. Beside emulate, he had never participated in a long-running generation, and he had never needed to remember lines accurately or keep to plans upheld by exacting executives and theater supervisors. "The Bing Boys Are Here" kept running for 378 exhibitions and involved the Alhambra for over a year. The dramatic press commended Robey as "the principal on-screen character of the corridors". He made two movies towards the finish of the war: "The Anti-pointlessness League" in 1916 and "Doing His Bit" the next year. 

Robey left the cast of "The Bing Boys" amid its run, in January 1917, to star at the London Hippodrome in Albert de Courville, Dave Stamper and Gene Buck's extravagantly organized revue "Crisscross!". Robey incorporated a sketch dependent on his music corridor character "The Prehistoric Man", with Daphne Pollard assuming the job of "She of the Tireless Tongue". In another scene, he played an inebriated man of honor who inadvertently verifies a crate at the Savoy Theater rather than a planned lodging. The group of onlookers seemed lethargic to the character, so he transformed it mid-execution to that of a gullible Yorkshire man. The change incited much diversion, and it wound up a standout amongst the most prominent scenes of the show. "Crisscross" kept running for 648 exhibitions. Stoll again verified Robey for the Alhambra in 1918 for a continuation, "The Bing Boys on Broadway". The show, again co-featuring Violet Loraine, coordinated the ubiquity of its antecedent and beat the first show's kept running with a sum of 562 exhibitions. 

Robey came back to the London Hippodrome in 1919 where he played a main job in another hit revue, "Satisfaction Bells". Phyllis Bedells took over from Pollard as his stage accomplice, with Anita Elson and Leon Errol as supporting artists. Robey assumed the job of an antiquated dad who is bewildered over the changing conventions after the First World War. He inserted two music corridor outlines: "No, No, No" fixated on turning guiltless, ordinary platitudes into suggestive and provocative proverbs, and "The Rest Cure" recounted to the account of a pre-operation clinic persistent who hears stressing accounts of misbehavior from his benevolent companions who visit him. In the Italian paper "La Tribuna", the essayist Emilio Cecchi remarked: "Robey, just by being Robey, makes us giggle until we sob. We would prefer not to see either Figaro or Othello; it is sufficiently very for Robey to show up in going outfit and to turn his eyes in crab-like style starting with one side of the hall then onto the next. Robey's angle in managing his crowd is fatherly and, one may state, biblical." "Happiness Bells" kept running for 723 exhibitions. 

In the early long periods of 1919, Robey finished a book of diaries, "My Rest Cure", which was distributed soon thereafter. Amid the keep running of "Happiness Bells" he was granted the Legion of Honor for raising £14,000 for the French Red Cross. He declined a knighthood that equivalent year in light of the fact that, as indicated by Cotes, he was stressed that the title would remove him from his common laborers crowds; he was designated a CBE by George V at Buckingham Palace. On the morning of the penultimate "Bliss Bells" execution, Robey was welcome to Stoll's London office, where he was offered a job in another revue at the Alhambra Theater. On the adventure, he met the theater director Sir Alfred Butt, who consented to pay him £100 more, however out of reliability to Stoll, he declined the offer and continued his £600 seven days contract at the Alhambra. On 28 July 1919, Robey participated in his second Royal Command Performance, at the London Coliseum. He and Loraine sang "In the event that You Were the Only Girl (In the World)". 

A hole in the Alhambra's timetable permitted Stoll to exhibit Robey in another short film. "George Robey's Day Off" (1919) demonstrated the comic showcasing his every day household schedules to comic impact, however the image fizzled in the cinema world. The British executive John Baxter inferred that makers did not realize how best to apply Robey's stage abilities to film. 

By 1920 assortment theater had turned out to be famous in Britain, and Robey had finished the effective change from music corridor to assortment star. Emulate, which depended on its stars to make up a significant part of the content through off the cuff, was additionally starting to drop out of support, and his counterparts were discovering it too hard to even think about creating new material for each execution; for Robey, be that as it may, the merry amusement kept on being a rewarding wellspring of work. 

Robey's first revue of the 1920s was "Johnny Jones", which opened on 1 June 1920 at the Alhambra Theater. The show additionally highlighted Ivy St. Helier, Lupino Lane and Eric Blore and conveyed the promotion "A Robey serving of mixed greens with melodic dressing". One of the show's increasingly prominent stiflers was a scene in which Robey picked and ate fruits off St. Helier's cap, before hurling the stones into the ensemble pit which were then met by boisterous blasts from the bass drum. An indication of his prominence came in August 1920 when he was portrayed in exploring ensemble for a progression of 12 Royal Mail stamps in help of the Printers Pension Corporation War Orphans and the Prince of Wales Boy Scout Funds. 

The revue "Robey en Casserole" (1921) was next for Robey, amid which he drove a troupe of artists in a melodic piece called the "Policemen Ballet". Every artist was wearing a false police uniform on top and a tutu underneath. The show was the main disappointment for the entertainer under Stoll's administration. That December Robey showed up in his solitary London emulate, "Jack and the Beanstalk", at the Hippodrome. His biographer, Peter Cotes, recollected the humorist's translation of Dame Trot as "immensely amusing: a rural personification of a lady, durable and fruity, weathered and denying" and imagined that Robey's comic planning was "in its very own class." In March 1922 Robey stayed at the Hippodrome in the revue "Round in Fifty", a modernized variant of "Round the World in Eighty Days", which turned out to be another hit for the London theater, and an undisputed top choice of the comic. 

Stoll conveyed Robey to film groups of onlookers a further multiple times amid 1923. The initial two movies were composed with the aim of displaying the comic's emulate abilities: "One Arabian Night" was a revising of "Aladdin" and co-featured Lionelle Howard and Edward O'Neill, while "Harlequinade" visited the underlying foundations of emulate. One of Robey's progressively prominent jobs under Stoll was Sancho Panza in Maurice Elvey's 1923 film "Wear Quixote", for which he got an expense of £700 every week. The measure of time he spent working far from home prompted the breakdown of his marriage, and he isolated from Ethel in 1923. He had a concise illicit relationship with one of his driving women and left the family home. 

Robey made an arrival to the London Hippodrome in 1924 in the revue "Jump Year" in which he co-featured with Laddie Cliff, Betty Chester and Vera Pearce. "Jump Year" was set in South Africa, Australia and Canada, and was composed to interest the vacationers who were visiting London from the Commonwealth nations. Robey was a lot to their preferences, and his version of "My Old Dutch" helped the show accomplish another long keep running of 421 exhibitions. "High as can be" was straightaway and opened at the London Palladium in March 1925. The tune artist Marie Blanche was his co-star, an organization that made the tattle journalists remark on the entertainers' supposed sentiment two years beforehand. Notwithstanding the bits of gossip Blanche proceeded as his driving woman for the following four years, and "High as can be" went on for 309 exhibitions on the West End organize. 

The year 1926 was deficient in assortment diversion, a reality to a great extent ascribed to the UK general strike that had happened in May of that year. The strike was unforeseen by Robey, who had marked the earlier year to star in a progression of assortment dates for Moss Empires. The agreement was rewarding, made all the more so by the humorist's eagerness to deal with his very own appointments. He took the show to the areas under the title of "Odds and ends" and utilized an organization of 25 craftsmen just as designers and care staff. Regardless of the monetary hardships of Britain in 1926, substantial quantities of individuals ended up seeing the show. He came back to Birmingham, a city where he was held in incredible friendship, and where he was certain the groups of onlookers would grasp his new show. Be that as it may, blue pencils requested that he exclude the provocative melody "I Stopped, I Looked, I Listened" and that he vigorously alter the sketch "The Cheat". The limitations neglected to hose the gatherings of people's excitement, and "Odds and ends" delighted in rave surveys. It kept running until Christmas and earned a six-month expansion. 

In the spring of 1927 Robey grasped the chance to visit abroad, when he and his organization took "Odds and ends" to South Africa, where it was gotten positively. When he had left Cape Town, he had played to more than 60,000 individuals and had gone more than 15,000 miles. Upon his arrival to England in October, he took "Odds and ends" to Bradford. In August 1928, Robey and his organization made a trip to Canada, where they played to stuffed groups of onlookers for three months. It was there that he created another revue, "Between Ourselves", in Vancouver, which was arranged particularly for the nation's military. The Canadians were eager about Robey; he was granted the opportunity of the city in London, Ontario, made a chieftain of the Sarcee clan, and was a privileged visitor at a cricket coordinate in Edmonton, Alberta. He depicted the visit as "one of solid bliss." In the late 1920s Robey additionally composed and featured in two Phonofilm sound in movie form preparations, "Security First" (1928) and "Mrs. Mephistopheles" (1929). 

In mid 1929 Robey came back to South Africa and afterward Canada for another visit with "Odds and ends", after which he began another arrangement of assortment goes back in England. Among the towns he visited was Woolwich, where he performed to stuffed groups of onlookers through the span of seven days. Here he met the theater directors Frank and Agnes Littler, with the last quickly turning into his supervisor. In 1932 Robey showed up in his first stable film, "The Temperance Fête", and pursued this with "Wed Me", which was, as indicated by his biographer A. E. Wilson, a standout amongst the best melodic movies of the humorist's profession. The film recounts to the tale of a sound recordist in a gramophone organization who sentiments an associate when she turns into the family servant. 

By the later long stretches of 1932, Robey had shaped a sentimental association with the Littlers' girl Blanche (1897– 1981), who at that point took over as his supervisor. The couple developed close amid the recording of "Wear Quixote", a change of the entertainer's 1923 accomplishment as Sancho Panza. In contrast to its antecedent, "Wear Quixote" had a goal-oriented content, huge spending plan and a real remote setting. Robey, in any case, disdained growing a facial hair for the job and detested the French atmosphere and tiring 12-week recording plan. He would not showcase his character's passing scene absurdly and furthermore protested the delay of the "terribly trite" contents, which were frequently composed the prior night taping. 

Until 1932 Robey had never played in real theater, in spite of the fact that he read Shakespeare since the beginning. That year he took the piece of King Menelaus in "Helen!", which was an English-language adjustment by A. P. Herbert of Offenbach's operetta "La beauty Hélène". The show's maker C. B. Cochran, a longstanding admirer of Robey, drew in a lofty cast for the generation, including Evelyn Laye and W. H. Berry, with movement by Léonide Massine and sets by Oliver Messel. The operetta opened on 30 January 1932, turning into the Adelphi Theater's best show of the year. The pundit Harold Conway composed that while Robey had achieved the apex of his profession as an assortment star, which just expected him to depend on his "windy, brazen identity", he had misgivings about the comic's capacity to "coordinate himself with the other stars ... to learn numerous pages of exchange, and to recall incalculable signs." 

After the keep running of "Helen!", Robey quickly continued his duties to the assortment arrange before marking an agreement to show up at the Savoy Theater as Bold Ben Blister in the operetta "Happy Roger", which debuted in March 1933. The creation had a kept running of misfortune, including a performing artists' strike which was brought about by Robey's refusal to join the on-screen characters' association Equity. The question was settled when he was incorporated as a co-maker of the show, in this way barring him as a full-time on-screen character. Robey made a significant gift to the association, and the generation proceeded. Notwithstanding its inconveniences, the show was a triumph and gotten much applause from the press. Harold Conway of the "Day by day Mail" called the piece "one of the exceptional triumphs of identity saw in a London theater". Soon thereafter, Robey finished his last personal history, "Thinking Back on Life". The artistic pundit Graham Sutton respected Robey for his genuine and straight to the point record, and felt that he was "getting it done when generally close to home". 

As indicated by Wilson, Robey respected Shakespeare and had a "great perusing learning of the Bard" despite the fact that the entertainer had never observed a Shakespeare play. As a tyke, he had focused on memory the "apparition" scene in "Hamlet". Writing in 1933, Cochran communicated the supposition that Robey had been a casualty of a to a great extent traditionalist and "grandiose" demeanor from theater administrators, that the comic was "ready to deal with Shakespeare", and that on the off chance that he had been oftentimes occupied with playing the Bard's works, at that point "Shakespeare would most likely have been prominent." In 1934, the theater chief Sydney Carroll offered Robey the opportunity to show up as Nick Bottom in "A Midsummer Night's Dream" at the Open Air Theater, Regent's Park, however he at first declined the offer, refering to a feverish calendar, incorporating a contention with his appearance in that year's Royal Variety Performance on 8 May. He was likewise worried that he would not be paid attention to by authentic theater commentators and realized that he would not have the capacity to incorporate a comic sketch or to participate in his standard ingenious choking. Around the same time, Robey featured in a film form of the hit melodic "Chu Chin Chow". "The New York Times" called him "an adorable and ridiculous Ali Baba". 

Toward the beginning of 1935 Robey acknowledged his first Shakespearean job, as Falstaff in "Henry IV, Part 1", which amazed the press and stressed fans who felt that he may resign the Prime Minister of Mirth. The dramatic press were incredulous of a music corridor entertainer taking on such a recognized job; Carroll, the play's maker, passionately shielded his throwing decision. Carroll later conceded taking a bet on utilizing Robey yet composed that the comic "has boundless bravery in testing analysis and taking a chance with his notoriety on an endeavor of this sort; he takes the two his past and his future in two hands and is looked with the option of dashing them into the profundities or lifting them to a stature heretofore undreamt of." Carroll further opined that "[Robey] has never flopped in anything he has embraced. He is a standout amongst the most clever and fit for performers." 

"Henry IV, Part I" opened on 28 February at Her Majesty's Theater, and Robey ended up being a skilled Shakespearean performing artist, however his Shakespearean presentation was damaged at first by a powerlessness to recall his lines. A writer from "The Daily Express" believed that Robey appeared to be awkward, shown a stopping conveyance and was "a long way from word impeccable". Writing in "The Observer", the pundit Ivor Brown said of Robey's depiction: "In no execution inside my memory has the on-screen character been all the more clearly the burdened hireling of his lines and all the more clearly the transcendent ace of the circumstance". Another columnist, writing in the "Day by day Mirror", felt that Robey "gave 25 percent of Shakespeare and 75 percent of himself". 

Regardless, such was Robey's ubiquity in the job that the German theater and film maker Max Reinhardt pronounced that, should the open door emerge for a film form, the humorist would be his ideal decision as Falstaff. Cotes depicted Robey as having "an extraordinary essentialness and tremendous direction of the [role]. He never vacillated, he needed to take his gathering of people by the throat and make them mindful on the double since he couldn't play himself in." Although he was anxious to be paid attention to as an authentic performing artist, Robey gave an unobtrusive gesture toward his comic vocation by utilizing the wooden stick planned for the Prime Minister of Mirth for most of his scenes as Falstaff. The artist John Betjeman reacted to the pundits' initial suspicion: "Assortment artistes are a different world from the real stage. They are discrete as well, from expressive dance, musical show, and melodic parody. It is feasible for assortment craftsmen to show up in these. Without a doubt, nobody who saw will ever overlook the eminent emotion and silliness of George Robey's Falstaff". Afterward, in 1935, Blanche Littler influenced Robey to acknowledge Carroll's prior idea to play Bottom, and the entertainer dropped three weeks of dates. The press were complimentary of his execution, and he later credited his prosperity to Littler and her support. 

Robey made his radio presentation in 1936 when he was met for "The Spice of Life" program for the BBC. He talked about his private life and his time spent on the music corridor circuit, which he depicted as the "most agreeable experience" of his life. The normally held Robey conceded that secretly he was not a friendly individual and that he frequently became sick of his groups of onlookers while performing in front of an audience, however that he got his greatest rush from making others chuckle. He additionally announced an adoration for the outside and referenced that, to unwind, he would draw "comic scrawls" of himself as the Prime Minister of Mirth, which he would once in a while provide for fans. Because of the meeting he got in excess of a thousand fan letters from audience members. Wilson believed that Robey's "immaculate phrasing and close way made him a perfect communicate speaker". The press remarked positively on his execution, with one correspondent from "Assortment Life" expressing: "I question whether any speaker other than a phase symbol could have utilized, as Robey did, the principal individual solitary unendingly for 30 minutes without making something associated resentment. ... The entertainer's discussion was splendidly considered and composed." 

In the later long stretches of 1936, Robey rehashed his radio accomplishment with a thirty-minute program entitled "Music-Hall", recorded for American gatherings of people, to respect the tenth birthday celebration of the National Broadcasting Corporation. In it, he displayed a montage of his characterisations just as impressions of different celebrated demonstrations of the day. A second program, which he recorded the next year, included the entertainer talking affectionately of cricket and of the some outstanding players whom he had met on his regular visits to the Oval and Lord's cricket grounds over his fifty-year affiliation. 

In the mid year of 1938 Robey showed up in the movie "A Girl Must Live", coordinated via Carol Reed, in which he assumed the job of Horace Blount. A report in the "Kinematograph Weekly" remarked that the 69-year-old humorist was as yet ready to "face the screen by day and assortment by night." A columnist for "The Times" opined that Robey's execution as an old furrier, the adoration enthusiasm of both Margaret Lockwood and Lilli Palmer, was "an ideal report in stupefied humiliation". 

Robey made his TV debut in August 1938 however was unenthused with the medium and just shown up. The BBC maker Grace Wyndham Goldie was terrified at how little of his "funny quality" was passed on the little screen. Goldie felt that Robey's comic capacities were not restricted to his voice and depended to a great extent on the connection between his outward appearances and his clever words. She felt that he should "be prohibited, by his very own holy messenger, if no one else, to approach the common mouthpiece". Regardless, Goldie stayed idealistic about Robey's future TV vocation. The columnist L. Marsland Gander differ and imagined that Robey's strategies were "actually unreasonably moderate for TV". 

That November, and with his separation from Ethel finished, Robey wedded Blanche Littler, who was over two decades his lesser, at Marylebone Town Hall. At Christmas, he broke three ribs and wounded his spine when he coincidentally fell into the symphony pit while showing up in the 1938– 39 emulate "Robinson Crusoe" in Birmingham. He credited the tumble to his face veil which gave him a restricted perspective on the stage. The commentator Harold Conway was less sympathetic, accusing the mishap for the entertainer's "lost fearlessness" and opining that the mishap was the beginning of Robey's expert decay. 

Mindful of interest for his demonstration in Australia, Robey led a second voyage through the nation toward the beginning of 1939. While he was showing up at the Tivoli Theater in Sydney, war broke out with Germany. Robey came back to England and focused his endeavors on engaging to fund-raise for the war exertion. He joined with the Entertainments National Service Association (ENSA) for whom he showed up in a wide scope of shows and furthermore in his own small time commitment. He would here and there turn up unannounced to perform at medical clinics, ammo industrial facilities, landing strips, hostile to air ship posts and different settings where there was a crowd of people of only a couple of individuals. 

Amid the 1940s, Robey showed up transcendently in troop shows as himself however caused discussion by flippantly supporting the Nazis and disparaging dark individuals amid his demonstration. His goals were to tenderly make jokes about the "Little Englanders", however groups of onlookers suspected that he was identifying with Nazism. His funny view that a thrashing for Hitler would mean a triumph for bolshevism was featured in a progression of questionable meetings, which caused him much shame when tested and which he lamented a short time later. His perspectives wound up referred to in the press as "Robeyisms", which drew expanding analysis, however his Prime Minister of Mirth stayed mainstream, and he utilized the character to redirect the negative attention. Cotes composed that Robey was not a legislator, just a jingoist, who "lived sufficiently long to feel [that] his little-Englander viewpoint [was causing him] intense humiliation, and his military of admirers profound overwhelm." 

Robey featured in the movie "Salute John Citizen" in 1942, coordinated by Maurice Elvey and co-featuring Edward Rigby and Stanley Holloway, about the impacts that the war had on an ordinary British family. In a 1944 survey of the film, Robey was portrayed as being "persuading in [an] essential job" however the film itself had "dull minutes in the basic story". That Christmas, Robey ventured out to Bristol, where he featured in the emulate "Robinson Crusoe". A further four movies followed in 1943, one of which advanced war purposeful publicity while the other two showed the well known vehicle of cine-assortment. Cine-assortment acquainted Robey with the Astoria in Finsbury Park, London, a scene which was utilized to colossal groups of onlookers and enormous name acts and was depicted as "a super-film". 

Amid the early long periods of 1944, Robey came back to the job of Falstaff when he showed up in the film adaptation of "Henry V", delivered by Eagle-Lion Films. The American film pundit Bosley Crowther had blended feelings of the film. Writing in "The New York Times" in 1946, he imagined that it displayed "a fine gathering of British film skilled workers and on-screen characters", who added to "an amazingly splendid and fascinating screen scene". In spite of that, he thought about the film's extra screenplay poor and called Falstaff's deathbed scene "insignificant and slightly odd." Late in 1944, he showed up in Burnley in a show entitled "Vive Paree" nearby Janice Hart and Frank O'Brian. In 1945, Robey featured in two minor film jobs, as "Old Sam" in "The Trojan Brothers", a short parody film in which two on-screen characters experience different issues as an emulate horse, and as "Vogel" in the melodic sentiment "Three step dance Time". He burned through 1947 visiting England, while the accompanying spring he attempted a commonplace voyage through Frederick Bowyer's pixie play "The Windmill Man", which he likewise co-delivered with his significant other. 

In June 1951, presently matured 81, Robey featured in a midnight affair exhibition at the London Palladium in help of the group of Sid Field who had kicked the bucket that year. For the finale, Robey performed "I Stopped, I Looked, I Listened" and "On the off chance that You Were the Only Girl in the World"; the remainder of the three-hour execution included famous people from the radio, TV and film mediums. The American entertainer Danny Kaye, who was likewise connected with for the execution, called Robey an "extraordinary, incredible craftsman". That month, Robey came back to Birmingham, where he opened a patio nursery party at St. Mary and St. Ambrose Church, a setting in which he had showed up toward the start of his profession. On 25 September he showed up for the BBC on a version of the radio arrangement "Desert Island Disks" for which he picked among others "Mondo ladro", Falstaff's regretful protest about the underhanded world in Verdi's musical drama "Falstaff". For the remainder of the year Robey showed up opening fetes and going to philanthropy occasions. 

Robey participated in the Festival of Variety for the BBC in 1951, which paid tribute to the British music lobby. For his execution, he received an off the cuff style as opposed to utilize a content. His better half sat along the edge of the stage, prepared to offer help should he need it. As per Wilson, Robey's turn earned the most intense praise of the night. The next month Robey embraced a long common visit in the theatrical presentation "Do You Remember?" under the administration of Bernard Delfont. After a night's exhibition in Sheffield, he was asked by a nearby paper correspondent on the off chance that he thought about resigning. The comic joked: "Me resign? Great benevolent, I'm unreasonably old for that. I couldn't consider beginning another vocation at my age!" In December, he opened the Lansbury Lodge home for resigned cricketers in Poplar, East London; he believed the function to be one of the "most joyful recollections of his life." 

By mid 1952, Robey was ending up discernibly fragile, and he lost enthusiasm for huge numbers of his donning interests. Rather, he remained at home and drew comic representations including the Prime Minister of Mirth. In May he shot "The Pickwick Papers", in which he assumed the job of old Tony Weller, a section which he had at first turned down on wellbeing grounds. The next year, and in help of the amusements finance, he featured as Clown in a short emulate at the Olympic Variety Show at the Victoria Palace Theater. Coordinators requested him to show up in the Prime Minister of Mirth ensemble rather than the typical jokester clothing, a solicitation the humorist was upbeat to satisfy. 

In the early long periods of 1954, a knighthood was presented on Robey by Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother at Buckingham Palace. Amid the next weeks, his wellbeing declined; he wound up kept to a wheelchair and invested most of his energy at home under the consideration of his significant other. In May he opened a British Red Cross fete in Seaford, East Sussex, and, after a month, showed up, on TV as a specialist in the English rendition of "The Name's the Same". Wilson called Robey's execution "lamentable" and believed that he showed up with just "a trace of his old self". By June he had turned out to be housebound and discreetly praised his 85th birthday celebration encompassed by family; visiting companions were sorted out into arrangements by his better half Blanche, however dramatic partners were banned on the off chance that they caused the humorist an excess of energy. 

Robey endured a stroke on 20 November and stayed in a semi-trance like state for a little more than seven days. He passed on 29 November 1954 at his home in Saltdean, East Sussex, and was incinerated at the Downs Crematorium in Brighton. Blanche kept on living on the Sussex coast until her passing at 83 years old in 1981. 

Updates on Robey's passing provoked tributes from the press, who printed outlines, tales and notices of his stage exhibitions and altruistic exercises. "Knighthood in any case, George Robey some time in the past made himself a spot as a performer and craftsman of the general population", proclaimed a columnist from the "Day by day Worker", while a pundit for the "Day by day Mail" expressed: "Identity has turned into an uncontrollably abused word since his prime, however George Robey inhaled it in each pore." In Robey's eulogy in "The Spectator", Compton Mackenzie called the humorist "one of the last incredible figures of the late Victorian and Edwardian music-corridor." 

In December 1954, a dedication administration for Robey was held at St Paul's Cathedral. The various gathering comprised of eminence, performing artists, emergency clinic laborers, organize work force, understudies and cab drivers, among others. The Bishop of Stepney, Joost de Blank, stated: "We have lost an extraordinary English music lobby craftsman, one of the best this nation has known in the late nineteenth and twentieth hundreds of years." Performers gave readings at the administration, including the comic Leslie Henson, who called Robey "that incredible resolved bullock of assortment". In his lifetime, Robey earned more than £2,000,000 for beneficent causes, with £500,000 of that figure being raised amid the First World War. In acknowledgment of his endeavors, the Merchant Seaman's Convalescent Home in Limpsfield, Surrey, named a ward after him, and administrative staff at the Royal Sussex Hospital later purchased another dialysis machine in his memory. 

Robey's comic conveyance affected different entertainers, however feelings of his viability as a comic shift. The radio character Robb Wilton recognized taking in a great deal from him, and despite the fact that he felt that Robey "was not clever", he could time a comic circumstance splendidly. So also, the humorist Charlie Chester conceded that, as a comic, Robey "still didn't make me giggle," despite the fact that he portrayed him as "a legend" whose Prime Minister of Mirth character utilized a wonderful make-up structure. Robey's biographer Peter Cotes couldn't help contradicting these appraisals, adulating the entertainer's "funny like cleverness" and contrasting it in enormity with Chaplin's emulating and Grock's fooling. Cotes stated: "His Mayor, Professor of Music, Saracen, Dame Trot, Queen of Hearts, District Nurse, Pro's Landlady, and obviously his unfading Prime Minister, were all absurdities: rich, outsize in demure and pride, superbly opposing bureaucratic negligible officialdom even under the least favorable conditions, best and most entertaining." 

Violet Loraine called her previous co-star "one of the best humorists the world has ever known", while the showy maker Basil Dean opined that "George was an incredible craftsman, one of the last and the huge figures of his time. They don't breed them like that now." The performer John Gielgud, who met Robey at the Alhambra Theater in 1953, called the entertainer "enchanting, generous [and] one of only a handful couple of extremely extraordinary ones" of the music corridor time. Upon his demise, Robey's ensemble for the Prime Minister of Mirth was given to the London Museum, where it is on lasting showcase. 

Notes 

References