Pah Wongso Pendekar Boediman 

Pah Wongso Pendekar Boediman (Malay for "Pah Wongso the Righteous Warrior") is a 1941 analyst film from the Dutch East Indies (presently Indonesia). The main generation by Star Film, it was delivered by Jo Eng Sek and highlights camerawork by Cho' Chin Hsin. Featuring Pah Wongso, Elly Joenara and Mohamad Arief, it pursues the social specialist Pah Wongso as he researches a homicide to demonstrate his protégé's innocence. 

The main film of its type to be created in the Indies, "Pah Wongso Pendekar Boediman" was made to exploit the notoriety of Wijnhamer and Hollywood characters, for example, Charlie Chan and Mr. Moto. Discharged in April 1941 to prominent recognition, it had a blended basic gathering; the commentator Saeroen proposed that its prosperity was totally a result of its star's prestige. A continuation of this film, "Pah Wongso Tersangka", was discharged later in 1941 yet is perhaps lost. 

Pah Wongso is a nut merchant, social specialist, and schoolmaster who lives in Batavia and deals with the neighborhood poor. One day his young protégé Wisnoe spares the life of a young lady named Siti when she is nearly hit by a carriage. Grateful, her dad Haji Abdullah gives Wisnoe a vocation at his rice plant. Wisnoe's enthusiasm and determination rapidly makes him emerge from his kindred workers and he starts to charm Siti, who restores his affections. 

In any case, Wisnoe's cousin Bardja is desirous of his newly discovered achievement. A speculator who frequents whores, Bardja is stricken with Siti, who does not cherish him. Wanting to dispose of his opposition, Bardja contracts a few hooligans to slaughter Wisnoe; this endeavor falls flat, and Bardja's monetary circumstance turns out to be progressively edgy. He chooses to take from his rich uncle yet is gotten in the demonstration. In the following battle, he slaughters the more established man, at that point outlines Wisnoe for the homicide. 

Wisnoe is captured, and soon Pah Wongso – cautioned by Siti of Bardja's past treachery – starts to research the case. At last he finds that Bardja is the genuine killer and goes up against him, bringing about a fight until the very end. Wongso rises triumphant, and Wisnoe's name is cleared. 

"Pah Wongso Pendekar Boediman" was delivered by Jo Eng Sek, a businessperson who had created the film "Si Tjonat" in 1929. Cinematography on this highly contrasting film was dealt with by Cho' Chin Hsin, who had as of late moved from Shanghai. The film was the principal creation of Star Film, a studio which Jo and Cho' had built up in Prinsenland, Batavia (presently Mangga Besar, Jakarta). 

At the time, the Hollywood characters Charlie Chan and Mr. Moto were prominent in the Indies, as were imported criminologist films by and large; notwithstanding, no movies in that kind had yet been created locally. This drove Jo to make an investigator film which he thought would be fruitful with ethnic Chinese groups of onlookers. For this, he drew nearer L. V. Wijnhamer, Jr., an Indo man who was mainstream inside the ethnic Chinese people group for his social work; Wijnhamer, also called Pah Wongso, taught deserted kids, ran a business office, and raised assets for Red Cross guide in war-torn China. Wijnhamer acknowledged the job. 

To help Wongso, arrange on-screen character Elly Joenara was given a role as Siti, making her film debut, while Mohamad Arief showed up as Wisnu. Other cast individuals included Djoenaedi, R. Sukran, and Miss Satijem. To guarantee that battle scenes went easily, Jo contracted individuals from Primo Oesman's "silat" and boxing gathering to execute as offenders; Oesman, an expert fighter, additionally showed up in the film. 

"Pah Wongso Pendekar Boediman" was appraised for groups of onlookers beyond 17 years old. It debuted at the Rex Theater in Batavia on 1 April 1941, after a short discourse by Wijnhamer. It had come to Surabaya by June, where it was promoted as a film of interest, life, and demise. Albeit expected dominatingly for local utilization, it was likewise screened in China, Singapore and British Malaya. At the point when the film achieved Singapore in July 1941, it was touted as an "exciting Malay investigator story ... loaded with rushes and fervor from start to finish". 

The Indonesian film history specialist Misbach Yusa Biran records "Pah Wongso Pendekar Boediman" as a business achievement. Basic surveys, in any case, were blended. A mysterious commentator in the "Bataviaasch Nieuwsblad" commended the nature of the film, especially its cinematography, acting, and story. In the Malayan magazine "Film Melayu", an analyst thought about the film of comparable quality to Hollywood creations and applauded its throwing of a South East Asian as the main criminologist. The commentator and filmwriter Saeroen communicated worry that the film's prosperity was not a direct result of its quality, and opined that it was famous as a result of Wijnhamer's distinction. 

By September 1941, Jo had started generation of a second – and final – film featuring Wongso, titled "Pah Wongso Tersangka" ("Pah Wongso Becomes a Suspect"). Coordinated by Wu Tsun, this late 1941 discharge highlighted Pah Wongso in four jobs and demonstrated him endeavoring to demonstrate his innocence in the wake of being encircled for a wrongdoing. Arief, Primo, and Sukran were additionally recast in this film, which was charged as the settlement's first parody film. In spite of the fact that Joenara did not return for "Pah Wongso Tersangka", she acted in three further movies for Star; her acting profession proceeded into the 1950s, and she turned into a maker in the mid 1970s. 

"Pah Wongso Pendekar Boediman" might be lost. Motion pictures in the Indies were recorded on exceptionally combustible nitrate film, and after a shoot crushed quite a bit of Produksi Film Negara's stockroom in 1952, old movies shot on nitrate were purposely annihilated. In this manner, the American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider composed that every single Indonesian film from before 1950 are lost. In any case, JB Kristanto's "Katalog Film Indonesia" ("Indonesian Film Catalog") records a few as having made due at Sinematek Indonesia's documents, and Biran composes that few Japanese publicity films have made due at the Netherlands Government Information Service.