Marcus Ward Lyon Jr. 

Marcus Ward Lyon Jr. (February 5, 1875 – May 19, 1942) was an American mammalogist, bacteriologist, and pathologist. He was naturally introduced to a military family, and exhibited an early enthusiasm for zoology by gathering neighborhood untamed life around his dad's military posts. He moved on from Brown University in 1897, and proceeded with his examinations at George Washington University while working low maintenance at the United States National Museum (USNM). In the meantime, he educated at Howard University Medical School and later George Washington University Medical School. He got his Ph.D. from George Washington University in 1913. In 1919, he and his significant other, Martha, moved to South Bend, Indiana to join a recently opened facility. Before moving, Lyon had distributed numerous papers on mammalogy, both amid and after his residency at the USNM. In these papers, he had formally portrayed six species, three genera, and one family. Once in South Bend, he started to distribute medicinal investigations, as well, however proceeded with his work in mammalogy, with a specific spotlight on the nearby fauna of Indiana. He distributed more than 160 papers amid his vocation. 

Lyon procured the position of major in the Medical Reserve Corps amid World War I, and was named leader of the American Society of Mammalogists from 1931 to 1932. He was an individual from Sigma Xi, the Society of American Bacteriologists, the Indiana Academy of Science, and the Biological Society of Washington. Lyon turned into a moderate further down the road. 

Lyon was conceived on February 5, 1875, in Rock Island Arsenal, Illinois. His family incorporated his dad, Captain Marcus Ward Lyon Sr.; his mom, Lydia Anna Lyon; and his two siblings, Henry S. Lyon and James W. Lyon. On account of his dad's military vocation, Lyon's family moved over the United States all through his youth and puberty. The primary trace of the youthful Lyon's future logical interests came while they were positioned at Watertown Arsenal, close Boston, Massachusetts, where he started gathering creepy crawlies and creatures from the neighborhood. No different subtleties of his initial life were archived until 1893, when he moved on from Rock Island High School—his dad had clearly been re-positioned at Rock Island Arsenal at about this time. He went to Brown University and finished his Ph.B. in 1897, which included preparing in science. In 1898, he started his alumni learns at George Washington University, getting his M.S. in 1900, his M.D. in 1902, and his Ph.D. in 1913. 

Endless supply of his first degree, Lyon went through a year (1897– 1898) at North Carolina Medical College, where he instructed bacteriology. Related to his alumni examines, he moved to Washington, D.C., in 1898 to turn into low maintenance Aid in the Division of Mammals at the United States National Museum (USNM). Lyon was later elevated to Assistant Curator for Mammals. The USNM sent him to Venezuela with Lieutenant Wirt Robinson of the United States Army in 1899 to gather warm blooded animal examples, and later designated him as its Chief Special Agent for the 1904 Louisiana Purchase Exposition in St. Louis and the 1905 Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition in Portland, Oregon. He held his post at the USNM until 1912. Lyon showed physiology (1903– 04 and 1907– 09) and bacteriology (1909– 15) at Howard University Medical School. 

In the last 50% of 1915, Lyon started educating at George Washington University Medical School, dealing with courses in bacteriology and pathology until 1917, and veterinary zoology and parasitology from 1917 until 1918. In 1917, he joined the U.S. Army, filling in as a pathologist at the Walter Reed Army Hospital amid World War I. In September 1919, he exchanged to the Medical Reserve Corps as a noteworthy. Before that year's over, Lyon's 18 years of restorative instructing and practice brought about a vocation offer in pathology at the South Bend Clinic in South Bend, Indiana. His better half, Martha, was additionally broadened work offer at a similar center, and joined as an ophthalmologist. Lyon kept up his workplaces at the facility until his passing in 1942. 

On account of his work as a mammalogist, Lyon is viewed as the ordered expert for the family Ptilocercidae (pen-followed treeshrews), just as the class "Anathana" (the Madras treeshrew) and two genera of leporids (rabbits and bunnies), "Pentalagus" (the Amami rabbit) and "Pronolagus" (red shake bunnies). Lyon was the first to depict the Bornean white-unshaven gibbon ("Hylobates albibarbis"), the Gansu pika ("Ochotona cansus"), the Sumatran porcupine ("Hystrix sumatrae"), the shadowy expansive nosed bat ("Platyrrhinus umbratus"), and two types of moderate loris from Borneo, "Nycticebus bancanus" and "Nycticebus borneanus". 

His private zoological accumulations were fused into the accumulations at the USNM. Lyon made two herbariums, the first containing plant examples from Oregon and the second from the Indiana Dunes and lower Michigan. The previous was incorporated into the United States National Herbarium, presently the United States Botanic Garden, and the last at the University of Michigan Herbarium. 

Amid his profession, Lyon distributed more than 160 papers, about 80 of which were in the field of zoology and 55 more in pathology. Different distributions included four articles in natural science, various book surveys, specialized reports, and paper articles. Until the move to Indiana, Lyon composed numerous papers in mammalogy, concentrating principally on morphology, systematics, and zoogeography. Notwithstanding his Ph.D. theory, entitled "Treeshrews: A record of the mammalian family Tupaiidae", he wrote papers about different well evolved creatures of the Far East, with which he had turned out to be exceptionally commonplace through his investigation of the accumulations that were sent to the USNM. Following the finish of his association with the USNM in 1912, Lyon kept on composing mammalogy material and started distributing essential therapeutic examinations. 

Subsequent to moving to Indiana, the focal point of his distributions moved basically to therapeutic issues and mammalogy inside his new home state. In spite of his enthusiasm for and occupation with therapeutic science, his energy was for the investigation of living and terminated warm blooded animals. He turned into a normal supporter of the "American Midland Naturalist", distributing a rundown of plant animal categories local to the Indiana Dunes and notes on ground squirrels and badgers before his work "Well evolved creatures of Indiana", which spread over all 365 pages of the principal issue in 1936. In 1935, he had been welcome to join the article staff, turning into a partner editorial manager for mammalogy. Close to an amazing finish, Lyon started to expound on untamed life preservation. 

A private accumulation of Lyon's papers, alongside those of his significant other, is held at the University of Notre Dame Archives. It involves correspondence, papers, notes, original copies, letters, articles, and discourses, just as articles gathered by Lyon and a scrapbook of his significant other's school life and then some. 

Lyon held privileged participations in Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma Xi. An individual from the association board of trustees that established the District of Columbia Chapter of Sigma Xi in 1914, Lyon turned into the Secretary of both the Organization Committee and Chapter, which held its first yearly gathering in 1915. He was designated secretary of the Biological Society of Washington in 1904 and from 1915 through 1919. In 1917, he was chosen for participation to the Washington Biologists' Field Club. Lyon was leader of the St. Joseph County Medical Society in 1931, just as the treasurer (1927– 1932) and president (1933) of the Indiana Academy of Science. He was additionally an individual from the Society of American Bacteriologists. Lyon was the seventh leader of the American Society of Mammalogists from 1931 to 1932, and got privileged participation a month prior to he passed on. 

Lyon wedded Martha Marie Brewer ( 1871) of Lanham, Maryland, in 1902, and together they had one little girl, Charlotte Lyon. Lyon and his better half gone to logical gatherings together; in 1911, they made a trip to Europe to see galleries and to visit renowned zoologists. Martha Brewer Lyon acquired her M.S. at Columbian College in 1901 and M.D. from Brown University in 1907. She later filled in as an ophthalmologist at the South Bend Clinic with her significant other until she opened her own office in 1931. She kept up her office until her passing on January 18, 1942. Lyon passed on May 19, 1942, at his home in South Bend and was covered on May 27 at Arlington National Cemetery. 

While living in South Bend, Lyon turned out to be dear companions with Reverend Julius A. Nieuwland, CSC, a botanist and physicist at the University of Notre Dame. They went on field trips and gathered plant examples that were joined into Lyon's second herbarium, which he set aside a few minutes with the assistance of his better half, Nieuwland, and Austrian botanist Theodor Just. Lyon was known for his affection for nature, and in an eulogy composed by Just, he was noted similar to an "enthusiastic preservationist" later in his life. Lyon condemned inadequately overseen protection programs in his paper "Preservation from the Naturalist's Point of View" (1939), and in his last paper, "The Kankakee Area—Its Past and Present", he imagined life around the Kankakee Outwash Plain before human exercises had transformed it. Lyon likewise surrendered his cabin in the Indiana Dunes after the untamed life shelter was changed over into an excursion goal.