James Hogun 

James Hogun (kicked the bucket January 4, 1781) was an Irish-American military officer who was as one of five commanders from North Carolina to present with the Continental Army amid the American Revolutionary War. Conceived in Ireland, Hogan relocated to North Carolina – at that point a British state – in 1751. Settling in Halifax County, he raised a family and built up himself as a noticeable neighborhood figure. 

An individual from the area's Committee of Safety, he spoke to it at the North Carolina Provincial Congress and drafted the primary Constitution of North Carolina. At first a noteworthy in the seventh North Carolina Regiment, Hogun progressed rapidly in rank amid 1776 to turn into the unit's boss. He partook in the skirmishes of Brandywine and Germantown in 1777. The Continental Congress elevated Hogun to brigadier general in 1779, albeit a few congressmen and the North Carolina General Assembly wished to see Thomas Clark of North Carolina advanced. 

Hogun was in order of North Carolina's line detachment amid the Siege of Charleston in the spring of 1780, which finished in the surrender of everything except one of North Carolina's regiments of ordinary infantry just as in excess of 5,000 Patriot warriors under Major General Benjamin Lincoln. Hogun was the most astounding positioning officer from North Carolina to be caught and detained after the surrender of Charleston, and in spite of being offered the chance to leave internment under a parole that was commonly reached out to other caught Continental officers, he stayed in a British POW camp close Charleston. Hogun likely picked detainment so as to keep the British Army from selecting Continental warriors for its crusade in the West Indies. He turned out to be sick and passed on in the jail on Haddrel's Point, a promontory in Charleston's harbor. 

A lot of Hogun's initial life stays obscure, because of his relative lack of definition until the American Revolutionary War. He moved to North Carolina from Ireland, his place of birth, in 1751, and on October 3 that year he wedded Ruth Norfleet. The couple had a child, Lemuel. Hogun made his home close to the current network of Hobgood in Halifax County. 

In 1774, Hogun turned into an individual from the Halifax County Committee of Safety, which showed his ascent to unmistakable quality since touching base in the state 23 years earlier. Between August, 1775, and November, 1776, Hogun spoke to Halifax County in the Third, Fourth, and Fifth North Carolina Provincial Congresses, and exhibited an enthusiasm for military issues. As an agent, Hogun helped with drafting the principal Constitution of North Carolina. 

Hogun was named a noteworthy in the seventh North Carolina Regiment in April 1776, and was given direction of the unit on November 26, 1776. At first, the regiment had some trouble sorting out after a few of the officers postponed their military work so as to deal with their own issues. Hogun was compelled to revile his officers forcefully, undermining them with the loss of their payments. In the meantime, flows of uncertainty went through North Carolina, as Loyalists endeavored to ruin enrollment of Patriots by spreading bits of gossip about the unavoidable downfall of the Patriot armed force in the north, and ailment that was purportedly desolating that drive. 

While directing his regiment, Hogun battled against the British Army in the skirmishes of Brandywine and Germantown, and was available at Valley Forge in the winter of 1777– 78. In 1778, Hogun was offered requests to help with enlisting the alleged "extra regiments" mentioned by the Continental Congress from North Carolina, and a while later was arranged to West Point with the principal regiment so enrolled. After his entry, and all through the late harvest time and winter of 1778– 79, Hogun's regiment served on a work detail entrusted with structure up the fortresses at West Point. Hogun was not happy with this assignment, however his men needed adequate weapons to enable them to fill in as a battle unit around then. Roughly 400 black powder rifles must be ordered for the regiment to be completely equipped. 

In mid 1779, Major General Benedict Arnold, at that point Commandant of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, mentioned that General George Washington send him an extra regiment of Continental officers to monitor the Patriot stores in Philadelphia. Hogun was sent to Arnold with his recently selected regiment, landing at the very latest January 19, 1779. 

On January 9, 1779, while "on the way" to Philadelphia, Hogun was elevated to brigadier general by the Continental Congress. His advancement happened to a limited extent because of what Thomas Burke, an agent to the Continental Congress from North Carolina, and a kindred Irishman, named the "recognized valor" Hogun had shown at Germantown. This caused some debate, as the North Carolina General Assembly, which was usually counseled for the advancement of commanders from that state, had effectively selected Thomas Clark and Jethro Sumner for advancement to the position of brigadier general. Sumner was advanced, however Clark was ignored for Hogun, who got the help of nine of the thirteen states. Hogun's astounding triumph was expected in vast part Burke's campaigning endeavors among his partners in the Continental Congress. By political traditions overseeing such issues, Burke was bound by the vote of the North Carolina General Assembly to help the express council's proposals of Clark and Sumner, however he attempted to persuade other Congressmen to vote in favor of Hogun over Clark. Hogun was selected to succeed Arnold as Commandant of Philadelphia on March 19, 1779, serving until November 22 that year. 

In November 1779, Hogun took order of the North Carolina Brigade, made out of the first, second, third, and fourth North Carolina Regiments of the North Carolina Line. Through the winter of 1779– 80, Hogun drove the unit of around 700 men from Philadelphia to Charleston, South Carolina, where he was put under the order of Major General Benjamin Lincoln. The walk was laborious, and Hogun's unit persevered through one of the coldest, harshest winters in years. 

Hogun's order landed at Charleston on March 13, 1780, which as per Lincoln gave "incredible soul to the Town, and certainty to the Army." The North Carolinians were quickly put to the assignment of protecting the city, which was compromised with an attack by British General Henry Clinton toward the beginning of March. Not long after Hogun's entry, a large number of North Carolina's civilian army present in the city started to return home in light of the fact that their enrollment terms finished approximately March 24. The minute men had just consented to serve restricted terms, and as they were not under Hogun's immediate order he was weak to stop them leaving. 

Charleston was primarily situated on a landmass, thus Lincoln adjusted his Continental units in cautious works that blockaded the "neck" of the promontory, utilizing a line of redoubts, redans, and batteries. These protective works were associated by a parapet, and instructed from a solid hornwork bulging out from the cautious line. Before the strongholds, the Patriot powers burrowed a 18-foot-wide canal, and between the channel and parapet they built a line of abatis to slow down any British strike. At the point when the attack by the British Army started vigorously on April 1, Hogun and his men were situated on the privilege of the Continental Army's lines, close to the Cooper River. 

Hogun took an interest in a committee of war on April 20, 1780. A few individuals from the South Carolina Privy Council, a piece of the non military personnel government, took steps to obstruct the Continental Army's endeavors to pull back from Charleston, if the gathering of war casted a ballot to do as such. Despite the fact that the protecting armed force had just eight to ten days worth of arrangements, Lincoln bowed to weight from common experts and deferred departure. On April 26, another board of war at which Hogun was available confirmed that the British nearness on all sides of the city kept the military's getaway. For the following two weeks, the British and Patriot powers traded cannons and rifle shoot consistently of day, and the British siege trimmed down the American breastworks. 

On May 8, Lincoln called another chamber of war with all his military's general and field officers and boats' chiefs to examine terms of surrender that had been proposed by Clinton. Of the 61 officers in participation at that committee, 49, including Hogun, casted a ballot to offer terms of capitulation with the British administrator. At the point when these were rejected, threats proceeded, and Lincoln called another chamber of war on May 11 to further talk about terms of capitulation. The committee casted a ballot to show further terms to Clinton, which he acknowledged. On May 12, 1780, Hogun was among the officers under Lincoln who formally surrendered to the British Army, alongside around 5,000 Continental and local army troopers. The surrender prompted the loss of everything except one of the regiments of the North Carolina Line then in presence, denying the condition of all standard, non-civilian army warriors. As a brigadier general, Hogun held the most astounding position of the roughly 814 Continental troopers from North Carolina who surrendered at Charleston. 

Instead of enabling himself to be paroled, Hogun mentioned he be taken prisoner, and was interned at the British jail camp at Haddrel's Point on Point Pleasant, situated in what is currently Mount Pleasant, South Carolina, opposite Sullivan's Island. Hogun's choice was based, to a limited extent, on his longing to smother the enrolling endeavors of the British, who tried to enroll caught Continental warriors to serve in the British West Indies. The British, in any case, held just the officers at Haddrel's Point, choosing to house the enrolled men in military quarters in Charleston. 

Officers at Haddrel's Point were exposed to brutal treatment, banished from angling to get genuinely necessary nourishment, and undermined with expelling from South Carolina. Roughly 3,300 Patriot warriors were bound in jail camps around Charleston that were like the one at Haddrel's Point, and many were bound for confined, unsanitary jail ships. On account of the conditions, numerous Continental warriors consented to join Loyalist regiments, yet Hogun and different officers set up courts military in the camps and endeavored to keep up a stately military structure. Hogun's wellbeing before long declined, and he kicked the bucket in the jail camp on January 4, 1781. He was covered in a plain grave. 

On March 14, 1786, the North Carolina council allowed Hogun's child, Lemuel, a tract close cutting edge Nashville, Tennessee, in acknowledgment of his dad's administration. The senior Hogun was one of twenty-two Patriot commanders who died amid the American Revolutionary War, and one of twelve who passed on from illness or other non-battle causes. In the mid twentieth century, North Carolina law specialist and history specialist Walter Clark noticed that while the vocations of three of North Carolina's different commanders—Brigadier Generals Francis Nash and James Moore, and Major General Robert Howe—were outstanding to contemporary students of history, the narrative of Hogun's profession just as that of Jethro Sumner had been disregarded. 

Hogun's own papers seem to have been devastated while in the ownership of his relatives in Alabama amid the American Civil War, leaving essentially no enduring correspondence that would reveal further insight into his life. In 1954, the North Carolina Highway Historical Marker Program, a division of the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, raised a verifiable marker in Hogun's respect close to his previous home in Halifax County.