Australia ladies' national wheelchair ball crew at the 2012 Summer Paralympics 

The 2012 Australian ladies' national wheelchair ball crew, known as the Gliders, was a wheelchair b-ball crew that played in the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London. The group of twelve included nine Paralympic veterans with fifteen Paralympic Games between them: Bridie Kean, Amanda Carter, Sarah Stewart, Tina McKenzie, Kylie Gauci, Katie Hill, Cobi Crispin, Clare Nott and Shelley Chaplin. There were three newcomers playing in their first Paralympics: Amber Merritt, Sarah Vinci and Leanne Del Toso. Carter came back to the Gliders' line up in the wake of being sidelined by devastating elbow damage at the 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney. The Gliders had won silver in Sydney and the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens, yet had never won gold. 

The primary phase of the Paralympic rivalry was the gathering stage, a round-robin competition. The Gliders confronted an impressive errand just to make the finals, as their pool included Brazil, Great Britain, Canada and the Netherlands. Canada had beaten the Gliders in 2010, and the Netherlands was evaluated as one of the challenge's best groups. After a tight triumph over Brazil, and a simpler one against Great Britain, the Gliders were again vanquished by Canada, yet won their last match against the Netherlands to complete at the highest point of their pool. The Gliders proceeded to win the quarterfinal against Mexico and the elimination round against the United States, yet lost to Germany in the last, winning silver. 

Before the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London, the Australian ladies' national wheelchair ball crew, known as the Gliders, had won silver at the 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney and the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens, and bronze at the 2008 Summer Paralympics in Beijing, yet had never won gold. The declaration of the enrollment of the Paralympic group was made on 5 July 2012. The group of twelve included nine veterans with 15 Paralympic Games between them: Bridie Kean, Amanda Carter, Sarah Stewart, Tina McKenzie, Kylie Gauci, Katie Hill, Cobi Crispin, Clare Nott and Shelley Chaplin. Golden Merritt, Sarah Vinci and Leanne Del Toso were newcomers contending at their first Paralympics. Kean, matured 25, was chosen as their commander. 

The most established colleague was Amanda Carter, matured 48, who was returning for a fourth Paralympic diversions having contended in the 1992 Summer Paralympics in Barcelona, the 1996 Summer Paralympics in Atlanta and the 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney, at which she had been sidelined by devastating elbow damage. She came back to the Gliders' lineup in 2009. The most youthful, who had not been conceived when Carter had played in Barcelona, was 19-year-old Amber Merritt. English conceived Merritt was initially a swimmer, however had been selected into ball by the Paralympic Hall of Fame mentor Frank Ponta. Merritt had arrived at the midpoint of 20 points and 8.4 bounce back per amusement in the Gliders' World Challenge arrangement against Japan, Germany and China in Sydney in July 2012, including a diversion against Germany in which she scored 21 and eight bounce back. Another youthful player from whom much was trusted was Cobi Crispin, who had been named Australian Women's Wheelchair Basketball International Player of the Year in 2011, and had since posted amazing exhibitions in the May 2012 Paralympic World Cup in Manchester and the Gliders World Challenge. 

The initial segment of the challenge was the gathering stage. The Gliders' pool included Brazil, Great Britain, Canada and the Netherlands. Canada had crushed them in the bronze decoration amusement at the 2010 Wheelchair Basketball World Championship in Birmingham in July 2010. The Gliders' head mentor, John Triscari, conceded Canada and the Netherlands would be difficult to beat: 

The Gliders' first diversion was on 30 August before a horde of 3,288 at the Basketball Arena in Olympic Park in Stratford, London; a setting otherwise called "The Marshmallow". The Gliders had not played Brazil in four years, and what little they thought about them originated from watching video tapes. 

The scores were tied multiple times, and at no time were the Australians in excess of five in front. With six minutes to go in the last quarter, the Gliders were up by just two points, with the score 45– 43. Crispin was sent to the free-toss line where she stretched out her group's lead to 47– 43. A specialized foul saw her straight back to the free-toss line to make it 48– 43, the Gliders' greatest lead of the diversion. Brazil at that point struck back, scoring five unanswered focuses to tie the score again at 48– 48, yet Merritt scored one from the paint to return the Gliders in front. She pursued by taking a protective bounce back and after that another shot to make it 52– 48. Brazil scored afresh, however time ran out, and the Gliders won, 52– 50. Driving scorers for the Gliders were Crispin with 18 and Merritt with 16. 

The Gliders' next match was against Great Britain, and was held at the North Greenwich Arena, which could suit a bigger group than the Marshmallow. A horde of 5,331 saw a low-scoring issue. The Gliders focused on resistance, and driven by just 11– 5 at quarter time. Significantly time, they had stretched out their lead to 25– 11. The second from last quarter went gravely for Team Great Britain, which just scored three additional focuses to Australia's 14, making the score 39– 14 at three-quarter time. The last quarter was Great Britain's ideal, yet the score was as yet 51– 24. Merritt and Crispin were again the Gliders' top scorers, with 10 and 8 points separately, however they moved the ball around, and each Glider aside from McKenzie scored somewhere around two. Gary Peel, the British mentor, "getting ready to release his best impression of Sir Alex Ferguson's hairdryer on his ambushed group", was scorching about their execution. "They realize that is not the manner in which we play", he stated, "and I'm baffled for the group and them since they are tons superior to that. It was a totally shameful exertion out there. It truly was awful." 

The Gliders came back to the Marshmallow the following day for a match against Canada, another group thought about a solid shot for an award, before a limit horde of 7,200. The Gliders wasted early chances, and Canada won the main quarter 20– 12. Solid protective play by Nott and Gauci helped the Gliders switch this in the second, and left Canada with just a one-point 33– 32 lead at half time. The second half observed Canada gradually increment their lead, keeping tied with Australia 4– 4 in the principal half of third, 6– 4 in the last 50% of the third, 6– 4 in the main portion of the fourth, and 8– 6 in the last 50% of the fourth. Australia's top players were Crispin, who had 13 points and 15 bounce back; Merritt, who earned 16 points; and Chaplin, with eight points, five bounce back and seven helps. The misfortune raised the prospect that Australia probably won't make the finals by any means, however Crispin stayed sure that they could. 

Triscari distinguished the Gliders' poor shooting as their basic issue. "That was an extremely intense amusement," he stated, "and full credit to Canada, yet we can't beat top groups on the planet when we just shoot at 34%, that was the key measurement." Merritt, who had a British intonation, said that she had "the most extreme regard for Canada. They're an incredible group, yet we'll refocus on the amusement tomorrow and go out and play like we realize we can, the Australian way." 

The misfortune to Canada implied that the Gliders required a success against the Netherlands, who were viewed as one of the challenge's best groups, and who had beaten Canada. Crispin told the media that "We will go out like we have in each other diversion and adhere to our course of action and ideally we'll prove to be the best". 

The Netherlands scored first, however Kean before long adjusted, helped by Stewart. The Dutch group reacted, however Gauci took two with a quick break, and after that helped Crispin in placing Australia in the number one spot, one which the Gliders would not surrender. Stewart made the following two scores, from outside the paint, and helped Crispin to bring the score to 6– 16. The Dutch group battled back, yet there was a 12– 18 shortage at quarter time. The Australian resistance shut down their chances in the second quarter, and the score was 20– 30 to support Australia at half time, and 29– 40 before the finish of the second from last quarter. The Dutch group tried harder in the last quarter, and won the quarter 20– 18, however the Gliders won, 49– 58. 

Indeed Merritt drove Australia's scoring, with 19 and significantly improved exactness of 9 shots from 14 endeavors, while Crispin had ten and seven bounce back. The remainder of the group performed similarly well. Stewart scored six and five bounce back. Chaplin's notoriety for being a play-producer was polished with four bounce back and seven helps. Gauci had eight and six helps. Nott had played each of the 40 minutes of the amusement against Canada the prior night, at that point more than 32 minutes in this diversion, and was especially dynamic in the last quarter. Triscari adulated both the Gliders and their adversaries: 

The misfortune to Canada implied that the Gliders had won three out of four recreations, a similar number as Canada and the Netherlands. Since Australia had lost to Canada by 7 points and crushed the Netherlands by 9, and the Netherlands had vanquished Canada by 11, a sudden death round on focuses differential gave Australia 9 - 7 = +2, Netherlands 11 - 9 = +2, and Canada 7 - 11 = - 4. Canada accordingly completed third, while Australia, tied with the Netherlands, was set in front of them dependent on vanquishing them in their match. Thus, the Gliders bested their pool, and got a quarterfinal billet against Mexico, which had figured out how to qualify regardless of just winning one amusement. Triscari was sure, yet was not trifling with the match. He forewarned the media: 

The Gliders wanted to rule Mexico early, playing as forcefully against them as they had played against the Netherlands. Australia's first shots at objective were taken by Kean from the free-toss line, however she missed both. Mexico's Lucia Vazquez Delgadillo then opened the scoring to give Mexico an important lead, which ended up being their greatest of the diversion. Gauci then put focuses on the scoreboard for the Gliders. Mexico turned the ball over, and Crispin got her first from the paint, helped by Gauci, which was rehashed on the following play, with Stewart giving the help this time. Mexico scored, yet the Gliders reacted with another shot from Crispin. On the following play, Gauci stole the ball and ran after the court, yet neglected to make the shot. Nott then took a guarded bounce back, prompting Crispin scoring once more. She was additionally fouled, yet missed the subsequent free toss. Presently, Stewart drew another foul, and made the two shots to bring the score to 14– 4. 

The Gliders put Mexico under extreme protective weight. Mexico had six group turnovers to the Gliders' one, and ended up with 19 turnovers altogether to Australia's 6. Australia scored 18 points from turnovers, contrasted with 6 for Mexico. Gauci, a two-point player, took a three-pointer to take the score to 17– 8. Mexico was unfit to recuperate from Australia's high scoring from Merritt, who at last scored 14 points with 70 percent shooting, and Crispin, who scored twelve with 67 percent shooting. The groups went into the quarter-time break with the score 21 to 10. Mexico fell further behind in the second quarter. Amanda Carter promptly stole the ball from Mexico, which let Merritt score two. A couple of minutes after the fact, Carter, helped by Chaplin, scored a bin from the paint, and was fouled all the while. A fruitful free toss made the score 36– 16. Another take by Merritt prompted a quick break, conveying her commitment to ten points, and the score to 38– 16. At the half-time break, the score was 44– 20. 

In the second from last quarter, a group turnover and a progression of missed shots by Hill, Kean and Crispin enabled Mexico to outscore Australia by one point, leaving the score at 50– 27 toward the finish of the quarter. The last quarter saw Australia's Del Toso miss a shot toward one side, and Mexico's Floralia Estrada Bernal miss one at the other. Stewart additionally missed, before a Mexican turnover prompted the principal score of the quarter, by Stewart. Mexico's Rocio Torres Lopez scored accordingly. Another shot by Stewart missed, yet Carter attacked bounce back, and scored. Turnovers by Kean and Del Toso enabled Mexico to put four points on the board, yet progressive fouls sent Kean to the free-toss line to score three points accordingly. 

Merritt carried the score to 59– 35 with her seventh scoring shot. As the amusement attracted to a nearby, there were a few missed shots by Sarah Vinci and Hill, however Mexico was unfit to gain by the chances, proceeding to miss shots and turn over the ball. With nineteen seconds of play remaining, Hill took a two-point shot from inside the paint; drawing in a foul, she scored another point from a free toss. Despite the fact that Mexico's Wendy Garcia Amador scored the last two points of the amusement, her group lost to Australia 62– 37. 

In the elimination round, the Gliders needed to beat the dominant bosses, Team USA, before a little horde of 4,428 at the North Greenwich Arena. Group USA had first belonging and earned the primary purposes of the amusement, however the two groups' shooting was poor, and the score was just 10– 12 at quarter time. The second quarter began with Merritt scoring twice to give Australia the lead 14– 12. Group USA turned the ball over the Gliders a few times, however they were unfit to benefit from their solid guard, leaving the score tied at 26– 26 at half time. In the second from last quarter, an early objective by Gauci from outside the paint gave the Gliders the lead. A progression of takes gave the Gliders extra shots, the greater part of which they missed, yet Team USA surrendered a progression of turnovers, and their shooting was more terrible than their adversaries', bringing about a 10– 0 kept running by the Gliders. Group USA were unfit to score at all until the last moment of the quarter. A rushed objective with seconds to pass by Hill saw the Gliders driving 38– 28. Group USA would at last post 28 turnovers to Australia's 17, and the Gliders would score 12 from turnovers to Team USA's three. Triscari cautioned his players, "They will return! We need to stop them!" 

In the last quarter, the Australian barrier stayed solid, however their shooting did not improve. For the whole amusement, Crispin made just 3 out of 10 endeavors, and Merritt only 4 out of 16. Nott, who played the whole amusement, wound up being the group's most exact player, with four out of five endeavors. In the interim, Team USA battled back to 40– 39. Three timeouts were taken in the latest possible time. The diversion went down to the most recent seconds. Trailing 40-37 with under 30 seconds to play, America's Desi Miller scored to have the USA trail by a point. Intentionally fouling Merrit put Miller out of the amusement, and sent Merritt to the free-toss line. It was a hazard, however it satisfied; Merritt missed the two shots. The second was bounced back by Team USA's Rebecca Murray, who brought the ball down the court, despite the Gliders' determined barrier. The ball was passed to Rose Hollermann, at 16 the most youthful of Team USA's players. Onlookers saw Hollermann's shot from the paint hit the ring with one moment to go, however the shot clock was not reset. Group USA's Alana Nichols bounced back, and put the ball in the pail, however not before time ran out and a shot clock infringement was called. This left Australia with ownership. In another 1.9 seconds, it was all finished, and Australia had a dubious one-point win. 

The Gliders would need to crush Germany before a limit horde of 12,985 at the North Greenwich Arena to win the gold award. Australia had barely vanquished the German group 48– 46 in the Gliders World Challenge in Sydney a couple of months sooner, and by then had beaten them three of the past multiple times they had played. 

Indeed, Stewart took the opening tip. A guarded bounce back by Kean after Germany missed two free tosses brought about the Gliders scoring first, with Gauci helping Crispin. The Gliders utilized a similar course of action that had vanquished the United States, utilizing a solid guard against an ordinarily high-scoring group. At first, they were effective; with three minutes to go in the quarter, notwithstanding a few missed shots, Australia was ahead 10– 4. In the most recent minutes, Germany scored ten that gave them a 10– 14 lead at quarter time. 

In the second quarter, Germany stretched out their lead to ten points, however Kean scored a point from a free toss, and after that, with seconds left on the clock, stole the ball, empowering Crispin to score, so the Gliders were just seven behind at half time. The Gliders won the second from last quarter, however just by 9– 8. Despite everything they had six to make up, with solid guards from the two groups. Gauci scored the most in this diversion, with 15, including a three-pointer, with five helps and four bounce back. At last, the Gliders lost by fourteen, 44– 58. 

Triscari felt that the Gliders did not put enough weight on the Germans, and that their shooting was not sufficiently precise. Specifically, they scored a troubling one point from twelve endeavors from the free toss line. B-ball Australia CEO Kristina Keneally lauded the Gliders' endeavors. "The Gliders have been completely splendid at the Paralympic Games," she stated, "and this Silver Medal is simply remunerate for their remarkable execution. This is the Gliders' fourth back to back Paralympic Medal – a wonderful accomplishment. The majority of the players, mentors and care staff have completed a fabulous activity and we can hardly wait to welcome them on their arrival home." 

In 2013, Keneally reported a four-year advancement program for the Gliders that incorporated the arrangement of a full-time head mentor out of the blue, based at the National Wheelchair Center of Excellence at the New South Wales Institute of Sport in Homebush, New South Wales. In May 2013, Tom Kyle was designated the Gliders' new head mentor. 

"We have had the chance to play Germany a reasonable piece in our planning so our course of action was to have solid protective weight and take it from that point", Kean told the media. "It began off great for us, sadly they just got a couple a greater number of keeps running than us and that is the manner in which it goes some of the time. They played an extraordinary amusement. We stuck together 12 profound from the second the signal began, to that end ringer and nobody surrendered. I believe that we can hold our heads high hence. I surmise the arrangement is, next four years, Rio we go one more." 

It was not to be. The Gliders did not meet all requirements for the 2016 Rio Paralympics in the wake of completing second to China at the 2015 Asia Oceania Qualifying Tournament.