Monroe Doctrine Centennial half dollar 

The Monroe Doctrine Centennial half dollar was a fifty-penny piece struck by the United States Bureau of the Mint. Bearing pictures of previous U.S. Presidents James Monroe and John Quincy Adams, the coin was issued in recognition of the centennial of the Monroe Doctrine and was delivered at the San Francisco Mint in 1923. Stone worker Chester Beach is credited with the structure, despite the fact that the switch intently takes after a prior work by Raphael Beck. 

In 1922, the movie business was looked with various embarrassments, including homicide accusations against star Roscoe "Greasy" Arbuckle. Despite the fact that Arbuckle was in the long run cleared, film officials looked for methods for getting great attention for Hollywood. One methods was a piece, to be held in Los Angeles in mid-1923. To prompt Congress to issue a dedicatory coin as a pledge drive for the reasonable, coordinators connected the piece with the 100th commemoration of the Monroe Doctrine, and enactment for a memorial half dollar for the centennial was passed. 

The article was a money related disappointment. The coins did not sell well, and the heft of the mintage of more than 270,000 was discharged into course. Shoreline confronted allegations of written falsification in view of the closeness of the turn around plan to a work by Beck, however he and individual artist James Earle Fraser denied any inappropriateness. A significant number of the pieces that had been sold including some hidden costs and spared were spent amid the Depression; most enduring coins show proof of wear. 

In the mid 1820s, the United States considered two issues untoward impedance by European powers in its zone of impact. The first was the Russian Ukase of 1821, declaring selective regional and exchanging rights along quite a bit of what is today Canada's Pacific coast. The United States believed this territory to be a piece of the Oregon Country and would have liked to in the end oversee it. The second was conceivable European dangers against the Latin American countries, recently free from Spain. US authorities expected that a Quadruple Alliance of Prussia, Austria, Russia, and France would reestablish Spain to control in the Americas. 

English remote pastor George Canning was worried that in case of a Spanish rebuilding in Latin America, his country would lose the exchange which it had picked up there since the Spanish had been expelled. In 1823, he proposed to the American pastor to Great Britain, Richard Rush, that their two countries issue a joint articulation against the retaking of the previous Spanish states by power. Surge requested guidelines from President James Monroe. The President counseled with his forerunners, Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, who supported the joint explanation, as a union with Britain would secure the United States. In any case, Monroe's Secretary of State, future president John Quincy Adams, felt that if the United States was going to set forward its standards, it ought to represent itself with no issue and not appear to pursue the lead of ground-breaking Britain. As needs be, Rush was told to decrease the chance to go into a joint explanation, despite the fact that he was to advise the British that the two countries concurred on generally issues. 

The arrangement which would, some 30 years later, come to be known as the "Monroe Doctrine" was contained in the President's yearly message to Congress on December 2, 1823. It cautioned European countries against new pilgrim adventures in the Americas, and against obstruction with Western Hemisphere governments. The convention had minimal down to earth impact at the time, as the United States did not have the capacity to implement it militarily and most European forces overlooked it, considering it unbecoming even to react. Whenever Britain and different forces caught extra land in the Guianas during the 1830s, the United States did not issue a formal challenge. The Mexican– American War of 1846– 1848 expanded Latin American doubts over the convention, the same number of south of the fringe felt that the American reason in notice European forces to keep out was to save the land for itself. By the by, the Monroe Doctrine turned into an essential piece of United States remote approach in the second 50% of the nineteenth and into the 20th century. 

By 1922, the Hollywood film industry was stuck in an unfortunate situation. Built up in the Los Angeles region amid the 1910s in the wake of moving from such eastern scenes as Fort Lee, New Jersey, the industry had been shaken by various outrages. These incorporated the baffling shooting demise of movie executive William Desmond Taylor, and the ensuing shifty declaration concerning it by performer Mabel Normand, which crushed her vocation. Another infamous embarrassment of the mid 1920s was the demise of performing artist Virginia Rappe following a bash at a San Francisco lodging. On-screen character Roscoe "Greasy" Arbuckle was, after three preliminaries, cleared of murder, however the negative exposure finished his profession too. These outrages, together with the demise of sentimental lead Wallace Reid from a medication overdose and various occurrences of onscreen sexual expressness, prompted across the country requires a blacklist of Hollywood movies. 

Film investors looked for methods for harm control. They procured previous Postmaster General Will H. Roughages as edit to the business; the Hays Code would oversee how unequivocal a movie could be for a considerable length of time to come. Another thought was a work and film celebration to give great exposure to the business, with the benefits to be utilized for the creation of instructive movies. Getting ready for this reasonable, to be held in Los Angeles in mid-1923, started in 1922. As different fairs, for example, the World's Columbian Exposition and the Panama– Pacific Exposition, had secured the issuance of dedicatory coins as a pledge drive, coordinators looked for a piece for the film reasonable. The city of Los Angeles needed to utilize the reasonable for show it had become an adult, as had Chicago for the Columbian Exposition and San Francisco with the Panama-Pacific occasion. 

Understanding that Congress probably won't pass enactment for a coin to recognize a film industry festivity, the coordinators looked for an authentic occasion with a noteworthy commemoration to happen in 1923, which could be respected both at the reasonable and on the coin. The undeniable applicant was the Boston Tea Party of 1773, however as indicated by numismatists Anthony Swiatek and Walter Breen in their volume on U.S. dedicatory coins, that scene "couldn't be tormented into even the vaguest pertinence to California, let alone to Los Angeles". On December 18, 1922, California Congressman Walter Franklin Lineberger acquainted a bill with strike a half dollar in remembrance of the centennial of the Monroe Doctrine, with the Los Angeles Clearing House (a relationship of banks) given the selective appropriate to buy the pieces from the legislature without needing any proof. Lineberger guaranteed that Monroe's statement had kept California, at that point claimed by Mexico, out of the hands of European forces. The bill was addressed in the House of Representatives by Michigan Congressman Louis Cramton, and in the Senate by Vermont's Frank Greene, who expressed, "I can't help thinking that the inquiry isn't one of selling a coin at a specific esteem or a specific spot. The inquiry is whether the United States government will go on from year to year presenting its coinage to this—well—harlotry." Despite these complaints, the bill was ordered on January 24, 1923; a mintage of 300,000 pieces was approved. 

The reasonable coordinators did not anticipate congressional endorsement to start arranging the coin. As indicated by Swiatek and Breen, the reasonable's chief general Frank B. Davison thought of the idea for the plans. On December 7, 1922, Commission of Fine Arts director Charles Moore wrote to Buffalo nickel fashioner and stone worker individual from the commission James Earle Fraser, "The Los Angeles individuals are intending to praise the Monroe Doctrine Centennial. They will have a 50-penny piece and have chosen that on the front-side will be the heads of President Monroe and John Quincy Adams ... On the invert will be the western mainlands from Hudson Bay to Cape Horn with certain specks for the West Indies and some sign of the Panama Canal ... It strikes me that the structures having been settled upon, the [plaster] models could be worked out promptly and that a quite swell thing could be made." 

Fraser reached individual New York stone carver Chester Beach, who consented to take every necessary step. On December 27, Moore wrote to Davison, advising him of Beach's employing, and that Fraser and Beach had chosen to change the turn around. Moore cited Beach's depiction of the overhauled plan: 

Moore educated Davison that the commission had agreed with the update, and that Beach had been told to finish function as fast as could be allowed in order to have the coins accessible at an early date. On February 24, 1923, commission secretary Hans Caemmerer demonstrated the finished models to Assistant Director of the Mint Mary Margaret O'Reilly, who was satisfied with them. O'Reilly recommended that if Beach was sure there would be no further changes, that he send photos of the models to the commission's workplaces, to be sent with its support to the Bureau of the Mint in Washington. This was done, and the structures were endorsed by both Mint Director Frank Edgar Scobey and Secretary of the Treasury Andrew Mellon on March 8. Moore was eager about the plans, writing to Davison on March 21 that "I feel extraordinary jubilee over the way the model ... has turned out ... I don't know about a commemoration [commemorative] coin which for sheer excellence breaks even with this ..." 

William E. Pike, in his 2003 article in "The Numismatist" about the coin, esteems the structure "deadened" and grumbles that the low help of the coin abandons it without adequate detail. Coin seller and numismatic student of history Q. David Bowers expresses that due to the shallow alleviation, "recently stamped coins had a vapid appearance. Barely any onlookers called them alluring." Art student of history Cornelius Vermeule likewise whined about the help, expressing that it influenced the figurative figures on the switch "to appear as though mounted cut-outs ... the manner in which the females are shaped to accomplish their appearance of landmasses is a sharp visit de power of calligraphic alleviation yet a tasteful immensity, an awful play on words in workmanship." He had no more recognition for the front, "Adams, with his gazing eye, is hardly a picture, and Monroe would not be perceived even by a specialist." 

The black out lines in the field around the landmasses speak to different sea ebbs and flows, with the Gulf Stream to the upper right of the invert. Swiatek and Breen guess that the reason sea flows were appeared at symbolize the exchange courses between the landmasses. They likewise consider the plan to have an Art Deco look, however taking note of that the lettering has a greater amount of a more established, Art Nouveau appearance. Shoreline's monogram, CB made into a circle, is found at lower right of the switch. 

On July 23, 1923, Raphael Beck, who had planned the seal for the 1901 Pan-American Exposition, wrote to Mint Director Scobey to gripe that the turn around configuration looked like his seal, which he had copyrighted in 1899, and that Beach ought to be given no further kudos for it. The letter was sent to the Commission of Fine Arts for input. In October, Fraser kept in touch with Beck, expressing that he had proposed to Beach that he use figures to speak to the landmasses rather than maps, and that he had never observed the Pan-American seal until Scobey sent the letter. As indicated by Bowers, "A correlation of the 1901 and 1923 structures, in any case, demonstrates this was exceedingly improbable." 

In May and June 1923, 274,077 of the new half dollars were struck at the San Francisco Mint. A large portion of these were sent to the Los Angeles Clearing House, however 77 pieces were put aside for transmission to Philadelphia and examination by the 1924 United States Assay Commission. 

The American Historical Revue and Motion Picture Industry Exposition was open from July 2 to August 4, 1923. The reasonable was situated off of Figueroa Street in Exposition Park, just toward the east of the fresh out of the plastic new Los Angeles Coliseum, where each night a complimentary show for article guests, "Montezuma and the Fall of the Aztecs", was given. Admission to the reasonable was fifty pennies, however fairgoers could buy a coin for a dollar in the cinematic world and enter moving forward without any more charge. After the primary week, coordinators understood the open was not inspired by the verifiable topic, however was there to see most loved motion picture stars. Exhibitors in like manner incredibly extended the space dedicated to film attractions, yet the work was a monetary disappointment. Those responsible for the reasonable had would have liked to draw in a million guests; the real participation was around 300,000, a considerable lot of whom were adolescents given complimentary affirmation in the last two weeks of the reasonable. With the reasonable playing with indebtedness all through its run, authorities trusted the arranged visit of President Warren Harding on August 6 would build entryway receipts, however Harding became sick in San Francisco and passed on August 2. As indicated by Pike in his article, "its impact on the business [was] difficult to quantify. In any case, on the off chance that Hollywood owes its present status in any capacity to the occasion, at that point it was a significant achievement in fact." 

Roughly 27,000 half dollars were sold at the cost of $1, via mail, at banks, and at the reasonable. Deals proceeded after it shut, yet by October 1923, they had dropped off to nothing, and the banks holding them discharged the staying nine-tenths of the mintage into dissemination, which represents the wear on most enduring examples. Of those put aside, thousands more were spent amid the Depression. The 2015 release of "A Guide Book of United States Coins" records it at $75 in uncirculated MS-60. Swiatek, in his 2012 volume on commemoratives, noticed that numerous examples have been blessed to receive influence them to seem more brilliant or less worn; these, as other coursed pieces, are worth less. An excellent example, affirmed in MS-67 condition, sold at closeout for $29,900 in 2009. 

Books 

Different sources