Tiridates I of Armenia 

Tiridates I (, "Trdat A"; , "Tīridāt"; , "Tiridátes") was King of Armenia starting in 53 AD and the originator of the Arsacid administration of Armenia. The dates of his introduction to the world and demise are obscure. His initial rule was set apart by a short intrusion towards the year's end 54 and an any longer one from 58 to 63 AD. In a consent to determine the Roman– Parthian clash in and over Armenia, Tiridates I (one of the siblings of Vologases I of Parthia) was delegated ruler of Armenia by the Roman sovereign Nero in 66 AD; later on, the lord of Armenia was to be a Parthian sovereign, however his arrangement required endorsement from the Romans. Despite the fact that this made Armenia a customer kingdom, different contemporary Roman sources believed that Nero had true surrendered Armenia to the Parthian Empire. 

Notwithstanding being a lord, Tiridates I was additionally a Zoroastrian cleric and was joined by other magi on his adventure to Rome in 66 AD. In the mid twentieth century, Franz Cumont guessed that Tiridates was instrumental in the improvement of Mithraism which turned into the fundamental religion of the Roman Army and spread over the entire domain. Moreover, amid his rule, he began improving the authoritative structure of Armenia, a change which was proceeded by his successors, and which brought numerous Iranian traditions and workplaces into it. 

Tiridates I is one of the vital characters in George Frideric Handel's musical drama "Radamisto" and Reinhard Keiser's musical show "Octavia." 

Tiridates I was one of the children destined to Vonones II, ruler of Media Atropatene and later lord of Parthia, by a Greek courtesan. Basically nothing is thought about Tiridates' childhood, which he spent in Media Atropatene. "Tiridates" signifies "given by Tir". Tir was the Armeno-Parthian divine force of writing, science and workmanship dependent on the Avestan Tishtrya and intertwined with the Greek Apollo. 

In 51 AD the Roman procurator of Cappadocia, Julius Paelignus, attacked Armenia and desolated the nation, at that point under an Iberian usurper Rhadamistus. Rhadamistus had slaughtered his uncle Mithridates, the real lord of Armenia, by tricking the Roman battalion that was securing him outside of the fortification of Gornea. 

Acting without guidance, Paelignus perceived Rhadamistus as the new ruler of Armenia. Syrian senator Ummidius Quadratus sent Helvidius Priscus with an army to fix these shock, however he was reviewed so as not to incite a war with Parthia. 

In 52 AD King Vologases I of Parthia accepted the open door to attack Armenia, vanquishing Artaxata ("Artashat" in Armenia) and announcing his more youthful sibling Tiridates I as ruler. This activity disregarded the bargain that had been marked by the Roman sovereign Augustus and Parthian lord Phraates IV which gave the Romans the unequivocal appropriate to designate and crown the rulers of Armenia. Vologases I considered the position of royalty of Armenia to have been previously the property of his precursors, presently usurped by an outside ruler in ideals of a wrongdoing. A winter plague just as an uprising started by his child Vardanes constrained him to pull back his troops from Armenia, permitting Rhadamistus to return and rebuff local people as deceivers; they in the end revolted and supplanted him with the ruler Tiridates I in mid 55. Rhadamistus got away alongside his better half Zenobia who was pregnant. Unfit to keep escaping, she requested that her better half take her life as opposed to be caught. Rhadamistus wounded her with a Median knife and flung her body into the waterway Araxes. Zenobia was not lethally harmed and was recouped by shepherds who sent her to Tiridates. Tiridates I got her generous and regarded her as an individual from the government. Rhadamistus himself came back to Iberia and was before long killed by his dad Pharasmanes I of Iberia for having plotted against the illustrious power. 

Discontent with the developing Parthian impact at their doorstep, Roman Emperor Nero sent General Corbulo with a huge armed force toward the east so as to reestablish Roman customer lords. A Hasmonean named Aristobulus was given Lesser Armenia (Nicopolis and Satala) and Sohaemus of Emesa got Armenia Sophene. In the spring of 58, Corbulo entered Greater Armenia from Cappadocia and progressed towards Artaxata, while Parasmanes I of Iberia assaulted from the north, and Antiochus IV of Commagene assaulted from the southwest. Upheld by his sibling, Tiridates I sent flying sections to assault the Romans far and wide. Corbulo struck back utilizing similar strategies and the utilization of the Moschoi clans who attacked peripheral areas of Armenia. Tiridates I fled from the capital, and Corbulo consumed Artaxata to the ground. In the late spring, Corbulo started moving towards Tigranocerta through unpleasant landscape and going through the Taronitida (Taron), where a few of his administrators kicked the bucket in a snare by the Armenian opposition; in any case, the city opened its entryways, except for one of the strongholds, which was obliterated in the following attack. At this point most of Armenians had relinquished opposition and acknowledged the sovereign supported by Rome. 

Nero gave the crown to the last illustrious relative of the lords of Cappadocia, the grandson of Glaphyra (little girl of Archelaus of Cappadocia) and Alexander of Judea (the sibling of Herod Archelaus and the child of Herod the Great), who expected the Armenian name Tigranes (his uncle was Tigranes V). His child, named Gaius Julius Alexander, wedded Iotapa, the girl of Antiochus IV of Commagene and was made King of Cilicia. Nero was hailed energetically in broad daylight for this underlying triumph and Corbulo was selected legislative leader of Syria as a reward. A gatekeeper of 1000 legionary troopers, three helper companions and two wings of ponies were distributed to Tigranes so as to shield the nation. Fringe areas were gave to Roman partners that helped Corbulo including Polemon, Parasmanes, Aristobolus and Antiochus. 

Vologases I was enraged by the way that an outsider currently sat on the Armenian royal position yet faltered to reestablish his sibling as he was occupied with a contention with the Hyrcanians who were revolting. Tigranes attacked the Kingdom of Adiabene and dismissed its King Monobazes in 61, who was a vassal of Parthians. 

Vologases I thought about this a demonstration of hostility from Rome and began a crusade to reestablish Tiridates I to the Armenian position of royalty. He set under the direction of spahbod Moneses a very much restrained power of cataphracts alongside Adiabenian assistants and requested him to remove Tigranes from Armenia. Having subdued the Hyrcanian revolt, Vologases I assembled the quality of his domains and set out toward Armenia. Corbulo, having been educated of the approaching assault, sent two armies under the directions of Verulanus Severus and Marcus Vettius Bolanus to the help of Tigranes with mystery headings that they should act with alert as opposed to life. He likewise dispatched a message to Nero, asking him to send a second authority with the unequivocal motivation behind safeguarding Armenia as Syria was currently additionally in risk. Corbulo set the rest of the armies on the banks of the Euphrates and equipped unpredictable troops of the adjacent areas. Since the locale was insufficient in water, he raised fortifications over the wellsprings and disguised the rivulets by stacking sand over them. 

Moneses walked towards Tigranocerta yet neglected to break the guard of the city dividers as his troops were unfit for a long attack. Corbulo, albeit famously fruitful idea it reasonable to utilize his favorable luck with control. He sent a Roman centurion by the name of Casperius to the camp of Vologases I in Nisibis situated from Tigranocerta with the interest to raise the attack. Due to an ongoing grasshopper storm and the shortage of grub for his ponies Vologases I consented to raise the attack of Tigranocerta and requested of to be conceded Armenia so as to accomplish a firm harmony. Vologases I requested that both the Roman and Parthian troops ought to clear Armenia, that Tigranes ought to be ousted, and that the situation of Tiridates I be perceived. The Roman government declined to consent to these game plans and sent Lucius Caesennius Paetus, legislative leader of Cappadocia, to settle the inquiry by bringing Armenia under direct Roman organization. 

Paetus was an inadequate leader and endured an embarrassing thrashing at the Battle of Rhandeia in 62, losing the armies of XII "Fulminata" instructed by Calvisius Sabinus and IV "Scythica" directed by Lucius Funisulanus Vettonianus. The order of the troops was come back to Corbulo, who the next year drove a solid armed force into Melitene and past into Armenia, dispensing with the majority of the territorial governors he suspected were star Parthian. At long last in Rhandeia, Corbulo and Tiridates I met to make a harmony understanding. The area of Rhandeia fit both Tiridates I and Corbulo. It spoke to Tiridates I since that is the place his military had beaten the Romans and sent them away under a capitulation; then again, it engaged Corbulo in light of the fact that he was going to clear out the reputation rife with scandal earned before in a similar area. At the point when Tiridates I touched base at the Roman camp he removed his imperial diadem and put it on the ground close to a statue of Nero, consenting to get it back just from Nero in Rome. Tiridates I was perceived as the vassal ruler of Armenia; a Roman army would stay in the nation for all time, in Sophene while Artaxata would be remade. Corbulo left his child in-law Lucius Annius Vinicianus to go with Tiridates I to Rome so as to confirm his very own loyalty to Nero. 

Before setting out for Rome, Tiridates I visited his mom and two siblings in Media Atropatene and Parthia. On his long trek he was joined by his better half and youngsters and two of his siblings. His escort incorporated a monumental entourage, including numerous primitive rulers, a few sages, 3,000 Parthian horsemen, and furthermore countless. His course lay crosswise over Thrace, through Illyria, on the eastern shores of the Adriatic and Picenum, in northeastern Italy. The adventure took nine months, and Tiridates I rode on horseback, with his kids and ruler next to him. The offspring of Vologases, Monobazes and Pacorus additionally went with Tiridates I. 

Cassius Dio, a second-century Roman student of history, portrayed Tiridates I positively at the season of his entry: "Tiridates himself was in an amazing prime, a prominent figure by reason of his childhood, excellence, family, and knowledge." Nero welcomed Tiridates I at Neapolis (Naples) in October, sending a state chariot to convey the guest in the course of the last couple of miles. 

As indicated by Dio's record, Tiridates I would not expel his sword as he moved toward the leader of the Roman Empire (however as a trade off, he consented to have his sword immovably affixed in the sheath, with the goal that it couldn't be drawn). Nero was purportedly so awed by this demonstration that he requested a gladiatorial diversions be arranged to pay tribute to his visitor at Puteolis (present day Pozzuoli, close Naples). As indicated by Cassius Dio, the Armenian lord himself had a chance to show his capacity as a marksman by shooting a bolt through the assemblages of two bison. Ethiopian ladies, men and youngsters battled as fighters and gladiatrices at the diversions to awe the Armenian lord. 

The peak of the functions was held for the capital. Rome was abundantly enhanced with banners, lights, wreaths and hitting, and was perfectly lit up around evening time with incredible hordes of individuals seen all over. 

On the day after Tiridates I's landing, Nero went to the Forum dressed in triumphal vestments and encompassed by dignitaries and warriors, all shining in costly clothing and sparkling shield. While Nero sat on the magnificent position of authority, Tiridates I and his entourage progressed between two lines of troopers. Touching base before the dais, Tiridates I bowed, with hands caught on his bosom. After the roaring yells and recognitions energized by this display had died down, Tiridates I tended to the sovereign: 

To which Nero answered: 

Tiridates I at that point mounted the means of the stage and stooped, while Nero put the regal diadem on his head. As the youthful lord was going to stoop a second time, Nero lifted him by his correct hand and in the wake of kissing him, influenced him to sit next to him on a seat a little lower than his own. In the interim, the people gave wild applauses to the two rulers. A Praetor, addressing the gathering of people, translated and clarified the expressions of Tiridates, who talked in Greek. As indicated by Pliny the Elder, Tiridates I at that point acquainted Nero with magian feasts ("magicis cenis"). Tacitus guaranteed that Tiridates I was likewise keen on everything Roman. 

Open merriments proceeded for quite a while after the crowning liturgy function. The inside of the Theater of Pompey and each bit of its furnishings was completely plated for the event; therefore, Rome thus reviewed that date as "the Golden Day." Daytime celebrations were on a scale no less extravagant than those of the night: Royal purple shades extended as security against the warmth of the sun. Nero, clad in green and wearing a chariot driver's crown, participated in a chariot race. At the night feasts, Nero, in gold-weaved vestments, sang and played the lyre with zither backup. Tiridates I was astonished and appalled by Nero's lavishness, yet he had acclaim for Corbulo and communicated to Corbulo his shock at his serving such an ace. He made no disguise of his perspectives to Nero's face and said to him snidely: "Sire, you have an awesome worker in the individual of Corbulo." 

In memory of these occasions, the Senate respected Nero with the tree wreath and the title of Imperator, or president of the armed forces. No gathering similar to this in greatness and wonder is recorded ever of. Other than the colossal entirety spent in merriments, the Roman Government bore the whole expense of the adventure of Tiridates I and his entourage, both from and to their country. Nero likewise made a blessing to Tiridates I of fifty million sesterces. 

On his adventure back to Armenia, Tiridates I saw a show of pancratium. When seeing that one of the competitors fell on his back and was being beaten by his rivals, Tiridates I saw shouted: "That is an unjustifiable challenge. It isn't reasonable that a man who has fallen ought to be beaten." 

Afterward, Nero gathered the Parthian King Vologases I to Rome a few times, however when the solicitations ended up difficult to Vologases I, he sent back a dispatch with this impact: "It is far simpler for you than for me to navigate so incredible a waterway. In this way, on the off chance that you will come to Asia, we would then be able to orchestrate to meet one another." 

It has been recommended that the visit of Tiridates I, an occasion that enormously awed counterparts, was adjusted by Christians to turn into the account of the reverence of the Christ Child by the Three Magi. The Christian legend changed Rome into Bethlehem, the origination of the Ruler of the coming Kingdom of God, and supplanted Tiridates I with that contemporary lord who was at that point associated with Christianity through the Acts of St. Thomas: Gondophares, also called Kaspar. 

Harmony won as of now all through the Roman Empire. Nero subsequently shut the doors of the Temple of Janus, which were never closed spare during all inclusive harmony. At the point when Tiridates I came back to Armenia, he took with him an incredible number of talented craftsmans for the reproduction of Artaxata. He renamed the capital Neronia to pay tribute to the sovereign; he decorated the imperial home at Garni, close-by, with corridors and landmarks of amazing wealth and furthermore the expansion of another sanctuary. Exchange between the two mainlands likewise developed, enabling Armenia to verify its autonomy from Rome. Rome presently considered upon Armenia an unwavering partner, even after Nero's demise and through the whole term of Vespasian's standard in the East. Harmony was an extensive triumph for Nero politically. 

The prompt profit of the harmony was Rome's capacity to direct its full concentration toward the mounting issues at Judea, which tore into open fighting coming full circle in the First Jewish– Roman War only one year after Tiridates' royal celebration. Substantial quantities of armies were redirected to Judea from Syria, which would somehow or another have been unthinkable. Nero turned out to be well known in the eastern territories of Rome and with the Armenians and Parthians. The name of Legio XII Fulminata found cut on a mountain in Gobustan (in current Azerbaijan), bears witness to the nearness of Roman fighters by the shores of the Caspian Sea in 89 AD, more remote east than any recently known Roman engraving. The harmony among Parthia and Rome endured 50 years, until ruler Trajan attacked Armenia in 114. 

In 72 the Alans, a warlike migrant Sarmatian clan, made an attack into Media Atropatene just as different locale of northern Armenia. Tiridates I and his sibling Pacorus, King of Media Atropatene, confronted them at various fights, amid one of which Tiridates I was quickly caught, barely avoiding being taken alive. He was lassoed from a separation and got, however he immediately figured out how to whip out his sword and slice the rope in time. The Alans pulled back with a great deal of goods in the wake of ravaging Armenia and Media Atropatene. The King of Iberia requested insurance against the Alans from Vespasian, who recreated the stronghold of Harmozica around the Iberian capital Mtskheta, close current Tbilisi. An Aramaic engraving found close Tbilisi demonstrates that Tiridates I additionally warred with Iberia amid his last years. The precise date of the finish of Tiridates I's rule is obscure; different sources name Sanatruces as his successor. It is realized that Tiridates' nephew, Axidares, the child of Pacorus II of Parthia, was King of Armenia by 110. 

Franz Cumont in "Les Réligions Orientales dans le Paganisme Romain" ("The Oriental Religions in Roman Paganism") brought up that Tiridates I was instrumental in the advancement of Mithraism in Rome, which eventually turned into the most predominant Roman religion all through the realm. 

Tiridates I is one of the chief characters in George Frideric Handel's musical drama "Radamisto" and Reinhard Keiser's musical show "Octavia."