Segundo Romance 

Segundo Romance () is the tenth studio collection by Mexican vocalist Luis Miguel, discharged on 30 August 1994 through WEA Latina. Like Miguel's 1991 collection "Sentiment", "Segundo Romance" contains spread adaptations of boleros (Latin melodies) composed somewhere in the range of 1934 and 1993. It was created by Miguel with Juan Carlos Calderón, Kiko Cibrian and Armando Manzanero and recorded in mid 1994 at the Record Plant in Los Angeles. 

Miguel advanced the collection with visits in the United States and Latin America from August to December 1994. Four singles were discharged: "El Día Que Me Quieras", "La Media Vuelta", "Todo y Nada", and "Delirio". The previous two achieved the highest point of the "Bulletin" Hot Latin Songs graph in the United States. 

"Segundo Romance" got positive surveys from music faultfinders, who commended its generation, Miguel's vocals and the selection of tunes. It won a few honors, including the Grammy Award for Best Latin Pop Performance. By 1995, "Segundo Romance" had sold in excess of four million duplicates and accomplished multi-platinum status in numerous Latin American nations and Spain, and was guaranteed platinum in the United States. Like its forerunner, the collection helped keep restoring standard enthusiasm for bolero music. 

In 1991, Miguel discharged his eighth studio collection, "Sentiment", an accumulation of exemplary boleros (moderate numbers "enriched with sentimental verses"). The collection was effective in Latin America and sold in excess of seven million duplicates around the world. It resuscitated enthusiasm for the bolero sort and was the primary record by a Spanish-talking craftsman to be confirmed gold in Brazil, Taiwan and the United States. Notwithstanding its prosperity, Miguel did not quickly discharge another collection of boleros as the subsequent collection. Rather, he recorded "Aries" (1993), a collection containing unique pop anthems and move tunes with R&B impacts. Four months after the arrival of "Aries", he affirmed that he would start recording another gathering of exemplary boleros in March 1994, with the working title "Sentiment II". 

"Segundo Romance" was recorded at the Record Plant in Los Angeles, picked for its best in class recording offices. Its title was declared in June 1994. Miguel co-delivered the collection with Armando Manzanero (who created "Sentiment)", Juan Carlos Calderón (who created Miguel's collections preceding "Sentiment") and Kiko Cibrian (who co-created "Aries"). Manzanero assisted with courses of action and tune determination, Calderón was included with the string area and Cibrian with music heading. 

The melody "Lo Mejor de Mí", made by Rudy Pérez, was considered for consideration on the collection, however Miguel ruled against chronicle it as he felt the tune would work better as an anthem for his next collection, as opposed to as a bolero. 

"Segundo Romance" includes 11 spread variants of great boleros, the most established dating to 1934. The game plans comprise of strings, saxophone performances, and a piano. Different styles incorporate fronts of Carlos Gardel and Alfredo Le Pera's tango "El Día Que Me Quieras", which utilizes a bandoneon (an accordion from Argentina), and the ranchera-bolero "La Media Vuelta" by José Alfredo Jiménez, which highlights horns, strings, and Spanish guitars. The collection highlights fronts of three tunes created by Manzanero: "Somos Novios", "Cómo Yo Te Amé", and "Yo Sé Que Volverás". 

"El Día Que Me Quieras" was discharged as the collection's lead single on 5 August 1994. It achieved number one on the "Announcement" Hot Latin Songs outline in the United States for the seven day stretch of 17 September 1994, and stayed there for five weeks. Its music video was coordinated by Kiko Guerrero and shot at the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City with Miguel and a 36-piece symphony. "La Media Vuelta", the second single, was discharged in November 1994 and achieved number one on the Hot Latin Songs diagram for the seven day stretch of 26 November, beating the outline for three weeks. Its music video, coordinated by Pedro Torres and taped in high contrast, highlights Miguel thinking back at a bar about a lady who bamboozled him. The third single, "Todo y Nada", achieved number three on the Hot Latin Songs and number one on the "Bulletin" Latin Pop Airplay graphs. "Todo y Nada" was highlighted as the primary subject for the Mexican telenovela "Imperio de cristal" (1994). "Delirio", the fourth single, topped at number 16 on the Hot Latin Songs outline; its music video was recorded in Brazil. 

To advance the collection, Miguel started his Segundo Romance Tour in August 1994 with 16 appears at the National Auditorium in Mexico City, which drew a crowd of people of more than 155,000. Miguel performed all through Mexico, the United States, Peru and Argentina until 31 December 1994, when the visit finished up in Acapulco. The initial segment of Miguel's set rundown included pop melodies and contemporary anthems; amid the second half he sang boleros from "Segundo Romance" and ranchera tunes, before shutting with "Será Que No Me Amas", the Spanish adaptation of the Jackson 5's "Accuse the Boogie". 

In October 1995, Warner Music discharged the "El Concierto" live collection and video, an arrangement of Miguel's exhibitions at the National Auditorium in Mexico City and his show at the Estadio Vélez in Buenos Aires. Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic applauded its creation and Miguel's execution. 

AllMusic faultfinder Jose F. Promis gave "Segundo Romance" four-and-a-half stars out of five, calling it "a top notch gathering of ageless Latin American principles" and applauded Miguel's vocals and the creation. As indicated by Promis, the collection "further settled Miguel as a top notch balladeer, and upgraded his huge global ubiquity, with the young market, yet with a more established, increasingly complex market also." Enrique Lopetegui of the "Los Angeles Times" gave the collection three stars out of four, saying that it contained "refreshed, all around created variants of great sentimental bolero and tango melodies". In "Americas" magazine, Mark Holston depicted "Segundo Romance" as a "brilliant reprise", refering to "El Día Que Me Quieras" and "Historia de un Amor" as "essential melodies". However "Announcement" commentator Paul Verna composed that it offered "few astonishments," he commended Miguel's "luscious, sophisti-pop take of 'Nosotros' and 'Delirio'." Mario Tarradell of the "Miami Herald" was less satisfied with the collection, composing that it "could not hope to compare to the first". Tarradell condemned Miguel's vocals being "on autopilot" contrasted with his "rich, modern shades" on "Sentiment" and considered the artist's creation a "terrible thought". 

In Argentina, Miguel got the "Asociación de Cronistas del Espectáculo" grant for Latin Ballad Album by a Male Solo Artist in 1994. At the 1995 Grammy Awards "Segundo Romance" won the Best Latin Pop Performance grant in spite of rivalry from Cristian Castro, Juan Gabriel, La Mafia and Plácido Domingo, the last who was favored to win by John Lannert of "Announcement" for his collection "De Mi Alma Latina". At the seventh Lo Nuestro Awards that year, Miguel won Pop Male Artist of the Year, Pop Album of the Year, and Video of the Year for "La Media Vuelta"; "El Día Que Me Quieras" was assigned for Pop Song of the Year. "Segundo Romance" won the honor for the Pop Album of the Year by a Male Artist at the 1995 "Bulletin" Latin Music Awards, and was named Best Album of the Year by the Association of Latin Entertainment Critics. Miguel was the Best-Selling Latin Artist of the Year at the 1995 World Music Awards. 

"Segundo Romance" was discharged on 30 August 1994. Inside two days, the collection sold more than one million duplicates around the world. In the United States, it appeared at number 29 on the "Announcement" 200 the seven day stretch of 10 September 1994, the most noteworthy presentation on the diagram at the ideal opportunity for a Spanish-language collection. That week, "Segundo Romance" likewise appeared at number seven on the "Bulletin" Top Latin Albums graph; it achieved number one every week later, supplanting Selena's "Love Prohibido". It spent an aggregate of 29 nonconsecutive weeks on the diagram, and was the second-smash hit Latin collection of the year behind "Mi Tierra" by Gloria Estefan. The collection beat the "Bulletin" Latin Pop Albums outline for 30 weeks, and was the most noteworthy selling Latin pop collection of the year in the U.S. As per Nielsen SoundScan, the record has sold 603,000 duplicates in the US , making the 21st top rated Latin collection in the nation. "Segundo Romance" was affirmed platinum for delivery one million duplicates, making Miguel the main Latin craftsman to have two confirmed platinum collections in the U.S. following "Sentiment". 

The collection was likewise effective in Spanish-talking nations. It was ensured quintuple platinum in Mexico, triple platinum in Paraguay and Uruguay just as in Central America; twofold platinum in Bolivia, Colombia, Peru, Spain and Venezuela, and platinum in Ecuador. In Brazil, "Segundo Romance" was guaranteed gold for offers of 50,000 duplicates. The collection achieved number one on the Chilean collection diagrams, and was affirmed sextuple platinum for delivery 150,000 duplicates. In Argentina, it was ensured 11× platinum and later got a precious stone honor for offers of 500,000 duplicates. By 1995, "Segundo Romance" had sold in excess of four million duplicates around the world. 

Like its forerunner, "Segundo Romance" restored enthusiasm for bolero music. Imprint Holston composed that the collection "demonstrates again that the bolero is back, its heart pulsating as unequivocally as ever, its spirit bursting at the seams with tropical enthusiasm, a music for without fail and all occasions". As indicated by Enrique Lopetegui of the "Los Angeles Times", the two collections "made a restoration for the bolero—the out-dated, string-based sentimental messages of solitary love were grasped even by youthful audience members". Ed Morales wrote in his book "The Latin Beat: The Rhythms and Roots of Latin Music from Bossa Nova to Salsa and Beyond": "Past only being a restoration, "Sentiment" and its 1994 development, "Segundo Romance" was a critical update of the class". "Chicago Tribune" manager Achy Obejas noticed that the collections "scored in such improbable places as Saudi Arabia and Finland". "Segundo Romance" was trailed by two more bolero collections: "Sentiments" (1997) and "Mis Romances" (2001). In 1998, "Sentiment", "Segundo Romance", and "Sentiments" were accumulated on "Todos Los Romances", discharged by WEA Latina. 

All tracks created by Miguel, Manzanero, Calderón, and Cibrian. 

The accompanying data is from AllMusic and from the "Segundo Romance" liner notes.