Gagak Item 

Gagak Item (; Vernacular Malay for "Dark Raven", likewise known by the Dutch title De Zwarte Raaf) is a 1939 highwayman movie from the Dutch East Indies (presently Indonesia) coordinated by Joshua and Othniel Wong for Tan's Film. Featuring Rd Mochtar, Roekiah, and Eddy T. Effendi, it pursues a veiled man referred to just as "Gagak Item" ("Black Raven"). The highly contrasting film, which highlighted the cast and group from the 1937 hit "Terang Boelan" ("Full Moon"), was a business achievement and gotten positive audits upon discharge. It is likely lost. 

"Gagak Item" was coordinated by siblings Joshua and Othniel Wong; shooting the work in high contrast, they likewise dealt with sound altering. It was delivered by Tan Khoen Yauw of Tan's Film and featured Rd Mochtar, Roekiah, Eddy T. Effendi, and Kartolo. The Wongs and cast had first cooperated on Albert Balink's 1937 blockbuster "Terang Boelan" ("Full Moon"), before joining Tan's Film in 1938 for the profoundly fruitful "Fatima"; "Gagak Item" was their second generation with the organization, which planned to reflect "Terang Boelan" achievement. Through these earlier movies Mochtar and Roekiah had turned into a set up screen couple. 

Saeroen, a writer turned-screenwriter for "Terang Boelan" and "Fatima", came back to compose the content to "Gagak Item". The film, a romantic tale, pursued a young lady and a veiled man known as "Gagak Item" ("Black Raven") and was set in rustic Buitenzorg (presently Bogor). The main marauder was like Zorro, a character prominent in the Indies at the time; such figures had been a staple of voyaging theater troupes starting in the mid 1930s. When composing the content Saeroen proceeded with the recipe he had utilized in "Terang Boelan", including activity, music, lovely vistas and physical satire. The film had six tunes performed by Hugo Dumas' melodic troupe Lief Java; the troupe was known for its "keroncong" exhibitions, blending conventional music with Portuguese impacts. "Gagak Item" highlighted vocals by "kroncong" artist Annie Landouw. 

"Gagak Item" was discharged in late 1939 and was screened in Batavia (presently Jakarta), the capital of the Indies; Medan, North Sumatra; and Surabaya, eastern Java. A few screenings of the film, likewise publicized under the Dutch title "De Zwarte Raaf", had Dutch-language captions. A novelisation of the film, distributed by the Yogyakarta-based Kolff-Buning, before long pursued. "Gagak Item" was one of four local preparations discharged in 1939; the film business had experienced a huge downturn following the beginning of the Great Depression, amid which time films basically indicated Hollywood creations, and had just started recouping following the arrival of "Terang Boelan". 

"Gagak Item" was a business and basic achievement, in spite of the fact that not as much as Tan's prior creation. A mysterious survey in "Bataviaasch Nieuwsblad" lauded the film, particularly its music. The commentator opined that the film would be an extraordinary achievement and that the film business in the Indies was demonstrating promising advancements. Another survey in a similar paper found that, albeit "one may shake one's head over the social estimation of indigenous movies", the film was a stage forward for the business. The survey lauded Roekiah's "coy" acting. 

Following the accomplishment of "Gagak Item" the Wongs, Saeroen, Roekiah, and Mochtar kept on working with Tan's Film. Their next creation, "Siti Akbari" (1940), was comparatively effective, albeit again not as beneficial as "Terang Boelan" or "Fatima". Saeroen, Joshua Wong, and Mochtar left the organization in 1940: Wong and Mochtar after installment debate, and Saeroen to come back to news-casting. Through 1941 Tan's Film created less motion pictures than its rivals, and was at last closed down after the Japanese occupation in mid 1942. 

"Gagak Item" was screened as late as January 1951. The film is likely lost. Motion pictures in the Indies were recorded on exceedingly combustible nitrate film, and after a shoot pulverized a lot of Produksi Film Negara's distribution center in 1952, old movies shot on nitrate were intentionally demolished. The American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider composes that every single Indonesian film from before 1950 are lost. Nonetheless, JB Kristanto's "Katalog Film Indonesia" ("Indonesian Film Catalog") records a few as having made due at Sinematek Indonesia's chronicles, and film student of history Misbach Yusa Biran composes that few Japanese purposeful publicity films have made due at the Netherlands Government Information Service.