Faces (Star Trek: Voyager) 

"Appearances" is a scene of the American sci-fi TV arrangement "". It is the fourteenth scene of the and was first communicated by UPN on May 8, 1995. "Countenances" was created from a story by Jonathan Glassner and Kenneth Biller. Biller composed the teleplay, which was coordinated by Winrich Kolbe. Set in the 24th century, the arrangement pursues the experiences of the Starfleet and Maquis team of the starship USS "Voyager" after they are stranded in the Delta Quadrant, a long way from the remainder of the Federation. 

In this scene, a Vidiian researcher named Sulan (Brian Markinson) catches and performs restorative investigations on the half-Klingon, half-human B'Elanna Torres (Roxann Dawson). He isolates her into a full-blooded Klingon and a full-blooded human to discover a solution for an ailment. The "Voyager" group salvages Torres and reestablishes her to her unique state, while she endeavors to accommodate with her way of life as a half-human half-Klingon. The scene visitor stars Rob LaBelle as an anonymous Talaxian detainee. On-screen character Joy Kilpatrick was given a role as Dawson's photograph twofold to stay away from a dependence on split screen. 

The scene was created as a character concentrate to additionally investigate Torres' inside battle with her personality. Dawson was initially impervious to the scene, however later recognized it as one of her most loved exhibitions, which extended her comprehension of the character and reinforced her acting. Human Torres and Klingon Torres were treated as two separate characters amid the advancement and recording of the scene. Michael Westmore planned the characters' cosmetics to underline the contrasts between them. The scene got a Nielsen rating of 6.1/10 evaluations offer; a drop from the scene communicate the earlier week. "Appearances" was commonly generally welcomed, and Dawson's character and execution were lauded. The scene has likewise been the subject of investigation on race. Its last grouping gathered negative surveys from pundits and fans for the absence of sympathy appeared to Torres by the remainder of "Voyager's" team. 

Team individuals Tom Paris, B'Elanna Torres, and Peter Durst have disappeared on a mission. They have been caught by the Vidiians. Vidiian Chief Surgeon Sulan has directed a strategy on Torres, changing her from a half-human, half-Klingon mixture into two bodies (a full-blooded Klingon and a full-blooded human). He taints Klingon Torres with the Phage, a destructive sickness that harasses his species yet to which Klingons have a characteristic resistance, so he can think about her hereditary qualities. Administrator Chakotay, Security Chief Tuvok, and Ensign Harry Kim structure a hunt party however are found by the Vidiians and bar back to USS "Voyager". Sulan looks at the Klingon Torres while she encounters torment from the Phage. Klingon Torres communicates pride in her Klingon character, however she concealed her Klingon legacy as a youngster. Perceiving Sulan's fascination in her, she attempts to allure the researcher and departure, yet his longing to discover a fix conquers his desire. The human variant of Torres is kept detained with Paris and Durst. Human Torres is described as more fragile and more tentative than her Klingon partner, and is regarded too sick to even think about working in the mines. She furtively deals with a security support in the encampment trying to contact "Voyager" however is gotten. 

In the interim, Sulan slaughters Durst and unions his face over his own to seem all the more speaking to the Klingon Torres. Klingon Torres escapes from Sulan's research center, and safeguards her human rendition. In the wake of belligerence about their particular shortcomings, and past removal from Starfleet Academy, the two parts detail an arrangement. Human Torres proposes closing down the shields for the complex so that "Voyager" can transport them to the ship, while the Klingon Torres manages monitors. Chakotay, masked as a Vidiian monitor with the assistance of , breaks into the office in the meantime Torres deactivates the shields. Klingon Torres penances herself to secure the remainder of the team individuals from Sulan. Transported back to "Voyager", Klingon Torres denies medicinal help to kick the bucket a fair passing. The Doctor clarifies that Human Torres would not make due without her Klingon half and reestablishes her to her unique self by reintegrating the Klingon DNA. Human Torres confesses to feeling inadequate without her Klingon half. In the wake of being reestablished, she understands that she will spend a mind-blowing remainder managing her inward clash. 

"Countenances" was pitched by author Jonathan Glassner, and was later reconsidered by official story manager Kenneth Biller. In a meeting with "The Official Star Trek: Voyager Magazine", Biller said that the main similitude between the first pitch and the last duplicate was that the scene manages the character B'Elanna Torres being part into two sections. In the scene's first draft, outsiders utilized a machine to isolate Torres into human and Klingon parts as a major aspect of an examination endeavoring to accomplish immaculateness inside an animal types. Official maker Michael Piller depicted the draft as initially concentrating on "someone's thought this could be the aftereffect of an ugly death camp sort of investigation, that is, hereditary showing or the like." 

Biller and official maker Jeri Taylor were disparaging of Glassner's pitch; Biller observed it to be "exaggerated and hokey", and Taylor called it "a drained thought" and "excessively on the sense about B'Elanna." Producer Brannon Braga disclosed that the choice to buy the idea was to complete a storyline including an insidious twin in the show's first season, and "get it off the beaten path." He felt that the idea could be a misstep, and contrasted it contrarily with a speculative storyline in which "" character Data (Brent Spiner) would be made human. Piller said the scene was nearly relinquished, yet he trusted that the contention between Torres' human and Klingon parts, and her way of life as a lady, would make a beneficial storyline. 

The arrangement's composition group communicated worry that the scene would be contrasted with two scenes from "" ("" and "The Alternative Factor"). Piller included: "[w]e realized we couldn't do the wickedness versus-great story that the first "Star Trek" had done." Biller was allocated to compose the content as his second composition task for the arrangement; his previously had been for "Elogium". Biller ascribed his enthusiasm for the scene's idea to his own encounters with his more youthful, received sibling's battle to comprehend his biracial character. Despite the fact that Biller was at first reproachful of the pitch's drama, he felt that his adaptation had the acting expected of a "Star Trek" scene. The last draft of the content was submitted on February 24, 1995. 

Biller joined the Vidiians into the scene, trusting that their innovation would introduce a possible strategy by which Torres could be isolated. The Vidiians were included in a before season one scene titled "". Biller clarified that Klingons were appeared to be more impervious to malady than different species in past "Star Trek" portions, and contemplated that a Vidiians researcher would see them as a promising method to find a remedy for the sickness. Biller said that he experienced issues composing Sulan as a thoughtful reprobate. He looked to Gene Roddenberry's way to deal with depicting enemies in the "Star Trek" establishment: "[A]liens ought to never be evidently detestable. They may have a lot of qualities that vary from our own, yet be cautious about making them mustache-spinning reprobates." 

Biller saw the collaborations among Sulan and the Klingon adaptation of Torres as being propelled by the fantasy "Excellence and the Beast". He believed a Klingon's solidarity to be the perfect excellence for a Vidiian, and that Sulan would build up a fascination in Torres. Biller said that the Klingon rendition of Torres was more manipulative than Beauty from the fantasy since she utilizes her sexuality to persuade Sulan to pursue her requests. Biller trusted the scene added more components of frightfulness to the arrangement, and indicated the minute when Sulan joined Durst's face over his own as a "wiped out snapshot of motivation" and a "great thriller minute". He felt that Sulan's inconvenience with his appearance balanced his character. 

Brian Markinson was given a role as Sulan, the scene's essential adversary. Inferable from the arrangement in which Sulan joins Durst's face to his own, Markinson was additionally given the job of Durst. The character was presented in the former scene ("") with the goal that he would be a well-known face to the watchers. Victimize LaBelle, who was a dear companion of Biller, was given a role as an anonymous Talaxian detainee however he covered the association amid his tryout to dodge particular treatment. LaBelle later showed up in the arrangement as the Takarian worker Kafar in "False Profits" and Talaxian pilgrim Oxilon in "". 

In view of budgetary concerns, "Countenances" was delivered close to the finish of the primary season. It was initially going to be set in a wilderness, yet the area was changed to caverns after executive Winrich Kolbe determined that the previous thought would surpass the scene's financial plan. "Countenances" was the fourth scene of the arrangement Kolbe coordinated, and he said that everything ran easily in spite of his absence of commonality with the story circular segments and characters. The sets for the Vidiian mines were built on Paramount Stage 18. Materials used to make security reassures in the Vidiian research facilities were recently utilized for the development of Klingon starships. The prosthetics and compensate for the Vidiians were taken care of by make-up administrator Michael Westmore. The scene (with the remainder of the primary season) earned an assignment for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Individual Achievement in Makeup for a Series for the 47th Primetime Emmy Awards, however lost to "". 

Cast individuals have remarked on their exhibitions in the scene. Robert Beltran, who played Commander Chakotay, said he felt awkward acting in the facial veil worn for his character's Vidiian mask. He depicted the prosthetics as "that crude, injured face, which made me feel entirely powerless as an individual", and saw it as an acting test. Garrett Wang, who depicted Ensign Harry Kim, said that his job in the scene was confined to technobabble. Robert Picardo, who played the Doctor, valued the connections among Torres and his character as they spoke to how he was initially "only a functionary carrying out his responsibility." Picardo included that his scenes demonstrated that it was too early for his character to comprehend the significance of his task on Torres, or to build up any kind of association with her. 

Different bloopers happened amid the shooting of the scene. The primary take of a scene in which Chakotay, Tuvok, and Kim experience two Vidiians was hindered when Beltran overlooked his line and ad libbed a joke about the outsiders' appearance. Kolbe was disappointed with a few of the accompanying takes and advised the performing artists to "put a bit of acting into this one, if it's not too much trouble Amid another grouping, Nana Visitor, who played Kira Nerys in "Star Trek: Deep Space Nine", strolled on set unintentionally. 

Performer Roxann Dawson was at first suspicious about the content, trusting that the idea was happening too soon in the arrangement for her to comprehend the character all around ok to play two separate individuals. She said that she physically shook when perusing the content out of the blue, and found the scene an acting test that widened her capacities and developed her association with the character. Dawson stated: "I had the capacity to portray these opposite sides that up to that point were simply similitudes." She contemplated that the scene gave an open door "to exemplify two parts of this character". 

Dawson was given two forms of the content, one marked "The Klingon" and the other "The Human". The contents treated the human and Klingon types of Torres as two separate characters, underlining their defects. Dawson saw that Human Torres needed quality and boldness, while Klingon Torres needed rationale and control. She felt that the Klingon ought to get more consideration, particularly when Torres battles with that side of her personality all through the arrangement. She likewise needed the scene to catch Klingon Torres' regard for Human Torres. Dawson included that the scene's focal subject was "figuring out how to regard the pieces of one's self that make up the entire individual". "Appearances" was noted for building up Torres' progressing powerlessness to accommodate her human and Klingon characters, in "the most exacting fight". Biller couldn't help contradicting the scene's goals, contending that Torres ought to stay human. He felt that the scene ought to longerly affect Torres' character improvement, and accepted: "[w]e couldn't get as far as possible of the scene and state that Torres has now settled every one of her issues and finds a sense of contentment with herself". This story circular segment proceeded in the later scenes "Day of Honor" and "", in which Torres in the long run acknowledged her Klingon legacy. 

Performing artist Joy Kilpatrick was given a role as Dawson's photograph twofold. Dawson portrayed having an extraordinary working association with her remain in. Examining Kilpatrick, she stated, "I was going to reveal to her what I would have been doing as such she could give me the beats that I could respond to legitimately" and observed her to be steady and instinctive. Kilpatrick was not credited for her execution in the scene. Kolbe noticed that the scene utilized a great deal of enhanced visualizations, explicitly to make the hallucination of the two forms of Torres. The throwing of a photograph twofold permitted Kolbe to abstain from depending on split screen. The booking was deliberately intended to represent the make-up utilized for the two jobs. 

Dawson depicted the prosthetics for the Klingon variant of Torres as "a brow, nose, and teeth". She felt that the look was not as complex as the character's ordinary appearance as a half-human/half-Klingon in view of the absence of skin tones and subtleties of the facial highlights. While Dawson's make-up regularly took two hours to apply, the full Klingon prosthetics took around three hours. To spare time reapplying the make-up and prosthetics more than once, every day's shooting would focus on one of the two characters, and switch the next day. Dawson contrasted the involvement with repertory theater. In spite of the throwing of the photograph twofold, and thoughtfulness regarding planning, Kolbe communicated dissatisfaction in not having the capacity to shoot more scenes with the two renditions of Torres in the cavern, yet comprehended the incessant utilization of the split screen could contrarily affect the generation cost. After the scene had broadcast, Dawson called her folks to ask their feelings. They answered: "[y]ou were great, however the young lady that played that Klingon was extremely extraordinary!" Dawson accepting their comments as a compliment. 

"Countenances" was first communicated on May 8, 1995, on UPN at 8 pm Eastern Standard Time in the United States. The scene got a Nielsen rating of 6.1/10 evaluations offer; this put it in 77th spot by and large for the week. This denoted a drop in viewership contrasted with the past scene "Cathexis", which had earned a 6.4 rating. 

The scene was first discharged for home media use on VHS in the United Kingdom in 1995 as a major aspect of a two-scene gathering with "Cathexis". This was trailed by a discharge in the United Kingdom in 1996, which was re-discharged the next year. It was first discharged on DVD as a feature of the primary season discharge on February 24, 2004, in the United States. The scene was additionally accessible on various gushing video on interest administrations, for example, Amazon Video, iTunes, Hulu, and Netflix. 

The scene was decidedly gotten by the cast and group for its portrayal of Torres' inside clash over her half-human, half-Klingon character. Biller distinguished the scene as his most loved of the three contents he composed for the show's first season; he likewise expressed "Elogium" and "Jetrel". He saw the scene delineating Torres' acknowledgment that she was human as a standout amongst the best from the scene. Dawson portrayed the scene as a "major advance for B'Elanna" and valued that the content kept away from a prosaism finishing by leaving space for Torres to manage her inside personality battles. Towards the finish of "Voyager"s last season, she thought back on the scene as one of the show's features. Taylor and Beltran lauded Dawson for her capacity to play two differentiating characters; Beltran included that it was an extraordinary scene that exhibited Dawson's capacities as a performing artist. While Kolbe at first discovered Dawson's curiosity and continuous inquiries amid taping to be a test, he felt that she did "one serious occupation on that one". He delighted in the finished form of the scene, yet communicated dissatisfaction with its closure. 

The makers and authors additionally remarked on the presence of the Vidiians in the scene. Piller, Braga, and Taylor adulated official maker Rick Berman's choice to reformat Torres' storyline with the consideration of the Vidiians. Independent essayist Skye Dent, who had assisted with the first advancement of the Vidiians for "Phage" was inspired by the scene's portrayal of the outsider species, and felt it was an improvement over her ideas. Biller featured the scene uncovering Sulan's transplant of Durst's face onto his own as "my great minute in "Voyager" first season". 

The basic reaction for "Countenances" was to a great extent positive, Dawson's execution and Torres' portrayal being commended as the scene's features. Will Nguyen of Treknews.net recognized "Countenances" as a positive advancement for Torres that empowered the gathering of people to all the more likely comprehend her character. It was picked as one of three scenes to watch from the principal season by Juliette Harrisson at "Nook of Geek" because of "some fine character work from Roxann Dawson." Harrisson noticed that the scene built up ""Voyager's" best sentimental matching" (Torres and Paris). "TrekToday's" Michelle Erica Green felt that the scene was a viable character investigation of Torres and displayed Dawson's capacities as a performer. Green all things considered the plot a predictable interpretation of the shrewd twin storyline and found the science incredible with regards to the show. "Countenances" was depicted as a champion from the show's first season by Jamahl Epsicokhan of Jammer's Reviews given that it didn't reuse its story from "Star Trek: The Next Generation". He applauded Dawson's execution, and communicated frustration that the character was as often as possible confined to technobabble all through the remainder of the arrangement. 

Pundits and fans reacted adversely to the scene's last grouping. Taylor portrayed getting unfavorable fan mail about the absence of compassion communicated by "Voyager's" group individuals for Torres in the consummation. She cleared up that Chakotay's reaction to Torres was proposed to be inert instead of cold, and recognized that he ought to have "put his arm around her and show[n] some glow" as recommended by fans. Green was amazed that Torres was not given a punch talk by either Captain Kathryn Janeway (Kate Mulgrew) or Chakotay in the last scene. Epsicokhan, then again, found the absence of answers from Chakotay to be a suitable closure given the attention on Torres' own contentions. 

The character of Torres has been the subject of racial investigation. In her article "The Monster Inside: nineteenth Century Racial Constructs in the 24th Century Mythos of Star Trek", Denise Alessandria Hurd composed that "Appearances" exhibited that Torres was created by the sad mulatto prime example. Hurd brought up that Human Torres resembled "an ideal specimen for the clique of white womanhood", while Klingon Torres had increasingly cliché African-American highlights, for example, dull skin and unusual hair. Torres' last articulation that she will dependably encounter inside clash was distinguished as a marker of mental unsteadiness by Hurd, who felt such conduct was standardized in half and half characters. Allen Kwan additionally refered to the scene's last scene as a negative analysis on race in his article "Looking for New Civilizations: Race Normativity in the Star Trek Franchise". He composed that Torres' craving to be totally human was an "implicit affirmation of the racial normativity natural to Starfleet and the Federation". 

Susan De Gaia contended in her article "Intergalactic Heroines: Land, Body and Soul in "Star Trek: Voyager"" that the division of Torres into her Klingon and human parts decidedly tended to decent variety. De Gaia felt that the scene imparted that "a tough lady is made by fusing the human with a more grounded race, the Klingon, and by association with a free gathering". In her book "American Science Fiction TV: Star Trek, Stargate and Beyond", Jan Johnson-Smith sorted "Appearances" as one occasion in which the "Star Trek" establishment has handled "[i]ssues of individual distinction" and contrasted it with the joining of Tuvok and Neelix (Ethan Phillips) in the second-season scene "Tuvix". Elisabeth Anne Leonard likewise examined Torres' revelation about her personality in her book "Into Darkness Peering: Race and Color in the Fantastic". Leonard composed that the closure of "Faces" goes about as Torres' "acknowledgment of a Creole self" rather than her "nascent devastation of a Creole personality" in the scene "". 

In the section "Femme Noire" from the book "Goddesses and Monsters: Women, Myth, Power, and Popular Culture", Jane Caputi and Lauri Sagle called "Faces" one of the "more keen Virgin/Cannibal account structures"— a scholarly gadget that they concocted and characterized as "push[ing] the envelope of the exemplary virgin/prostitute worldview". Caputi and Sagle moved toward the scene as an "allegorical story of "mestiza" experience and cognizant" given Torres' Spanish last name. They associated the character's trouble with her personality to Gloria E. Anzaldúa's hypothetical work, deciphering Torres as creating another "inward and external face" for herself.