The Bat (play) 

The Bat is a three-demonstration play by Mary Roberts Rinehart and Avery Hopwood that was first created by Lincoln Wagenhals and Collin Kemper in 1920. The story consolidates components of secret and satire as Cornelia Van Gorder and visitors spend a stormy night at her leased summer home, hunting down stolen cash they accept is covered up in the house, while they are stalked by a conceal criminal known as "the Bat". The Bat's character is uncovered toward the finish of the last demonstration. 

The play started as an adjustment of Rinehart's 1908 riddle novel "The Circular Staircase". Rinehart and Hopwood changed the story to set it up for Broadway, including the main foe. The association with the novel prompted a lawful argument about film rights with the Selig Polyscope Company, makers of a 1915 film adjustment of the novel, additionally titled "The Circular Staircase". In the wake of reviewing under the title "A Thief in the Night", the play opened as "The Bat" at the Morosco Theater on Broadway on August 23, 1920. 

"The Bat" was a basic and business achievement. It kept running for 867 exhibitions in New York and 327 exhibitions in London; a few street organizations took the show to different zones. The play was resuscitated twice on Broadway, in 1937 and 1953. It had a few adjustments, including a 1926 novelization credited to Rinehart and Hopwood yet secretly composed by Stephen Vincent Benét. Three film adjustments were delivered: "The Bat" (1926), "The Bat Whispers" (1930), and "The Bat" (1959). The play and its adjustments enlivened other satire secrets with comparable settings, and impacted the formation of the comic-book hero Batman. 

Old, single Cornelia Van Gorder is leasing an old, separated Long Island house claimed by the home of Courtleigh Fleming, a bank president who had purportedly passed on a while previously. On a stormy night, the power glimmers on and off. The vast majority of the workers, persuaded that the house is spooky, have rationalized and fled. As per a news report, a strange criminal known as "the Bat" has evaded police in the region. Cornelia is in the house with her servant, Lizzie, and Billy, a Japanese steward who is a piece of Fleming's family unit staff. They are joined by Brooks, a planter as of late contracted by Cornelia's niece, Dale Ogden. Dale and Dr. Wells, the nearby coroner and an old companion of Fleming's, land for a visit. They reveal to Cornelia that Jack Bailey, a clerk at Fleming's bank, has vanished and is associated with taking over a million dollars. Cornelia tells Lizzie and Dale that she has welcomed a police investigator to visit since somebody has been attempting to break into the house around evening time. Wells leaves, and Detective Anderson arrives. Cornelia discloses to Anderson that she presumes Fleming stole from the bank and concealed the cash in the house. While Cornelia indicates Anderson to his room, Dale cautions Brooks (who is really Jack Bailey, and Dale's life partner) that Anderson is an analyst. Creeks likewise trusts that Fleming shrouded the cash, and needs to clear himself by discovering it. Dale brings Fleming's nephew, Richard (who leased the house to Cornelia), to find out about conceivable concealing spots. Richard demonstrates her a diagram of the house, with a concealed room where the cash may be. While they battle about the outline, a figure shows up in the dimness and shoots Richard, finishing the main demonstration. 

Cornelia calls Dr. Wells back to the house to look at Richard's body. Dale requests that Wells conceal the plan she took from Richard in light of the fact that the others may feel that she slaughtered him for it. Reginald Beresford, a legal counselor holding up in his vehicle after he drove Richard to the house, comes inside. Reginald perceives Jack, and the introduction of her life partner influences Dale to concede that she gave Wells the outline with the shrouded room. Wells asserts that he doesn't have the diagram; Cornelia uncovers other proof implicating him, and Anderson requests to address only him. Wells thumps Anderson oblivious amid the cross examination and hauls him into another room. Before Wells can go to the shrouded room, an outsider professing to have lost his memory after he was assaulted and tied up in the carport shows up at the patio entryway. At the point when the visitors endeavor to recognize the obscure man, they find that they have been secured in the house. Toward the second's end demonstration, Cornelia finds the Bat's distinguishing mark, a dark paper bat, attached to an entryway. 

The third demonstration starts on the upper floor of the house, where a conceal man is found in the already shrouded room taking a cash sack from a safe. At the point when Dale finds the room, the man escapes, abandoning her and the cash bolted inside. The others discover her there, oblivious. Anderson returns and blames Wells for taking the cash and executing Richard. Cornelia starts to introduce an elective hypothesis, yet is hindered when the obscure man comes upstairs and Anderson gets some information about his amnesia. Cornelia says that she sees a man on the rooftop, and the greater part of the gathering leaves to search for him. Cornelia utilizes the diversion to tell Dale, Jack and the obscure man that she supposes the cash is still in the room. When they look for the cash, Jack finds the assemblage of Courtleigh Fleming, who was murdered as of late. As Cornelia, Dale and Jack contend about what has occurred, the obscure man bolts the entryway and requests them to be peaceful. At the point when the covered man sneaks in through a window, the obscure man captures him and uncovers that he, the obscure man, is the genuine Detective Anderson; the Bat (the veiled man) had claimed to be Anderson. 

Mary Roberts Rinehart was a standout amongst the best American secret scholars of the mid twentieth century. In the wake of beginning her composition profession with short stories, she made well known progress with the production of her 1908 novel "The Circular Staircase". In 1909 Broadway makers Lincoln Wagenhals and Collin Kemper asked Rinehart to adjust her novella "Seven Days" for the stage. She consented to work with Avery Hopwood, a youthful dramatist with only one delivered play, to make the content. The play "Seven Days" appeared on Broadway in November 1909 and turned into a hit. Rinehart and Hopwood each kept on composing plays, however did not work together again until "The Bat". 

In 1916, Rinehart asked showy maker Edgar Selwyn whether he thought a secret play would be effective in the event that it kept the riddle uncertain until the end; Selwyn answered that such a play could make a million dollars. Rinehart chose to put together this play with respect to "The Circular Staircase", which had been adjusted for film in 1915. In spite of the fact that she started chip away at the play in spring 1917, she was occupied by work for the United States Department of War amid World War I and by fall 1918 had just composed the initial two acts. Rinehart drew nearer Hopwood for help finishing the play while she was in Europe for the War Department. Hopwood was intrigued, however did not chip away at the play when she was abroad. 

After Rinehart returned in 1919, Hopwood joined her in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, where she lived; they chipped away at the play there and in New York City until they finished it. While they dealt with "The Bat", Wagenhals and Kemper requested that they take a shot at a content for "Spanish Love" (an adjustment of "María del Carmen", a 1896 Spanish play). Composing both plays required Rinehart and Hopwood to work extended periods. By early April 1920, they were taking a shot at a last, progressively funny round of amendments for "The Bat". 

Rinehart and Hopwood completed "The Bat" amid the evening of April 11, 1920. She was summoned minutes after the fact when her little girl in-law started giving birth, and her granddaughter was brought into the world promptly the following day. Rinehart chose to concentrate on family commitments and missed the perusing of the play to Wagenhals and Kemper, who communicated enthusiasm for organizing it after Hopwood imparted a draft to them. She missed "The Bat" practices and its Broadway debut, despite the fact that she went to review exhibitions. 

Before its Broadway opening, the play saw in Washington, D.C., where it opened at the Belasco Theater on June 14, 1920, as "A Thief in the Night". The next week, it reviewed in Atlantic City, New Jersey. With Rinehart's favored title reestablished, "The Bat" opened on Broadway at the Morosco Theater on August 23, 1920. The play was delivered by Wagenhals and Kemper; the last additionally coordinated. The Broadway creation shut in September 1922 after 867 exhibitions. Before it shut, Wagenhals and Kemper sent six street organizations to visit the United States. On January 23, 1922, "The Bat" opened a 327-execution keep running in London at St James' Theater in the West End. 

The play was restored twice on Broadway. The primary recovery, delivered by Ben Lundy and coordinated by Benjamin F. Kamsler, opened on May 31, 1937, at the Majestic Theater as a feature of a late spring stock program. Booked to keep running for seven days, it was expanded and shut following two weeks and 11 exhibitions. The second recovery opened on January 20, 1953, at the National Theater and shut on February 7 after 23 exhibitions. 

The assume's lead job is Cornelia Van Gorder, played in the principal generation by Effie Ellsler. In spite of "The Bat" strangely long run, Ellsler showed up in pretty much every execution (counting the night after she caught wind of her significant other's passing); she left the part just quickly, in the wake of crumbling in front of an audience amid the generation's last week. "The Bat" was her last Broadway job. 

Wagenhals and Kemper cast Harrison Hunter in the assume's title job. They didn't demonstrate Hunter or the other cast individuals the last scene (in which the Bat's personality is uncovered) until in the blink of an eye before the dress practice. Seeker, who had thought he was playing an investigator, was disturbed to discover that his job was that of a criminal, despite the fact that he stayed in the job for the whole Broadway keep running before joining a visiting organization for the play. Toward the finish of 1922, while as yet playing the Bat, Hunter turned out to be sick and kicked the bucket seven days after the fact. 

The play's essential entertainment is given by Lizzie, played in the underlying Broadway generation by May Vokes. Vokes came back to the job for the 1937 recovery, where she was joined by Richard Barrows (likewise from the first cast, yet in an alternate job). Minnette Barrett, an understudy in the first creation, played Cornelia in the recovery. 

Creations of "The Bat" incorporated the underlying Broadway run, a generation in London's West End and two later Broadway recoveries, with the accompanying premiere night throws: 

To adjust "The Circular Staircase" for the stage, Rinehart and Hopwood made changes to the characters and plot; the most critical was the expansion of the showy criminal whose alias the play's title. The essential reprobates in the novel were a stealing financier and a specialist who helped the investor counterfeit his passing. The character names were altogether changed (Rachel Innes in the novel moved toward becoming Cornelia Van Gorder in the play, her niece Gertrude moved toward becoming Dale, and so forth.), and some huge characters from the novel were excluded from the play. In spite of the changes, the play held numerous components from the novel, including the old maid courageous woman and her niece remaining at a mid year house, the shrouded room in the house, the scheme between the investor and his specialist, and the bank assistant who masks himself as a nursery worker. 

Like "The Circular Staircase", "The Bat" consolidates riddle and parody. The vast majority of its satire is given by Lizzie, Cornelia's servant. The puzzle closes with a contort, in which a character who is apparently a criminologist researching the case is really the scalawag. Albeit comparable endings had been utilized in before stage secrets, it was sufficiently sudden to trick a great part of the play's Broadway gathering of people. To look after believability, Rinehart and Hopwood checked the planning of the plot (counting occasions occurring offstage) and modified as expected to guarantee the course of events was sensible. Hopwood told the "New York World" that they endeavored to make the play "completely coherent and gap confirmation". 

With a multi-year Broadway run, more than nine months on the West End and a few street organizations visiting simultaneously, "The Bat" was a money related achievement. In his 1946 profile of Rinehart, "Life" magazine author Geoffrey T. Hellman evaluated that the play had earned more than nine million dollars. It was the best play for the two its essayists and its makers, and was the second-longest-running Broadway creation in history toward the finish of its underlying spell. 

The first Broadway generation of "The Bat" got positive surveys adulating its composition and exhibitions. In his "New York Times" audit, Alexander Woollcott depicted the play as engaging and very much acted. For the "New-York Tribune", Heywood Broun called "The Bat" superior to "Spanish Love" (which had opened the prior week). Broun composed that "The Bat" "gave a magnificent progression of rushes", in spite of the fact that the "breaks of low satire" with Vokes could have been discarded. A "New York Evening Telegram" analyst loved "The Bat" parody and called it "the best riddle play New York has ever observed". As indicated by a "Brooklyn Daily Eagle" audit, "The Bat" was "three acts brimming with secret and fun" and superior to "Seven Days". 

The play's 1922 London generation likewise gotten positive surveys. In "The Spectator", W. J. Turner composed that the play was exciting and applauded Moore's going about as Cornelia, however detested Wills' "nonsense" as Lizzie. The "Spectator" called "The Bat" "most energizing from first to last". 

When it was resuscitated on Broadway in 1937, commentators said that the play had not matured well because of numerous impersonations by consequent plays. For the "New York Times", Brooks Atkinson composed that it was "not exactly the screech show it was initially" yet at the same time engaging. As indicated by the "Brooklyn Daily Eagle" Arthur Pollock, "The Bat" demonstrated its age and was more interesting than startling. In spite of the fact that Atkinson was progressively great about the 1953 restoration and the more seasoned story's "guiltlessness", different analysts thought of it as dated. 

"The Bat" is viewed as an exemplary case of satire secret; dramatization pundit Joseph Twadell Shipley called it "the most well known and most shiverful of our homicide puzzle shows". Huge numbers of its components are presently adages. "The Bat" achievement urged imitators to set puzzles blended with satire in old, dim houses which a portion of the characters believe are spooky. "The Cat and the Canary" by John Willard opened on Broadway in February 1922 and kept running for 349 exhibitions. Another fruitful impersonation was Crane Wilbur's "The Monster", which opened on Broadway in August of that year. Ralph Spence's 1925 play, "The Gorilla", ridiculed the class; as per its ads, it "outbats "The Bat"". 

Film forms before long pursued, including a 1925 adjustment of "The Monster" and various adjustments of "The Cat and the Canary" and "The Gorilla". By the late 1920s, the riddles' prevalence was declining in live theater, in spite of the fact that the class proceeded in movies, for example, James Whale's "The Old Dark House" (1932) and a few adjustments of "The Bat". 

Rinehart sold the film rights to "The Circular Staircase" to film maker William's Selig Polyscope Company in 1915, and he discharged a film adaptation of the novel that year. Rinehart obtained the rights once again from Selig in 1920 to maintain a strategic distance from clashes over potential film adjustments of "The Bat". Yet, in 1921, Selig re-discharged his film as "The Bat" to gain by the play's prosperity. Wagenhals and Kemper recorded suit to obstruct Selig's utilization of the title. 

Three movies depended on the first Broadway play. The initial, a quiet movie additionally called "The Bat", was created and coordinated by Roland West, who co-composed the screenplay with Julien Josephson and George Marion Jr. Cornelia was played by Emily Fitzroy, and Eddie Gribbon was the Bat. West's better half, Jewel Carmen, played Dale Ogden as her last film job. West made the performers work during the evening to get them in the disposition for the spine chiller. The film was discharged by United Artists on March 14, 1926. The prior year, West had coordinated an adjustment of one of "The Bat" imitators, "The Monster". Commentators considered "The Bat" to be an improvement over that past film; it got positive surveys and got along nicely in the cinematic world. The film was viewed as lost for a considerable length of time, however a print was found during the 1980s. 

Following the commercialization of sound movies, West revamped the story four years after the fact as "The Bat Whispers". The redo, discharged by United Artists on November 29, 1930, featured Chester Morris as the Bat and Una Merkel as Dale; British on-screen character Grayce Hampton played Cornelia. West tried different things with early widescreen innovation by having two cinematographers film diverse adaptations of the motion picture, one with a standard 35 mm camera, the other with another 65 mm "Magnifilm" camera. Like the prior quiet film adjustment, "The Bat Whispers" was viewed as lost until the UCLA Film and Television Archive reestablished both the standard and widescreen renditions from rediscovered negatives in 1988. The film got blended audits and the try different things with widescreen was a money related disappointment. Comic-book maker Bob Kane said in his 1989 collection of memoirs, "Batman and Me", that the scalawag in "The Bat Whispers" enlivened his character Batman. 

Crane Wilbur composed and coordinated a third adjustment of "The Bat", which was discharged by Allied Artists on August 9, 1959. This rendition underlined repulsiveness, with the Bat (played by Gavin Gordon) tearing out the throats of his exploited people. Dr. Wells (played by repulsiveness star Vincent Price) had an increasingly noticeable job, and Agnes Moorehead co-featured as Cornelia. This adjustment got blended audits when discharged. It is generally accessible in light of the fact that its copyright lapsed, putting it in the open space. 

To strengthen the refinement between "The Bat" and "The Circular Staircase", a novelization of the play was distributed by George H. Doran Company in 1926. In spite of the fact that the adjustment was credited to Rinehart and Hopwood, it was secretly composed by Stephen Vincent Benét. 

"The Bat" was adjusted for TV a few times. The WOR-TV collection arrangement "Broadway Television Theater" disclosed its adaptation on November 23, 1953, with a cast that included Estelle Winwood, Alice Pearce and Jay Jostyn. On March 31, 1960, NBC-TV made "The Bat" the first of its "Dow Hour of Great Mysteries" specials. Helen Hayes, Margaret Hamilton and Jason Robards featured in that form. On July 30, 1978, the West German system Hessischer Rundfunk communicate a TV film rendition entitled "Der Spinnenmörder". It was rebroadcast by Austria's Österreichischer Rundfunk on August 5. 

In August 1992, Adventure Comics distributed a one-shot comic book adjustment of the play. The comic essentially adjusted the story to make Cornelia Van Gorder more youthful and give her an underhanded twin who is the killer.