No. 38 Squadron RAAF 

No. 38 Squadron was a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) transport and preparing unit dynamic somewhere in the range of 1943 and 2018. It was shaped on 15 September 1943 and saw administration amid World War II transporting supplies and faculty among Australia and the battle zones in New Guinea and Borneo, utilizing Douglas Dakota flying machine. Following the war, the squadron directed customary messenger flights among Australia and Japan in 1947 and 1948. No. 38 Squadron was conveyed to Singapore from 1950 to 1952, providing Commonwealth powers occupied with the Malayan Emergency and undertaking messenger flights crosswise over Asia. In 1954 it ended up in charge of preparing RAAF work force to work Dakotas. 

In the wake of being re-furnished with de Havilland Canada DHC-4 Caribou in 1964, No. 38 Squadron filled in as the RAAF's operational change unit for the sort and furthermore directed transport undertakings inside Australia and its regions. All through Australia's association in the Vietnam War, it arranged aircrew for operational administration with No. 35 Squadron, and kept up a separation in Papua and New Guinea to furnish pilots with experience flying in tropical conditions. A Caribou was sent to Pakistan from 1975 to 1978 to help United Nations peacekeepers, and separations were built up inside Australia amid the 1980s to give pursuit and salvage capacities and work with Australian Army units. From 1999 until 2001, a separation was sent to East Timor as a component of the Australian-drove peacekeeping power in the recently free country. No. 38 Squadron kept on working Caribou after No. 35 Squadron was disbanded in 2000, however the age of the air ship progressively influenced its tasks. 

Following the retirement of the Caribou from administration in 2009, No. 38 Squadron was re-outfitted with eight Beechcraft King Air 350 flying machine. The squadron was positioned at RAAF Base Townsville, Queensland, and was in charge of preparing RAAF pilots to work King Airs, and performing light transport and errands. It was likewise accepted to have a ground observation ability. The squadron disbanded on 29 November 2018, its airplane and jobs being exchanged to No. 32 Squadron. 

No. 38 Squadron was shaped as a vehicle unit at RAAF Base Richmond close Sydney on 15 September 1943. Outfitted with Lockheed Hudsons, the squadron led its first activity on 17 December, when one of its air ship flew from Richmond to RAAF Base Darwin. Amid the period No. 38 Squadron was outfitted with Hudsons, it worked just inside Australia. 

The squadron's exercises extended in mid 1944, when its out of date Hudsons were supplanted with progressively competent Douglas Dakota transports. It got its first Dakota on 3 March 1944, and was totally furnished with the sort before the finish of May. While the squadron kept on traveling to areas inside Australia subsequent to getting Dakotas, it likewise started transporting supplies to Allied powers battling the Japanese in western New Guinea. Amid return flights from New Guinea, the Dakotas ordinarily conveyed injured work force to Australia for treatment. In October 1944, No. 38 Squadron was given the extra assignment of supporting the RAAF's Paratroop Training Unit at Richmond. The squadron moved to RAAF Station Archerfield close Brisbane toward the beginning of December 1944, yet kept on keeping up a separation at Richmond. At this point No. 38 Squadron was for the most part entrusted with transporting supplies to the fight zone in New Guinea, which included making supply drops to Australian Army units in the field and clearing setbacks to the terrain. From 17 July 1945, the squadron kept up a separation at Morotai Island, dropping supplies to Army units battling in Borneo. No. 38 Squadron's solitary misfortune amid World War II was a Dakota that smashed on a mountain in western New Guinea while flying among Biak and Morotai; the destruction of this flying machine was not situated until 1970. 

After the war, No. 38 Squadron flew into Singapore, Bangkok and areas in Borneo to empty discharged Australian detainees of war. The squadron additionally transported other administration work force back to Australia until 1946 as a feature of the grounding of the Australian military. Amid May 1946, three of No. 38 Squadron's Dakotas were doled out the unordinary errand of flying 25 tons of pig bristles from Chongqing in China to Hong Kong, from where the fibers were transported to Australia. This mission, which was assigned "Activity Pig Bristle", took two weeks and looked to correct a deficiency of paint brushes that was obstructing the Australian development industry. 

No. 38 Squadron moved to RAAF Station Schofields close Sydney on 15 August 1946. It turned out to be a piece of No. 86 Wing, alongside Nos. 36 and 37 Squadrons, which likewise worked Dakotas, and No. 486 (Maintenance) Squadron, which overhauled the wing's flying units. Starting on 22 January 1947, one of No. 38 Squadron's principle obligations was to lead thrice-week by week messenger flights to Japan to help the Australian component of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force. These flights were the longest standard air course adjusted by twin-engined air ship at the time, and took a few days. The messenger flights proceeded until 13 January 1948, after which sanctioned Qantas flying machine were utilized to help the power in Japan. In August 1948, five of No. 38 Squadron's air teams were dispatched to Europe where, as individuals from the RAAF Squadron Berlin Air Lift, they took an interest in the universal endeavors to fly supplies into Berlin amid the Soviet barricade of the city. These faculty stayed in Europe for a year, and their nonattendance enormously disturbed No. 38 Squadron's activities. In general, twenty individuals from No. 86 Wing were sent to Europe; the subsequent lack of work force constrained Nos. 36 and 38 Squadrons to work for a period as a solitary unit, every single flying hour being credited to No. 38 Squadron in authority records. No. 86 Wing moved to Richmond between 22 June and 1 July 1949. 

In 1950, No. 38 Squadron was chosen to shape some portion of the Australian power alloted to the Commonwealth Far East Air Force. As a component of this power, the Australian Government concurred for the unit to be entrusted with dispatch flights crosswise over Asia and offering help for the British-drove counterinsurgency tasks in Malaya. The squadron's development party touched base at RAF Changi in Singapore on 19 June 1950, and the majority of its faculty and eight Dakotas were operational there by 6 July. While in Malaya the squadron went under the direction of No. 90 (Composite) Wing, alongside the Avro Lincoln-prepared No. 1 Squadron. A large portion of the squadron's aircrew were veterans of the Berlin Airlift, yet none had any immediate experience of tropical situations. No. 38 Squadron started flying transport missions in Malaya toward the beginning of July, with British and New Zealand pilots going with its aircrews amid the initial two weeks of activities to enable them to get comfortable with nearby conditions. From July 1950 until February 1951, No. 38 Squadron's fundamental assignment was to direct dispatch flights to Borneo, Ceylon, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan and the Philippines, and these remained an imperative obligation all through the period it was based at Singapore. Following the episode of the Korean War, the squadron flew British troops and supplies from Singapore to Japan and Korea, and four of No. 38 Squadron's Dakotas were exchanged to No. 30 Communication Unit in Japan amid November 1950. 

In the wake of losing a large portion of its quality, No. 38 Squadron stayed at Changi and led supply and aeromedical clearing flights all through Malaya to help the British-drove powers there. The squadron's air ship were likewise once in a while used to stamp focuses in front of besieging assaults and to drop promulgation flyers. From April to July 1951, No. 38 Squadron and a joined departure from No. 41 Squadron RNZAF was positioned at RAF Kuala Lumpur, and was the principle unit entrusted with dropping supplies to Commonwealth powers in the field. The squadron made another organization to Kuala Lumpur between November 1951 and February 1952. In February 1952, No. 38 Squadron effectively parachuted 54 faculty from the British 22nd Special Air Service Regiment into a remote region close to the Malaya-Thailand outskirt. 

Supporting the Australian units in Korea put substantial requests on the RAAF's vehicle drive, which was excessively little to completely meet its local and global obligations, and it turned out to be progressively hard to continue the four Dakotas in Malaya amid 1952. Subsequently, the Australian Government chose in September that year to restore the squadron to Australia. No. 38 Squadron left Changi for Richmond on 8 December. The squadron's solitary casualty amid the arrangement was a pilot who was executed when the No. 110 Squadron RAF Dakota he was co-directing smashed amid a trip among Changi and Saigon on 31 August 1950. 

Subsequent to coming back to Richmond, No. 38 Squadron was for the most part entrusted with routine transport obligations. The squadron likewise once in a while gave air ship to CSIRO rainmaking tests. Amid the 1950s and mid 1960s, No. 38 Squadron built up a notoriety for being a "cowpoke" unit with remiss flying measures. The squadron did not lead legitimate change courses, and new Dakota pilots got just specially appointed guidance on the sort while filling in as the co-pilot amid operational undertakings. On 8 March 1953, No. 38 Squadron ingested No. 36 Squadron's Dakotas, after which No. 30 Transport Unit (beforehand No. 30 Communication Unit) in Japan was renamed No. 36 Squadron. From late March until September 1954, No. 38 Squadron led VIP flights out of RAAF Station Canberra. In November that year, it was renamed the Transport Training Squadron and ended up in charge of teaching new Dakota teams and RAAF air developments staff. It continued its past name on 13 June 1963. 

No. 38 Squadron was re-furnished with new de Havilland Canada DHC-4 Caribou strategic transport flying machine amid 1964. In January 1964 the unit's leader, five different pilots and three guides embraced transformation preparing on the sort in Canada. Toward the fulfillment of this course the staff flew the RAAF's initial three Caribous from Toronto to RAAF Base Richmond between 17 March and 22 April. The procedure of completely changing over No. 38 Squadron to Caribous was deferred by the administration's choice to convey a few of the air ship to Vietnam; at the time this choice was made, in June 1964, the squadron had gotten six of its arranged distribution of nine air ship, and the following bunch of three flying machine was sent legitimately to Vietnam. No. 38 Squadron was the last operational RAAF squadron to fly Dakotas, however a few different units did as such until the 1990s. In the wake of getting its Caribous, No. 38 Squadron's fundamental job was to prepare aircrews for operational administration with the RAAF Transport Flight Vietnam (later redesignated No. 35 Squadron). On 1 July 1964, one of the squadron's Caribous endured extreme harm when it made an accident arrival at HMAS "Gooney bird"; this flying machine was along these lines discounted and its fuselage utilized for preparing purposes by the Army's first Commando Regiment. The squadron turned into a free unit under Headquarters RAAF Base Richmond in August that year, following the disbandment of No. 86 Wing. On 13 October 1965, Detachment An of No. 38 Squadron started activities from Port Moresby in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea, outfitted with two Caribous. One of the separation's undertakings was to give Caribou pilots involvement in tropical and rugged conditions, and all air ship chiefs were required to finish somewhere around one two-month arrangement to Port Moresby before presenting with No. 35 Squadron in Vietnam. Notwithstanding its preparation job, No. 38 Squadron embraced transport flights in and around Australia, participating when required in aid ventures following cataclysmic events. 

The squadron embraced two operational organizations amid the mid-1970s. From March 1975 until November 1978 Detachment B, involving a solitary Caribou and care staff, was positioned at Rawalpindi, Pakistan, and transported work force and supplies for the United Nations Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan. From August to October 1975, a No. 38 Squadron Caribou was relegated to transport Red Cross supplies and faculty from Darwin to East Timor after a common war broke out in that nation. On 4 September that year this flying machine was captured by East Timorese fighters, who constrained the pilot to fly 54 displaced people to Darwin; it remains the main RAAF airplane to have been commandeered. Separation A was never again required after Papua New Guinea accomplished freedom from Australia and built up its very own safeguard constrain, and the unit was disbanded on 17 January 1976. Three Caribous were lost while working with the separation; A4-202 slammed close Porgera on 3 June 1965, A4-147 was discounted after it landed shy of the runway at Tapini Airport on 6 October 1968 and A4-233 was devastated when it smashed at Kudjeru Gap on 28 August 1972. The remainder of these accidents caused the passings of 25 aircrew and travelers, making it the RAAF's most noticeably bad peacetime catastrophe; 21 of the general population killed were secondary school understudies coming back from a military cadet camp. Following the finish of its changeless nearness at Port Moresby, No. 38 Squadron kept on flying intermittent preparing fights in Papua New Guinea. Amid the 1980s, separations of No. 38 Squadron were built up at RAAF Base Darwin and RAAF Base Pearce close Perth to furnish these districts with a hunt and-salvage capacity and to practice with Army units. The Pearce separation was nicknamed "Blackduck Airlines". 

No. 38 Squadron moved from Richmond to RAAF Base Amberley, west of Brisbane, in October 1992. As of now the squadron kept on being in charge of all Caribou change preparing, just as directing strategic transport tasks. The perpetual separation of No. 38 Squadron flying machine to RAAF Base Pearce stopped in 1999, and Detachment B of the squadron was set up at RAAF Base Townsville in North Queensland amid 2000. From 1999 until mid 2001, components of No. 38 Squadron, assigned No. 86 Wing Detachment C, were positioned in East Timor and bolstered the universal peacekeeping power which had been conveyed there to end the viciousness that had broken out after a fruitful submission on autonomy directed in August 1999. At its pinnacle quality, four Caribous were alloted to the separation. The air and ground group conveyed to East Timor persevered through troublesome living conditions until their convenience and entertainment offices were overhauled in mid-2000, and the pilots were routinely required to fly into inadequately kept up hangars. In spite of the age of the Caribous and deficiencies of extra parts, Detachment C's ground team figured out how to keep up a high flying machine functionality rate. In 2000 No. 35 Squadron was deactivated, leaving No. 38 Squadron the RAAF's sole Caribou administrator. By September 2002, No. 38 Squadron was furnished with 14 Caribous. In July 2003, two air ship were sent to the Solomon Islands as a feature of the Regional Assistance Mission to Solomon Islands peacekeeping power. The two Caribous were based at Honiara International Airport, and a separation stayed in the nation until July 2004. The majority of No. 38 Squadron moved to RAAF Base Townsville amid 2008. 

By the late 2000s the Caribous were getting to be hard to keep up, and were never again fit for working in combat areas as they needed electronic fighting frameworks and different types of self-security. Thus, it was chosen in late 2008 to resign the flying machine and supplant them with Beechcraft King Air 350s on a between time premise until another strategic transport entered administration. The Caribous were progressively resigned from May 2009, the keep going leaving administration on 27 November that year when A4-140 was traveled to Canberra and gave over to the Australian War Memorial for conservation. When the air ship were resigned, No. 38 Squadron had been working Caribous for a long time. 

Three King Air 350s were exchanged to No. 38 Squadron from the Army's 173rd Surveillance Squadron on 20 November 2009, and conveyances of a further five recently assembled flying machine were finished in July 2010. Something like one of the Army air ship is accepted to have been fitted with ground reconnaissance sensors, and this limit was held after it was exchanged to the Air Force. No. 38 Squadron's King Airs were at first worked by Army staff, who were given the decision of exchanging to the RAAF or changing over to helicopters toward the finish of their posting. The other No. 38 pilots were changed over to the sort at the Army's Oakey Army Aviation Center, however the squadron started directing its very own transformation courses after the second bunch of five flying machine were conveyed. No. 38 Squadron denoted its 70th commemoration in 2013. 

In March 2015 two No. 38 Squadron King Airs were sent to Vanuatu as a feature of Australia's guide exertion following Cyclone Pam. The flying machine were utilized to direct flights over the influenced territories to survey the degree of the harm, and furthermore cleared Australian and New Zealand natives. The majority of the RAAF's King Airs were grounded from 30 June 2016 after the dangerous substance strontium chromate was distinguished in the air ship; in the period preceding the establishing No. 38 Squadron had been associated with flying government officials amid the 2016 bureaucratic race. The King Airs started to profit to support for 4 August that year subsequent to being cleaned. As a major aspect of its financial plan for the 2016-17 money related year, the Australian Government reported that Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition, Reconnaissance, Electronic Warfare gear would be obtained for three of No. 38 Squadron's King Airs. This gear included move on/move off packs, and was booked to be conveyed amid the money related year. 

In February 2016 it was accounted for that the RAAF was thinking about combining its two squadrons furnished with King Airs into a solitary squadron situated at RAAF Base East Sale. No. 38 Squadron started to be decreased in size amid that year. In February 2018 the Department of Defense reported that No. 38 Squadron would move to RAAF Base East Sale soon thereafter. The September 2018 release of "Australian Aviation" detailed that No. 38 Squadron was to be disbanded in November 2018. 

No. 38 Squadron was disbanded at a service at RAAF Base Townsville on 29 November 2018. This denoted the finish of 75 years ceaseless administration, the longest period for any RAAF squadron. Its flying machine and job, including the Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition, Reconnaissance, Electronic Warfare work, was exchanged to No. 32 Squadron. 

In its last job, No. 38 Squadron was in charge of giving transformation preparing on the King Air and directing light transport tasks. Starting at 2014, the unit had a quality of 60 RAAF work force just as 25 flying machine support contractual workers from Hawker Pacific. It was sorted out into two flights; A Flight embraced transport activities, and B Flight was in charge of conveying instructional classes. Starting at 2018, the squadron's Intelligence, Surveillance, Target Acquisition, Reconnaissance, Electronic Warfare abilities were arranged, yet were accounted for to incorporate an interchanges transfer work. The air ship had likewise been utilized as a stage for ethereal photography in the wake of being exchanged to the RAAF; this has included taking photos to be utilized in guide making. Alongside Nos. 33 and 36 Squadrons, No. 38 Squadron framed piece of No. 86 Wing. 

The RAAF has been happy with the King Air's execution in the light transport job, however the flying machine can't be sent into battle regions. No. 38 Squadron regularly worked with the Army's Townsville-based third Brigade, just as the 51st Battalion, Far North Queensland Regiment, which conducts operational watches crosswise over Far North Queensland amid peacetime. The unit was likewise as often as possible entrusted with transporting senior legislators and different VIPs. The King Airs frequently worked in Papua New Guinea, just as different pieces of the Asia-Pacific district. The Australian Government requested 10 Alenia C-27J Spartan war zone transports in May 2012, and these flying machine are worked by No. 35 Squadron.