No. 34 Squadron RAAF 

No. 34 Squadron is a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) VIP transport squadron. It works Boeing 737 Business Jets and Bombardier Challenger 604s from Defense Establishment Fairbairn in Canberra. The squadron was framed in February 1942 for standard transport obligations amid World War II, at first flying de Havilland DH.84 Dragons in Northern Australia. In 1943 it re-furnished with Douglas C-47 Dakotas, which it worked in New Guinea and the Dutch East Indies before disbanding in June 1946. 

The unit was restored in March 1948 as No. 34 (Communications) Squadron at RAAF Station Mallala, South Australia, where it upheld exercises at the Woomera Rocket Range before disbanding in October 1955. It was re-raised as No. 34 (VIP) Flight in March 1956 at RAAF Base Canberra (later Fairbairn). No. 34 Flight was redesignated No. 34 (Special Transport) Squadron in July 1959, and No. 34 Squadron in June 1963. Amid the 1960s it worked Dakotas, Convair Metropolitans, Vickers Viscounts, Dassault Falcon-Mysteres, Hawker Siddeley HS 748s, and BAC 1-11s, the last three sorts proceeding in administration until the late 1980s. The squadron's armada comprised exclusively of Dassault Falcon 900s from 1989 until 2002, when it started working the 737 and Challenger. 

No. 34 Squadron is the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) unit in charge of the vehicle of VIPs, including individuals from the Australian government, the Governor-General, and visiting dignitaries. It is based at Defense Establishment Fairbairn in Canberra, and controlled by No. 84 Wing, which is a piece of Air Mobility Group. The squadron has an optional job giving crisis transport amid helpful tasks. Its maxim is "Eo et redeo" ("I Go and I Return"). 

Starting at 2011, No. 34 Squadron's quality included around thirty pilots and thirty airline stewards. Skippers are commonly senior pilots who have recently flown the RAAF's Boeing C-17 Globemaster, Lockheed C-130 Hercules, or Lockheed AP-3C Orion. Their co-pilots are new RAAF faculty who have as of late moved on from No. 2 Flying Training School, and the team specialists are presented on the squadron subsequent to finishing preparing and a time of administration with No. 33 Squadron. The squadron's VIP Operations Cell (VIPOPS) is in charge of overseeing demands for VIP air transport just as committed security staff. Most calculated help, including dinner readiness, is given under business courses of action as opposed to by RAAF work force. 

No. 34 Squadron works two Boeing 737 Business Jets and three Bombardier Challenger 604s. The flying machine are rented from, and kept up by, the Special Purpose Aircraft Business Unit of Qantas Defense Services in Fairbairn. The rent initiated in 2002 and is expected to terminate in 2014. The twin-engined Boeing Business Jet (BBJ) is manned by two pilots and up to four airline stewards, and can convey thirty travelers. The twinjet Challenger has a group of two pilots and one airline steward, and conveys up to nine travelers. The BBJ, which has a scope of over , is commonly utilized for long-go transport, and the Challenger on shorter courses. The planes are delegated "Uncommon Purpose Aircraft", implying that their entrusting is represented by Federal rules for conveying "entitled people" on authority business. To limit government expense, the planes may not be utilized when accessible business flights fulfill the planning, area and security prerequisites of a given errand. No. 34 Squadron directs somewhere in the range of 1,200 and 1,800 flights every year. A "Timetable of Special Purpose Flights" is postponed twice yearly in Federal Parliament. VIPOPS as a rule appoints one of No. 34 Squadron's flying machine to affirmed undertakings, however other Australian Defense Force flying machine are periodically utilized for errands not fit to the BBJ or Challenger; for example, Prime Minister Julia Gillard made a trip to China on board a No. 33 Squadron Airbus KC-30A Multi Role Tanker Transport in April 2013. 

Amid February and March 1942, the RAAF shaped four transport units: Nos. 33, 34, 35 and 36 Squadrons. No. 34 (Transport) Squadron was set up on 23 February at RAAF Station Darwin, Northern Territory, four days after the city was shelled out of the blue. Going under the control of North-Western Area Command, the squadron's underlying quality was six staff and two de Havilland DH.84 Dragons. They were promptly entrusted with transport obligations in northern Australia. Just as conveying cargo, this included gathering the main Japanese wartime captive to be caught in Australia, a naval force military pilot who had crashlanded amid the attack on Darwin. One of the squadron's two officers, Flight Lieutenant J.W. Warwick, turned into the principal (acting) boss on 2 March. The next day, one of the Dragons was decimated on the ground at Wyndham, Western Australia, by foe air assault. With its other air ship unserviceable, and settlement at Darwin's affable runway lacking, squadron base camp moved to Daly Waters Airfield on 5 March. On 14 March another Dragon was designated; this was joined by two Avro Ansons and two de Havilland Tiger Moths in mid-May, by which time the squadron had moved to Batchelor Airfield. Before the month's over, the squadron had thirty-four staff, including six officers. It lost one of the Tiger Moths to a bushfire on 1 July, a couple of days after the plane crashlanded south of Katherine. The squadron moved again on 15 July, this opportunity to Hughes Airfield. It stayed at Hughes until 27 August, when it exchanged to Manbulloo Airfield; it worked from Manbulloo until it was briefly disbanded on 13 December and its air ship exchanged to No. 6 Communications Flight. 

No. 34 Squadron was re-framed on 3 January 1943 at Parafield Airport, South Australia, from components of No. 36 Squadron once in the past based at Essendon, Victoria. At first containing ninety-six work force and eight air ship, before the month's over the squadron's quality had been diminished to seventy faculty and three Dragons working in South Australia and the Northern Territory. On 11 March one of the Dragons was devastated on departure at Parafield, causing two passings—No. 34 Squadron's first fatalities. Another Dragon was lost in a flame after it crashlanded close Tennant Creek in April. Starting in May 1943, the Dragons were enlarged by Douglas C-47 Dakotas, giving the squadron an absolute quality of three Dakotas and two Dragons by the next month. By July, No. 34 Squadron was working five Dakotas, which had completely supplanted the Dragons, and in August its quality remained at seven Dakotas and 153 faculty, including forty-seven officers. It in this way got an Airspeed Oxford and a Douglas DC-2, and started making supply drops and medicinal clearings as far north as Port Moresby, New Guinea. The squadron had its busiest month in May 1944, transporting very nearly 1,900 travelers and over of payload. On 1 June it turned into the principal operational RAAF squadron to have staff of the Women's Auxiliary Australian Air Force (WAAAF) in its positions, an unforeseen made up of an officer and twenty airwomen. The WAAAF had been shaped in 1941 and in the long run made up thirty-one percent of RAAF ground staff; its individuals were fundamentally utilized in specialized exchanges and were not allowed to serve in battle theaters. 

October 1944 saw a unit of the squadron working from Cape York in Far North Queensland to bases in the Dutch East Indies. Extra separations were situated at Townsville, Queensland, and Coomalie Creek, Northern Territory. In February 1945, No. 34 Squadron initiated a movement to Morotai in the Dutch East Indies, under the control of the Australian First Tactical Air Force, and was completely settled at its new base by mid-April. The squadron upheld the intrusion of Borneo, and its Dakotas were the main Allied air ship to arrive at Labuan and Tarakan after the islands were caught. It stayed at Morotai until the finish of the war, at which time it wound up engaged with repatriating Australian previous detainees of war from Singapore, and afterward in dispatch flights supporting the development of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force in Japan. No. 34 Squadron came back to Australia among January and March 1946 and disbanded at RAAF Station Richmond, New South Wales, on 6 June. 

The squadron was restored at RAAF Station Mallala, South Australia, on 1 March 1948, when No. 2 (Communications) Squadron was renamed No. 34 (Communications) Squadron. It worked as a VIP transport, messenger and observation unit, basically in help of the Woomera rocket extend, point of convergence of the Anglo-Australian Long Range Weapons Project amid the Cold War. No. 34 (Communications) Squadron flew the main Vickers Viking to be taken on quality by the RAAF, and was likewise the main RAAF squadron to work the Bristol Freighter. Three Freighters were taken on quality in April and May 1949, and a fourth in September 1951; one was lost with every one of the three team individuals in an accident close Mallala on 25 November 1953 after its wing flopped in flight. The squadron additionally worked Percival Prince, Auster, Dakota and Anson flying machine, undertaking standard transport obligations and calamity alleviation alongside its Woomera bolster work before disbanding at Mallala on 28 October 1955. 

No. 34 (VIP) Flight was set up at RAAF Base Canberra on 12 March 1956, and accused of the sheltered carriage of the Governor-General, senior Australian legislators and military officers, and visiting outside dignitaries. It was shaped from the VIP Flight of No. 36 Squadron, under No. 86 (Transport) Wing. The VIP Flight had consumed the RAAF's Governor-General's Flight in October 1950. In its first year of activity, No. 34 Flight conveyed the Duke of Edinburgh on his voyage through Australia. It was outfitted with two Convair 440 Metropolitans, just as Dakotas. The flight stayed in Canberra when No. 86 Wing migrated to Richmond in 1958. On 1 July 1959, it was re-framed as No. 34 (Special Transport) Squadron, leaving the control of No. 86 Wing to turn into an autonomous unit straightforwardly directed by Home Command and entrusted by RAAF Base Canberra. "Conceivably due to the position of its customers", fought the official history of the post-war Air Force, the squadron kept up higher principles than other transport units, receiving a few methods from the common aeronautics world. It additionally profited by the individual enthusiasm of senior authorities when it came to overhauling its gear, however this had some negative viewpoints. The obtaining of the Metropolitans, the first pressurized flying machine in the VIP armada, was composed by Minister for Air Athol Townley with no development discourse with the RAAF. In spite of the fact that the Air Force raised execution and wellbeing concerns, the sort's entrance into administration was a "fait accompli", and it stayed on quality for a long time. Until the mid 1960s, the VIP unit additionally worked two de Havilland Vampire planes and two CAC Winjeel coaches to permit staff officers at Canberra's Department of Air to keep up their flying capability. 

No. 34 (Special Transport) Squadron's home in Canberra was renamed RAAF Base Fairbairn in March 1962, and the unit was redesignated No. 34 Squadron on 13 June 1963. That year, the squadron conveyed Queen Elizabeth II out of the blue. In October 1964, two second-hand Vickers Viscount turboprop transports were acquired to enhance the Dakotas and Convairs; the two cylinder motor sorts were pulled back after the conveyance of two Hawker Siddeley HS 748s starting in April 1967 and three Dassault Falcon 20 planes (known as Mystere in RAAF administration) in June. Two BAC 1-11 planes joined the squadron on 19 January 1968, and the two Viscounts were resigned in March the next year. The discount re-gear of the VIP armada in the late 1960s was dubious, and questions were brought up in Parliament in regards to its expense and tasks. The purported "VIP undertaking" prompted increasingly stringent rules overseeing No. 34 Squadron's entrusting, requiring endorsement for flights to be made by the British Royal Family, the Governor-General, the Prime Minister, or the Minister for Air. Qualification criteria were likewise arranged, and potential travelers included Federal pastors, restriction pioneers, "people of comparative status and significance visiting Australia", two-star officers or more, and different dignitaries of comparative status. Amid the 1970s one of No. 34 Squadron's BAC 1-11s encountered a motor disappointment over the Tasman Sea while conveying Prime Minister Gough Whitlam to New Zealand. The air ship made a protected arriving in Australia, however the episode drove the RAAF to examine utilizing three-or four-engined airplane for future VIP flights including long over-water legs. The administration inevitably obtained two Boeing 707s from Qantas to perform long-run VIP flights and to improve the RAAF's key transport capacities. Entering administration in 1979, they joined the recently settled No. 33 Flight (later No. 33 Squadron) in 1981. Increasingly 707s were obtained somewhere in the range of 1983 and 1988, and four were changed over for aerial refueling in the mid 1990s. In 1984, No. 34 Squadron was granted the Gloucester Cup for its capability. 

The squadron again turned out to be a piece of No. 86 Wing in June 1988, however its entrusting kept on being constrained by the Governor-General, the Prime Minister, and the Minister for Defense. Beginning in September 1989, the twinjet Mysteres and BAC 1-11s were supplanted by five trijet Dassault Falcon 900s rented from Hawker Pacific, the first run through the RAAF had rented air ship from a business organization. The two HS 748s were exchanged to the recently shaped No. 32 Squadron at RAAF Base East Sale, Victoria. Obligation regarding adjusting the Falcon 900s was shared by No. 34 Squadron and Hawker Pacific, the last performing overwhelming support. In an irregular activity for the squadron, one of the Falcons was dispatched to Jordan in September 1990 to clear thirteen Australian residents who had been held prisoner in Iraq. On 21 December 1992, a Falcon 900 turned into the first RAAF airplane to partake in United Nations peacekeeping endeavors in Somalia, when it left RAAF Base Amberley, Queensland, with a group of Australian Army faculty to survey the performance center of tasks. The unit got a tribute from the Chief of the Defense Force, General Peter Gration, without further ado before his retirement in 1993. In January 1998, No. 84 Wing was sorted out as an uncommon transport wing under Air Lift Group (renamed Air Mobility Group in April 2014). The expression "unique transport" alluded to exercises not legitimately identified with armed force support, for example, conveying VIPs. Headquartered at Richmond, No. 84 Wing assumed responsibility for Nos. 32, 33 and 34 Squadrons. A trip by one of No. 34 Squadron's Falcons went before INTERFET activities in East Timor in 1999, conveying senior Australian military and conciliatory staff to Dili on a generosity mission. 

The Falcon 900s were supplanted by two Boeing 737 Business Jets and three Bombardier Challenger 604s in July 2002. The new flying machine additionally supplanted the two Boeing 707s worked by No. 33 Squadron in the VIP transport job. The 707s had allowed columnists to go with the Prime Minister on worldwide flights, and in supplanting the greater planes with 737s the Liberal administration of the time established that media contingents covering VIP outings should go on common air ship. This choice prompted contention in 2007, after the accident of a Garuda carrier murdered four Australian government authorities and a writer going regarding a visit to Indonesia by Foreign Minister Alexander Downer, who had flown on a Challenger. No. 34 Squadron and Qantas Defense Services checked 20,000 episode free flying hours with the 737s and Challengers on 21 October 2008. The next year saw further discussion when Prime Minister Kevin Rudd needed to apologize for comments to a lodge orderly over the supper he was served on one of the planes. In 2011, the squadron gave VIP transport amid voyages through Australia by Queen Elizabeth, Prince William, and Frederik and Mary of Denmark, just as help for US President Barack Obama's visit to Canberra. It additionally flew senior government and military work force in help of aid projects amid the Queensland floods, and was again granted the Gloucester Cup for capability. No. 34 Squadron praised its 70th commemoration at Parliament House, Canberra, on 18 February 2012; the next day, a remembrance to its first fatalities in March 1942 was disclosed at Fairbairn. The rent on its airplane is expected to terminate in 2014, and they might be supplanted with new kinds. 

On 13 October 2017, No. 34 Squadron was exchanged from No. 84 Wing to No. 86 Wing. This change was made to put the unit under a similar central station as No. 33 Squadron, whose Airbus KC-30A air ship are picking up a VIP job.