Lewis and Clark Exposition dollar 

The Lewis and Clark Exposition dollar is a dedicatory gold coin that was struck in 1904 and 1905 as a feature of the United States Government's interest in the Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition, held in the last year in Portland, Oregon. Structured by United States Bureau of the Mint Chief Engraver Charles E. Hair stylist, the coin did not sell well and not exactly a tenth of the approved mintage of 250,000 was issued. 

The Lewis and Clark Expedition, the main American overland investigating gathering to achieve the Pacific Coast, was driven by Meriwether Lewis and William Clark. Somewhere in the range of 1804 and 1806, its individuals traveled from St. Louis to the Oregon coast and back, giving data and scattering fantasies about the huge territory acquired by the United States in the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. The Portland reasonable recognized the centennial of that trip. 

The coins were, generally, sold to people in general by numismatic advertiser Farran Zerbe, who had likewise distributed the Louisiana Purchase Exposition dollar. As he was unfit to sell a great part of the issue, surplus coins were liquefied by the Mint. The coins have kept on expanding in esteem, and today are worth somewhere in the range of thousands of dollars, contingent upon condition. The Lewis and Clark Exposition dollar is the main American coin to be "two-headed", with a representation of one of the endeavor chiefs on each side. 

The Louisiana Purchase, by the United States from France in 1803, dramatically increased the region of the American country. Looking to pick up information of the new belonging, President Thomas Jefferson got an allotment from Congress for an exploratory undertaking, and delegated his private secretary, Meriwether Lewis, to lead it. A commander in the United States Army, Lewis chose William Clark, a previous Army lieutenant and more youthful sibling of American Revolutionary War legend George Rogers Clark, as co-pioneer of the undertaking. Lewis and William Clark had served together, and picked around thirty men, named the Corps of Discovery, to go with them. Huge numbers of these were frontiersmen from Kentucky who were in the Army, just as boatmen, and others with essential abilities. The endeavor put forward from the St. Louis zone on May 14, 1804. 

Traveling up the Missouri River, Lewis and Clark met Sacagawea, a lady of the Lemhi Shoshone clan. Sacagawea had been caught by another clan and sold as a captive to Toussaint Charbonneau, a French-Canadian trapper, who made her one of his spouses. Both Charbonneau and Sacagawea filled in as mediators for the endeavor and the nearness of the Native American lady (and her newborn child, Jean Baptiste Charbonneau) persuaded unfriendly clans that the Lewis and Clark Expedition was not a war party. An incredible administration Sacagawea rendered the campaign was to help in the buy of ponies, required so the gathering could cross the mountains after they needed to forsake the Missouri moving toward the Continental Divide. One explanation behind her prosperity was that the Indian boss whose guide they looked for ended up being Sacagawea's sibling. 

The undertaking spent the winter of 1804– 1805 digs in close to the site of Bismarck, North Dakota. They left there on April 7, 1805 and came extremely close to the Pacific Ocean, close Astoria, Oregon, on November 7. In the wake of investigating the territory, they withdrew eastbound on March 23, 1806 and landed in St. Louis a half year to the day later. Just a single of the endeavor individuals kicked the bucket in transit, no doubt of an infected appendix. While they didn't discover the mammoths or salt mountains rumored to be in the American West, "these were a little misfortune contrasted with the things that were picked up". Notwithstanding information of the domains acquired by the US, these incorporated the foundation of relations with Native Americans and expanded open enthusiasm for the West once their journals were distributed. Further, the investigation of the Oregon Country later supported American cases to that zone. In appreciation for their support of the country, Congress gave Lewis and Clark land awards and they were designated to government workplaces in the West. 

Starting in 1895, Oregonians proposed respecting the centennial of the Lewis and Clark Expedition with a reasonable for be held in Portland, a city situated along the gathering's course. In 1900, a council of Portland businesspeople started to get ready for the occasion, an issue of stock was fruitful in late 1901, and development started in 1903. A lengthy drive to increase national government support succeeded when President Theodore Roosevelt marked an allocations bill on April 13, 1904. This bill distributed $500,000 to composition experts, and furthermore approved a gold dollar to honor the reasonable, with the structure and engravings left to the carefulness of the Secretary of the Treasury. The sorting out panel was the main element permitted to buy these from the legislature, and could do as such without needing any proof, up to a mintage farthest point of 250,000. 

Numismatist Farran Zerbe had pushed for the section of the approval. Zerbe was a mint piece gatherer and vendor, yet advanced the interest through his voyaging presentation, "Cash of the World". Zerbe, leader of the American Numismatic Association from 1908 to 1910, was engaged with the clearance of memorial coins for more than 20 years, start in 1892. The Portland work's specialists put him responsible for the clearance of the gold dollar. 

Subtleties of the planning of the dedicatory dollar are lost; the Mint demolished numerous records during the 1960s. Mint Chief Engraver Charles E. Hairdresser was in charge of the plans. 

Numismatic history specialists Don Taxay and Q. David Bowers both recommend that Barber undoubtedly put together his structures with respect to pictures of Lewis and of Clark by American painter Charles Willson Peale found in Philadelphia's Independence Hall. Taxay considered Barber's endeavors, "typical". The piece is the main American coin to be "two-headed", bearing a solitary picture on each side. 

Craftsmanship antiquarian Cornelius Vermeule, in his volume on American coinage, called attention to that a few people loved the Lewis and Clark Exposition dollar as it delineated notable figures who influenced the course of American history, instead of a bust proposed to be Liberty, and that Barber's coin augured the 1909 Lincoln penny and the 1932 Washington quarter. All things considered, Vermeule deplored the piece, just as the prior American gold dedicatory, the Louisiana Purchase Exposition dollar. "The absence of flash in these coins, as in such a large number of plans by Barber or Assistant Engraver (later Chief Engraver) Morgan, originates from the way that the faces, hair and drapery are level and the lettering is little, swarmed, and notwithstanding." According to Vermeule, when the two etchers worked together on a structure, for example, the 1916 McKinley Birthplace Memorial dollar, "the outcomes were practically severe". 

The Philadelphia Mint delivered 25,000 Lewis and Clark Exposition dollars in September 1904, in addition to 28 progressively, saved for review and testing at the 1905 gathering of the United States Assay Commission. These drag the date 1904. Zerbe requested 10,000 more in March 1905, dated 1905. The Mint struck 35,000 or more examine pieces in March and June on the off chance that Zerbe needed to purchase more, doing as such ahead of time as the Philadelphia Mint shut down in the mid year, yet as he didn't organization more, the extra 25,000 were dissolved. 

The Lewis and Clark Exposition dollar was the principal dedicatory gold coin to be struck and dated in various years. An aggregate of 60,069 pieces were struck, from the two years, of which 40,003 were softened. As indicated by numismatists Jim Hunt and Jim Wells in their 2004 article on the coin, "the poor gathering managed the coin at the season of issue for all intents and purposes ensured their irregularity for future age". 

The Lewis and Clark Centennial and American Pacific Exposition and Oriental Fair opened in Portland on June 1, 1905. It was not assigned as a worldwide article, and did not draw much exposure even inside the United States. By and by, more than two million individuals visited the reasonable between Opening Day and the nearby on October 14. Sixteen remote countries acknowledged solicitations from coordinators to mount shows at the piece. There was the standard wide exhibit of concessions and halfway attractions to engage guests. Among Americans who showed displays at the reasonable were unmistakable visual artist and creature fancier Homer Davenport and extensive pioneer Ezra Meeker. The article was one of only a handful few of its sort to make a benefit, and likely added to a noteworthy increment in Portland's populace and economy somewhere in the range of 1905 and 1912. 

Assets from the closeout of the coin were assigned for the fruition of a statue to Sacagawea in a Portland park. There was little notice of the dollar in the numismatic press. Q. David Bowers guesses that Dr. George F. Heath, editorial manager of "The Numismatist", who contradicted such commemoratives, declined to run any public statements that Zerbe may have sent. All things considered, an article showed up in the August 1905 issue, advancing the display and dollar. As it cites Zerbe and commendations his endeavors, it was likely composed by him. Zerbe focused on mass deals to sellers, just as easygoing ones at the reasonable at a cost of $2; he enrolled Portland coin vendor D.M. Averill and Company to make retail deals via mail. There were additionally a few banks and different organizations that sold coins legitimately to general society. Averill ran notices in the numismatic press, and in mid 1905, raised costs on the 1904 pieces, guaranteeing that they were close depletion. This was a lie: in actuality the 1904-dated coins sold so gravely that nearly 15,000 were liquefied at the San Francisco Mint. Zerbe had Averill sell the 1905 issue at a limited cost of ten dollars for six pieces. As he had for the Louisiana Purchase dollar, Zerbe made the coins accessible mounted in spoons or in adornments. Little else is known with respect to the dissemination of the gold dollars. 

The mint pieces were profoundly disliked in the gathering network, which had seen the Louisiana Purchase coin decline in an incentive since its issuance. By the by, the estimation of the Lewis and Clark issue did not dip under issue cost, yet consistently expanded. Notwithstanding a somewhat higher number of coins recorded as surviving, the 1905 issue is rarer and more profitable than the 1904; Bowers theorizes that Zerbe may have held a few pieces just to trade them out, or surrender them in 1933 when President Franklin Roosevelt brought in most gold coins. The 1905 for a long time exchanged for not exactly the 1904, yet by 1960 had coordinated the before rendition's cost and during the 1980s outperformed it. The 2014 release of "A Guide Book of United States Coins" (the "Red Book") records the 1904 at somewhere in the range of $900 and $10,000, contingent upon condition, and the 1905 at somewhere in the range of $1,200 and $15,000. One 1904, in close flawless MS-68 condition, sold in 2006 at closeout for $57,500. 

In spite of the general disappointment of the coin issue, the statue of Sacagawea was appropriately raised in a Portland park, financed by coin deals. In 2000, Sacagawea joined Lewis and Clark in showing up on a gold-hued dollar coin, with the issuance of a circling coin delineating her and her child. 

Books 

Different sources