No. 1 Aircraft Depot RAAF 

No. 1 Aircraft Depot (No. 1 AD) was an upkeep unit of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Shaped in July 1921 at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria, it moved to the adjacent RAAF Laverton in March 1926. Just as overhauling flying machine and other hardware, in its initial years the warehouse upheld study flights in Australia and the Pacific area. It was additionally in charge of preparing upkeep staff. 

No. 1 AD's quality expanded from 350 staff during the 1930s to more than 2,000 amid World War II, when it collected, tried and fixed flying machine extending from Tiger Moth coaches to Spitfire contenders to B-17 Flying Fortress overwhelming planes. It likewise attempted flying machine innovative work. 

Soon after World War II, No. 1 AD brought the main planes into RAAF administration. In 1961, it stopped airframe upkeep, yet kept on overhauling air motors. By the 1970s, the stop's principle center was ground-based gear, however regardless it took care of some flying machine parts. No. 1 AD was disbanded in December 1994, its capacities having been taken over by different units and private contractual workers. At the season of its disbandment, it was the most established RAAF unit in consistent activity. 

No. 1 Aircraft Depot (No. 1 AD) was one of the principal units framed by the Royal Australian Air Force after the new administration was built up (at first as the Australian Air Force) on 31 March 1921. The first segments of No. 1 AD wound up known all things considered in April 1921, however the unit did not formally appear until July. Before this it contained two components in Melbourne, one at Spotswood taking care of the gear of the Imperial Gift (128 surplus air ship and related extra parts given by Great Britain following World War I), and another at North Fitzroy in charge of engine vehicle fix. At the point when No. 1 AD was authoritatively settled at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria, on 1 July, the Spotswood segment was broken up, while North Fitzroy kept on working as a separation. The unit's debut boss was Squadron Leader Bill Anderson, who was additionally in generally speaking charge of Point Cook. 

In January 1922, the terminal was sorted out into a central command that controlled stores, airplane fix, and motor fix segments. The vehicle fix area at North Fitzroy was exchanged to Point Cook that April. Point Cook's destructive ocean side air was anyway esteemed an unacceptable long haul area for flying machine upkeep; the base likewise needed railroad framework, important for transporting substantial air ship parts. In September 1921, the legislature had bought land at Laverton, almost a railroad station inland from Point Cook, for the express reason for developing a devoted home for No. 1 AD as the "distribution center of the Air Force". The warehouse, staffed by eight officers and seventy-seven different positions, migrated to the new base on 1 March 1926. It involved an extensive overhang that incorporated an organization square, which alongside living quarters and auxiliary structures had cost £300,000 to manufacture. 

Just as accepting, amassing, testing and keeping up RAAF gear, No. 1 AD was in charge of supporting examination flights. In July 1927, it was the takeoff point for the Northern Survey Flight, involving a de Havilland DH.50 and two Airco DH.9s, which inspected air courses and landing grounds in northern and focal Australia under the order of the Chief of the Air Staff, Wing Commander Richard Williams. The next month, No. 1 AD framed the Papuan Survey Flight, comprising of two Supermarine Seagull III land and/or water capable biplanes under the direction of Flight Lieutenant Ellis Wackett, which shot the Papuan and New Guinean drifts as far north as Aitape. Anderson, presently a wing leader, came back to order the terminal from April to August 1929, giving over to Wing Commander Adrian Cole, who served in the post until December 1932. 

By the mid-1930s, No. 1 AD included 350 staff; the general quality of the RAAF right now was under 2,000. The terminal overhauled a scope of air ship that incorporated the Westland Wapiti, Bristol Bulldog, Hawker Demon, de Havilland Dragon Rapide, Avro Cadet, Avro Anson, and North American NA-16. The NA-16 was later increased by the buy of the further developed North American NA-33, which was authorized and worked in Australia by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation as the CAC Wirraway. To adapt to the Government's choice to quickly grow the RAAF, a Recruit Training Section, joining the beginning School of Armaments and Signals, was shaped under the stop's support by Flight Lieutenant Charles Eaton on 1 March 1935; it was rearranged as Recruit Training Squadron on 1 September 1936. No. 1 AD additionally started formal instructional classes for flying machine fitters and riggers in 1935, prompting the development of No. 1 School of Technical Training five years after the fact. 

In December 1935, No. 1 AD's workshops, under the direction of Squadron Leader Arthur Murphy, uncommonly changed a Wapiti and a de Havilland Gipsy Moth for Antarctic conditions, to empower an Air Force group driven by Flight Lieutenant (later Group Captain) Eric Douglas and Flying Officer Alister Murdoch to save voyager Lincoln Ellsworth, who was assumed lost on an adventure over the landmass. On 3 May 1937, Recruit Training Squadron gained another sub-unit, the Communications and Survey Flight, using Tugan Gannets and Dragon Rapides for continuous photographic overview work; the squadron was re-shaped as No. 1 Recruit Depot on 2 March 1940. Combined with its air ship gathering and test offices, the select preparing unit settled on Laverton an undeniable decision for the foundation of future RAAF squadrons. No. 1 AD's leaders amid this decade included Wing Commanders Frank McNamara (February 1933 to April 1936), Frank Lukis (April 1936 to January 1938), and Arthur Murphy (January 1938 to May 1940). 

Albeit numerous squadrons were raised at RAAF Station Laverton amid World War II, the base's prime center kept on being its air ship terminal. Following the episode of threats in September 1939, No. 1 AD started extending to deal with the RAAF's developing number of preparing and battle air ship, among them the Wirraway, de Havilland Tiger Moth, Lockheed Hudson, Hawker Hurricane, and Curtiss P-40 Kittyhawk. The stop collected and tried new air ship, and carried them to operational regions, for example, northern Australia and New Guinea. It was additionally in charge of the support of in-administration air ship, including their motors, instruments, and combat hardware. Just as RAAF hardware, No. 1 AD fixed fight harmed US flying machine, for example, B-17 Flying Fortresses. 

In March 1940, the RAAF started isolating Australia and New Guinea into topographically based direction and-control zones; No. 1 AD went under the protection of Southern Area Command, which was headquartered in Melbourne and was in charge of RAAF units situated in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. The terminal brought forth Nos. 1 and 2 Aircraft Parks, which were committed to flying machine get together, in April– May 1940, and No. 1 Replenishing Unit, which was in charge of the upkeep of weapons and ammo at units in Southern Area, in June 1942. In October that year, control of No. 1 AD was exchanged from Southern Area Command to the as of late shaped No. 4 Maintenance Group, likewise headquartered in Melbourne, which took over obligation regarding upkeep units in Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania. 

No. 1 AD embraced innovative work on different air ship types, including Supermarine Spitfires, CAC Boomerangs, and Wackett Woomeras. It additionally ran near execution examines on Spitfires, Boomerangs, Kittyhawks, Brewster Buffalos, and Mitsubishi Zeros. On account of the Boomerang, 105 CA-12 models were conveyed to No. 1 AD to test between July 1942 and June 1943. When the flying machine started arriving, the warehouse initiated taking care of and deadly implement preliminaries that proceeded for a half year, recognizing and beating such issues as the flying machine's weapons cold at high heights, and bizarre dimensions of carbon monoxide in the cockpit. Contender aces Alan Rawlinson and Wilfred Arthur, alongside a United States Army Air Forces pilot, led relative preliminaries between a Boomerang, a Kittyhawk, a Buffalo, and a Bell Airacobra. The terminal started despatching the Boomerangs to their operational units in March 1943, and the next month execution tried a turbocharged variant of the CA-14, however this model never entered creation. No. 1 AD's Special Duties and Performance Flight was in charge of leading execution preliminaries amid the early war years; in December 1943 it turned into a different association, No. 1 Aircraft Performance Unit, which would advance into the Aircraft Research and Development Unit (ARDU) in 1947. 

One of the station's wartime bosses was Wing Commander John Lerew, who held the post from December 1942 until November 1943. Amid his residency, subsequent to examining the accident of a Vultee Vengeance, he structured a clasp to keep the incidental arrival of the pilot's security saddle, which was later received for every such bridle. By January 1945, No. 1 AD's quality had expanded to its most elevated amount of 2,339 staff. 

After the war, No. 1 AD was in charge of bringing the principal planes into RAAF administration. A Gloster Meteor made its first trip in Australia from Laverton in 1946. By May 1947, No. 1 AD had amassed the principal de Havilland Vampire stream in Australia for its lady flight. In October that year, the main helicopter in RAAF administration, a Sikorsky S-51, touched base at the warehouse. That month, No. 1 AD likewise finished fitting out a Douglas Dakota with an office, a parlor suite, and a kitchenette for administration as the Governor-General's VIP transport, worked out of Laverton by No. 1 Communication Unit. In 1950, the terminal got the sole superior cylinder engined CAC CA-15 to be manufactured, which had been sent to be "changed over to segments" (rejected). No. 1 AD took conveyance of the main Australian-constructed English Electric Canberra fly plane in July 1953. In a matter of seconds thereafter, it changed the three Canberras of No. 1 Long Range Flight before the unit participating in the 1953 London-to-Christchurch air race. In September that year, the primary Australian-fabricated Saber stream warrior was conveyed. 

As a major aspect of the RAAF's revamping from a topographically based order and-control framework to one dependent on capacity, No. 4 Maintenance Group was supplanted by Maintenance Command on 1 October 1953. In September 1959, No. 1 AD went under the control of Support Command, shaped when Maintenance Command was amalgamated with Training Command. Between June 1950 and October 1960, No. 1 AD kept up a separation at RAAF Station Tocumwal, New South Wales, to store outdated air ship anticipating transfer. 

By 1961, when all airframe support at Laverton was exchanged to Nos. 2 and 3 Aircraft Depots, No. 1 AD had overhauled forty-two air ship types all through its reality. It kept on keeping up air motors, and started supporting broadcast communications gear too. The air ship motor fix offices at No. 1 AD were shut down in 1968. Staff were exchanged to No. 3 Aircraft Depot at RAAF Base Amberley, Queensland, to get ready for the presentation of the General Dynamics F-111C swing-wing plane to Australian administration and focus on keeping up the new flying machine's motors. No. 1 AD's concentrate from there on moved to ground support, fabricating, introducing, adjusting and giving preparing to navigational, aviation authority, broadcast communications and engine transport gear utilized by the Air Force and different segments of Defense and government. From 1968 to 1977, the terminal was sorted out into two parts, Telecommunications Installation and Maintenance Squadron and Ground Equipment Maintenance Squadron. These were subdivided in February 1977 into Telecommunications Squadron (keeping up ground interchanges gear for control towers, transmitters and accepting stations in Australia and the district), Radar Squadron (supporting reconnaissance frameworks at RAAF Bases Williamtown, Amberley, Townsville, Darwin and Pearce), Ground Equipment Maintenance Squadron (keeping up engine transport, and other ground-based mechanical and electro-mechanical frameworks), and Intermediate Level Maintenance Squadron (correspondences, route and other ground-based upkeep at Laverton, just as spectrometric examination of oil utilized by the RAAF in flying machine and other hardware). 

On 6 November 1981, the Governor-General, Sir Zelman Cowen, exhibited the Queen's Color to No. 1 AD. By September the next year the warehouse's quality was down to 235 staff, yet it spearheaded the help of different new innovations for the Air Force, in fields, for example, electroplating, fiber optics, and hardware. It was additionally in charge of creating and testing segments for the F-111, Macchi MB-326 and McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet planes. From 1986, rebuilding and redistributing started to affect intensely upon the RAAF's specialized administrations. In February 1990, No. 1 AD went under the control of Logistics Command, shaped when Support Command was part into calculated and preparing segments. By then the terminal's capacities had to a great extent been taken over by different units and private contractual workers, and it was disbanded on 2 December 1994. No. 1 AD was, at the time, the most seasoned RAAF unit in nonstop activity and, as per the RAAF Historical Section, the most seasoned persistently working support terminal of any aviation based armed forces. 

No. 1 AD was told by the accompanying officers: