Hasan al-Kharrat 

Abu Muhammad Hasan al-Kharrat ( 

"Ḥassan al-Kharrāṭ"; 1861– 25 December 1925) was one of the foremost Syrian radical authorities of the Great Syrian Revolt against the French Mandate. His fundamental zone of activities was in Damascus and its Ghouta field. He was slaughtered in the battle and is viewed as a legend by Syrians. 

As the "qabaday" (nearby young people manager) of the al-Shaghour quarter of Damascus, al-Kharrat was associated with Nasib al-Bakri, a patriot from the quarter's most persuasive family. At al-Bakri's welcome, al-Kharrat joined the revolt in August 1925 and framed a gathering of warriors from al-Shaghour and different neighborhoods in the region. He drove the radical strike against Damascus, quickly catching the home of French High-Commissioner Maurice Sarrail before pulling back in the midst of substantial French siege. 

Towards the finish of 1925, relations developed tense between al-Kharrat and other agitator pioneers, especially Sa'id al-'As and Ramadan al-Shallash, as they exchanged allegations of pillaging towns or coercing neighborhood occupants. Al-Kharrat kept on driving activities in the Ghouta, where he was at last executed in a French trap. The revolt disseminated by 1927, however he picked up an enduring notoriety as a saint of the Syrian protection from French guideline. 

Al-Kharrat was destined to a Sunni Muslim family in Damascus in 1861, amid Ottoman standard in Syria. He filled in as the night gatekeeper of the city's al-Shaghour quarter and as a watchman for the area's plantations. Damascus was caught by Arab rebels amid World War I in October 1918. A short time later, the Arab Club, an Arab patriot association, rose in the city to raise support for the revolutionaries. The club helped the renegades' chief, Emir Faisal, who framed a simple government. Al-Kharrat turned into a member of the Arab Club and brought support for Faisal up in al-Shaghour. In July 1920, Faisal's legislature fallen after its diverse powers were vanquished by the French at the Battle of Maysalun. A while later, the French ruled Syria under the aegis of their League of Nations order. 

In the early long stretches of French standard, al-Kharrat was al-Shaghour's "qabaday" (pl. "qabadayat"), the customary pioneer of an area's nearby toughs. The "qabaday" was casually accused of changing complaints and safeguarding an area's respect against nearby lawbreakers or the infringements of "qabadayat" from different neighborhoods. He was prevalently described as a respectable man, noted for his own quality, and security of minorities and poor people. The "qabaday" was considered an "upholder of Arab conventions and traditions, the gatekeeper of mainstream culture", as indicated by history specialist Philip S. Khoury. Khoury affirms that al-Kharrat was "likely the most regarded and regarded "qabaday" of his day". "Qabadayat" typically avoided formal training, and history specialist Michael Provence keeps up that al-Kharrat was likely ignorant. "Qabadayat" were regularly connected with specific city notables and could verify them political help in their neighborhoods. Al-Kharrat was aligned with Nasib al-Bakri, a Damascene government official and landowner. The al-Bakri family was the most compelling in al-Shaghour, and al-Kharrat filled in as the family's primary association and implementer in the quarter. 

A rebel against French standard was propelled in mid-1925 by the Druze sheik (chieftain), Sultan Pasha al-Atrash, in the southern piles of Jabal al-Druze. As al-Atrash's men scored unequivocal triumphs against the French Army of the Levant, Syrian patriots were enlivened and the revolt spread northward to the wide open of Damascus and past. Al-Bakri was the main contact between al-Atrash and the developing agitator development in Damascus and the Ghouta. The Ghouta is the rich plain encompassing Damascus, and its plantation forests and broad conduits gave spread to the radicals and a base from which they could attack Damascus. In August, al-Bakri persuaded al-Kharrat to join the uprising. As per Provence, al-Kharrat was "perfect" for the activity, having "a neighborhood following of young fellows, reputation outside the quarter, great associations and a notoriety for strength". The gathering of contenders he told was known as "′isabat al-Shawaghirah" (the band of al-Shaghour). Despite the fact that named after al-Kharrat's quarter, the band included twenty "qabadayat" and their furnished entourages from different Damascus neighborhoods and close-by towns. His principle territories of activity were in the region of al-Shaghour and the al-Zur timberland in the eastern Ghouta. Through his collusion with a Sufi religious pioneer, al-Kharrat conveyed an Islamic heavenly war measurement to the to a great extent common revolt, something that was not invited by some included. 

Al-Kharrat initiated guerrilla activities in September, focusing on French powers posted in the eastern and southern Ghouta. His conspicuousness ascended as he drove evening strikes against the French in Damascus, amid which he incapacitated armed force watches and kidnapped troopers. In al-Shaghour, Souk Saruja and Jazmatiyya, al-Kharrat and his band torched all French-held structures. In the primary seven day stretch of October, sixty French gendarmes were dispatched to the Ghouta to catch al-Kharrat and his warriors. The gendarmes were quartered in the home of al-Malihah's "mukhtar" (town headman). At night, the radicals assaulted the living arrangement, murdering one gendarme and catching the rest; the detainees were inevitably all returned safe. 

On 12 October, French troops sponsored by tanks, mounted guns and flying help propelled an activity to encompass and dispense with al-Kharrat's radicals in the al-Zur woods. Al-Kharrat's men were cautioned of the French organization by the workers of al-Malihah. Situated among the trees, the radicals utilized expert rifleman discharge against the French troops. The last were unfit to draw the agitators out and withdrew. 

As the French pulled back toward al-Malihah, they plundered the town and set it ablaze. French insight authorities advocated the aggregate discipline of al-Malihah as striking back for the radicals' catch and mortification of the gendarmes amid the earlier week; the French asserted a young man from al-Malihah had advised al-Kharrat's men of the French nearness in the town. In spite of the fact that they were unfit to connect with al-Kharrat and his powers legitimately, French troops executed around 100 regular folks from Ghouta towns. Their cadavers were conveyed to Damascus, and the collections of sixteen men portrayed by the French as "rascals" were put in plain view. 

Prodded by French armed force activities in the Ghouta, al-Bakri wanted to catch the Citadel of Damascus, where French powers were concentrated, and the Azm Palace, where General Maurice Sarrail, the French high magistrate of Syria, would dwell on 17– 18 October (Sarrail was commonly headquartered in Beirut). The high magistrate worked as the general head of Syria in the interest of France and practiced for all intents and purposes total power. The renegade units dynamic in Damascus at the time were al-Kharrat's "′isabat" and a blended power of Druze contenders and radicals from the al-Midan quarter and the Ghouta. To make up for the absence of dissident quality, al-Bakri sent a letter to Sultan al-Atrash mentioning fortifications. Al-Atrash answered that he was as of now busy with tasks in the Hauran, however would dispatch his whole power to back the Damascus revolts when undertakings there were settled. Before he got al-Atrash's answer, al-Bakri chose to push forward with the activity. 

On 18 October, al-Kharrat drove forty dissidents into al-Shaghour from the old graveyards adjoining the southern entryway of Damascus, reporting that the Druze had touched base to ease the city from French occupation. Hordes of inhabitants excitedly respected the revolutionaries, and many waged war close by them. Al-Kharrat's men caught the quarter's police headquarters, incapacitating its army. They were joined by Ramadan al-Shallash, a renegade officer from Deir ez-Zor, and twenty of his Bedouin warriors. The joint powers continued to the Hamidiyya Market and caught the Azm Palace, however Sarrail was absent, having officially left to go to a gathering in the Hauran town of Daraa. The revolutionaries looted the royal residence and set it ablaze. Provence affirms that catching the royal residence without Sarrail "held no strategic significance" however was a profoundly representative accomplishment for the renegades on account of the Azm Palace's "significance as the authentic seat of financial and political power in Damascus, presently usurped by the French and absolutely undefended". 

While al-Kharrat caught the Azm Palace, al-Bakri and 200 radicals under his order rode through the city and were joined by regular citizens in expanding numbers. In the wake of fixing the Old City to keep the passage of foe fortifications, al-Kharrat issued a request to murder anybody connected to the French armed force. Around 180 French officers were executed. Sarrail requested the shelling and flying assault of the city, which kept going two days and killed around 1,500 individuals. Turmoil and dissipated battling resulted as entire neighborhoods, mosques and chapels were leveled, French powers moved in, and many driving figures in the Syrian national development were captured, including al-Kharrat's child Fakhri. The last was caught on 22 October amid a messed up evening time strike by the dissidents against the French, who had by then retaken Damascus. Al-Kharrat was offered the arrival of his child in return for his very own surrender, however won't. 

The agitators pulled back from Damascus as a gathering was held between French armed force officer Maurice Gamelin and an assignment of Damascene notables. Because of the gathering, the French consented to end their assault as an end-result of an installment of 100,000 Turkish gold liras by 24 October. The fine was not paid by the French due date, yet the barrage was not reestablished, likely because of requests from the French government in Paris. Worldwide judgment of Sarrail's assault of Damascus and developing analysis in France of his misusing of the revolt prompted his expulsion on 30 October. He was supplanted by government official Henry de Jouvenel, who landed in Syria in December. On 22 November, al-Kharrat told 700 agitators in a fight with around 500 French officers outside of Damascus. Al-Kharrat's men dispensed "piddling" misfortunes on the French, yet experienced overwhelming losses themselves, with thirty dead and forty injured by "Reuters". On 5 December, al-Kharrat was one of the officers of a 2,000-in number power joining rebels from different foundations, which ambushed the French Army sleeping enclosure in al-Qadam, south of Damascus. The French professed to have incurred noteworthy losses, yet rebel action proceeded. 

Concentrated request and oversight among the revolt's furnished members was hard to build up in light of the decent variety and autonomy of the radical groups. A gathering of agitator pioneers was held in the Ghouta town of Saqba on 26 November. Sa'id al-'As blamed al-Kharrat and others for pillaging in the Ghouta, while al-Kharrat claimed that al-Shallash coerced the inhabitants of al-Midan and the Ghouta town of Douma. The gathering finished up with a consent to choose an administration to supplant the French specialists, increment enlistment of the Ghouta's occupants, arrange military tasks under a headquarters, and build up a progressive court to execute spies. The gathering likewise assigned the zone between the town of Zabdin and north of the Douma-Damascus street as being a piece of al-Kharrat's zone of activities. In spite of his driving job in the renegades' military endeavors, al-Kharrat was excluded in the recently shaped dissident initiative committee, nor were any of al-Bakri's partners. Rather, al-'As filled in as the revolutionaries' general head. 

Sharp divisions among dissident groups wound up clear amid a second gathering in Saqba on 5 December. As indicated by Syrian writer Munir al-Rayyes, antagonistic vibe between al-Kharrat and al-Shallash was notable among the radicals. Since al-Shallash had required war assesses on the significant proprietors and city elites of the Ghouta, al-Kharrat's advocate al-Bakri saw him as a danger to the customary landowning class to which al-Bakri had a place. Al-Rayyis guaranteed the gathering was called for by al-Kharrat, who requested his contenders to catch and convey al-Shallash to Saqba. Nonetheless, as indicated by al-'As, the summit was called by al-Shallash, and once the last touched base in the town, al-Kharrat by and by confined him and seized his pony, weapons and cash. 

After his confinement, al-Shallash was given a short preliminary amid which al-Kharrat blamed him for making "inconveniences and delivers and monetary accumulations for the sake of the revolt", while al-Bakri censured him explicitly to blackmail the occupants of Douma for 1,000 "giney" (Ottoman pounds), and forcing expansive fines on the occupants of Harran al-Awamid, al-Qisa and Maydaa for his very own improvement. Al-Kharrat and al-Bakri chose al-Shallash's decision, and expelled him from the revolt. While numerous radicals with officer foundations like al-Shallash objected to the judgment, they didn't mediate. In his record of the gathering, al-Rayyis denounced the revolutionary officers for lack of concern in the "absurd preliminary" and blamed al-Kharrat for being propelled exclusively by close to home hostility. Al-Shallash had the capacity to get away—or was discharged by al-'As—when French planes shelled the gathering. Al-Shallash would later surrender to Jouvenel and work together with French experts. 

Al-Kharrat was murdered in a trap by French troops in the Ghouta on 25 December 1925. He was prevailing as "qabaday" of al-Shaghour and authority of the "′isabat al-Shawaghirah" by Mahmud Khaddam al-Srija. Al-Kharrat's men kept on battling the French until the revolt finished in 1927, however student of history Thomas Philipp states that al-Kharrat's gathering disseminated after his demise. In January 1926, al-Kharrat's child Fakhri was condemned to death and freely executed with two different revolutionaries in Marjeh Square, Damascus. The French had recently entreated Fakhri to influence his dad to surrender as an end-result of his discharge, however Fakhri won't. 

Abd al-Rahman Shahbandar, a noticeable Syrian patriot pioneer, depicted al-Kharrat as having played "the superior job" in the fight against the French in the Ghouta and Damascus. Student of history Daniel Neep composed that al-Kharrat was the "best-known" of the majority of the Damascus-based agitator pioneers, albeit different pioneers of the revolutionary development credited the attention and recognition of al-Kharrat to the endeavors of the Cairo-based Syrian-Palestinian Committee, with which al-Bakri was firmly subsidiary. Al-Kharrat and his child Fakhri are today considered "martyred saints" by Syrians for their patriot endeavors and their demises in the Syrian battle for autonomy from France.