Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded 

Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded is the reissue of Barbadian vocalist Rihanna's third studio collection "Great Girl Gone Bad" (2007). It was first discharged carefully in chosen nations on June 2, 2008, by Def Jam Recordings and SRP Records. Propelled to stamp the primary commemoration of the first collection, "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" highlights three recently recorded tunes and a DVD appearing in the background film of Rihanna's overall visit, the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour (2007– 2009). For the new material, she worked with past colleagues Ne-Yo, StarGate, and C. "Precarious" Stewart, just as Brian Kennedy, Mark Endert, Mike Elizondo, Mark "Spike" Stent and Maroon 5. 

"Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" got commonly positive surveys from music pundits, who commended the sound and generation of the recently included material. Notwithstanding, different commentators felt that the collection was not deserving of re-discharge with just three new tunes. Among different honors and accomplishments, the reissue's tunes earned two Grammy assignments at the 2009 service; "Disturbia" was named for Best Dance Recording, while "On the off chance that I Never See Your Face Again" got a selection for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals. 

Following its discharge, the reissue helped "Great Girl Gone Bad" return a few national diagrams. "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" sold 63,000 duplicates in its first week and helped the first collection crest at number seven on the US "Announcement" 200 graph. The reissue outlined in New Zealand and topped at number four; it was ensured platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ), signifying shipments of more than 15,000 duplicates. "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" was advanced with four singles, including the US number-one hits "Soak up the adoration" and "Disturbia", and "On the off chance that I Never See Your Face Again", which highlighted Maroon 5. To additionally advance the collection, Rihanna performed tunes from the reissue on a few TV projects and grant functions including "FNMTV" and the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards. 

Rihanna started taking a shot at her third studio collection "Great Girl Gone Bad" (2007) in late 2006 and by late February 2007, the collection was practically finished. The vast majority of its melodies were recorded in Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles, California, parallel to the account sessions for her second studio collection, "A Girl like Me" (2006). For the collection's generation, she worked with a portion of the makers who were included on her past collections, including Evan Rogers and Carl Sturken, Ne-Yo, J.R. Rotem, Sean Garrett, and Norwegian pair StarGate. Rihanna additionally teamed up with Timbaland and will.i.am out of the blue. Following its discharge, "Great Girl Gone Bad" turned into an overall business achievement and achieved number one on the UK Albums Chart and number two on the US "Bulletin" 200. It additionally got commonly positive surveys from faultfinders. The collection's lead single "Umbrella" turned into a business achievement and achieved number one on more than fifteen national singles diagrams, including the "Announcement" Hot 100, which it topped for seven continuous weeks, and the UK Singles Chart, which it topped for ten back to back weeks. 

In mid 2008, Rihanna disclosed another tune titled "Soak up the adoration", which debuted on February 14, 2008 on the KIIS-FM radio show "On Air with Ryan Seacrest". MTV News announced that the track would fill in as the lead single from "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded", a reissue of the first collection to check its first commemoration. Rihanna further declared that separated from "Soak up the adulation", the extended collection would contain two additional tunes, one of which was a two part harmony with American pop musical crew Maroon 5, to enhance the first track posting. "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" was first discharged carefully on June 2, 2008 in specific nations, including Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom. The collection was discharged physically on June 13 in Germany. On June 17, it was discharged in Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States. A DVD containing in the background film of Rihanna's Good Girl Gone Bad Tour (2007– 09) was incorporated into an uncommon form propelled in the US temporarily. Rihanna consequently facilitated an advancement get-together for "Good Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" in New York City, which highlighted a few big name visitors, including LeToya Luckett, Teyana Taylor, and Wynter Gordon. 

Four new melodies were recorded for "Good Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded": "Disturbia", "Hatin' on the Club", "On the off chance that I Never See Your Face Again" (with Maroon 5) and "Soak up the adoration". All were at first affirmed for consideration on the collection, however "Hatin' on the Club" was expelled for unspecified reasons. The melody was released online in January 2009 on "Huge Mike and DJ Neptune's R&B Kings Part Two" mixtape. 

"Disturbia" is an uptempo electropop tune. As indicated by BBC Music's Fraser McAlpine, it is reminiscent of Rihanna's 2007 single "Don't Stop the Music". McAlpine additionally noticed that the melody has a "chilly rave" ensemble went with Rihanna's "frosty" vocals. It was composed by Brian Kennedy Seals, Chris Brown, Robert Allen and Andre Merritt for the re-arrival of Brown's second studio collection, "Selective" (2007). Be that as it may, in the wake of completing the tune, Brown took inclination to another track, "Perpetually", which would later be discharged as the main single from the re-discharge. He felt that "Disturbia" would be more qualified for a female vocalist and offered it to Rihanna. Kennedy delivered "Disturbia", while Makeba Riddick created Rihanna's vocals. The melody was recorded by Andrew Vastola at Rocky Mountain Recorders in Denver, Colorado. It was blended by Phil Tan at Soapbox Studios in Atlanta, Georgia. Extra building was given by Josh Houghkirk, with help from Carlos Oyanedel. Addressing "USA Today", Brown depicted his emotions about offering "Disturbia" to Rihanna: "It's fun being innovative and regardless of whether you have an idea in your mind to expound on, you can compose it and give it and offer it to another person since it may not by and by fit you, however it may be a thought you have". 

"On the off chance that I Never See Your Face Again" is a R&B tune that consolidates a "spiked" utilization of synthesizers and "humming" guitars in its creation. It was composed by Adam Levine and James Valentine, two of the five band individuals from Maroon 5. It was created by Mark Endert, Mike Elizondo, Mark "Spike" Stent, C. "Precarious" Stewart and Maroon 5. "In the event that I Never See Your Face Again" was recorded by Stent at Conway Studios in Hollywood, Glenwood Place Studios in Burbank and Phantom Studios in Westlake Village. The tune was blended by Endert at Scream Studios in Miami, with help from Doug Johnson. "In the event that I Never See Your Face Again" was initially included on the standard adaptation of "It Won't Be Soon Before Long" without the consideration of Rihanna, notwithstanding, Levine expressed in a meeting with James Montgomery for MTV News while on set of the music video that he needed to have a go at something else for the collection's re-discharge. He additionally said that he asked Rihanna to do a few "odds and ends" in the account studio and that it met up all around rapidly. Levine expressed that in the event that there is "enchantment" between two craftsmen, at that point "you don't need to consider it." In a meeting with MTV's "Complete Request Live", Rihanna said that she was very amped up for the joint effort with the band since she constantly "cherished them" and their work. 

"Soak up the adulation" is a R&B tune that recounts how the female hero communicates lack of engagement in reviving her association with a disgraceful and unfaithful ex. The melody was composed by Ne-Yo, Mikkel S. Eriksen and Tor Erik Hermansen. Hermansen and Eriksen delivered and gave instruments to "Soak up the adoration" under their creation name, StarGate, while Smith co-delivered the tune. Rihanna's vocals were recorded by Eriksen at Roc the Mic Studios in New York City, Westlake Studios in Los Angeles and Parr Street Studios in Liverpool. The melody was blended by Tan at Soapbox Studios in Atlanta, Georgia, with help from Houghkirk. 

"Soak up the adulation" was discharged as the lead single from "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" and fifth single by and large from the two discharges. The tune was made accessible to buy in news sources, through Def Jam Recordings' site since March 14, 2008, and was later made accessible to download by means of iTunes Store on May 6, 2008. It topped at number one on the US "Announcement" Hot 100 diagram and turned into Rihanna's third tune to achieve the level. It has been guaranteed four-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and sold more than three million advanced duplicates. The single additionally achieved number one in Canada, Denmark, Ireland, Slovakia and the United Kingdom. The going with music video was coordinated by Anthony Mandler. 

The Spanglish adaptation of "Detest That I Love You" including David Bisbal, was discharged as the second single from the collection on April 28, 2008, in specific nations, for example, Argentina, Brazil and Spain. The melody crested at number 37 on the Spanish Singles Chart and remained on the diagram for a sum of about fourteen days. "On the off chance that I Never See Your Face Again", the coordinated effort with Maroon 5, was discharged as the second single from "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded". It was sent to contemporary hit radio in the US on May 15, 2008. It achieved the main twenty on more than five national graphs around the world. The music video for the melody was coordinated by Anthony Mandler and shot on an indoor soundstage in Castaic, California. As per Dorian Lynskey of "The Guardian", the idea for the video was "top of the line erotica". 

At the point when the collection was reissued, Rihanna drew closer L.A. Reid, the head of Def Jam Recordings and recommended that she needed to discharge "Disturbia" as the following single. Addressing MTV News, Reid stated, "It was the first run through Rihanna really came to me and stated, 'Here's the tune I need to put out.' She played me the melody. That was her taking control [...] She comprehends what hits are, and she recognizes what she needs to state. She's at that place where she can do that." It was requested to US contemporary hit radio on June 17, 2008, and was discharged as a CD single in the United Kingdom on July 22, 2008. "Disturbia" earned Rihanna an honor for Best International Song at the 2009 NRJ Music Awards. It crested at number one in Belgium (Flanders) and New Zealand and turned into a main ten hit in more than twenty nations around the world. The single beat the US "Bulletin" Hot 100 graph for two sequential weeks, and turned into Rihanna's third number one single from "Great Girl Gone Bad" and fourth by and large on the Hot 100 diagram. The music video for "Disturbia" was coordinated by Anthony Mandler and depicts Rihanna in different areas, for example, in a jail cell and gas chamber. 

To additionally advance "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded", Rihanna performed on a few TV projects and grant functions. She performed "Soak up the adoration" out of the blue at the 2008 MuchMusic Video Awards held in Toronto, Canada in the MuchMusic's home office on June 15, 2008. On June 20, Rihanna showed up on the "Today" Concert Series held at the Rockefeller Plaza, New York City. She performed "Soak up the adulation" together with her 2007 singles "Umbrella" and "Don't Stop the Music". On June 27, she showed up on "FNMTV" together with Maroon 5. She sang "Soak up the adoration" before performing together on their joint effort "In the event that I Never See Your Face Again". In July 2008, Rihanna played out the Spanglish adaptation of "Abhor That I Love You" with Bisbal, at the 6th arrangement of the Spanish ability appear, "Operación Triunfo". 

Rihanna performed "Disturbia" out of the blue at the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards, hung on September 7, 2008. She performed it while uncovering a cowhide "goth motivated" outfit. Together with the move troops, she played out a "Spine chiller"- motivated move in which sparkle sticks and calfskin props were utilized. On September 19, 2008, Rihanna visited France and performed "Disturbia" at "Star Academy France". Rihanna sang "Disturbia" at the 2009 Super Bowl which was held at the Pepsi Center in Denver, Colorado. The execution of the melody included an example from the White Stripes tune "Seven Nation Army" (2003) and was joined by flares that shot up over the front of the stage. 

A commentator from "The National" lauded the material on the first collection, especially the "pervasiveness" of "Umbrella", and furthermore complimented "Don't Stop the Music", "Abhor That I Love You", and "Shut Up and Drive". He further expressed that the arrival of "Good Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" was made to check the primary commemoration of the collection and that "the new tracks are all that you need fly to be, and are a demonstration of the intensity of the first record and to the new Rihanna." Spence D. of IGN checked on the new material and composed that "Disturbia" is based on an infective "bum-bum-be-dum-bum-bum..." snare "that sucks you into the isolates electronic skip of the track". He said that "Soak up the adoration" is splendidly fitted for a "post-separation long stretches of misery" and further commended Rihanna's vocals on the tune. As indicated by D., "On the off chance that I Never See Your Face Again" is motivated by crafted by American performer Prince and composed that the "Rihanna's quality [on the song] certainly gives it a pleasant lift". 

J. Edward Keyes of eMusic gave the collection four out of five stars and composed that the "uber-futurist" creation of the discharge went with Rihanna's "Robo Dominatrix vocal methodology—is a main reason the record works so well. "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" is all blue-light gadgets and base throb, 25th-century popular music in the at this very moment." Digital Spy's Nick Levine additionally gave "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" four out of five stars, however was wary about the decision to re-discharge the collection, composing that "it does not merit forking out for "Good Girl Gone Bad" twice just to hear the new melodies". In spite of that, he adulated the recently included tunes particularly "In the event that I Never See Your Face Again"; he called the melody "predominant". Levine further expressed, "if "Reloaded" energizes a couple of reluctant pop fans to put resources into this collection, the nearest thing to a "Spine chiller" that 2007/8 is probably going to create, this somewhat skeptical reissue ought to be let free... just." Among other accomplished honors and selections, "Disturbia" and "In the event that I Never See Your Face Again" got designations for Best Dance Recording and Pop Collaboration with Vocals individually at the 2009 Grammy Awards. 

After the arrival of "Good Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded", it was anticipated that the reissue would sell somewhere in the range of 45,000 and 50,000 duplicates in its first week in the US. For the week finishing June 22, 2008, it sold 63,000 duplicates and helped the first form of the collection to bounce from number 124 to number seven on the US "Bulletin" 200 in its 55th week. It additionally topped at number five on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums. With this, "Great Girl Gone Bad" got back in the main 10 out of the blue since its introduction in June 2007. Moreover, five melodies from the reissue were recorded on the Hot Digital Songs, beaten by "Disturbia", which appeared at number six. The following week, "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" tumbled to number nine and sold 40,000 additional duplicates. In its third week, it diagrammed at number ten on offers of 41,000 duplicates. By November 2012, both "Great Girl Gone Bad" and the reissue had sold 2,800,000 duplicates in the only us. "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" helped the first collection reemerge and crest at number six on the Canadian Albums Chart. 

"Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" appeared at number seven on the New Zealand Albums Chart in the seven day stretch of June 30, 2008. It achieved its pinnacle position on the outline at number four the next week. It was affirmed platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ) for transportation more than 15,000 duplicates. Following the reissue, the first collection reemerged the UK Singles Chart at number 12 in the seven day stretch of June 16. The following week, the collection tumbled to number 16. By June 2012, both the first collection and its reissue had sold 1,850,000 joined duplicates in the UK. Following its discharge, the first collection returned the Danish Albums Chart at number 15. In its second week, it achieved number nine, and in its third week, the collection achieved a pinnacle of number four. After the arrival of "Good Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded", "Great Girl Gone Bad" reappeared the Swiss Albums Chart at number 32, and the Austrian Albums Chart at number 36. 

At the point when "Great Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded" was discharged, the first collection got a business increment of 930%—more than some other non-appearing collection in the historical backdrop of the "Board" 200 outline. By July 2010, it had turned into the third collection in the US whose tunes have sold the most duplicates consolidated. Its melodies have sold more than 17,081,000 advanced duplicates, just behind from "The Fame Monster" (2009) by Lady Gaga and "The E.N.D" (2009) by The Black Eyed Peas. 

"Disturbia" and "Soak up the adoration" were two of the collection's most downloaded tunes. Before achieving number one on the "Board" Hot 100, "Soak up the adoration" bounced from number 53 to the highest point of the outline, following advanced offers of 267,000 duplicates. At the time, it was the second most noteworthy jump to number one in the Hot 100's history, pursued just by Maroon 5's "Makes Me Wonder" (2007). The melody additionally helped Rihanna accomplish two of the main three computerized deals opening weeks; the first being Mariah Carey's "Contact My Body" (2008) which opened with 286,000 duplicates sold and the second the artist's own "Umbrella" which sold 277,000 duplicates for the week dated June 9, 2007. "Disturbia" turned into Rihanna's fourth number-one single on the Hot 100, which tied her at the time with Beyoncé Knowles and Mariah Carey for the most number-one hits, among ladies, in the time of 2000– 2010.