No. 90 Wing RAAF 

No. 90 (Composite) Wing was a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) wing that worked amid the early long stretches of the Malayan Emergency. Its motivation was to fill in as an umbrella association for the RAAF units sent in the contention, No. 1 (Bomber) Squadron, flying Avro Lincolns, and No. 38 (Transport) Squadron, flying Douglas C-47 Dakotas. The wing was built up in July 1950 and headquartered at Changi, on the east shoreline of Singapore. No. 1 Squadron worked from Tengah, in Singapore's west. No. 38 Squadron was based at Changi and, from April 1951 to February 1952, at Kuala Lumpur in focal Malaya. The Lincolns for the most part led zone bombarding missions, just as accuracy strikes, to bug socialist agitators. The Dakotas were entrusted with transporting load, VIPs, troops and setbacks, just as dispatch flights and supply drops. Following No. 38 Squadron's takeoff in December 1952, No. 90 Wing was disbanded, leaving No. 1 Squadron to carry on as the sole RAAF unit in the Malayan air battle until its withdrawal to Australia in July 1958. 

In April 1950, the British government mentioned Australia's help to battle socialist agitators amid the Malayan Emergency. Accordingly, the Australian Defense Committee verified that it was conceivable to submit a squadron of eight Douglas C-47 Dakota transports and a trip of four to six Avro Lincoln overwhelming planes. The Federal government formally declared the choice to send the Dakotas soon a short time later; in late June, it affirmed the distribution of six Lincolns. No. 1 (Bomber) Squadron, working the Lincolns, would be disengaged from the control of No. 82 Wing at RAAF Station Amberley, Queensland, and be based at Tengah landing strip in the west of Singapore. No. 38 (Transport) Squadron, working Dakotas, would be confined from No. 86 Wing at RAAF Station Richmond, New South Wales, and be based at Changi, in Singapore's east. The vehicle duty was rendered conceivable by the ongoing return of ten Australian Dakota groups from administration amid the Berlin Airlift. 

It was concurred that RAAF tasks amid the Emergency would be coordinated by the Royal Air Force (RAF) through Air Headquarters Malaya (later No. 224 Group RAF). The British additionally needed the Australian squadrons joined to a RAF wing. Be that as it may, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal George Jones, was aware of rehashing the experience of World War II, when RAAF units and faculty situated in Britain had been consumed by the RAF, instead of working as a national gathering driven by high-positioning Australian officers. He along these lines chose that Nos. 1 and 38 Squadrons ought to be shaped into a "composite" association (one made up of dissimilar components, for example, aircraft, contender, or surveillance units) and regulated by a general RAAF base camp, and put this necessity to the British Air Ministry. The Air Ministry concurred, and No. 90 (Composite) Wing was properly settled at Richmond on 10 July 1950, under the order of Group Captain Paddy Heffernan. 

No. 38 Squadron's Dakotas started touching base at Changi on 19 June 1950, and No. 1 Squadron's Lincolns at Tengah on 16 July. No. 90 Wing staff withdrew Richmond via air and set up the central command at Changi on 22 July. The Dakotas had flown their first mission the earlier day; the Lincolns embraced their underlying tasks on 26 July. Nos. 1 and 38 Squadrons were in charge of their own normal upkeep; flying machine turned back to Australia for real work. The RAF gave base help offices, including messing and convenience. 

The Lincolns by and large led territory bombarding missions, just as strikes against pinpoint targets. They worked independently and in arrangements, in some cases working together with RAF aircraft. Not fighting with against air ship fire, the Lincolns flew principally by day. In the wake of finishing a bomb run, they would make another disregard the objective to strafe with automatic rifles and 20 mm gun. The Lincolns were viewed as appropriate to the battle, attributable to their range and capacity to fly at low speeds to look for focuses, just as their capability and overwhelming bomb load. No. 1 Squadron likewise flew night missions—the main Commonwealth aviation based armed forces unit approved to do as such—of as long as six hours length, dropping one bomb each half hour or somewhere in the vicinity. To lessen the danger of inadvertent blow-back, all air strikes must be affirmed by the Joint Operation Center, situated at Kuala Lumpur in focal Malaya and staffed by military, police and regular citizen work force. In spite of the fact that the first motivation behind the shelling effort was to execute however many radicals as could be allowed, the difficulty of accomplishing this in tasks over thick wilderness brought about a move towards bugging and discouraging the socialists, driving them out of their bases and into regions held by Commonwealth ground troops. 

The Dakotas were entrusted with transporting payload, VIPs, troops and losses, just as messenger flights, supply drops to inviting powers and ethereal despatch of purposeful publicity flyers. On different missions they went about as pathfinders for No. 1 Squadron, dropping smoke canisters on presumed socialist alcoves that the Lincolns hovering above and behind would endeavor to bomb. Transporting and providing troops was a key piece of the technique to vanquish the revolt, by guaranteeing that security powers could keep up a semi-lasting nearness in the wilderness. No. 38 Squadron's activities extended all through Malaya and into Borneo, the Philippines, Japan and Korea. Transport necessities in the Korean War prompted a decrease in No. 90 Wing's quality when four of the Dakotas were exchanged to Iwakuni, Japan, central command of No. 91 (Composite) Wing, in November 1950. That month, Group Captain Frank Headlam was named to assume control over order of No. 90 Wing from Heffernan. Headlam co-guided a Dakota on a supply drop on 20 December; he was somewhat harmed and the flying machine gravely harmed following an accident arrival at Kampong Aur in Pahang because of motor disappointment. 

No. 1 Squadron's supplement was expanded from six to eight air ship after the British Air Ministry mentioned in February 1951 that Australia enlarge its aircraft power to somewhat counterbalance the unavoidable withdrawal of the RAF's Lincolns to Bomber Command in Europe. In April, No. 38 Squadron's four Dakotas migrated to Kuala Lumpur, where they attempted supply drops in participation with No. 41 Squadron RNZAF. One of No. 1 Squadron's Lincolns was discounted in the wake of overshooting the runway at Tengah on 30 November. Wing Commander (later Group Captain) Redmond Green was designated the new leader of No. 90 Wing the next month, supplanting Headlam. On 4 April 1952, Green took an interest in a Lincoln foray instead of a harmed pilot. The principal airplane he took off in needed to turn back inferable from motor disappointment. The second finished the mission however was found to have lost brake control as it was coming back to Tengah, and there was a peril of the airplane invading the runway and supporting overwhelming harm; the group had the capacity to moderate the Lincoln on the runway by trailing a parachute from the back turret after contacting down. 

No. 38 Squadron moved from Kuala Lumpur to its previous base at Changi in February 1952. As the year advanced, RAAF transport needs modified attributable to the expanding requests of the Korean War, and the Malayan responsibility was never again thought to be reasonable. Having transported in excess of 17,000 travelers and right around 1,900 tons of load, dropped somewhere in the range of 750 tons of provisions and cleared more than 300 harmed troops, No. 38 Squadron withdrew for Australia on 8 December and rejoined No. 86 Wing at Richmond three days after the fact. Following this withdrawal, No. 90 Wing was disbanded at Changi, and No. 1 Squadron turned into the main Australian flying unit in Malaya. It proceeded with the besieging effort against the socialists until it was pulled back to Australia in July 1958, having flown very nearly 4,000 fights in its eight years of activity and dropped more than 14,000 tons of bombs—85 percent of the all out conveyed by Commonwealth powers amid the Emergency. No. 1 Squadron was diminished by No. 2 Squadron, working English Electric Canberra stream aircraft out of Butterworth in north-west Malaya. 

No. 90 Wing was told by the accompanying officers: