CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship 

The CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship ("Campeonato Mundial de Peso Semicompleto del CMLL" in Spanish) is an expert wrestling world heavyweight title advanced by Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) since 1991. As it is an expert wrestling title, it isn't won through real challenge; it is rather won by means of a scripted closure of a match or now and again granted to a wrestler in view of a storyline. The official meaning of the light heavyweight division in Mexico is between and , however as far as possible are not in every case carefully clung to. Since CMLL puts more accentuation on the lower weight classes, this division is viewed as more essential than the heavyweight division, which is viewed as the most vital title by most advancements outside Mexico. 

Niebla Roja is the current CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship subsequent to winning a competition for the empty title on June 10, 2017. He is the sixteenth in general victor and the fourteenth wrestler to formally hold the title. The title has been emptied twice since its creation in 1991, and has had one informal rule. 

The Mexican expert wrestling advancement Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre (EMLL; "Mexican Wrestling Enterprise") was established in 1933 and at first perceived a progression of "Mexican National" wrestling titles, supported by the "Comisión de Box y Lucha Libre Mexico D.F." (Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission). The Mexican National Light Heavyweight Championship was made in 1942 as EMLL started advancing counterparts for that title with the endorsement and oversight of the wrestling commission. During the 1950s EMLL turned into an individual from the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and started advancing the NWA World Light Heavyweight Championship in the late 1950s. Beforehand that title had been advanced in the US, however the NWA gave EMLL full control of the title in 1958, situating the NWA title as the most noteworthy positioning title in the light heavyweight division. 

EMLL left the NWA In the late 1980s, and later rebranded themselves as "Consejo Mundal de Lucha Libre" (CMLL; "World Wrestling Council"). In 1991 CMLL chose to make a progression of CMLL-marked big showdowns, with the CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship ("Campeonato Mundial Semicompleto de CMLL" in Spanish) made as the second CMLL-marked title, after the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship. Jerry Estrada was picked as the principal champion, with CMLL booking the competition for the title to finish with Estrada overcoming Pierroth Jr. In 1996 the then-champion Dr. Wagner Jr. lost the title to Aquarius on a show in Japan, yet the title change was not endorsed by CMLL and in this way was never authoritatively perceived. Dr. Wagner Jr. won the title back eight days after the fact before coming back to Mexico. Since the title change was not formally perceived, CMLL considers Dr. Wagner Jr. a two-time champion, not a three-time champion. 

On January 15, 2013, at that point ruling hero Rush intentionally surrendered the CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship as a major aspect of his progressing storyline quarrel with then-CMLL World Heavyweight Champion El Terrible. As a component of the storyline, El Terrible expressed that he would not safeguard against somebody who spoke to a lower weight class, so Rush moved into the Heavyweight division for a title coordinate. CMLL held a 16-man "torneo cibernetico" disposal match to figure out which two wrestlers ought to contend in the finals for the empty title. On January 29, 2013, Rey Escorpión vanquished Volador Jr. in the competition finals to turn into the thirteenth by and large boss. 

On April 8, 2016 La Máscara won the CMLL World Light Heavyweight Champion by crushing Ángel de Oro. On May 22, 2017, La Máscara was terminated by CMLL and the title was abandoned. On June 10, 2017 Niebla Roja won the title by outliving 9 different wrestlers, Bárbaro Cavernario, Blue Panther, Carístico, Drone, Johnny Idol, Misterioso Jr., Pólvora, Reapper and Stuka Jr., in a 10-man "torneo cibernetico" end coordinate. 

Niebla Roja is the current CMLL World Light Heavyweight Champion, having won the title on June 10, 2017 out of a show at Arena Coloso. Generally, there have been 16 rules shared between 14 wrestlers, which does exclude one informal rule by Aquarius. Just two men have held the title more than once; both Dr. Wagner Jr. what's more, Atlantis have authoritatively held the title twice. Dr. Wagner Jr. has the longest consolidated rules with 1,574 days, and Último Guerrero holds the record for the longest individual rule with . Since Aquarius' eight-day reign in 1996 isn't formally perceived by CMLL, Jerry Estrada's 175-day reign is the most limited ever of title. Not exclusively was Último Guerrero's rule the longest of any individual rule, he is additionally credited with a record 22 affirmed title resistances. 

CMLL has announced the title empty on two separate events, which implied that there was no victor for a timeframe. Once in a while, a title is cleared because of damage to the authoritative victor, or when a boss quit working for the advancement, yet on account of the CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship, there was a storyline purpose for it being announced empty the first run through. In late 2013 the light heavyweight champion Rush was working a long-running storyline contention with El Terrible. At the point when El Terrible won the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship, CMLL chose to upgrade the contention by having Rush willfully surrender the light heavyweight title so as to get a CMLL World Heavyweight Championship coordinate against El Terrible. This permitted CMLL to propel the storyline just as move the title off Rush without having Rush lose a match, permitting Rey Escorpión to turn into the following boss. The second opening began on May 22, 2017 when CMLL terminated the then-champion Máscara. 

The official definition by the Mexican "lucha libre" commission for the light heavyweight division in Mexico is between and . In the twentieth century, CMLL were commonly reliable and severe about implementing the real weight limits. In the 21st century the official definitions have now and again been ignored for specific victors. One case of this was when Mephisto, formally recorded as , won the CMLL World Welterweight Championship, a weight class with a furthest point of confinement. Despite the fact that the heavyweight title is generally viewed as the most renowned weight division in expert wrestling, CMLL puts more accentuation on the lower weight divisions. 

With twelve CMLL-advanced titles marked as "World" titles, the special center movements from title to title after some time with no single title reliably advanced as the "primary" title; rather CMLL's different real shows highlight diverse weight divisions and are regularly featured by a "Lucha de Apuestas" ("Bet coordinate") rather than a title coordinate. From 2013 until June 2016 just two noteworthy CMLL demonstrates have included title matches: "Sin Salida" in 2013, and the 2014 "Juicio Final" show highlighting the NWA World Historic Welterweight Championship. The last time a CMLL World Light Heavyweight Championship coordinate was highlighted on a noteworthy CMLL show was on September 18, 2004, when Último Guerrero effectively shielded the title at the CMLL 71st Anniversary Show. Title coordinates more often than not occur under best two-out-of-three falls rules. Once in a while single fall title matches have occurred, particularly while advancing CMLL title coordinates in Japan, complying with the customs of the neighborhood advancement. Outside CMLL, the light heavyweight title has been protected on joint CMLL/Universal Wrestling Association (UWA) appears in 1993, on W*ING, Big Japan Wrestling, Dragondoor and New Japan Pro Wrestling shows in Japan. 

CMLL held a 16-man competition from September 15 to October 26, 1991 to crown the main light heavyweight champion. Documentation on Pierroth Jr's. way to the finals has not been found. 

CMLL held a competition to decide the following CMLL World Light Heavyweight Champion beginning on January 22, 2013, and the finals were held the next week. The first round of the competition was a 16-man "torneo cibernetico" disposal coordinate, with the last two men in the match meeting all requirements for the finals the next week on January 29. The "torneo" highlighted two groups of eight wrestling against one another; Team A comprised of Delta, El Felino, La Máscara, Mephisto, Mr. Águila, Rey Escorpión, Stuka Jr. furthermore, Volador Jr. what's more, Team B comprised of Atlantis, Blue Panther, Diamante, Euforia, Maximo, Morphosis, Psicosis and Sagrado. The match came down to Team A's Rey Escorpión and Volado Jr. versus Team B's Euforia. Escorpión pulled off Volador Jr's. veil and tossed it to match Euforia, causing Euforia to be excluded, which implied that Escorpión and Volador Jr. fit the bill for the finals the next week. On January 29, Rey Escorpión crushed Volador Jr. in the finals to turn into the thirteenth by and large CMLL World Light Heavyweight champion.