Chris Gragg 

Chris Gragg (conceived June 30, 1990) is an American football tight end who is as of now a free operator. He played school football at Arkansas and was drafted by the Buffalo Bills in the seventh round of the 2013 NFL Draft. 

After he moved on from Warren High School in Arkansas, where he played football as a wide beneficiary, Gragg focused on the University of Arkansas alongside three other Warren players. Despite the fact that he spent his first year recruit season as a beneficiary on the Arkansas Razorbacks football squad, the training staff changed over Gragg into a tight end in 2010. In his sophomore and junior seasons, the Razorbacks showed up in Bowl Championship Series recreations and vanquished the Kansas State Wildcats in the 2012 Cotton Bowl Classic, which finished the 2011 season. Knee damage caused Gragg to miss eight recreations in his senior season as the Arkansas group completed with a losing record. Welcomed to partake in the NFL Scouting Combine, an evaluative challenge among forthcoming NFL players, Gragg ran the quickest 40-yard dash time and had the second-most noteworthy vertical bounce among tight finishes in participation; in the draft, the Bills picked Gragg with the 222nd generally choice, a pick Buffalo procured from an exchange with the St. Louis Rams. One of five tight finishes in spring preparing, he made Buffalo's standard season list and played in nine ordinary season diversions amid the 2013 NFL season. He at that point played in 10 diversions in 2014 and 13 amusements in 2015 preceding missing the whole 2016 season because of damage. 

Chris Gragg was conceived on June 30, 1990, in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, to Kelvin and Tenita Gragg, both of whom filled in as teachers. Kelvin trained the Warren High School football crew, and Chris filled in as the group's water kid until he was in middle school. For the Warren squad, Gragg played football as a wide collector nearby future NFL players Jarius Wright and Greg Childs. Amid his senior year, Gragg gathered 420 accepting yards and got 8 touchdowns. Enlisting site Rivals.com assessed him as a 2-star prospect on a 1– 5 star scale and positioned Gragg as the fifteenth best player in Arkansas at his position, while Scout.com positioned him as the 148th best beneficiary in the country. In July 2007, Gragg focused on the University of Arkansas, as completed three different players from Warren. 

In his rookie season, Gragg played in every one of the 12 of the Arkansas Razorbacks' amusements as the group completed with a 5– 7 win– misfortune record. Amid the second round of the period, against the Louisiana– Monroe Warhawks, Gragg got a 25-yard go from quarterback Casey Dick on fourth down and one to proceed with a drive that finished with the diversion winning touchdown. The catch was Gragg's solitary gathering in 2008. After he separated his lower leg in a preseason practice, he was given a therapeutic redshirt and did not play for the 2009 season. 

In 2010, Gragg was changed over into a tight end, which made three spaces at the situation on the Razorbacks' profundity diagram. Garrick McGee, the hostile facilitator for the group, saw that "he's a huge collector in a tight end body", and anticipated that adversaries should have "matchup problem[s]" against Gragg. At the point when Arkansas confronted the Georgia Bulldogs on September 18, Gragg got a touchdown from a 57-yard go for his first gathering of the year. The 2010 Arkansas Razorbacks finished the year with a 10– 3 record, and were welcome to play in the Sugar Bowl against the Ohio State Buckeyes, an amusement that Arkansas lost 31– 26 after Ohio State protective end Solomon Thomas caught a go from quarterback Ryan Mallett in the last moment of the diversion. Gragg made one catch in the challenge for 16 yards; he completed the year with 8 gatherings for 171 yards and two touchdowns. 

Preceding the 2011 season, an author for "Arkansas Business" anticipated that Gragg "will consider noticeably along with the offense on the off chance that he improves his blocking": Gragg supplanted D. J. Williams, the primary string tight end who graduated in 2010. In the Razorbacks' eleventh round of the period, Gragg got 8 goes for 119 yards, both single-diversion profession highs, as the group vanquished the Mississippi State Bulldogs and moved to a 10– 1 record. The Bowl Championship Series (BCS) framework in this manner positioned Arkansas as the third-best group in the country, behind the Louisiana State University Tigers and the Alabama Crimson Tide, with the previous planned as the Razorbacks' next rival. Brett Martel of Associated Press expressed that the November 25 matchup, a piece of the Arkansas– LSU football competition, "could be considerably more critical than the purported 'Round of the Century'" between the Tigers and the Crimson Tide prior in the year, as the two groups in the contention went after a situation in the BCS National Championship Game. Despite the fact that Arkansas opened with a 14– 0 lead, the Tigers recaptured the lead by halftime and won, 41– 17. Out of dispute for the National Championship Game, the group completed the year positioned 6th in the BCS standings and were welcome to play in the 2012 Cotton Bowl Classic, where they vanquished the Kansas State Wildcats 29– 16: with the triumph, Arkansas tied a group record for most successes in a season. Over the season, Gragg got 41 gatherings, third most in the group, for 518 yards and two touchdowns. 

In July 2012, Gragg was recorded as a preseason candidate for the John Mackey Award, an acknowledgment exhibited every year by the Nassau County Sports Commission to the best tight end in school football. In spite of the fact that casted a ballot to the second-group of the Coaches Preseason All-Southeastern Conference (SEC) squad, an honorific program made out of the second-best players in the SEC, ESPN scholars Edward Aschoff and Chris Low positioned Gragg as the best tight end in the gathering. In Arkansas' season opener against the Jacksonville State Gamecocks, Gragg collected 110 yards and two touchdowns more than 7 gets, an execution for which he earned the John Mackey Tight End of the Week grant. On September 9, Gragg endured a bone wound in his knee against the Rutgers Scarlet Knights which made him miss the following three recreations; upon return, Gragg reaggravated the damage and missed the remainder of the period's matches. He completed his last season at Arkansas with 22 gatherings for 289 yards and three touchdowns, while the group finished with a 4– 8 record; scholastically, he graduated with a degree in games the executives. After his senior year, Gragg took an interest in the NFL Scouting Combine, where he ran the quickest 40-yard dash time, the third-quickest 3 cone drill, had the third-longest wide hop, and the second-most elevated vertical hop of every single tight end in participation. In a review of his Combine execution, an author for the NFL applauded his speed and "recipient like hands", yet censured him for an absence of nimbleness and intermittent dropped passes. The author contrasted Gragg with tight end Daniel Fells. 

The Buffalo Bills chose Gragg in the seventh round with the 222nd generally determination in the 2013 NFL Draft, an opening they acquired from an exchange with the St. Louis Rams. When he was drafted, Gragg turned into the second tight end Buffalo had ever chosen out of Arkansas, and the principal Arkansas player to be chosen by the Bills since 1973. Gragg was the principal new kid on the block out of the 2013 Bills' draft class to sign an agreement. In preseason practice, Gragg was one of five tight finishes on the Buffalo group as he attempted to win one of the 53 positions accessible on the dynamic program. While the group prepared at St. John Fisher College, Buffalo head mentor Doug Marrone lauded Gragg for his insight into the Bills' playbook and his vertical running rate. In four preseason amusements, he totaled 5 gatherings for 38 yards. At the point when the Bills slice their program to 53 players, Gragg made the group; on an "A– F" scale, ESPN feature writer Mike Rodak gave the Bills a "C" grade in tight end profundity and expressed that Gragg "would be in the last 10 percent of NFL starters at [the position]". Gragg made his normal season NFL debut on October 13 against the Cincinnati Bengals, and got his first vocation gathering and touchdown against the Pittsburgh Steelers four diversions later. At the point when Buffalo confronted the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on December 8, Gragg began in a diversion out of the blue amid the standard season. Before the finish of 2013, Gragg got 5 gatherings for 53 yards and a touchdown in nine vocation recreations played. All in all, the Bills completed toward the end in the AFC East with a 6– 10 record. 

Preceding the Bills' 2014 preparing camp, Rodak gave Gragg a "45%" opportunity to make Buffalo's 53-man list: Rodak depicted him as "the most athletic tight end" with the Bills, yet additionally composed that "there probably won't be a spot for Gragg" with tight finishes Tony Moeaki, Scott Chandler, and Lee Smith in the group too. Amid the preseason, Gragg was hospitalized with warmth spasms, however came back to rehearse on July 30. The Bills confronted the New York Giants in their first preseason amusement, a Pro Football Hall of Fame Game, and as indicated by Jay Skurski of "The Buffalo News", Gragg "[had] an opportunity to awe" with Moeaki and Chandler harmed and unfit to play: in the diversion, Gragg had 4 gets for 24 yards and a bumble. He completed the preseason with 10 gatherings for 66 yards, and made the customary season program. In the final quarter of the Bills' October 5 matchup against the Detroit Lions, Gragg got a touchdown pass that, with an additional two-point change, tied the amusement; Buffalo won the challenge, 17– 14, and moved to a 3– 2 record. When he endeavored to get a low-tossed go in the second 50% of an amusement against the New York Jets on November 24, Gragg harmed his correct knee, which made him miss the rest of the Bills' season. Amid 2014, over the ten amusements in which he played, Gragg gathered 7 gatherings for 53 yards and a touchdown as Buffalo completed with a 9– 7 record, second in the AFC East behind the New England Patriots. 

Gragg played in 13 diversions, beginning 4, in 2015, getting 12 goes for 150 yards and no touchdowns. On August 26, 2016, Gragg endured a torn ACL in a preseason diversion against the Washington Redskins that wound up sidelining him for the whole 2016 season. He turned into a free specialist in March 2017. 

On July 28, 2017, Gragg marked with the New York Jets. He was put on harmed save on September 1, 2017, in the wake of enduring a lower leg damage. 

Chris' sibling, Will, likewise plays football as a tight end: Will said that Chris showed him how to get, and that when Chris gained some new useful knowledge in Buffalo or at Arkansas, Chris instructed it to him. Will exchanged to Dumas High School when Kelvin acknowledged a situation as the director of the school area. Will, who got offers from forty-five university schools, focused on the University of Arkansas in September 2014 and marked with the organization in December. In the wake of redshirting his first year at Arkansas, Will stayed covered on the profundity outline at tight end, unfit to get through. In April 2018, Will reported his expectation to exchange to another school, and left the Razorback football program. In June 2018, the University of Pittsburgh declared that Gragg had been added to their list as an alumni exchange with two years of qualification remaining, and would be accessible to play right away.