Si Ronda 

Si Ronda is a 1930 quiet movie from the Dutch East Indies which was coordinated by Lie Tek Swie and featured Bachtiar Effendi. In light of contemporary Betawi oral convention, it pursues the endeavors of a highwayman, talented in "silat" (customary Malay hand to hand fighting), known as Si Ronda. In the "lenong" stories from which the film was determined, Ronda was frequently portrayed as a Robin Hood kind of figure. The generation, presently thought lost, was one of a progression of hand to hand fighting movies discharged somewhere in the range of 1929 and 1931. "Si Ronda" got little inclusion in the media upon its discharge. A second adjustment of the story, "Si Ronda Macan Betawi", was made in 1978. 

"Si Ronda" was adjusted from a "lenong" (a Betawi oral convention like a phase play) prevalent with ethnic Chinese and local crowds of the time. The Ronda stories pursue the Betawi crook of a similar name, who is gifted at "silat" (conventional combative techniques) and presumed to take from the rich to provide for poor people. The Indonesian film researcher Misbach Yusa Biran recommends that Ronda was chosen for adjustment in light of its potential activity groupings. In the residential film, such arrangements had for the most part been enlivened by American works and been generally welcomed by groups of onlookers. 

Comparable stories to Si Ronda's incorporate those of Si Jampang and Si Pitung; these stage plays focused on exceptional men (alluded to as "jago") who, however living outside the law, by and large battled for the normal people. Adjustments of the class, showed as brigand films, ended up well known in local film following the arrival of "Si Tjonat" by Batavia Motion Picture in 1929. This discharge was trailed by the Wong siblings' "Rampok Preanger" (likewise 1929), and an adjustment of the Si Pitung stories in 1931. Not all movies in this class, which comprised of a fourth of every local discharge for 1929– 1931, kept up the brave characteristics of the focal character: the Wongs' adjustment of "Si Pitung", for example, depicted him as a basic outlaw and not the Robin Hood figure of stage. 

"Si Ronda" was coordinated by Lie Tek Swie and delivered by Tan Khoen Yauw of Tan's Film. The two had recently cooperated on the organization's exceedingly gainful "Njai Dasima" in 1929. Cinematography was taken care of by A. Loepias. Shot in high contrast, this quiet film featured Bachtiar Effendi, a set decorator with Tan's, in his on-screen debut assuming the title job. It additionally highlighted Momo, a performing artist who had showed up in the film "Njai Dasima". 

"Si Ronda" was discharged in 1930; Effendi expressed that it was discharged before Tan's "Nancy Bikin Pembalesan" ("Nancy Takes Revenge"), a continuation of "Njai Dasima", started screening in May 1930. Dutch papers demonstrate that it had screened in Medan, North Sumatra, by 1932. Biran composes that the film got little inclusion; he noticed that Sinematek Indonesia has no news clippings identified with "Si Ronda". 

After "Si Ronda", Lie and Tan teamed up on three further movies. Untruth left Tan's in 1932, purportedly as his methodology never again coordinated Tan's low-class target group of onlookers and made the works go over spending plan. Effendi kept on working with Tan's until 1932, when he left to head the film magazine "Doenia Film". Momo kept acting until 1941, first with Tan's and later with Standard Film. The film is likely lost. The American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider composes that every single Indonesian film from before 1950 are lost. In any case, JB Kristanto's "Katalog Film Indonesia" ("Indonesian Film Catalog") records a few as having made due at Sinematek Indonesia's chronicles. 

Another film dependent on the Ronda stories, titled "Si Ronda Macan Betawi" ("Ronda the Betawi Tiger"), was discharged in 1978. Coordinated by Fritz G. Schadt, it featured Dicky Zulkarnaen in the title job and Lenny Marlina as his sweetheart. In this adjustment Ronda utilizes his "silat" abilities to battle degenerate land proprietors and pilgrim government laborers.