Neal Dow 

Neal Dow (March 20, 1804 – October 2, 1897) was an American Prohibition supporter and legislator. Nicknamed the "Napoleon of Temperance" and the "Father of Prohibition", Dow was destined to a Quaker family in Portland, Maine. Since early on, he trusted liquor to be the reason for huge numbers of society's issues and looked to boycott it through enactment. In 1850, Dow was chosen leader of the Maine Temperance Union, and the following year he was chosen city hall leader of Portland. Before long, to a great extent because of Dow's endeavors, the state assembly restricted the deal and creation of liquor in what ended up known as the Maine law. Serving twice as civic chairman of Portland, Dow upheld the law with energy and called for progressively brutal punishments for violators. In 1855, his rivals revolted and he requested the state civilian army to flame on the group. One man was murdered and a few injured, and when open response to the viciousness betrayed Dow, he decided not to look for re-appointment. 

Dow was later chosen to two terms in the Maine House of Representatives, yet resigned after a money related embarrassment. He joined the Union Army not long after the episode of the American Civil War in 1861, in the end achieving the position of brigadier general. He was injured at the attack of Port Hudson and later caught. Subsequent to being traded for another officer in 1864, Dow left the military and gave himself again to denial. He talked over the United States, Canada, and Great Britain in help of the reason. In 1880, Dow headed the Prohibition Party ticket for President of the United States. In the wake of losing the decision, he kept on composing and talk for the benefit of the preclusion development for a mind-blowing remainder until his passing in Portland at 93 years old. 

Dow was conceived in Portland, Maine on March 20, 1804, the child of Josiah Dow and his better half, Dorcas Allen Dow. Josiah Dow was an individual from the Society of Friends (regularly known as Quakers) and a rancher initially from New Hampshire. Dorcas Allen was additionally a Quaker, and an individual from a prosperous Maine family headed by her conspicuous granddad, Hate-Evil Hall. They had three youngsters, of whom Neal was the center tyke and just child. After his marriage, Dow's dad opened a tannery in Portland, which before long turned into an effective business. In the wake of going to a Friends school in New Bedford, Massachusetts, and further tutoring at Edward Payson's Portland Academy, Dow pursued his dad into the tanning exchange 1826. He grasped innovation, getting to be one of the first in the city to consolidate steam control in the tanning procedure. 

Dow attempted to fit in with the principles of his folks' Quaker confidence; he was hot-tempered and delighted in fighting since early on. As he wound up well off further down the road, he delighted in wearing fine garments, in opposition to the Quakers' inclination for plain dress. A portion of his family's different temperances, for example, thrift and restraint from liquor and tobacco, he embraced right off the bat throughout everyday life. When he turned eighteen, Dow tried to maintain a strategic distance from the required volunteer army marshals, progressively out of dislike for the tipsiness that they frequently included than out of Quaker confidence in pacifism. Rather, he joined the volunteer local group of fire-fighters, whose individuals were exempted from the summon. In 1827, Dow campaigned the Maine governing body to change the flame organizations to build their proficiency. That equivalent year, he contended against his flame organization serving liquor at its commemoration festivity; the individuals traded off, and served just wine, not hard alcohol. Now and again Dow let his legislative issues meddle with his obligations; in the wake of being elevated to flame boss, he permitted an alcohol store to consume to the ground. 

The following year, Dow met his future spouse, Maria Cornelia Maynard, the girl of a Massachusetts vendor. They wedded on January 20, 1830. Throughout the following twenty years, they had nine kids, five of whom (two children and three girls) endure early stages. Maria Cornelia was a Congregationalist, and Dow went to administrations with her at Second Parish Church routinely, despite the fact that he never turned into a part. Their home, worked at 714 Congress Street in Portland in 1829, still stands and is currently an exhibition hall memorializing Dow's life and managed by the nearby section of the Women's Christian Temperance Union. 

In the nineteenth century, a run of the mill American male devoured by and large multiple occasions the liquor of his advanced partner. In his journals, Dow noticed that in Portland a huge part of a working man's compensation was as day by day rum proportions: "it was ... the standard to stop work at eleven in the forenoon and four toward the evening to drink ... In each food merchant's shop were containers [of] ... rum punch continually arranged in a tub, now and again on the walkway, similarly as lemonade is to be seen now on the Fourth of July." He considered liquor to be in charge of the destruction of people, families, and fortunes, regularly calling attention to broken-down homes or organizations to his family and saying "Rum did that." His journey to change individuals by improving their condition became out of the religious developments of the Second Great Awakening and, as student of history Judith N. McArthur later expressed, "balance reformers asked their audience members to cast Demon Rum out of their lives similarly as outreaching clergymen admonished them to cast the Devil out of their souls." 

A large number of Portland's center and privileged natives, including Dow, trusted intoxication was an incredible danger to the city's good and money related prosperity. In 1827, he turned into an establishing individual from the Maine Temperance Society. The gathering at first centered its endeavors around the indecencies of refined refreshments, yet by 1829, Dow proclaimed he would refrain from every mixed drink. In the meantime, he connected himself with against Masonic and abolitionist subjugation causes, and turned out to be increasingly required with governmental issues by and large. In the 1832 presidential decision, unsatisfied with both Andrew Jackson and Henry Clay, Dow upheld William Wirt, a minor-party applicant. 

In 1837, the Maine Temperance Society split about whether they should look to boycott wine just as spirits; Dow agreed with the counter wine powers, who framed their own association, the Maine Temperance Union. That year James Appleton, a Whig delegate in the state governing body, proposed a forbiddance law, and Dow talked regularly and powerfully for the exertion, which was fruitless. Appleton proposed a comparable law in 1838 and 1839, however regardless of his and Dow's earnest attempts, he kept on being crushed. 

Dow worked intensely for the benefit of Whig competitors and came to hate Democrats as the devices of the liquor business. Maine's Whig senator, Edward Kent, conceded Dow a colonel's bonus in the state volunteer army in 1841 as a reward for his endeavors, notwithstanding his absence of military experience. By and by, Dow did not view himself as "a gathering man in the lawmaker's comprehension of the term," and had no second thoughts about urging his supporters to cast a ballot against any Whig whom he thought about inadequately hostile to liquor. 

Dow spent the mid 1840s taking care of his tanning business, yet in addition discovered time to urge singular consumers to take up forbearance. In 1842, he and his partners prevailing with regards to getting the regional government in Portland to require licenses for alcohol vendors and to arraign unlicensed merchants; a choice on the inquiry was chosen in the prohibitionists' support soon thereafter. The following year saw the Democrats win race to regional government, supplanting the more denial neighborly Whigs, and numerous alcohol venders continued their exchange as indictments were conceded inconclusively. Dow kept up his talking endeavors around the state, in spite of once being attacked by a man enlisted by an alcohol seller. 

In 1846, Dow talked before the lawmaking body for statewide restriction. The bill passed, yet came up short on the implementation components important to give it impact. The next year, he kept running for the state governing body in an exceptional decision, yet was barely crushed. In 1850, presently an individual from the new Free Soil Party, he urged similarly invested administrators to pass a more grounded preclusion law. They did as such, yet observed it vetoed by Democratic senator John W. Dana. The governing body fell one vote shy of superseding the veto. 

In 1850, Dow was chosen leader of the Maine Temperance Union. The following year, he kept running for city hall leader of Portland on the Whig ticket, and was chosen by a vote of 1332 to 986. Inside a month of getting to work, he campaigned the state governing body to pass a statewide preclusion law. It did as such, and Dow met with the new Governor, John Hubbard, who marked the bill into law on June 2. Maine was the primary state to boycott liquor, and statewide disallowance ended up referred to around the nation as "the Maine law". The law's section pushed Dow to national popularity. He was known as the "Napoleon of Temperance", and was the included speaker in August at a National Temperance Convention in New York City. 

After the Maine law came into power, Dow permitted alcohol vendors a fourteen day elegance period to sell their stock out of state, at that point started appropriations. His implementation endeavors rapidly drove decent drinking foundations bankrupt, yet less extravagant cantinas, particularly those frequented by Portland's poor and worker occupants, just moved their activities to mystery areas. All things being equal, Dow declared in a location to the city board that he had dispensed with everything except a "couple of mystery grog-shops", whose tirelessness he accused on "outsiders". 

Regardless of his developing national notoriety, Dow kept on confronting restriction at home. Both Dow and his adversaries occupied with unknown paper crusades against the other, regularly making individual assaults close by political contentions. For the 1852 civil decision, the Democrats assigned Albion Parris, a previous representative and United States Senator, to keep running against Dow. While the Democrats revitalized behind their applicant, Dow's energetic requirement of forbiddance partitioned his gathering, and in two wards the Whigs ran an enemy of Dow ticket. On race day, Dow marginally expanded his vote aggregate from the prior year, with 1496, yet Parris outpolled him, acquiring 1900 votes. In spite of the fact that the Whigs controlled voter enrollment at the time, Dow accused his misfortune for unlawful casting a ballot by Irish outsiders. 

After his thrashing, Dow kept on advancing disallowance around the nation, and was satisfied to see it spread to eleven states. He likewise attempted endeavors to disprove the charge made by his adversaries (counting his cousin John Neal) that the Maine law was insufficient and that drinking had really expanded in Portland amid Dow's term in office. In 1854, Dow kept running for city hall leader again fruitlessly; as the Whig Party broke separated, Dow pulled in help from the Free Soilers and the Know Nothings, a nativist gathering. By the following year, those two gatherings started to join abolitionist subjugation Whigs in another gathering, the Republicans. They before long controlled the state lawmaking body and, with Dow's support, fortified the implementation arrangements of the Maine law. Dow ran again for city hall leader in 1855 and was barely re-chose to the workplace he had left three years sooner. 

Two months into his term, Dow coincidentally crossed paths with his own preclusion laws. In the wake of setting up a board to administer liquor for therapeutic and mechanical use (the main uses allowed), Dow requested $1600 worth of liquor and put away it at City Hall. Dow fail to choose an official specialist to hold it there; on the grounds that the receipt was in his name, this set Dow in specialized infringement of the law. Dow's adversaries seized on the slip-up and requested that the police scan the city working for illicit alcohol. Since the ongoing increments to the Maine law had evacuated legal circumspection, the judge had no real option except to issue the warrant. Police caught the liquor, yet did not capture Dow. 

That night, June 2, a horde of enemies of prohibitionists assembled to request that the law be authorized, yelling dangers to spill "Neal Dow's alcohol". Dow requested the state civilian army to obstruct the dissidents and had the sheriff perused the group the Riot Act. As obscurity fell, Dow requested the group to scatter; when they cannot, he requested the volunteer army to flame. One man was executed and seven were injured, and the group fled. On learning of the casualty, Dow kept up that the shooting was defended and inquired as to whether the dead man was Irish (he was most certainly not). 

The brutality turned popular supposition against Dow, and he was criticized in papers the country over. He was striven for infringement of the denial law; the examiner was previous U.S. Lawyer General Nathan Clifford, a long-term Dow rival, and the resistance lawyer was an individual author of the Maine Temperance Society, future representative William P. Fessenden. Dow was cleared, yet his rivals persuaded the coroner to impanel a jury that articulated the dissenter's passing a murder. He was at last cleared of that charge, however his prominence had endured and he declined to keep running for re-appointment as civic chairman. 

Republicans lost the governorship that fall, and in 1856 the Democrats joined with the rest of the Whigs in the state lawmaking body to nullify the Maine law totally. A portion of different states that had passed Maine laws stuck to this same pattern as they discovered that the guaranteed advantages were not anticipated and authorization was troublesome, if certainly feasible. Dow kept on venturing to every part of the nation (and the United Kingdom) talking in help of forbiddance, however to minimal authoritative impact. Maine passed another, a lot milder Maine law in 1858, which Dow despised however protected as superior to nothing. 

In 1858, Dow won an extraordinary race to the Maine House of Representatives as a Republican when one of the individuals chose declined to serve. He won re-appointment to a full term in 1859, and kept on fomenting for stricter denial laws, however was ineffective. He likewise ended up snared in outrage when the State Treasurer, Benjamin D. Peck, loaned out state assets to private residents (counting Dow) repudiating state law. Peck loaned substantial wholes to himself, which were lost when his business adventures fizzled. Dow had promised a portion of Peck's obtaining, and confronted ruin as it turned out to be certain that Peck couldn't reimburse the state treasury. Dow had the capacity to settle the obligations and disguise quite a bit of his job in the undertaking, yet enough of the outrage ended up realized that a portion of his numerous foes assaulted him in neighborhood papers. Indeed, even a portion of his prohibitionist partners turned out to be less straightforwardly strong of him. In September 1860, he didn't keep running for re-appointment. 

Dow kept on advancing disallowance in the wake of leaving office, yet in addition added his voice to the developing tune pushing the abrogation of subjugation. A few slaveholding states withdrew after the decision of Republican presidential competitor Abraham Lincoln, and framed the Confederate States of America; even before the flare-up of the Civil War, Dow required the defiance to be pulverized and servitude annulled. He was 57 years of age at the episode of the war, and resolved to remain home and keep an eye on his business and care for his maturing father. After the Confederate assault on Fort Sumter, be that as it may, Dow felt constrained to join the Union reason. Representative Israel Washburn delegated him Colonel of the thirteenth Maine Volunteer Infantry Regiment on November 23, 1861. Huge numbers of the officers Dow enrolled to the reason were his partners from the preclusion development. 

After a winter of preparing in Maine, Dow and the thirteenth Maine were dispatched to the Gulf of Mexico in February 1862. Indeed, even before withdrawing, Dow fought with his bosses when he took in his unit would be put under the direction of Major General Benjamin F. Head servant, a Democrat whom Dow viewed as delicate on subjection and "expert rum". Dow's challenges were inadequate, however they earned Butler's animosity. In the wake of joining Butler at Fort Monroe, Virginia, the regiment cruised south and was compelled to arrive in North Carolina after a tempest; Dow's act in the crisis won Butler's acclaim, yet the two still sincerely detested one another. After the harmed boats were fixed, Butler's military proceeded with south to Ship Island, Mississippi. 

Head servant's military, helped by Flag Officer David Farragut's armada, caught New Orleans on April 29, 1862. Dow and the thirteenth Maine did not participate in the assault, staying behind to watch Ship Island. Multi day sooner, Congress had affirmed Dow's advancement to brigadier general. He reprimanded Butler for barring him from the fight, trusting that Butler was compromised by his advancement and considering him a "harasser and a brute". He invested a significant part of the energy quarreling with his second-in-direction, Lieutenant Colonel Francis S. Hesseltine, while the regiment involved strongholds around New Orleans. While there, Dow urged dark captives to flee from bondage and take cover with the Union Army. He likewise appropriated property from adjacent grower, including the individuals who bolstered the Union, and attempted fruitlessly to guarantee individual rescue rights over Confederate military property surrendered in the stream. 

In October 1862, Dow was given order over the District of Pensacola, and moved to join different units there. He promptly earned the troops' disgrace by putting Pensacola under disallowance. He likewise (without approval from Washington) started to enroll dark troops from the nearby slave populace while proceeding with his seizure of renegade property. Head servant before long canceled the seizure request, which Dow accepted was done in vengeance for his forbidding of liquor. 

In December 1862, Nathaniel P. Banks supplanted Butler in direction at New Orleans. Banks, a Massachusetts Republican with prohibitionist feelings, had known Dow before the war, yet he at first disappointed Dow by declining to revoke Butler's structure against reallocation of dissident property. He did, be that as it may, permit Dow to come back to New Orleans to partake in the arranged spring hostile. As the Union militaries hoped to finish their power over the Mississippi River, just Vicksburg, Mississippi and Port Hudson, Louisiana held out against government control. Significant General Ulysses S. Concede proceeded onward Vicksburg from the north while Banks progressed to Port Hudson from the south. By May 21, the town was encompassed. 

Banks was resolved to break the attack by an immediate ambush on the Confederate lines. Dow trusted the assault to be a mix-up, and deferred his units' interest until some other time in the day. In the ambush, which was ineffective, Dow was injured in the correct arm and left thigh and sent to an adjacent manor to convalesce. While in the emergency clinic, he campaigned for an exchange to a theater where his odds of advancement would be more noteworthy. On June 30, having recuperated enough to mount a steed once more, Dow visited his troops. As he came back to the emergency clinic after dull, he was caught by Confederate mounted force working behind Union lines. 

Dow was taken by wagon and train to Jackson, Mississippi, at that point to Montgomery, Alabama, before at last being kept to Libby Prison in Richmond, Virginia, the Confederacy's capital. In August, he was exchanged to Mobile, Alabama, where Confederate authorities researched whether Dow had equipped captives to battle against the revolutionaries, which the Confederate Congress had made a capital offense. Dow had done as such, however his investigators could discover no proof of such an activity after the law was passed, so the charges were dropped and Dow was come back to Libby Prison in October. He stayed there until February 1864, when he was traded for hostage Confederate General William Henry Fitzhugh Lee, child of General Robert E. Lee. His wellbeing was harmed by his jail understanding, and subsequent to going through a while convalescing in Portland, he left the Army in November 1864. 

After the war, Dow came back to his administration of the denial development, helping to establish the National Temperance Society and Publishing House with James Black in 1865. He spent the remainder of the 1870s giving discourses in help of moderation over the United States, Canada, and Great Britain. His endeavors created little achievement, as the open betrayed forbiddance and the liquor business was better sorted out to stand up to. Dow consumed a lot of exertion arranging and giving talks in help of the Liberal Party before the British races of 1874, as their pioneer, William Ewart Gladstone, was thoughtful to preclusion; the Liberals lost definitively, an outcome Gladstone and Dow accused on alcohol interests. Dow kept on advancing restriction in Britain until May 1875 when, depleted, he returned home. 

Against calls for individual moderation rather than government restriction, Dow stayed ardent, saying that the best way to battle tipsiness was "more prison for the miscreants." In 1876, he upheld the decision of Rutherford B. Hayes, a Republican and nondrinker. The next year, Dow saw some accomplishment for forbiddance as Maine's council fortified the frail denial law there by prohibiting refining in the state. Regardless of that minor triumph, Dow started to harsh on the Republican party, trusting them inadequately dedicated to his motivation and disillusioned at their inability to secure the privileges of Southern blacks as Reconstruction reached an end. Other balance advocates felt a similar way, and some hosted composed another Prohibition Get-together in 1869. The Prohibitionists concentrated their endeavors on forbidding liquor to the rejection of every single other issue. Most gathering individuals originated from pietist houses of worship, and most, as Dow, were previous Republicans. They had won not many votes in the 1872 and 1876 presidential decisions, however as moderation advocates became disillusioned with the Republican Party, they would have liked to win changes over in 1880. 

In 1880, Maine Republicans would not pass progressively against liquor enactment, and Dow quit the gathering to join the Prohibitionists; he in a flash turned into the gathering's most noticeable part. His companion and partner James Black mentioned that Dow's name be set in assignment for the administration at the 1880 tradition, to which Dow concurred. The tradition that met in Cleveland that June invited delegates from twelve states, yet pulled in no consideration from the press. Dow himself did not visit, remaining home with his debilitated spouse (contender for a gathering's selection regularly did not go to traditions face to face around then). He was designated, heading a ticket with bad habit presidential chosen one Henry Adams Thompson of Ohio. 

Dow for the most part overlooked the national challenge that mid year, concentrating on crusading for professional restraint applicants in neighborhood Maine decisions. Republicans constrained Dow to pull back, expecting that he would guarantee enough votes to cost their chosen one, James A. Garfield, the decision. Dow declined to do as such, yet his vote aggregates were too little to even consider harming Garfield regardless. The Prohibition ticket surveyed only 10,305 votes, 0.1% of the aggregate. Garfield barely prevailed upon the well known vote Democrat Winfield Scott Hancock, however in the constituent school, he conveyed an unmistakable lion's share. Dow was not disappointed with the outcome, upbeat that the Republicans had triumphed over the "ex-slavedriving rebel component". 

After the race, Dow started to work with Republicans again in Maine to propel denial issues, and in 1884 he supported individual Mainer and Republican possibility for president James G. Blaine. Blaine barely lost the decision, the primary Republican misfortune in 28 years, and numerous Republicans accused the Prohibition Party, whose votes would have tipped New York (and with it the discretionary school lion's share) to Blaine. Angry Republicans in Maine wouldn't propel any more preclusion laws, and accordingly Dow made his last break with the Republican Party in 1885. In the 1886 state race, he talked intensely against his previous gathering and in help of the Prohibitionist possibility for senator. In 1888, at 84 years old, Dow acknowledged the Prohibition Party designation for city hall leader of Portland, an office he had held over thirty years sooner. The Democrats were unfit to settle on a competitor, so they embraced their previous adversary, Dow, with an end goal to unseat the Republican officeholder. Numerous ordinary Democrats would not bolster the combination ticket, and Dow lost the decision by 1934 votes to 3504. Soon thereafter, Dow went to the 1888 Prohibition Party National Convention in Indianapolis. In a break from his past scorn for the previous Confederacy, Dow called for sectional solidarity and "no all the more waving of the wicked shirt". He additionally criticized the political practicality of the gathering backing ladies' suffrage, in spite of the fact that he by and by supported the thought. 

Cornelia Dow had passed on in 1883, however Dow's unmarried little girl, additionally named Cornelia, lived with him and aided moderation causes. In 1891, his child Frederick and his family moved in also. Frederick stayed dynamic in his dad's previous Republican Party and was the editorial manager of the "Portland Evening Express". In spite of a tumble from a steed in 1890, Dow proceeded healthy, perusing and expounding on his mark issue, however voyaging less. On his ninetieth birthday celebration in 1894, an expansive group accumulated to commend him and his all consuming purpose. In 1895, he gave his last open discourse, reprimanding the regional government for not upholding the restriction laws. He started to compose his journals, "The Reminiscences of Neal Dow: Recollections of Eighty Years", however kicked the bucket on October 2, 1897, preceding finishing the book. Dow's body lay in state at the Second Parish Church in Portland before being covered in that city's Evergreen Cemetery. He had seen the ascent of the denial development and, as biographer Frank L. Byrne notes, converted the reason "more than any man of the nineteenth century". 

Books 

Articles 

Postulation 

Site