Air Mata Iboe 

Air Mata Iboe (Perfected spelling: Air Mata Ibu; Malay for "A Mother's Tears") is a 1941 movie from the Dutch East Indies (presently Indonesia) coordinated and composed by Njoo Cheong Seng. Featuring Fifi Young, Rd Ismail, Ali Sarosa, and Ali Joego, it pursued a mother who brings up her kids affectionately however is at last sold out by her oldest children when she falls upon harsh occasions. The film, charged as a melodic event, highlighted a soundtrack by R. Koesbini, and an eponymous title tune composed by Njoo. 

The last generation finished by Fred Young's Majestic Film Company, "Air Mata Iboe" was discharged in December 1941, in no time before the Japanese control of the Dutch East Indies. This film, presently potentially lost, got positive audits. A redo was created under a similar title in 1957; Young retook her job. 

Soegiati (Fifi Young) is the mother of four kids: children Achmad (Rd Ismail), Idris (S Poniman) and Soemadi (Ali Sarosa), and a little girl named Soepinah (Soelami). She adores them all, however Soemadi gets the greater part of her consideration since he gets little from his dad, the vendor Soebagio (Ali Joego). As the kids develop, they wed and move away, and in the end just Soemadi is left. Despite the fact that he starts an association with a young lady named Noormala (Soerip), he doesn't wed her as his salary isn't sufficient to help them. 

The evening of Eid al-Fitr, the family accumulates for the occasion. Obscure to the family, Soebagio is having a twofold existence as a burglar, and that night the police come to capture him. To secure his dad, Soemadi proclaims himself the guilty party, and he is banished. Feeling remorseful for his wrongdoings, Soebagio becomes sick and bites the dust soon a short time later. In light of their obligations, their home and things are repossessed, leaving Soegiati to fight for herself. 

Despite the fact that affluent, Achmad and Idris will not take Soegiati in, dreading their individual spouses Moedjenah (Titing) and Mariam (Ning-Nong). Soepinah and her significant other Bakar (Koesbini) are happy to take her in, however they live in neediness. Reluctant to trouble them, eventually Soegiati chooses to leave and locate her own particular manner, contingent upon the graciousness of outsiders. A long time pass, and Soemadi comes back from outcast. Experiencing his mom, who currently lives in neediness, he chooses to render retribution on his siblings. 

The Malang-based Majestic Film Company declared "Air Mata Iboe" in June 1941 together with two different movies, "Boedi Terbenam" ("Hidden Wisdom") and "Bachtera Karam" ("Wrecked Ark"). Creation started soon a short time later and, by early December 1941, more than 55 reels had been shot, just as 60 sound reels. 

"Air Mata Iboe" was composed and coordinated by Njoo Cheong Seng under his penname M. d'Amour; he had recently coordinated "Djantoeng Hati" ("Heart and Soul"; 1941), which likewise had a heartbreaking completion, for the organization. The film was created by the organization's proprietor, Fred Young. It featured Njoo's better half Fifi Young (no connection to Fred), Rd Ismail, Ali Sarosa, and Ali Joego. Different jobs were held by built up artists of "keroncong" (conventional music with Portuguese impacts), including Soerip, Titing, Soelami, Ning Nong, and Poniman. The film, which utilized make-up to make Fifi Young age into an elderly person through the span of its plot, was the on-screen character's first for Majestic; she had been sick amid the creation of her better half's introduction for the organization. 

The high contrast movie highlighted eleven "keroncong" tunes composed by music executive R. Koesbini, who additionally had a job in the film. Support music was given by Koesbini's troupe, the Krontjong Syncopaters, while melodies were performed by the cast. Notes and verses for the film's title tune, "Air Mata Iboe", were distributed in the December 1941 release of "Pertjatoeran Doenia dan Film". 

"Air Mata Iboe", which was appraised for all ages, was disseminated by Columbia Pictures and debuted at Sampoerna Theater in Surabaya on 24 December 1941. Likewise publicized under the Dutch title "Tranen Eener Moeder" (a strict interpretation from Malay), the film was advanced as a "melodic spectacle"; different ads underscored the extent of the cast. An unknown survey in the "Soerabaijasch Handelsblad" noticed the broad utilization of "keroncong" and commended the acting and singing, recommending that local groups of onlookers would rush to see the film. 

"Air Mata Iboe" was the last film created by Majestic Film Company, which shut after the Japanese occupation. Amid the occupation Njoo, Fifi Young, and Fred Young built up their own voyaging dramatic troupe, Pantjawarna, however all came back to film during the 1950s. Joego in like manner came back to film in the wake of spending the occupation in theater. Poniman, Sarosa, Ismail, and Soerip all came back to film, the men during the 1950s and Soerip in 1973. Soelami isn't recorded as acting in any further creations. 

A redo of "Air Mata Iboe" was created in 1957, after Indonesia had acquired its autonomy. Coordinated by Fred Young, the film had Fifi Young retake her job as Sugiati, while Rd Ismail played the job of Subagio. The revamp's other cast individuals had not showed up in the first film. The children Achmad, Idris, and Soemadi were depicted by Sukarno M. Noor, Boes Boestami, and Kamsul, separately. The couple's little girl, renamed Atikah, was played by Farida Arriany. 

"Air Mata Iboe" might be lost. As somewhere else at the time, films in the Dutch East Indies were shot on profoundly precarious nitrate film, and after a shoot wrecked quite a bit of Produksi Film Negara's distribution center in 1952, prior movies shot on nitrate were purposely decimated. Subsequently, the American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider composed that every Indonesian film made before 1950 are lost. In any case, JB Kristanto's "Katalog Film Indonesia" ("Indonesian Film Catalog") records a few as having made due at Sinematek Indonesia's files, and Biran composes that few Japanese purposeful publicity films have made due at the Netherlands Government Information Service.