Oxbow (horse) 

Oxbow (foaled March 26, 2010), an American Thoroughbred racehorse, is best known for winning the second gem in the United States Triple Crown of Thoroughbred Racing, the 2013 Preakness Stakes. A cove foal, sired by a champ of the Breeders' Cup Classic and out of a full sister to another Breeders' Cup Classic victor, Oxbow was sold as a yearling at Keeneland for $250,000 and is possessed by Brad Kelley of Calumet Farm. He was prepared by D. Wayne Lukas and was ridden in his Triple Crown races by Gary Stevens. 

Oxbow had a notoriety for being a leader who was hard to rate amid his races. Tormented with continuous turnover in racers before the Triple Crown arrangement, and regularly running from poor beginning door post positions, he had just two successes preceding his triumph in the Preakness. That achievement was Calumet Farm's first win in a Triple Crown race in 45 years and reproducer Richard Santulli's first win in a Triple Crown exemplary race. It additionally was Stevens' first Triple Crown win since 2001, after his arrival to riding in mid 2013 following a seven-year retirement, and Lukas' first Triple Crown win since 2000. 

Oxbow's second-place complete in the Belmont Stakes in June made him the third steed that year to achieve $1 million in tote wins. Following the Belmont, he was positioned the best three-year-old racehorse in the United States by the National Thoroughbred Racing Association (NTRA). He was pulled up not long after completing fourth in the Haskell Invitational, and was found to have endured delicate tissue damage, was removed from rivalry for the rest of his three-year-old season, and resigned in October 2013. He remains at stud for the 2015 reproducing season at Calumet Farms. 

Oxbow is a cove horse, set apart with an unpredictably formed white star on his brow and white on his lower lip. He is tall. Oxbow was reared by Richard Santulli's New Jersey-based Colts Neck Stables, and foaled in Kentucky at Burleson Farms. His sire is 1998 Breeders' Cup Classic victor Awesome Again, and his dam is Tizamazing, an unraced full sister to the two-time Breeders' Cup Classic champ Tiznow. Oxbow's success in the Preakness Stakes was the main win in a Triple Crown exemplary race for Santulli's rearing system. 

As a yearling, Oxbow was sent to the Keeneland deals, where he was obtained for $250,000 by bloodstock specialist Eddie Kane, following up for the benefit of Brad M. Kelley's Bluegrass Hall. In 2012, the Calumet Investment Group purchased Calumet Farm and rented it to Kelley, who moved his Bluegrass Hall hustling task and 200 ponies from his Hurricane Hill ranch to the noteworthy Calumet property in mid 2013. Before 2013, Calumet Farm had not had a triumphant pony in a Triple Crown race since 1968. 

Albeit formally enlisted with The Jockey Club as a cove, Oxbow has white hairs dissipated all through his jacket, in this way his mentor, D. Wayne Lukas, portrays him as a roan. Oxbow was recorded as "dark/roan" when he was sold as a yearling at Keeneland. 

Oxbow's dashing vocation started on August 3, 2012, at Saratoga Race Course in a $80,000 lady race at under racer Junior Alvarado. Recorded at chances of 22– 1, he was moderate out of the door and in 6th from the get-go. He made a cumbersome stride going into the turn, and subsequently, his racer pulled him up and he was removed the track in a pony emergency vehicle. In October, Oxbow was given another opportunity in a $50,000 lady race at Keeneland Race Course. At 11– 1 under racer Jon Court, he broke strongly and drove the field at the quarter-mile post. At the highest point of the homestretch he was gotten by Winning Cause, and eventually completed fourth with a speed figure of 73. On October 31, he kept running in another $50,000 lady race at seven furlongs at Lukas' home track, Churchill Downs. At 17– 1 under racer Terry Thompson, Oxbow left the entryway ninth, however as in his past race, had the lead by the quarter-mile post. He at last put third, with an improved speed figure of 85. 

Oxbow's first win was a month later on the undercard of the Clark Handicap, in another $50,000 lady race at Churchill Downs. He went off as the 2– 1 most loved in a race of with racer Joe Rocco. He began from the far outside at the tenth post position and parted from the door in seventh yet bounced out to the lead inside a couple of steps and drove going into the turn by a half length. Oxbow expanded his lead all through the race and won by right around five lengths, gaining a 90 speed figure. 

After Oxbow's lady win, he was traveled to Hollywood Park in California to keep running in the Grade I CashCall Futurity at a mile and one-sixteenth (1,700 m) on a manufactured surface. He was the longest shot in the field at 61– 1, and drew the far outside post at number eleven. Ridden by Corey Nakatani, his fifth racer in five races, Oxbow broke well turning out the entryway. He ran near the front all through the race, regardless of losing ground by being four steeds wide around the main turn and three wide around the last turn. Oxbow completed fourth, nine lengths back, yet earned his first Road to the Kentucky Derby point, and a speed figure of 87. 

Oxbow was moved with the remainder of Lukas' steeds to winter home office at Oaklawn Park in Hot Springs, Arkansas. He began his Triple Crown prep season on January 19, 2013, with a success at the Fair Grounds Race Course in New Orleans in the mile and 70-yard (1,672 m) Grade III Lecomte Stakes. Ridden for the second time by Jon Court, he went off as the fourth decision at 5– 1 and had an ideal number four post position. He left the entryway rapidly and was the leader all through the race. At the highest point of the homestretch, he was just a half length before the field, however then he drew away and won by more than eleven and a half lengths. Ponies he beat that day included Golden Soul, who later put second in the Kentucky Derby, and I've Struck a Nerve, who Oxbow confronted again later in the Risen Star Stakes. He earned a speed figure of 94 and an extra ten towards capability for the Derby. That month, Lukas likewise reached veteran Hall of Fame racer Gary Stevens, who had recently come back to dashing following a seven-year retirement, and talked about having Stevens ride Oxbow in future races. 

After five weeks, Oxbow was entered in the Grade II mile and one-sixteenth (1,700 m) Risen Star Stakes. Ridden for the third time by Jon Court, Oxbow was appointed the far outside post at number ten, and was the second most loved at 4– 1. He broke fifth from the door, moved to third passing the stands, however lost ground by being five ponies wide around the principal turn. In the stretch, Oxbow led the pack however couldn't hold it and completed fourth, despite the fact that he and the three top-put ponies all finished the race inside a length and a half of one another in a sweeping completion. The victor was I've Struck a Nerve, at chances of 135– 1. Oxbow again advanced in execution, acquiring a speed figure of 98 and five additional focuses toward Derby capability. 

After three weeks, Lukas entered Oxbow in Oaklawn Park's key preliminary race for the Arkansas Derby, the Grade II Rebel Stakes. For the fourth time in five races, Oxbow began the far outside at post ten. He went off as the most loved for the second time in his vocation, at 4– 1. Lukas changed Jon Court to ride stablemate Will Take Charge, and Oxbow was given one more racer, Mike Smith. Oxbow was third out of the door. He led the pack down the backstretch and remained in front until the finish of the race where he was barely crushed by Will Take Charge. Oxbow lost significantly a head, yet earned his first triple-digit speed figure at 101, alongside 20 Derby capability focuses. After the Rebel Stakes, Oxbow was positioned as one of the best ten steeds in some Triple Crown pre-race surveys, and verified qualification to keep running in the Derby with 36 points. 

A month after the Rebel, Oxbow entered his last preliminary race before the Triple Crown battle, the Grade I Arkansas Derby, hung on April 13. This race denoted the first run through Oxbow was ridden by 50-year-old Stevens, who was Oxbow's seventh racer in nine races. The steed was the most loved at 3– 1, however by and by drew a troublesome, far-outside post at ten. Oxbow turned out ninth at the break and was very nearly seven lengths behind the pioneer toward the begin. He had built up a notoriety for running in front and destroying his activity riders, so Stevens ineffectively endeavored to rate Oxbow and make him keep running off the pace, behind different steeds. Oxbow, portrayed by eyewitnesses as "rank", and by Stevens as "pissed off ... [and] annoyed with me that he didn't get the running style he needed", was hurling his head and battling Stevens into the clubhouse turn. In the wake of running last at one point in the race, Oxbow improved his position and completed fifth, not exactly a length behind second-place Frac Daddy. Oxbow earned a speed figure of 90, equivalent to in his lady win. Stevens saw his endeavor to make Oxbow keep running off the pace as a slip-up. "It simply ended up being a bad dream excursion and I take full (duty) for that", he said. Lukas concurred, expressing, "That won't be in [Stevens'] grandkids' feature film". 

Oxbow kept running in the Kentucky Derby at Churchill Downs as a 25– 1 long shot, ridden by Stevens, who had been on Oxbow in exercises since the Arkansas Derby, and as Lukas stated, had "become acquainted with the steed somewhat better all through the most recent two weeks". Following the scratch of Black Onyx in post position one, Oxbow had within number two post in the field of 19 starters and was nearest to the rail. His position was additionally confused by being alongside Revolutionary with racer Calvin Borel at number three. Between the measure of the field and Borel's outstanding inclination for riding the rail, Oxbow needed to utilize his speed ahead of schedule to get out front and abstain from being pushed into the rail or being fixed in behind rush hour gridlock. He broke fifth and was before long near pioneer Palace Malice, who ran the second quickest introductory quarter-and half-miles in Derby history, a pace depicted as "self-destructive". Oxbow kept up his situation close to the front, and at the highest point of the homestretch passed the exhausted speed steeds to lead the race for a sixteenth of a mile. He at that point blurred and completed in 6th spot, six lengths behind victor Orb, however his execution was still seen as "good" and "promising". Oxbow earned a speed figure of 101, equivalent to he had in the Rebel, and spectators noticed that he was the main pony that kept running close to the front of the pack in the opening half-mile to likewise complete in the best six; none of different steeds out front early completed superior to twelfth. 

Oxbow next went to Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore to keep running in the 2013 Preakness Stakes. In the week preceding the race, he had another exercise with Stevens, who expressed that it was the "first time [Oxbow] had tuned in to me", later correcting his remarks to state, "perhaps it's the first occasion when I've tuned in to him." 

Oxbow drew a great spot in the door at post position six, his first great draw since his success in the Lecomte, and kept a similar rider for three straight races without precedent for his profession. Toward the beginning of the race, Will Take Charge veered in and brushed Oxbow, who broke third yet led the pack inside a couple of steps and before long driven by one and a half lengths. Once in front, Stevens got Oxbow to unwind, and they ran the principal quarter-mile in 0:23.94, the half mile in 0:48.60, and seventy five percent at 1:13:26. In spite of the humble pace, what one sportswriter called "bedtime song portions", portrayed by Stevens as "simply strolling the pooch", the yearling was one and a half lengths in front at the three-quarter-mile mark. 

The triumph was 77-year-old Lukas' 6th profession Preakness win and his fourteenth Triple Crown win, outperforming the record of "Radiant Jim" Fitzsimmons. It was Lukas' first win in any Triple Crown race since Commendable won the Belmont Stakes in 2000. Oxbow's prosperity was Stevens' third profession Preakness win and his ninth Triple Crown win, yet the first since winning the Preakness and Belmont on Point Given in 2001. 

Fourteen steeds began at the 2013 Belmont Stakes. Oxbow drew the number seven post position, with opponent Orb at post five. There were worries about Stevens' wellness as he had missed races in the wake of being tossed from a pony the earlier week, yet restorative tests hinted at no damage. Oxbow was the third most loved at 5– 1 on the morning line, yet by race time his chances were at 10– 1. 

In the race Oxbow broke third out of the entryway and settled behind pacesetters Frac Daddy and Freedom Child, finishing a quarter mile in 23 seconds. Of course, Oxbow needed to run near the front, Stevens knew not to battle with him, thus, as in the Derby, steed and rider by and by pursued the speed ponies at parts portrayed as "self-destructive". At the half-mile shaft Oxbow was a neck off the pioneer, who timed at 0:46.66, and on the backstretch, Oxbow went to the front, achieving the three-quarter mile mark at 1:10.95, running the second quickest half-and three-quarter mile divisions by then in the race since Secretariat's 1973 record-setting execution. Oxbow was still in front by a half length at the mile post. At the highest point of the homestretch, Palace Malice and Oxbow were nose and nose however Oxbow tired, and completed second by three lengths to Palace Malice with Kentucky Derby champ Orb third, lengths behind Oxbow. His speed figure for the Belmont was 98, equivalent to in the Risen Star Stakes. 

The second-place complete in the Belmont earned Oxbow $200,000 and pushed him over the $1 million mark in profession profit, making him the third steed in 2013 to achieve $1 million in satchel wins, behind Orb and an individual Awesome Again child, the six-year-old gelding Game On Dude. In spite of the fact that the $1 million reward for the steed winning the most astounding joined Triple Crown focuses has for quite some time been stopped, Oxbow would have prevailed upon it Orb attributable to his success in the Preakness and second in the Belmont. Further, his setting in the Belmont put him at number one in the post-Belmont June 10 NTRA survey of top three-year-olds, and in the main ten for race steeds all things considered. 

Oxbow left the Belmont feeling better, or as Lukas put it, "loaded with himself." He came back to Churchill Downs, and continued booked exercises sooner than expected. Lukas then sent Oxbow to Saratoga to set him up to keep running in the Grade I, $1 million Haskell Invitational on July 28, 2013, with sportswriters planning to see him get together again with Orb and Palace Malice in the Travers Stakes later in the late spring. While trying to get Oxbow past what had been portrayed as his "one-dimensional" front-running style, Lukas swung to a preparation routine at Saratoga where the steed had no timed exercises, however rather was molded by running and jogging clockwise (the "incorrect way") on the preparation track for long one-and-a-half to two-mile trips each time out. 

Oxbow drew post position five for the Haskell, conveyed the most noteworthy load at 122 pounds, and was the second most loved in the race behind Verrazano. Driving for the early piece of the race, Oxbow was tested for the lead by Verrazano at the three-quarter-mile marker, at that point debilitated and completed fourth, gaining another $60,000. Stevens felt something wasn't right with Oxbow at the half-mile post, later saying the steed "didn't feel like he did in any of the Triple Crown races", and Lukas expressed the racer "sort of held" Oxbow starting there on. Oxbow was pulled up not long after subsequent to intersection the end goal, at that point his rider bounced off and expelled the seat when Oxbow neglected to run sound on the track. The steed strolled back to the animal dwellingplace without clear indication of damage, and radiographs of his correct front lower leg uncovered no break, however he had delicate tissue damage to the region, portrayed as a "sprain". Of Oxbow's general wellbeing, Lukas remarked, "he had a quite set of X-beams. It's stunning. For a pony with that numerous [starts], they were actually spotless." Nonetheless, because of the delicate tissue damage, Oxbow was removed from races for the span of the late spring, and following three weeks of hand-strolling at Saratoga was transported home to Calumet in mid-August, with a declaration that he was not foreseen to run again in 2013. Lukas stated: "He's been a warrior and one serious pleasant pony for us and I would prefer not to effectively imperil his future down the line." On October 25, 2013, Calumet Farm reported the choice to resign Oxbow. Joined with his rewards in his two-year-old season, his lifetime race income were $1,243,500. He remained at stud for the 2014 rearing season at Taylor Made Farm in Lexington, Kentucky, for an early on stud expense of $20,000. He finished off the year positioned seventeenth in income with $1,146,000 won in 2013. For the 2015 season he moves to Calumet Farms, where he joins seven different stallions, including English Channel, who sired 2014 Travers Stakes champ V.E. Day. 

In the wake of remaining as a stallion for one year at Taylor Made Farm in 2014, Oxbow was moved to Calumet Farm, where he right now stands. 

Oxbow was spoken to by his first victor on July 16, 2017 when filly Delaphene took a mile-long lady race at Arlington Park by 3 1/2 lengths. The filly, out of the Empire Maker female horse Boustierre, was making her second begin. The filly was reproduced and claimed by Calumet Farm. 

Oxbow's best offspring to date incorporate filly Coach Rocks, victor of the 2018 Gulfstream Park Oaks (Oxbow's previously evaluated stakes champ) and filly Foxtrot Sally, stakes-put in the Rags to Riches and Glitter Woman Stakes. 

Oxbow was sired by the Canadian-reproduced Awesome Again, champ of the 1998 Breeders' Cup Classic. At stud, Awesome Again has sired numerous stakes victors, including Paynter, who put second in the 2012 Belmont Stakes and won the 2012 Haskell Invitational; Ghostzapper, who was 2004 American Horse of the Year and a 2004 Breeders' Cup champ; and Game On Dude, two-time champ of the Santa Anita Handicap. Oxbow is right around a full sibling to Paynter; the two ponies are out of full sisters. Oxbow's more seasoned full sibling, Awesome Patriot, won the 2011 Alydar Stakes. Oxbow's more youthful full sibling, Expect a Lot, is in race preparing. Oxbow's dam Tizamazing was reared back to Awesome Again in 2013, and in June 2013 was affirmed to be in foal. 

Tizamazing is a full sister to Tiznow, who was 2000 American Horse of the Year and won the Breeders' Cup Classic twice. Tizamazing sold for $1 million at Keeneland as a yearling, yet attributable to preparation damage she never dashed. Tizamazing's dam, Cee's Song, is credited with raising the regard reproducers have for her female rearing line, Thoroughbred family 26, as one of the top distaff lines in America. Five full kin out of Cee's Song were either race victors or the dams of race champs: Tiznow, Tizbud and Tizdubai are for the most part stakes victors, Oxbow's dam Tizamazing and Paynter's dam Tizso both delivered stakes champs. Another posterity of Cee's Song, the gelding Budroyale, was second in the 1999 Breeders' Cup Classic. Oxbow's family is outcrossed for four ages, with almost no inbreeding. Oxbow is just ingrained 4x5x5 to Northern Dancer, implying that this steed shows up once in the fourth and twice in the fifth era of Oxbow's family.