Si Tjonat 

Si Tjonat (Perfected Spelling: Si Conat) is a possible lost 1929 outlaw movie from the Dutch East Indies (presently Indonesia) coordinated by Nelson Wong and delivered by Wong and Jo Eng Sek. In light of the novel by F.D.J. Pangemanann, the quiet film pursued an indigenous man who, having killed his kindred resident, escapes to Batavia (today Jakarta) and turns into a criminal. In the wake of abducting an ethnic Chinese lady, he is vanquished and conveyed to equity. 

A financially situated work went for ethnic Chinese crowds, "Si Tjonat" got blended audits; film industry continues are indistinct. Albeit planned as a sequential, no spin-off was ever constructed; the creation house, Batavia Motion Picture, shut soon a short time later. In any case, a few works in a similar class as this one were discharged soon a short time later, including "Si Pitoeng", which utilized a similar executive and star. 

Tjonat, a Sundanese youth, executes his companion and escapes to Batavia (presently Jakarta), the capital of the Dutch East Indies, where he looks for some kind of employment with a Dutch man. Tjonat before long ransacks the man of his riches and allures his paramour ("njai"), at that point leaves the family unit to carry on with the life of a brigand. When he asks Lie Gouw Nio (Ku Fung May), the girl of a "peranakan" Chinese rancher named Lie A Tjip, to be his sweetheart, she can't. Infuriated, Tjonat grabs her, however Lie is safeguarded by her life partner, Thio Sing Sang (Herman Sim), who is all around prepared in combative techniques. 

"Si Tjonat" was coordinated by Nelson Wong, who created the film related to his colleague Jo Eng Sek. The two had set up Batavia Motion Picture in 1929. Wong had recently coordinated a solitary fiction film, the business flop "Lily van Java" (1928), with subsidizing from a high-positioning General Motors representative in Batavia named David Wong. Jo Eng Sek, a shop proprietor, had never created a film. 

The story for "Si Tjonat" depended on the novel "Tjerita Si Tjonat", composed by correspondent F.D.J. Pangemanann and first distributed in 1900. The story had demonstrated well known with ethnic Chinese perusers. It was regularly adjusted to the phase by Betawi arrange troupes as a "lenong" organize act. The story was chosen by Jo Eng Sek. A few changes were acquainted with the story. For example, in the novel Lie A Tjip was a poor rancher, though in the film he was well off. Untruth Gouw Nio, then, was not delineated as a poor Chinese lady, yet the "a cutting edge young lady, wearing a skirt, shoes, socks, and bounced hair". 

The quiet film was shot in high contrast and featured Ku Fung May and Herman Sim. Sim, of "peranakan" Chinese plummet, had recently acted in Shanghai, while Ku Fung May had no film involvement. The hand to hand fighting groupings utilized in the film were propelled by Hollywood Westerns, at that point famous in the Indies. 

"Si Tjonat" was discharged in 1929. Despite the fact that a work of fiction, it was promoted as dependent on a genuine story; this had been normal in works of Malay writing at the turn of the twentieth century, including "Tjerita Si Tjonat". The film was one of every a line of residential creations focused on essentially at ethnic Chinese gatherings of people, following "Lily van Java" and "Setangan Berloemoer Darah" (both 1928); film student of history Misbach Yusa Biran composes this was clear from the prevalently Chinese generation group and cast. Local gatherings of people likewise delighted in the film, especially its activity arrangements. Indonesian film commentator Salim Said composes that it was of particularly business introduction, implied just to turn a benefit. 

Deals figures are hazy. Said composes that it was a business achievement, while Biran – taking note of that Batavia Motion Picture was broken up not long after "Si Tjonat" release – proposes that profits were poor. Surveys were blended. All in all the press reprimanded the accentuation on homicide and wrongdoing, while in "Display" magazine, Kwee Tek Hoay composed that the film had been "genuinely all around created", underlining Sim's acting – especially his hand to hand fighting aptitudes. Kwee reasoned that what few mix-ups were found in the film were, at last, inconsequential. 

Despite the fact that "Si Tjonat" was at first planned to be a sequential, creation of the second portion ended after the conclusion of Batavia Motion Picture. Jo Eng Sek left the business totally, just returning in 1935 to create "Poei Sie Giok Pa Loei Tay". Wong, in the mean time, stayed dynamic in the film together with his siblings Joshua and Othniel. Utilizing the pennant Halimoen Film they later cast Sim in their 1931 film "Si Pitoeng". Ku Fung May did not act in another film. A few movies fixated on criminals, including Lie Tek Swie's "Si Ronda" (1930) and the Wongs' "Rampok Preanger" (1929) and "Si Pitoeng" (1931), pursued before long "Si Tjonat". 

"Si Tjonat" is likely a lost film. The American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider composes that every single Indonesian film from before 1950 are lost. Be that as it may, J.B. Kristanto's "Katalog Film Indonesia" ("Indonesian Film Catalog") records a few as having made due at Sinematek Indonesia's files, and Biran composes that few Japanese publicity films have made due at the Netherlands Government Information Service.