Sorga Ka Toedjoe 

Sorga Ka Toedjoe (; vernacular Malay for "Seventh Heaven"; additionally promoted under the Dutch title In Den Zevenden Hemel) is a 1940 movie from the Dutch East Indies (present-day Indonesia) coordinated by Joshua and Othniel Wong for Tan's Film. It pursues a more established couple (Kartolo and Annie Landouw) who are brought together following quite a while of partition by another, more youthful couple (Roekiah and Djoemala). The high contrast film, the primary generation by Tan's Film after the flight of Rd Mochtar, highlighted "kroncong" music and was focused at lower-class local groups of onlookers. It was a business and basic achievement. Roekiah and Djoemala took driving jobs in three additional movies before Tan's shut in 1942. "Sorga Ka Toedjoe" is currently thought lost. 

Rasminah (Roekiah) is living with her visually impaired auntie Hadidjah (Annie Landouw) in Puncak, a town south-east of Buitenzorg (presently Bogor). Hadidjah has been isolated from her significant other, Kasimin, for quite a while, as far back as she blamed him for infidelity. In spite of the fact that she lamented the occurrence very quickly, it was past the point of no return; a body looking like Kasimin was discovered coasting in a stream, and in her rush to see the body Hadidjah was struck by a vehicle, blinding her. Presently she sings the "kroncong" melody "Sorga Ka Toedjoe", which Kasimin announced to be an image of his affection, at 5 p.m. consistently. Obscure to Hadidjah, Kasimin (Kartolo) is perfectly healthy; he additionally sings "Sorga Ka Toedjoe" consistently in the meantime. 

Following an experience with the rich and terrible Parta, who plans to accept her as his second spouse, Rasminah goes to the close-by city of Batavia (presently Jakarta) to get a new line of work. A few days after the fact, having looked for some kind of employment, she comes back to Puncak to get Hadidjah and take her to Batavia. Nonetheless, Parta and his associate Doel are holding up in snare. At the point when Rasminah's carriage is trapped in an endless cycle, the two start to pursue her. Rasminah keeps running into the forested areas and, after a few narrow escapes, discovers cover in a little house. There she rests the night, without seeing the proprietor. 

The next morning, Rasminah is stirred by the sound of a guitar, played by the house's proprietor, Hoesin (Djoemala). Apprehensive that he is teaming up with her follower, she sneaks outside, just to be faced by Parta and Doel. Withdrawing, she is pursued by the pair. Hoesin intercedes and, after a wild battle, vanquishes the two and pursues them away. He at that point consoles Rasminah and escorts her home. 

Over the next days Hoesin more than once visits Rasminah, and gradually the two start to begin to look all starry eyed at. At the point when Rasminah takes her auntie to Batavia to live, Hoesin pursues. They start talking about their future together, however Rasminah demands that she will possibly wed when her auntie is brought together with Kasimin. After a protracted pursuit, in which he nearly surrenders trust, Hoesin discovers Kasimin at a little estate in the slopes outside of the city – Hadidjah's departed spouse recently worked his own plantation, yet had been expelled by a scheming and ravenous proprietor just days prior. Kasimin and Hadidjah are brought together, permitting Hoesin and Rasminah to start their own arrangements. 

"Sorga Ka Toedjoe" was coordinated by siblings Joshua and Othniel Wong for Tan's Film, an organization claimed by the ethnic Chinese siblings Khoen Yauw and Khoen Hian. The Tan siblings, who claimed a couple of films, had been dynamic in the business since "Njai Dasima" in 1929. The Wongs had worked for Tan's since 1938, when they coordinated the hit film "Fatima", restoring the organization after it had been broken up in 1932. "Sorga Ka Toedjoe" was shot in highly contrasting, with certain scenes taped at Telaga Warna, close Buitenzorg. 

The film featured Roekiah, Rd Djoemala, Kartolo, and Annie Landouw and highlighted Titing, Ismail, and Ramli. Roekiah had normally been combined on-screen with Rd. Mochtar – regardless of being hitched to Kartolo – starting with "Terang Boelan". In 1938 the three had come to Tan's, the place they acted together in three movies starting with "Fatima". Notwithstanding, after a pay debate following "Siti Akbari" (1940), Mochtar left the organization. To supplant him, Tan's contracted the tailor Djoemala as Roekiah's sentimental foil. "Sorga Ka Toedjoe" was their first film together. 

Kartolo took care of the film's music, and huge numbers of the cast had experience singing "kroncong" (conventional music with Portuguese impacts). Before making their component film debut in Albert Balink's "Terang Boelan" ("Full Moon"; 1937), Roekiah and Kartolo had discovered prominence with the stage melodic troupe Palestina. Landouw had been a "kroncong" artist with Hugo Dumas' Lief Java ensemble, and Titing was in like manner a built up vocalist. 

"Sorga Ka Toedjoe" had its Surabaya debut on 30 October 1940, one of fourteen household creations discharged that year. By March 1941 it had achieved Singapore, at that point some portion of the Straits Settlements. Similarly as with the majority of Tan's preparations, the film was focused at lower-class local groups of onlookers all things considered. It was publicized, once in a while under the Dutch title "In Den Zevenden Hemel", as a "basic yet convincing film" which included "great music, snappy melodies, and delightful landscape". A novelisation of the film was discharged by the Yogyakarta-based distributer Kolff-Buning and incorporated a few creation stills. 

The film was a business achievement. Surveys were moreover positive. The "Soerabaijasch Handelsblad" gave the film high acclaim, expressing that it had great exchange and music just as a "well picked, sentimental and not overstated" subject. As indicated by the analyst, "Sorga Ka Toedjoe" appeared to have been motivated by American movies yet at the same time demonstrated its Indies character. The commentator likewise opined that Djoemala was on a par with, if worse, than Mochtar. "De Indische Courant" applauded the view and noticed that the film condemned rich proprietors who manhandled their influence, while the "Singapore Free Press" lauded Roekiah's acting. 

After "Sorga Ka Toedjoe", Tan's Film delivered a further four movies, a much lower number than its rivals, for example, The Teng Chun's Java Industrial Film and its auxiliaries. Three of these creations featured Roekiah and Djoemala in the main jobs, and highlighted Kartolo. Landouw, as indicated by JB Kristanto's "Katalog Film Indonesia" ("Indonesian Film Catalog"), did not make another film. Tan's was at last closed down in 1942, after the Japanese control of the Indies. 

The film is likely lost. Motion pictures in the Indies were recorded on profoundly combustible nitrate film, and after a discharge pulverized quite a bit of Produksi Film Negara's stockroom in 1952, old movies shot on nitrate were purposely devastated. In that capacity, the American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider composes that every single Indonesian film from before 1950 are lost. In any case, Kristanto records a few as having made due at Sinematek Indonesia's documents, and film antiquarian Misbach Yusa Biran composes that few Japanese purposeful publicity films have made due at the Netherlands Government Information Service.