Bird of prey's Fury 

Bird of prey's Fury is an unsupported Sky Jump drop tower fascination at the Busch Gardens Tampa entertainment mecca in Tampa, Florida, United States. Made by Intaride (a backup of Intamin), the ride achieves a greatest stature of making it North America's tallest detached drop tower. Riders experience around five seconds of free fall, achieving a speed of . The ride's name was picked to summon a hawk's capacity to jump steeply at rapid to catch prey. 

The venture was initially wanted to start in 2012 with the ride opening in 2013, however it was deferred by one year. Development started in 2013 with a booked opening date of May 1, 2014; in any case, the opening was deferred because of mechanical and specialized issues. Following a review opening to stop representatives toward the beginning of August and a delicate opening on August 16, 2014, Falcon's Fury authoritatively opened to the general population on September 2, 2014. Open reaction to the ride has been sure, adulating the tallness of the pinnacle and the drop understanding. 

Getting ready for Falcon's Fury started around the time the recreation center finished its Cheetah Hunt ride in 2011. Ground tests in the Timbuktu region (presently known as Pantopia) uncovered "fascinating soil conditions", with steel bars and cement required to strengthen the site. 

Bits of gossip that Busch Gardens Tampa may supplant its Sandstorm ride with a drop tower surfaced in the fall of 2011 when its sister park, Busch Gardens Williamsburg, opened Mäch Tower that August. Development looking over was seen in January 2012. After two months plans were recorded with the city to assemble a drop tower, conceivably for the 2013 season. Hypothesis about the new fascination's name started when SeaWorld Parks and Entertainment, proprietors of Busch Gardens Tampa, documented trademark applications for "Desert Dive" and "Bird of prey's Fury" on May 2 and July 11, 2012, individually, and purchased the DesertDive.com space name. At the point when grants for the new ride varied from those for Mäch Tower in November 2012, bits of gossip started that the seats would tilt forward. Because of the tallness of the fascination, endorsement from the Federal Aviation Administration was required. As per the FAA and the city of Tampa, the pinnacle should be worked in December 2012 and open to people in general in 2013. For obscure reasons the venture was deferred, with its development pushed back to the second 50% of 2013. 

On May 31, 2013, it was declared that Sandstorm would close on June 2 to prepare for another fascination. Around about fourteen days after the fact, on June 11, Busch Gardens Tampa declared designs for Falcon's Fury and development started that month. Amid the final quarter of 2013, the recreation center drove steel heaps for the ride's establishment daily for about a month. 

On September 20, the pinnacle for Falcon's Fury was sent from Spain in nine areas, touching base at the recreation center close to the finish of October; the ride's littler parts had been conveyed before from a few European nations. Establishment of one of the nine pinnacle pieces was made arrangements for each other night, with the last piece set up by New Year's Eve. Development was finished by the Adena Corporation, and on November 18 the primary piece was introduced. The ride's second piece was introduced on December 2, and two more were introduced by December 6. The fifth segment was put by December 21, and the 6th was raised by New Year's Day. The seventh pinnacle piece was introduced by January 3, 2014, and the eighth by January 5, achieving a stature of about , and Falcon's Fury's gondola was seen at the recreation center on January 12. The ride's stabilizer was introduced on January 22, and the pinnacle was topped amid the few days of February 1. Work on the ride's electrical parts at that point started. Get together of the gondola was finished before the finish of March. Testing was initially booked to start in February, however because of development postpones the primary drop tests were not made until April 15. Tower painting started in June, with its nightfall theme assessed to take 60 hours over a three-week time frame. 

Toward the finish of February, Busch Gardens Tampa reported that Falcon's Fury would open on May 1, and on April 3 the recreation center started a sweepstakes challenge for its "Bird of prey's Fury First-to-Ride Party". A second, comparative challenge started on April 11, with fifty champs from each challenge being among the main riders. After seven days, the recreation center declared that the ride's opening would be deferred, and a few media occasions booked for April and May (counting the First-to-Ride party) were dropped. It was later uncovered that the deferral was because of assembling and specialized issues with the links which pull the gondola up the pinnacle. Amid the seven day stretch of August 10, Falcon's Fury opened for park workers. On August 16 the ride delicate opened to general society, and more than about fourteen days after the fact Falcon's Fury authoritatively opened. 

Bird of prey's Fury has two shaded line lines: a reserve line which can hold visitors for around 45 minutes, and a Quick Queue for visitors with passes that enable them to sidestep the backup line. In spite of the fact that the Quick Queue framework won't at first be utilized for the ride, it might be included later. Riders must be between and . 

At the point when the riders are situated a catch vehicle interfaces with the gondola and raises it to the highest point of the pinnacle, which takes around one moment. Despite the fact that the pinnacle is high, the gondola stops lower. When it achieves the most extreme stature the seats tilt forward, with a PC randomized hold up time from one to five seconds. At the point when the hold up time closes, the gondola is discharged from the catch vehicle into a five-second free fall achieving a greatest speed of . As the gondola goes through the pre-braking segment, the seats pivot once again into a vertical position. After the pre-brake the gondola enters the primary attractive brake run, where riders experience roughly 3.5 "g" (34 m/s) of deceleration as the gondola moderates. With regards to a full stop at the base of the pinnacle, the riders land. One cycle of the ride keeps going around one and a half minutes. Busch Gardens Tampa set an Easter egg as a painted Falcon's Fury logo over one of its structures, which can be seen just from a specific side of the gondola. 

The pinnacle and gondola were made by Intaride, an auxiliary of Intamin. The ride covers a territory of about . 

The Falcon's Fury tower is tall, the third tallest detached drop tower in North America, and can twist toward any path from the top to withstand sea tempest compel winds. The pinnacle is made out of nine segments, including the machine house. Each bit of the pinnacle weighs up to , and the whole structure weighs about . The machine house at the top contains four DC engines used to lift the gondola. Inside the pinnacle is a stabilizer, made out of several lead loads, to help raise the gondola. The pinnacle's establishment is comprised of 105 steel heaps, fluctuating top to bottom from to . A swirl current stopping mechanism on the pinnacle moderates the gondola after its free fall. The structure is painted yellow, water and two shades of red. 

The ride's single gondola has 32 seats, assembled octagonally around the pinnacle. Every one of the eight sides seats four riders, and each seat has an over-the-bear restriction and safety belt. Bird of prey's Fury can hypothetically oblige 800 riders for each hour. Carbon-fiber wings support each finish of a gathering of seats, securing outside riders' arms and legs amid the drop. The gondola achieves a tallness of , underneath the highest point of the pinnacle. When it achieves its most extreme stature the seats tilt 90 degrees forward, with the riders confronting the ground (the primary utilization of this component on a drop tower). 

At the point when Falcon's Fury opened it turned out to be North America's tallest unattached drop tower. Albeit taller drop towers exist on the landmass, for example, at Six Flags Magic Mountain and at Six Flags Great Adventure, which achieve drop statures of and separately—those attractions were added to existing structures. In spite of its stature, the ride's most extreme speed of does not set a speed record. Other drop towers, for example, at Kings Dominion, which comes to — are quicker. Notwithstanding, Falcon's Fury is the world's first drop tower whose seats tilt 90 degrees. In spite of the fact that tilting seats were first utilized by Intamin in 2001 on Acrophobia at Six Flags Over Georgia, their tilt edge is littler. 

The underlying gathering after the ride's declaration was sure. As indicated by Lance Hart, an amusement park lover from Screamscape, "Rather than selling your picture ... they should sell infant wipes and clean clothing at the exit" and the ride could be the most startling drop tower on the planet. Robb Alvey of "Amusement Park Review" considered the ride the world's best drop tower, later positioning it one of the main 14 new attractions for 2014; Dave Parfitt and Arthur Levine of "USA Today" positioned Falcon's Fury in their best ten. Brady MacDonald of the "Los Angeles Times" initially positioned Falcon's Fury his seventh-most-foreseen ride for 2014; on a refreshed rundown, he positioned it seventeenth. 

For wellbeing reasons, development on Falcon's Fury was done basically during the evening. Occupants close to the recreation center whined about commotion from the heap driver amid the establishing of the framework, and grumblings about the ride's working clamor proceeded into August 2014. 

As indicated by the recreation center and Twitter posts chosen by news media, open reaction amid the delicate opening was sure; "Absolute Orlando" gave the ride five stars for adolescents and four stars for grown-ups. On Coaster101.com "Ashley" said that in spite of the fact that the limitations were tight, they were agreeable and not as tight as those on different rides, including: "The drop on Falcon's Fury is not the same as any ride I have ever ridden. The most ideal way I can depict it is that as opposed to leaving your stomach at the highest point of the pinnacle, you take it with you to the base." According to Florida Trip Guides, the ride was a decent expansion to the recreation center's fascination lineup: "Hawk's Fury isn't for the black out of heart. I have ridden many drop towers yet this one is extraordinary. Something about confronting straight down and falling truly makes you anxious." Robert Niles of "Amusement Park Insider" said that Falcon's Fury and other ongoing attractions were nearing the outrageous of human resilience; thus, "You're coming to the heart of the matter where as opposed to making a fascination progressively prevalent by having it accomplish some sort of record, you're really restricting the gathering of people for that." Randi Nissenbaum of Bay News 9 called the view from the highest point of the pinnacle mind blowing, and in spite of the fact that she was apprehensive at first she needed to ride once more. Sue Carlton of the "Tampa Bay Times" stated, "it was unnerving and exciting and I hung on as hard as I could and hollered and cut off my eyes and subsequently ventured elastic kneed and invigorated." 

For the 2014 season, Busch Gardens Tampa anticipated that participation should increment by three to eight percent. Be that as it may (as anticipated in June 2014 by IBISWorld Research), consolidated participation for the second quarter of the year expanded by about 0.3 percent for SeaWorld Orlando, SeaWorld San Diego, SeaWorld San Antonio, Busch Gardens Williamsburg and Busch Gardens Tampa. Contrasted with a similar period in 2013, consolidated participation for the primary portion of the year dropped by a little more than four percent. Busch Gardens Tampa accused the absence of its foreseen participation increment in part on the Falcon's Fury delays.