The Chase (U.S. diversion appear) 

The Chase is an American TV test show dependent on the British program of a similar name. The show debuted on August 6, 2013, on Game Show Network (GSN). It is facilitated by Brooke Burns, and highlights Mark Labbett (nicknamed "The Beast") as the "chaser". 

The American rendition of the show pursues a similar general configuration as the first UK adaptation, yet with groups of three contenders rather than four. The diversion is a test rivalry in which competitors endeavor to win cash by testing a test show virtuoso known as the chaser. Every candidate takes an interest in an individual "pursue" called the Cash Builder, in which they endeavor to respond to however many inquiries as could be expected under the circumstances in 60 seconds to win however much cash as could reasonably be expected to add to a prize store for the group. The hopeful must answer enough inquiries to remain in front of the chaser on the gameboard; else, they lose their rewards for that round. The challengers who effectively total their individual pursues without being gotten advance to the Final Chase, in which they answer inquiries as a group playing for an equivalent offer of the prize reserve gathered all through the scene. 

"The Chase" got positive basic gathering; Burns and Labbett earned positive surveys for their jobs, and one commentator adulated the arrangement for keeping away from a moderate pace in ongoing interaction. Both the arrangement and Burns got Daytime Emmy Award assignments; the arrangement was designated in 2014 for Outstanding Game Show, and Burns two years after the fact for Outstanding Game Show Host. Each lost to "Risk!" and Craig Ferguson (host of "Superstar Name Game") separately. 

Three new competitors contend on every scene as a group. In the first round, every challenger thusly wins cash for their group by addressing whatever number inquiries effectively as could be expected under the circumstances amid a one-minute fast flame round, entitled the "Money Builder". Each right answer in this round adds $5,000 to the bank; amid superstar scenes, contenders begin with $5,000 as of now in the bank. Toward the finish of the Cash Builder, the candidate takes an interest in a key component of the show called a "pursuit". In the pursuit, the chaser and the challenger each answer questions; the competitor begins with favorable position, and the chaser endeavors to get up to speed. The's challenger will likely answer enough inquiries accurately to move the earned rewards along the gameboard into the group bank without being gotten by the chaser, whose activity is to get them by exploiting their errors. 

The chaser begins eight spaces from the bank. The candidate has the alternative of beginning five stages from the bank, implying that they should respond to five inquiries accurately without being gotten to bank the cash and proceed to the following round. Before the pursuit begins, the chaser will make two ideas to the contender: one offer will be to play for a lower sum, yet begin one bit nearer to the bank, implying that they should respond to one less question effectively; the other offer will be to play for a higher sum, yet begin above and beyond far from the bank. On uncommon events, if the contender picks the higher offer, the chaser may heighten the stakes by offering an "overly offer" for a much higher sum. For this situation, the contender must answer seven inquiries accurately without being gotten and along these lines begin directly before the chaser, implying that the hopeful needs to respond to each question in that round effectively (accepting the chaser does as such also). 

After the challenger chooses for which add up to play, the prize cash is shown on the gameboard. The contender and chaser are given the equivalent numerous decision question, and every lock in their answer, which can't then be changed; different has five seconds to reply after them; else, they are bolted out and don't progress on the gameboard. For each inquiry the hopeful answers effectively, the prize cash appeared on the gameboard draws one stage nearer to the group bank. Likewise, the chaser draws one stage nearer to the hopeful's prize cash with each right answer. Further inquiries are asked until the competitor achieves the finish of the board (along these lines banking the prize cash), or the chaser gets the contender, dispensing with them from the diversion. No development is made by the candidate or the chaser if an off base answer is given or in the event that they are bolted out when limit. 

After every one of the three challengers have played a Cash Builder round pursued by a pursuit, the hopefuls who were not gotten by the chaser advance to the Final Chase, with the group bank set to the all out that they won in their Cash Builder rounds. On the off chance that each of the three hopefuls neglect to win their individual pursues, the group chooses one competitor to play the Final Chase alone for a sum of $15,000 ($5,000 per candidate). Amid VIP scenes, competitors who are gotten leave with $5,000 for their individual philanthropies. 

The Final Chase is played on a gameboard. The group gets a head beginning of one space for every part who best in class to this round. Amid the business break, the group picks between two arrangements of inquiries, named "An" and "B". The chaser plays the other set. The challengers have two minutes to respond to however many inquiries as could be expected under the circumstances. After an inquiry is asked, answers must be prompt, and challengers are just allowed to react or pass an inquiry after first ringing in. On the off chance that a candidate rings in yet another hopeful answers, the appropriate response is treated as wrong regardless of whether it was right. On the off chance that there is just a single challenger in the Final Chase, at that point the individual in question does not have to ring in. Each inquiry addressed accurately inside as far as possible moves the group one space ahead on the board. 

After time terminates, the chaser is given two minutes to get the group by accurately noting another arrangement of inquiries, with each right answer moving him one space along the load up. On the off chance that the chaser answers erroneously or passes, the clock is halted quickly and the group is allowed to address the inquiry, which they may affirm among themselves before replying. A right answer pushes the chaser back one space, or advances the group by one on the off chance that he has not proceeded onward to the gameboard. An erroneous answer gives no development to the chaser by any stretch of the imagination. Despite the result, the clock starts running again and the chaser keeps on responding to questions. In the event that the chaser comes up short on time before getting the group, the group parts the banked cash similarly, yet on the off chance that he gets them before time lapses, the group leaves with no cash. Amid big name scenes, if the chaser gets the group before time runs out, the group leaves with $15,000 partitioned similarly. 

"The Chase" started in the United Kingdom, debuting on ITV in 2009. As the arrangement turned out to be progressively prevalent in the UK, Fox requested two pilot scenes in April 2012 to be taped in London for thought to be added to the system's U.S. programming lineup. Bradley Walsh, moderator of the British rendition, was highlighted as the show's host, while UK chaser Mark Labbett (nicknamed "The Beast", which is "la bête" in French) and "Danger!" champion Brad Rutter were the chasers. 

After Fox left behind the chance to add the arrangement to its lineup, Game Show Network (GSN), related to ITV Studios America, grabbed the arrangement with an eight-scene request on April 9, 2013, and declared Brooke Burns as the show's host and Labbett as the chaser on May 29. Dan Patrick had initially been considered as the host. The primary season debuted on August 6, 2013. Despite the fact that the show had not yet debuted at the time, the system requested a second period of eight scenes on July 1, 2013, which debuted on November 5. Refering to the arrangement's status as an "evaluations phenom", GSN in the long run reported designs to reestablish it for a third season, which debuted in the mid year of 2014. Amid the third season, the arrangement additionally debuted its first superstar release with big name candidates playing for philanthropy. GSN continued to recharge the arrangement for a fourth season before the finish of season three; this new season started airing January 27, 2015. After the seventh scene of the period, the arrangement went on another break; new scenes from the fourth season continued airing July 16, 2015. No new scenes have circulated since the season four finale, which broadcast December 11, 2015. 

"The Chase" was commonly generally welcomed by faultfinders. Michael Tyminski of "Manhattan Digest" looked into the arrangement decidedly, calling it "a much needed refresher" and lauding Burns and Labbett in their individual jobs. Tyminski included that while each inquiry's dimension of trouble isn't generally keeping pace with those on other test shows, for example, "Danger!", the show evades an "agonizingly moderate pace". Additionally, John Teti of "The A.V. Club" considered the demonstrate a "really decent adjustment" of its UK partner. While he favored the British form of the show, saying that it had "a progressively shifted cast and more grounded generation esteems", Teti felt that the American adaptation "still stands its ground." "The Chase" was additionally positioned ninth on Douglas Pucci's (of "television Media Insights") rundown of best new TV programs of 2013. 

"The Chase" was one of two GSN firsts (the other being "The American Bible Challenge") to be respected at the 41st Daytime Emmy Awards in 2014 with an Emmy designation for Outstanding Game Show; "Peril!" was the inevitable champ. After two years, Burns got an Emmy assignment at the 43rd Daytime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Game Show Host, losing to Craig Ferguson of "VIP Name Game". 

"The Chase" wound up one of the most noteworthy appraised unique projects in GSN's history. The arrangement appeared to 511,000 complete watchers amid its debut while keeping up 90% of its gathering of people with 461,000 all out watchers amid the second scene airing that night. On January 28, 2014, "The Chase" set another arrangement high for complete watchers and grown-ups 18– 49, with 827,000 and 234,000 watchers individually. Despite the fact that the season three debut fell in the evaluations from its arrangement high, gaining 494,000 watchers with just 73,000 in the 18– 49 statistic, the debut of the fourth season saw a sizeable ascent over the past season's debut, procuring 749,000 all out watchers. 

On December 18, 2013, Barnstorm Games discharged a portable rendition of the amusement for iOS and Android. The main contrasts between the application and the show are that four decisions are introduced for inquiries in the Cash Builder and the Final Chase rounds and that no Final Chase is played if all players are gotten in their individual pursues. The application highlights Labbett (alluded to by his "Mammoth" moniker) as a mimicked chaser and can be played by up to four individuals.