Much the same as Heaven (tune) 

"Much the same as Heaven" is a tune by British elective musical gang the Cure. The gathering composed the greater part of the melody amid chronicle sessions in southern France in 1987. The verses were composed by their frontman Robert Smith, who drew motivation from a past trek to the ocean shore with his future spouse. Before Smith had finished the verses, an instrumental adaptation of the melody was utilized as the subject for the French network show "Les Enfants du Rock". 

"Much the same as Heaven" was the third single discharged from their 1987 collection "Kiss Me, Kiss Me, Kiss Me", while Smith's recollections of the excursion shaped the reason for the melody's going with music video. The tune turned into the Cure's first American hit and achieved number 40 on the "Board" diagrams in 1988. It has been lauded by pundits and secured by craftsmen, for example, Dinosaur Jr. also, Katie Melua. Smith has said he considers "Simply Like Heaven" to be one of the band's most grounded tunes. 

So as to create material for "Kiss Me, Kiss Me, Kiss Me", Smith constrained himself to compose music for 15 days of every month. Amid this routine, he built up the harmonies and tune which structure the premise of "Simply Like Heaven". Fundamentally, Smith found what he had composed was like the Only Ones' 1979 hit "Another Girl, Another Planet". When he brought an instrumental demo of the melody to the collection recording sessions in Southern France, Cure drummer Boris Williams expanded the rhythm and included an opening drum fill which propelled Smith to present each instrument uniquely and in succession. 

At the point when the French TV show "Les Enfants du Rock" requested that The Cure give a signature tune, Smith offered the instrumental rendition. As he clarified, "It implied the music would be natural to a huge number of Europeans even before it was discharged". He finished the verses when the gathering moved the sessions to Studio Miraval, situated in Le Val, Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. The band finished the tune rapidly, and at the time Smith believed it to be the most clear potential single from the melodies the band had recorded amid their fourteen day remain at Miraval. 

"Much the same as Heaven" is written in the key of A noteworthy and comprises of an A– E– Bm– D harmony movement which rehashes all through the melody, aside from amid the theme when the band plays a Fm– G– D movement. The tune's focal snare is shaped from a diving guitar riff which shows up between melody refrains and in parts of the scaffold and the last stanza. This guitar line stands out from the "fuzzier blend" of the beat guitars. 

As indicated by Smith, "The melody is tied in with hyperventilating—kissing and blacking out to the floor." The verses were motivated by a trek with his then-sweetheart (and later spouse) Mary Poole to Beachy Head in southern England. Smith said the opening line of the tune ("Show me, show me, demonstrate to me how you do that trap") alludes to his cherished recollections of acing enchantment traps, however included "on another [level], it's about a temptation trap, from a lot later in my life". 

"Much the same as Heaven" was the third single discharged from the band's "Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me" collection. "Tune Maker"s audit of the single was uncertain; essayist David Stubbs depicted it as "a vivid, fluttery, particular thing" and "blameless", yet included, "[it] turns my face green, as though having expended such a large number of truffles." The melody was the Cure's eleventh top 40 hit in the UK, and remained on the graphs there for five weeks amid October and November 1987, cresting at number 29. In the United States, "Much the same as Heaven" turned into the Cure's first top 40 hit when in January 1988 it achieved number 40 on the "Board" Hot 100 for multi week. 

Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic said "the stately 'Simply Like Heaven' [...] is noteworthy and helps make the collection ["Kiss Me, Kiss Me, Kiss Me"] one of the gathering's absolute best". Ned Raggett, additionally of AllMusic, composed that the tune was "immediately noteworthy, [and] shimmering with unpleasant vitality [...] it's an ideal exhibit for Robert Smith's ear for insightful, sentimental numbers. His primary guitar line, a slipping, tenderly tolling tune, differentiates flawlessly against the fuzzier blend of the mood guitars, while Simon Gallup's bass and Boris Williams' solid, prompt drums make for an incredible prologue to the track." Barry Walsh of "Inclination" magazine said the Cure "...is at the highest point of its diversion [...] on the basically outstanding 'Simply Like Heaven'. Shimmering slipping guitar lines, Gallup's throbbing bass line, and Williams' definitive pounding outline a commonly lovelorn Smith verse, with the final product being one of the Cure's best singles, and maybe a standout amongst the best pop singles of the late '80s." 

In spite of the fact that the later singles "Lovesong" and "Friday I'm in Love" achieved higher diagram positions, "Much the same as Heaven" was the band's American leap forward, and has been depicted as "in American terms, in any event, the one Cure melody everybody appears to know." The tune roused the name of, and was utilized in the 2005 film "Simply Like Heaven". In 2004 "Moving Stone" magazine positioned it number 483 on their rundown of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time". In 2005 "Diversion Weekly" positioned "Simply Like Heaven" 25th on its rundown of "The 50 Greatest Love Songs", saying, "Turns out folks who wear dark eyeliner can be cheerful." The next year the melody set at number 22 on VH1's survey "100 Greatest Songs of the 80s". 

Robert Smith said he considers "Simply Like Heaven" to be one of the band's most grounded works, and called it "the best pop tune the Cure have ever done". A few prominent fans have communicated their energy about the melody. Artist Ben Folds delineated for "Blender" "every little thing about it—the songwriting, the music—is best in class. It's more or less great. Whenever I hear it on the radio or a blend tape, I bounce around like a monstrosity." J Mascis said his band Dinosaur Jr's. warmth for the melody enlivened them to record a spread form that was discharged in 1989. On 16 July 2006, "Much the same as Heaven" was played as a reminder for the team of Space Shuttle Discovery on their flight STS-121 in line with space traveler Piers Sellers' family; Sellers told mission control focus that the tune helped him to remember "the wild, upbeat, brew drinking long periods of my childhood." 

Much the same as Heaven was utilized widely as the playout track on scene ten of the present arrangement of the BBC TV show New Tricks "The Queen's Speech" which was communicated on Monday 20 October 2014. 

The music video for "Simply Like Heaven" was coordinated by Tim Pope, who had coordinated the majority of the band's past recordings since 1982's "How about we Go to Bed". The video was taped in England's Pinewood Studios in October 1987. Set on a bluff sitting above an ocean, the video reproduces a significant number of the recollections nitty gritty in the tune's verses. At the point when a fanzine asked Smith what the melody was about, he said it was motivated by "something that transpired quite a while prior—see the video!" While Smith had guaranteed for a considerable length of time that the video was shot at a similar spot that enlivened the tune, he later conceded that the heft of it was recorded in a studio, using film of the water and precipices of Beachy Head taken for the band's 1985 video for "Near Me". 

Amid the tune's piano solo the sky swings to evening time and the band is appeared in white shirts. Mary Poole shows up in this grouping as a lady wearing white hitting the dance floor with Smith. As Smith clarified, "Mary hits the dance floor with me in the video since she was the young lady [in the song], so it must be her." Pope later remarked, "[Poole] can actually make a case for being the main highlighted female in any Cure video, ever." 

Various spread adaptations of "Simply Like Heaven" have been discharged, incorporating chronicles in Spanish, French, and German. 

Katie Melua recorded a spread for the 2005 film "Simply Like Heaven", which additionally showed up on her 2005 collection "Piece by Piece". In the UK the spread was discharged as a twofold A-side single with "I Cried for You" in late 2005, and in the U.S. it turned into a minor grown-up contemporary radio hit in 2006. 

AFI has secured "Quite recently Like Heaven" also on MTV Icon on "The Cure" in 2004 and have since joined it into their visit revolution for their 2013 collection "Entombments". 

An acoustic instrumental form of the melody performed by Gabriel Flores y su Mariachi Internacional played over the end credits of the 2018 film Gringo, featuring Joel Edgerton, Charlize Theron, Amanda Seyfried, and David Oyelowo. 

Robert Smith's undisputed top choice is the spread recorded by American elective musical crew Dinosaur Jr., which was discharged as a solitary in the UK in 1989 (and 1990 in the US). Dinosaur Jr's. adaptation has a quicker beat and features the band's noisy and bending substantial sound. The band's frontman J Mascis clarified, "We recorded it for a gathering collection, however when we completed it we preferred it so much we would not like to offer it to them." Smith stated, "J Mascis sent me a tape, and it was so enthusiastic. It was incredible. I've never had such an instinctive response to a spread form previously or since", and even said the spread has "impacted how we play it live".