Privateers of the Caribbean: Armada of the Damned 

Privateers of the Caribbean: Armada of the Damned is a dropped activity experience pretending computer game that was being created by Propaganda Games for the Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, and Microsoft Windows stages. Initially set to be distributed by Disney Interactive Studios, it was the main endeavor to make an open world amusement dependent on the "Privateers of the Caribbean" film establishment. The venture was dropped in October 2010, soon before the conclusion of Propaganda Games. 

Set before occasions of , the amusement was to pursue James Sterling, a privateer chief whose primary mission was to traverse the Caribbean Sea to make a notoriety for himself. Albeit little was disclosed about the story, it was planned to be autonomous from the movies' fundamental curve and incorporate new characters. Interactivity was to have underscored pretending components, including continuous battle and weapon customization. 

After its declaration at 2009's Electronic Entertainment Expo, the diversion got positive reactions from most computer game writers. Daemon Hatfield from IGN thought it "a promising activity RPG", while GamesRadar commended the ongoing interaction, contrasting it with the "Professional killer's Creed" establishment. Writers were disillusioned when Disney dropped the amusement a while before its arranged discharge date. Ubisoft, the distributer of "Professional killer's Creed", later discharged a comparative diversion called "". 

"Naval force of the Damned" was considered as an activity experience pretending computer game played from a third-individual point of view and set in an open world condition dependent on the "Privateers of the Caribbean" universe. The player was to play the job of James Sterling, a privateer chief whose principle mission was to traverse the Caribbean Sea and make a notoriety for himself. A portion of Sterling's highlights could be straightforwardly redone by the player, despite the fact that "Naval force of the Damned" was focused on a decision framework that would influence the character's appearance, identity, weapons, assaults, journeys, and story advancements. 

Albeit a large portion of the character's particulars could be redone, a few components were to be dictated by the amusement's two character types, Legendary and Dreaded. Picking a sort toward the start of the amusement influenced a few ongoing interaction and story components. Each character type had novel highlights that molded the manner in which the amusement was experienced, including how the earth and non-playable characters interfaced with the player. 

Battle in "Fleet of the Damned" was part among land and ocean. Sterling had a light and a substantial assault, which could be consolidated to make combos that expanded the harm he perpetrated. Right planning lead to a reward assault toward the finish of the combo that improved its quality. Sterling could likewise revile his rivals. The revile was a spell that debilitated all encompassing foes when it was utilized as a completing move. All assaults, uncommon moves, and mixes changed depending of the privateer type picked and could be overhauled freely. 

In the amusement, the player was given an adjustable ship named the "Enemy", instructed by Sterling and his team. The player's decisions in the amusement would decide the group they could employ, which thusly influenced the ship's traits. The vessel could be utilized to investigate the Caribbean Sea and fight different specialties. Amid battle, the player could move the ship, fire the guns, or board the foe vessel for hand-to-hand battle. On the off chance that the adversary create was boarded and the foe group was disposed of, the player got more plunder than if it was crushed. Plunder rescued in these fights could be sold in business sectors. 

Little data was uncovered about "Fleet of the Damned" plot. Sterling had no association with the film arrangement's characters and story curves. The diversion and the movies had a similar universe, yet the previous was to happen before the occasions of the last mentioned. Sterling, brought up in a poor family, was a youthful globe-trotter with dreams of notoriety and fortune who chose to turn into a privateer. Despite the fact that he was killed on his first voyage, Sterling was restored by otherworldly powers which allowed him another opportunity. After these occasions, the player had the choice to pursue two ways: become either a Legendary or a Dreaded privateer. On the Legendary way, the player would be a very much regarded privateer who acted in compliance with common decency. On the Dreaded way, the player would be secretive and dreaded. 

Publicity Games, a studio established in 2005 and claimed by Disney Interactive Studios, created "Fleet of the Damned". The studio was built up by previous workers of EA Canada and concentrated on the improvement of activity experience recreations for Disney. Promulgation's first amusement, "Turok" (2008), turned into a business achievement, selling more than one million duplicates. After "Turok" discharge, the studio started chipping away at an undertaking for the "Privateers of the Caribbean" establishment. Purposeful publicity's VP and general chief Dan Tudge said this was on the grounds that "it is a universe fans will color investigate". The studio uncovered that they dealt with a few contents to improve the ongoing interaction center. "Task force of the Damned" incorporated an intuitive decision framework to shape the diversion, settling on decisions a critical element. 

As per diversion chief Alex Peters, "Task force of the Damned" characters were created unattached from those that show up in the film arrangement. "We were evident that we would not like to be related with being a film diversion", he remarked. This craving prompted the making of James Sterling, a character that would meet the studio's requirements and feel recognizable to the characters highlighted in the movies. A unique music score was composed for "Fleet of the Damned", while the melodic topics from the movies were "dealt with elegantly and just utilized every so often." After the diversion's crossing out, the score was utilized in "", which was discharged in 2011. 

Amid "Task force of the Damned" advancement, Propaganda Games likewise chipped away at "", which was discharged in December 2010. In October 2010, Disney Interactive Studios reported that "Fleet of the Damned" improvement group would be laid off as a feature of a rebuilding program. Nonetheless, Propaganda would complete improvement of "Tron: Evolution" and its post-dispatch downloadable substance. 

The rebuilding diminished the studio's staff by in excess of 100 individuals and prompted the wiping out of "Naval force of the Damned". The rest of the advancement group attempted to complete "Tron: Evolution", whose group was additionally influenced by the lay offs. Notwithstanding, after the diversion neglected to accomplish basic or business achievement, Disney dropped its arranged downloadable substance and shut Propaganda Games. 

After its declaration at 2009's Electronic Entertainment Expo, "Fleet of the Damned" was met with positive responses from most computer game writers. Daemon Hatfield from IGN named it "a promising activity RPG," expounding that "despite the fact that "Naval force of the Damned" utilizes the "Privateers of the Caribbean" license ... [it] is its very own diversion, an undertaking that gives players a chance to make their very own privateer and meander the oceans of the Caribbean looking for distinction and fortune." Chris Antista from GamesRadar lauded its interactivity, contrasting it and "Professional killer's Creed". He expressed that "the diversion has stupendously safeguarded the soul of the movies, and they've done it without parasitically sticking to minutes you've just observed on the extra large screen." 

An editorial manager from the "Official Xbox Magazine" theorized that since the principal "Privateers of the Caribbean" film was "trailed by a dynamic plummet into average quality and Krakens with twirly limbs in the continuations, any amusement that is set before the main motion picture is probably going to astonish." Matt Miller from "Diversion Informer" was inspired with the amusement, commending its "Mass Effect"- like discourse and battle frameworks. He remarked that "we turned out poorly our gathering for Pirates with extraordinary desires, however turned out wonderfully astonished at the capability of the amusement." Joystiq's Mike Schramm contrasted the diversion with "Tale", noticing that "what is there looks good – the battle was strong, if somewhat shallow, and the designs and clean are well on their way." 

Columnists communicated frustration when Disney diminished the staff at Propaganda Games and dropped advancement of the amusement a while before its arranged discharge date. IGN's Ryan Clements expressed that "it's a disgrace that ["Armada of the Damned"] potential won't be acknowledged as of right now." Justin Towell, composing for GamesRadar, was baffled by Disney's choice: "It looks bad to totally surrender take a shot at an amusement that is plainly not excessively far away finish." "Diversion Informer" Jeff Marchiafava likewise communicated pity about the abrogation, saying "What sort of clamor does a discouraged privateer make? Since we would thoroughly be making that commotion at this moment."