Elgin, Illinois, Centennial half dollar 

The Elgin, Illinois, Centennial half dollar was a fifty-penny dedicatory coin issued by the United States Bureau of the Mint in 1936, some portion of the flood of commemoratives approved by Congress and struck that year. Expected to recognize the centennial of the establishing of Elgin, the piece was structured by neighborhood stone worker Trygve Rovelstad. The front-side delineates a romanticized leader of a pioneer man. The invert demonstrates a gathering of pioneers, and depends on a sculptural gathering that Rovelstad would have liked to work as a remembrance to the individuals who settled Illinois, yet which was not raised in his lifetime. 

Rovelstad had known about different endeavors to pick up approval for dedicatory coins, which were sold by the Mint to an assigned gathering without needing any proof and after that retailed to the general population at a higher cost than expected. In 1935, through his congressman, he had enactment brought into the House of Representatives for a memorial coin out of appreciation for Elgin's centennial that year. Rovelstad trusted that the proposed coin would both portray and be a wellspring of assets for his commemoration to the pioneers. Texas coin seller L.W. Hoffecker knew about the exertion and reached Rovelstad to offer his help—Hoffecker had been a power behind the Old Spanish Trail half dollar, issued in 1935 and appropriated by him. 

The bill for the Elgin coin did not go until 1936. Hoffecker had the capacity to sell around 20,000 coins, four-fifths of the issue: the staying 5,000 were come back to the Mint for dissolving. In contrast to numerous dedicatory mint pieces of that period, the piece was not purchased up by vendors and examiners, yet was sold straightforwardly to authorities at the issue cost. Craftsmanship history specialist Cornelius Vermeule considered the Elgin coin among the most extraordinary American commemoratives. 

Elgin, Illinois, is situated on the Fox River about west of Chicago. The people group was established in 1835 by James and Hezekiah Gifford, who named it. It turned into a town in 1847 and a city in 1854. In the last year, a watch organization was established there, and the city turned out to be notable for the association's timepieces; it likewise was prominent for the creation of apparatuses, shoes, wood items, and week after week church releases. 

Stone carver Trygve Rovelstad (1903– 1990), destined to Norwegian outsiders in the United States, looked to erect a statue in the place where he grew up of Elgin as a landmark to those pioneers who had settled Illinois. The city chiefs affirmed, and in 1934, an establishment was laid for the statue in Davidson Park, the site of the Giffords' first lodge. Rovelstad was unfit to collect the cash to develop and erect the statue, however having educated of ongoing dedicatory currency issues, chose this would be a decent methods for subsidizing the statue. The stone carver had a bill presented in Congress in May 1935 to approve a half dollar to observe Elgin's centennial and to respect the pioneer. By the by, the bill at first was not considered. 

Updates on the bill showed up in the July 1935 "The Numismatist" (the diary of the American Numismatic Association [ANA]), and on July 11, L.W. Hoffecker kept in touch with the Elgin Centennial Monumental Committee, asking how the coins would be appropriated. Hoffecker, an El Paso, Texas, coin seller, was then driving the panel in the place where he grew up that was pitching the Old Spanish Trail half dollar to people in general. Albeit some ongoing commemoratives had started clamor from authorities that theorists had been permitted to purchase up amounts of the new issues, Hoffecker would pick up recognition for fairly disseminating the Old Spanish Trail piece. 

In the correspondence between the two men, Hoffecker gave Rovelstad various tips about how to manage Congress. Despite the fact that the bill was as yet buried in council, Hoffecker exhorted what to do once the bill was agreed upon. He didn't have even an inkling yet that Rovelstad was a stone carver, and kept in touch with him in September 1935 about the models to be submitted for endorsement, "These ought to likewise be 10 [inches, or 25.4 cm] in width, and this is the place your inconvenience begins. These artists all need to consolidate their very own thoughts in the structure and approach somewhere in the range of $400.00 to $1,000.00 for their work, revealing to you what inconvenience it is to get the endorsement of the Commission of Fine Arts and numerous different things which don't exist." Hoffecker additionally offered to deal with the issue for the board; he proposed to propel the cash important to buy the new coins from the legislature and to deal with the appropriation. He expressed that he had appreciated the conveyance of the Old Spanish Trail piece, however he deceived Rovelstad, expressing he was not a coin vendor—the letterhead that Hoffecker used to write to Rovelstad said "Advances and Mortgages" under his name. He additionally cautioned Rovelstad, "It would not be useful for both of us if the word got out you had discarded the whole issue to me." 

In October 1935, Hoffecker made a formal offer, in light of the bill, which called for 10,000 half dollars: he would pay the Elgin board of trustees $12,000 and sell the coins at $2.00 each. He would propel the presumptive worth of the coins to the Mint, just as etching and dispatching charges. In selling the currencies, he would endeavor to convey them to whatever number authorities as could be allowed, leaving vendors and theorists for some other time. Rovelstad concurred by letter in November. 

Illinois Representative Chauncey Reed had presented the Elgin coin enactment at Rovelstad's command, and both the stone carver and Hoffecker worked with him to propel the bill through Congress. In February 1936, Hoffecker, who had been named by ANA President T. James Clarke to lead a council against maltreatment in the issuance of memorial coins, went to Washington, going through Chicago on his approach to visit Rovelstad. The two men had planned to hold the mintage to 10,000, to have the capacity to sell the coins at a more expensive rate. Congress, nonetheless, was not disapproved to make a low-mintage memorial, as there had been a few issues which had been struck in little numbers just to sell at high costs, and the bill was revised to accommodate 25,000 half dollars. Hoffecker would have liked to bring down the number, encouraging the stone worker to campaign for a decline. Hoffecker noted it would be significantly more work to sell 25,000, and they couldn't direction as high a cost. There were countless coin charges in Congress in 1936, and the seller expected that President Franklin D. Roosevelt would begin vetoing them. Hoffecker visited Washington twice more in May, when meeting Rovelstad there, where they campaigned individuals from Congress. 

The bill at last passed, and was marked by President Roosevelt on June 16, 1936. The bill required the coins to be struck at a solitary mint and to tolerate the date "1936" paying little heed to when they were struck. Every one of the 25,000 would need to be paid for by the director of the Elgin board (that is, Rovelstad) at one time; a lesser amount couldn't be issued. The pieces were "in recognition of the one-hundredth commemoration of the establishing of the city of Elgin, Illinois, and the erection of the gallant Pioneer Memorial"— Rovelstad's statue. 

Hoffecker proposed that Rovelstad try to have the mintage partitioned among the three mints, however surrendered that except if Congress had blundered in the instituted language, this gambit was not liable to succeed. He additionally advised Rovelstad to connect with Assistant Mint Director Mary M. O'Reilly and try to have the coins struck at the Denver Mint, as the nearest mint to El Paso, to limit shipping charges. Nothing happened to either proposition; the majority of the coins would be struck at the Philadelphia Mint. 

After Rovelstad presented his structures for the coin to the Mint, they were sent to the Commission of Fine Arts for its feeling. The structures touched base on July 15, 1936, and were affirmed two days after the fact, with the solicitation that the leader of the pioneer on the front-side, in three-quarter see (looking ahead and to the other side) as presented by Rovelstad, be in profile. The stone carver agreed, and submitted mortar models by mid-August; photos were sent to the commission by the Mint on August 15. After two days, commission administrator Charles Moore wrote to O'Reilly, expressing that the stone worker individual from the commission, Lee Lawrie, had seen the plans, and grumbled he couldn't perceive what the article was behind the pioneers, and that the weapon seemed, by all accounts, to be held unadroitly. Lawrie likewise expressed that a portion of the lettering ought to be fortified, yet on the off chance that the Mint chief, Nellie Tayloe Ross, was not bothered by these things, the coin ought to go ahead. Moore showed that he wanted to postpone the coin, and sent the commission's suggestion, on condition that the Mint do what it could to address these worries. Except for conceivable work on the lettering, no progressions were made. 

When the commission had endorsed the structures, they were quickly sent to the Medallic Art Company of New York, which diminished the plans to outfit center points from which coinage kicks the bucket could be made. Toward the beginning of October 1936, the Philadelphia Mint struck 25,000 coins, with 15 additional for examination by the 1937 Assay Commission. Rovelstad went to Philadelphia to observe the commencement of creation and remained at the home of Mint Chief Engraver John R. Sinnock. The initial ten pieces were given to the stone worker, who set them in paper envelopes and took them home to Illinois. As per his better half, Gloria, he was offered work at the Mint by Sinnock yet declined. 

The front-side of the Elgin Centennial half dollar delineates a pioneer, validated by the legend above him. The whiskery look had been recently etched by Rovelstad and shows up, somewhat altered, as the leader of the shooter on the left of the gathering on the switch. The year "1673" on the front denotes the year pioneers Louis Jolliet and Jacques Marquette entered what is presently Illinois. Despite the fact that the coin was issued for Elgin's centennial, neither the date of establishing (1835) nor that of the commemoration shows up. 

The invert side portrays a gathering of pioneers (four grown-ups and a child in its mom's arms). The gathering is a bas help of the model for the commemoration that Rovelstad planned to construct. The youngster is the second infant to be suggested, however not completely observed, on a US coin– one is portrayed with the mother inside the Conestoga wagon on the Oregon Trail Memorial half dollar, first struck in 1926. One would be all the more completely portrayed on the Roanoke Island half dollar in 1937. The gathering had additionally showed up on Rovelstad's 1935 award for Elgin's centennial. Rovelstad put, both on the award and on the base for the statue, the words, "To the men who have pioneered the trails, who have vanquished the dirt, and who have assembled a domain in the place that is known for the Illini." Inclusion of the different maxims required by resolution, for example, "In God We Trust", implied that not part of this devotion could be put on the coin. The name of the city was not in the first models that Rovelstad sent Hoffecker for his remarks; the numismatist composed on July 15, 1936, "I would not neglect putting the word 'Elgin' on your coin, as it would be a decent promotion for your city". 

Workmanship history specialist Cornelius Vermeule, in his volume on the creativity of American coins, had high commendation for the coin and its artist: "it is progressively hard to locate an all the more stylishly fulfilling, actually predominant memorial half-dollar than the Elgin, Illinois, Centennial of 1936." Vermeule saw that the figures on the turn around show up right around three-dimensional. He noticed that the system of dispersing out the letters of "Pioneer" over the head forecasts that utilized by later Chief Engraver Gilroy Roberts on the front-side of the Kennedy half dollar. As per Vermeule, Rovelstad "has delivered one of the real records of sculptural pliancy and energetic alleviation in the arrangement of dedicatory coins. His front is deserving of a Roman emblem, and his switch equals the incomparable Neoclassic bites the dust of England or Bavaria in the nineteenth century." 

When the approving enactment was ordered, Hoffecker and Rovelstad went to another understanding. Hoffecker would propel the cash for the new coins and pay for the bite the dust making and transporting costs, which were the council's duty under the enactment. The coins would be sold at $1.50 each; Hoffecker would take 35 pennies for every coin as commission. The coins were to stay at a bargain through Hoffecker until January 1, 1937 or until they were sold out, whichever started things out. The understanding gave that Hoffecker "utilize each moral methods known to him to push the clearance of these coins". Coin vendor B. Max Mehl, in his 1937 handout on memorial coins, expressed that he considered the cost of $1.50 too high when there was an issue of 25,000 struck. 

On July 1, 1936, Hoffecker sent 3,500 letters offering the new coins, which had not yet been struck, to individuals who were on his mailing list or had enquired. He professed to have 7,000 requests as of now, and asked gatherers not to delay. His bank offered to have the coins delivered there and to convey the coins as a component of its money available, which would enable him to pay for them as requests came in, however Hoffecker liked to pay for the coins toward the begin. Hoffecker expressed in letters that other coin vendors had offered to purchase the whole issue, however he had declined. As of now, there was a blast in dedicatory coins, and vendors were attempting to get all the unique issues they could. 

The Philadelphia Mint sent 24,990 coins (the approved mintage less the initial ten pieces, which Rovelstad had taken) to Hoffecker on October 7, 1936; they were gotten in El Paso four days after the fact. Hoffecker wrote to Frank Duffield, editorial manager of "The Numismatist", expressing that he had the envelopes for effectively requested pieces all readied, and would have liked to mail the remainder of them out by the night of October 13; the proofreader remarked, "This sounds like genuine administration". A few hundred pieces had been requested through banks in Elgin; they got a few relegations and in the end sold over a thousand. The Elgin Watch Company acquired 100 coins. 

By November 1936, 16,170 pieces had been sold. Just around 2,000 more were sold in the following four months; Hoffecker's announcement for March 1937 shows 18,790 sold with an extra 330 on committal to the First National Bank of Elgin. Rovelstad had gotten $8,680.00 and Hoffecker $6,576.50. Now, discourse swung to how to manage the rest of the pieces, exactly 5,620 (a couple of hundred pieces were given away or generally discarded). Rovelstad consented to enable the coin vendor to buy 250 pieces at $1 every; he was all the while offering them in 1948. Different sellers were uninterested in expansive buys as the immediate deal to authorities implied that rare sorts of people who needed and could manage the cost of the Elgin coin needed it. With interest at a stop, Hoffecker expected that the rest of the pieces would end up in the hands of theorists. Five thousand pieces were come back to the Mint for softening. 

Rovelstad utilized the benefits from the half dollar to proceed with work on his statuary gathering. He looked for direct subsidizing from the central government in 1938 and from the Illinois Legislature the next year; the two endeavors fizzled. Through the 50 years that pursued, he advanced on the statues, and when of his demise in 1990, he had finished the gathering in mortar of Paris, that still should have been bronzed before presentation. In the blink of an eye before his demise, he told his significant other, "I've carried on with a full life and have no second thoughts. The Pioneer Memorial is presently finished. I've done everything I could. Presently it's dependent upon others to see it raised. I can do no more." Rovelstad's occupant, Steve Youngren, built up an establishment to fund-raise to finish the undertaking. It raised $456,000, surpassing the genuine expense by about 10%, and the remembrance was finished and devoted in 2001. 

Hoffecker filled in as leader of the ANA from 1939 to 1941; he passed on January 13, 1955 at 86 years old. As indicated by the 2014 release of R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins", the Elgin Centennial half dollar records at $250 in Almost Uncirculated (AU-50) condition, ascending to $550 in close perfect MS-66. As indicated by numismatic antiquarian Q. David Bowers, "nothing untoward was related with the dispersion of the Elgin Centennial half dollars, and unquestionably at the Illinois end of the arrangement stone worker Trygve A. Rovelstad's aims and morals were of the most elevated request. L.W. Hoffecker circulated the pieces in a skillfully organized attention crusade and did just as anybody could have done at the time." 

Books 

Different sources