Maggie Gyllenhaal 

Margalit Ruth "Maggie" Gyllenhaal (; conceived November 16, 1977) is an American on-screen character and maker. Some portion of the Gyllenhaal family, she is the girl of movie producers Stephen Gyllenhaal and Naomi Achs, and the more seasoned sister of performer Jake Gyllenhaal. 

She started her profession as a young person with little jobs in a few of her dad's movies, and showed up close by her sibling in the faction top pick "Donnie Darko" (2001). She got basic recognition for her featuring jobs in the autonomous movies "Secretary" (2002) and "Sherrybaby" (2006), acquiring Golden Globe designations in the Comedy and Drama classes, individually. In 2008, she got boundless acknowledgment for playing Rachel Dawes in Christopher Nolan's hero film "The Dark Knight". Her other film credits incorporate "Adjustment.", "Admissions of a Dangerous Mind" (both 2002), "Mona Lisa Smile" (2003), "Cheerful Endings" (2005), "Paris, je t'aime", "World Trade Center", "Beast House", "More bizarre Than Fiction" (every one of the 2006), and "Let's get this show on the road Go" (2009). For her execution in "Insane Heart" (2009), she was named for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress. She in this manner featured in the movies "Babysitter McPhee and the Big Bang" (2010), "Won't Back Down" (2012), "Insanity" (2011), "White House Down" (2013), and "Straight to the point" (2014). 

In 2014, Gyllenhaal made her Broadway debut in a recovery of "The Real Thing", and featured in the BBC TV miniseries "The Honorable Woman". For her execution in the last mentioned, she got a Golden Globe and was selected for a Primetime Emmy. She right now stars as Candy on the HBO arrangement "The Deuce" (2017– present), which she delivers. Her other creating credits incorporate the 2018 film "The Kindergarten Teacher". 

Gyllenhaal was conceived in Manhattan, the girl of Naomi Foner Gyllenhaal (née Achs) and Stephen Gyllenhaal. The main name on Maggie's introduction to the world testament is "Margalit", which she didn't find until 2013, while embracing her significant other's surname. "Margalit" () is a Hebrew word signifying "pearl"; some news stories have spelled it "Margolit". She has two siblings, performing artist Jake Gyllenhaal and a relative named Luke from her dad's second marriage. 

Her dad is a movie chief and artist, and her mom is a screenwriter and executive. Her dad, an individual from the Gyllenhaal family, is of Swedish and English heritage, and was brought up in the Swedenborgian religion. Her last local Swedish predecessor was her extraordinary incredible granddad Anders Leonard Gyllenhaal, a relative of Leonard Gyllenhaal, a main Swedenborgian who upheld the printing and spreading of Swedenborg's compositions. 

Her mom was conceived in New York City (experiencing childhood in Brooklyn), and is Jewish, from families that emigrated from Russia and Poland. Her mom's first spouse was Eric Foner, a prominent antiquarian and history educator at Columbia University. Gyllenhaal has expressed that she "grew up for the most part Jewish, socially", and she recognizes as Jewish, however she didn't go to Hebrew school. Her folks wedded in 1977, and petitioned for legal separation in October 2008. 

Gyllenhaal experienced childhood in Los Angeles and learned at the Harvard– Westlake private academy. She went through four months as an understudy at The Mountain School, a semester school for secondary school youngsters in Vermont. In 1995, she moved on from Harvard– Westlake and moved to New York to go to Columbia University, where she examined writing and Eastern religions. She likewise examined representing a mid year term at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA) in London, England. 

Gyllenhaal's first movies—"A Dangerous Woman" (1993); and "Homegrown" (1998)— were coordinated by her dad; which likewise included her sibling; they had supporting jobs as youngsters. Preceding that she additionally, at 15 years old, showed up in her dad's film, "Waterland" (1992). With their mom, she and Jake showed up in two scenes of "Molto Mario", an Italian preparing appear on the Food Network. In the wake of moving on from school, she assumed supporting jobs in movies like "Cecil B. Sick" (2000) and "Riding in Cars with Boys" (2001). Gyllenhaal later accomplished acknowledgment in her own correct playing her genuine sibling's on-screen sister in the outside the box faction hit "Donnie Darko" (2001). 

She made her dramatic presentation in the Berkeley Repertory Theater creation of Patrick Marber's "Closer", for which she got great audits. Creation began in May 2000 and finished in mid-July of that year. Gyllenhaal has performed in a few different plays, including "The Tempest", "Antony and Cleopatra", "The Butterfly Project", and "No Exit". 

Gyllenhaal's break-out job was operating at a profit satire, "Secretary" (2002), a film around two individuals who set out on a commonly satisfying BDSM way of life. "The New York Times" pundit Stephen Holden noticed: "The job of Lee, which Maggie Gyllenhaal saturates with a controlled comic delicacy and sweetness, should make her a star." Mick LaSalle of the "San Francisco Chronicle" expressed: "Maggie Gyllenhaal, as the reckless secretary, is puzzling and, at minutes, thoughtful." The film got commonly great audits, and Gyllenhaal's execution earned her the Best Breakthrough Performance by an Actress grant from the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures, her first Golden Globe designation, and an Independent Spirit Award assignment. "Secretary" was Gyllenhaal's first film job which highlighted full frontal bareness. Albeit awed with the content, she at first had a few misgivings about doing the film, which she accepted could convey an enemy of women's activist message. However after cautiously talking about the content with the movie's chief, Steven Shainberg, she consented to join the undertaking. In spite of the fact that demanding Shainberg did not abuse her, Gyllenhaal has said she felt "frightened when shooting started" and that "in the wrong hands ... indeed, even in just marginally less wise hands, this motion picture could state something extremely unusual." Since at that point, she is monitored about talking about her job in the film, saying just that "notwithstanding myself, once in a while the dynamic that you are investigating in your work overflow into your life." 

She next assumed a supporting job in the parody dramatization "Adjustment" (2002), a film that recounts to the account of screenwriter Charlie Kaufman's battle to adjust "The Orchid Thief" into a film. She later showed up in the unapproved life story "Admissions of a Dangerous Mind" (2002), some portion of a gathering cast that included Sam Rockwell, Drew Barrymore, George Clooney, and Julia Roberts. The motion picture netted US$33 million around the world. That equivalent year, she had a little job in the parody "40 Days and 40 Nights". 

In 2003, she co-featured with Julia Roberts in "Mona Lisa Smile" in the job of Giselle. In a meeting with "The Daily Telegraph", she uncovered the explanation behind tolerating the job was "to play someone who feels sure about herself as a hot, wonderful lady". The film created for the most part basic surveys, with Manohla Dargis of the "Los Angeles Times" depicting it as "priggish and reductive". Her next jobs were in littler autonomous movies: "Casa de los Babys" (2003), a tale around six American ladies restlessly holding up out their extensive residency necessities in a unidentified South American nation before getting their assenting infants, and "Criminal" (2004), a revamp of the Argentinian film "Nine Queens", with John C. Reilly and Diego Luna. Gyllenhaal plays a legitimate lodging supervisor compelled to support her abnormal sibling (Reilly) by enticing one of his exploited people. Gyllenhaal was welcome to join the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 2004. She featured in the HBO film "Strip Search" (2004), where she depicted an American understudy in China associated with psychological oppression. For her job, Gyllenhaal needed to play out numerous scenes of full-frontal bareness as the film handled issues of strip looks. 

In 2004, Gyllenhaal came back to theater in a Los Angeles creation of Tony Kushner's "Shut-in/Kabul" as Priscilla, the Homebody's little girl, who burns through a large portion of the play looking for her tricky mother in Kabul, Afghanistan. Kushner gave her the job in "Shut-in/Kabul" on the quality of her execution in "Closer". Ben Brantley of "The New York Times" expressed: "Ms. Gyllenhaal gives the basic extension between the pieces of the play's title." John Heilpern of "The New York Observer" noticed that Gyllenhaal's execution was "convincing". Seen as a sex image, she was positioned in the "Hot 100 List" by "Proverb" magazine in 2004 and 2005. 

Gyllenhaal's next film job was in the 2005 satire dramatization "Cheerful Endings", in which she played an adventuress artist who lures a youthful gay performer (Jason Ritter) just as his rich dad (Tom Arnold). She recorded melodies for the film's soundtrack, considering the job the "roughest, scariest acting ever" and including she is more common when singing on screen than when acting. Lisa Schwarzbaum of "Amusement Weekly" pronounced Gyllenhaal's execution "as magnificently, normally slouchy-attractive as her character is counterfeit". 

Following "Upbeat Endings", she featured in the 2006 movies "Trust the Man", "More odd than Fiction", "Beast House", "World Trade Center", and "Sherrybaby". In "Trust the Man", highlighting Julianne Moore, David Duchovny, and Billy Crudup, she played Elaine, who has been dating Tobey, Crudup's character, for a long time and has started to feel that it is the ideal opportunity for her to settle down and begin a family. The film was basically and monetarily fruitless. Ethan Alter of "Debut" felt that the exhibitions by Gyllenhaal and Duchovny were "significantly more quiet" and closed with "that is most likely in light of the fact that they're played these characters ordinarily previously". In "More odd than Fiction", Gyllenhaal played an adoration enthusiasm of Harold Crick, played by Will Ferrell. Her execution in the film got good audits; Mike Straka of Fox News expressed: "Gyllenhaal has never been hotter in any film and her interaction with Ferrell will impel her to more A-rundown films, abandoning her independent sweetheart days behind, almost certainly." She voiced Elizabeth "Zee" in the PC vivified blood and gore movie "Beast House". Gyllenhaal played Allison Jimeno, the spouse of Port Authority officer Will Jimeno, in Oliver Stone's "Reality Trade Center", in light of the September 11 assaults in New York City. She viewed this as "one of the movies she most delighted in making". The film got ideal surveys and ended up being a global achievement, winning US$162 million around the world. 

In "Sherrybaby", Gyllenhaal played a youthful medication dependent criminal endeavoring to put her life all together after jail so she can accommodate with her little girl. Amid advancement of the film, she noted of her depiction of the character: "I believe she's in such critical straights that the sum total of what she has are these sort of gullible, furious expectation. And keeping in mind that I was filling the role I was searching for joy and expectation in all things, even in these extremely somber things. Thus it was actually for the most part after I completed the motion picture that I felt torment." Her execution in the film was generally welcomed: David Germain of the Associated Press stated, "Gyllenhaal adapts her so profoundly and richly ... that Sherry inspires compassion even in her darkest and weakest minutes", and Dennis Harvey of "Assortment" called her execution "naturalistic". For her work, Gyllenhaal earned her second Golden Globe Best Actress designation and won the Best Actress class grant at the 2006 Stockholm International Film Festival. 

She showed up in "The Dark Knight" (2008), the spin-off of "Batman Begins" (2005), in which she supplanted Katie Holmes as Assistant District Attorney, Rachel Dawes. Gyllenhaal recognized her character was a maid in trouble to a degree, yet said executive Christopher Nolan looked for approaches to enable her character, so "Rachel's actually clear about what's critical to her and reluctant to bargain her ethics, which made a pleasant change" from the many clashed characters she had recently depicted. "The Dark Knight" was a money related and basic achievement, setting another opening end of the week film industry record for North America. With income of US$1 billion around the world, it turned into the fourth-most noteworthy earning film ever, and remains Gyllenhaal's most economically effective picture to date. In a "Salon" survey of the film, Stephanie Zacharek called Gyllenhaal's character "an extreme treat in a Stanwyck-style inclination cut outfit" and expressed that "the motion picture feels more intelligent and progressively supple when she's on-screen". IGN film pundit Todd Gilchrist stated, "Gyllenhaal adds genuine profundity and vitality to Rachel Dawes". 

Gyllenhaal played Yelena Andreevna in the Classic Stage Company's 2009 Off-Broadway generation of Anton Chekhov's "Uncle Vanya" in New York City. The cast likewise incorporated her significant other Peter Sarsgaard. The creation, coordinated by Austin Pendleton, started reviews on January 17 and finished its restricted keep running on March 1. Joe Dziemianowicz of the "New York Daily News" was not exactly eager about her execution, stating: "Gyllenhaal, who was so unique as a junkie in the film "Sherrybaby", plays Yelena with a moderate mo walk and repetitive glued on grin that influences it to appear as though she's been in Sherry's reserve." However, Malcolm Johnson of the "Hartford Courant" was complimentary, taking note of that she "eventually blooms" as the character. 

Gyllenhaal consented to show up in the satire film "Let's get this show on the road Go", where she plays a bohemian school teacher who is an old companion of John Krasinski's character. The film produced comprehensively blended audits, with Owen Gleiberman of "Stimulation Weekly" portraying Gyllenhaal's subplot as "over-the-top". Nonetheless, A. O. Scott of "The New York Times" lauded Gyllenhaal and co-star Allison Janney for their exhibitions, composing that "both [are] very amusing". Scott finished up with, "Ms. Gyllenhaal's line about sex jobs in 'the seahorse network' is the screenplay's one clean humorous bull's-eye". Her next job came in the melodic show "Insane Heart", in which she played writer Jean Craddock, who succumbs to performer Bad Blake, played by Jeff Bridges. The film got great surveys, with Gyllenhaal accepting applause from commentators. Dwindle Travers of "Moving Stone" revealed that Gyllenhaal was "entertaining, contacting and indispensable as Jean" and that her part was "routinely considered, however Gyllenhaal plays it with an extreme center of insight and feeling." Her execution earned her an Academy Award selection for Best Supporting Actress. 

In 2010, Gyllenhaal showed up in "Babysitter McPhee and the Big Bang", the spin-off of the 2005 film "Caretaker McPhee". The job expected her to talk with an English inflection. The element got blended audits, and earned US$93 million around the world. Far from acting, she filled in as host of the PBS TV narrative arrangement "Free Lens". Gyllenhaal additionally showed up in "Mania", a free film concentrating on the making of the vibrator. 

In February 2011, Gyllenhaal featured in another Anton Chekhov generation as the character Masha in Austin Pendleton's "Three Sisters" at the Classic Stage Company. The play centers around the Prozorov sisters (Gyllenhaal, Jessica Hecht, and Juliet Rylance) "unfortunate in affection, troubled in the regions and aching to come back to Moscow", as abridged by Bloomberg's Jeremy Gerard. The off-Broadway generation started review exhibitions on January 12, with a restricted commitment through March 6. 

In the 2012 film "Won't Back Down", she played a parent associated with a parent trigger takeover of her kid's school. She showed up as a Secret Service operator in the activity spine chiller "White House Down" (2013). 

In 2014, she assumed the title job as Baroness Nessa Stein, a British-Israeli businessperson beneficiary in the British TV BBC Television political covert agent spine chiller TV miniseries, "The Honorable Woman". For her job in it, she won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Miniseries or Television Film. Kevin Fallon wrote in the "Day by day Beast": "Gyllenhaal conveys what may be the most transcending, perplexing, best execution of her vocation in the miniseries." Also in 2014 she played Hathfertiti in Matthew Barney and Jonathan Bepler's "Stream of Fundament". 

In August 2016, the book recording vender and maker Audible declared that Gyllenhaal's portrayal execution of "Anna Karenina" by Leo Tolstoy was accessible for procurement. Gyllenhaal, when met about the experience stated, "Making this, doing this, I sense that it's one of the real achievements of my work life." 

In February 2017, she was an individual from the jury for the 2017 Berlin Film Festival. She has been filling in as a maker and is likewise acting in the HBO arrangement "The Deuce". 

Gyllenhaal started an association with performing artist Peter Sarsgaard, a dear companion of her sibling, Jake, in 2002. They declared their commitment in April 2006, and wedded on May 2, 2009, in a little house of prayer in Brindisi, Italy. They have two little girls. The family lives in Park Slope, Brooklyn, New York. 

They chose to put their townhouse available subsequent to living there for a long time. They moved there from the West Village for personal satisfaction reasons. 

Gyllenhaal is politically dynamic. At the eighteenth Independent Spirit Awards in 2003, she took a stand in opposition to the Iraq war, expressing the purpose behind the attack was "oil and colonialism". In 2005, Gyllenhaal drew discussion for her explanation that the September 11 assaults were "an event to be daring enough to make some genuine inquiries about America's job in the world  ... It is constantly helpful as people or countries to ask how we may have purposely or unconsciously added to this contention." Gyllenhaal partook in Artists United to Win Without War, a battle begun by Robert Greenwald that meant to propel dynamic causes and voicing restriction to the Iraq War. She and her sibling Jake taped a business for Rock the Vote, and visited the University of Southern California (USC) grounds to urge understudies to cast a ballot in the 2004 U.S. presidential decision, in which she upheld John Kerry. Gyllenhaal upheld Barack Obama in the 2008 presidential decision. She has battled for the benefit of the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), an association her family firmly bolsters. 

In June 2013, Gyllenhaal and various different famous people showed up in a video appearing for Chelsea Manning. 

Gyllenhaal is a supporter of Witness, a non-benefit association that utilizes video and online innovations to uncover human rights infringement. She co-facilitated an advantage supper with originator Peter Gabriel in November 2007. Gyllenhaal helped raise assets for TrickleUp.org, a non-benefit association that enables ruined individuals to begin a smaller scale undertaking. For one of the pledge drives, Gyllenhaal helped plan and advance an accessory that sold for US$100; all returns from deals went to the philanthropy. Since 2008, Gyllenhaal has been supporting the Hear the World Foundation as envoy. In her job she is supporting for equivalent chances and better personal satisfaction for individuals with hearing misfortune. In October 2008 she facilitated a style show occasion called "Elegantly Natural", which was introduced by Gen Art and SoyJoy in Los Angeles. The show included four best in class fashioners who worked just with all-normal and eco-accommodating textures and materials.