Jin– Song Wars 

The Jin– Song Wars were a progression of contentions between the Jurchen Jin line (1115– 1234) and Han Chinese Song line (960– 1279). In 1115, Jurchen clans opposed their overlords, the Khitan Liao tradition (907– 1125), and proclaimed the development of the Jin. Aligning with the Song against their shared adversary the Liao, the Jin guaranteed to come back to the Song the Sixteen Prefectures that had fallen under Liao control since 938. The Chinese concurred however Jurchens snappy annihilation of the Liao joined with Song military disappointments made the Jin hesitant to surrender these domains. After a progression of dealings that disenchanted the two sides, the Jurchens assaulted the Song administration in 1125, dispatching one armed force to Taiyuan and the other to Bianjing (current Kaifeng), the Song capital. 

Shocked by updates on an intrusion, Song general Tong Guan withdrew from Taiyuan, which was assaulted and later caught. As the second Jin armed force moved toward the capital, Song head Huizong surrendered and fled south. Qinzong, his oldest child, was enthroned. The Jurchens laid attack to Kaifeng in 1126, yet Qinzong arranged their retreat from the capital by consenting to a substantial yearly repayment. Qinzong reneged on the arrangement and requested Song powers to safeguard the prefectures as opposed to strengthening the capital. The Jin continued war and again blockaded Kaifeng in 1127. They caught Qinzong, numerous individuals from the majestic family and authorities of the Song royal court in an occasion known as the Jingkang Incident. This isolated north and south China among Jin and Song. Leftovers of the Song supreme family withdrew to southern China and, after brief remains in a few transitory capitals, in the end moved to Lin'an (current Hangzhou). The retreat isolated the administration into two particular periods, Northern Song and Southern Song. 

The Jurchens endeavored to vanquish southern China during the 1130s, yet were impeded by a star Song revolt in the north and a counteroffensive by Song officers Yue Fei, Han Shizhong, and others. The officers recaptured a few domains however withdrew on the requests of Southern Song ruler Gaozong, who upheld a quiet goals to the war. The Treaty of Shaoxing (1142) set the limit of the two domains along the Huai River, yet clashes between the two traditions proceeded until the fall of the Jin in 1234. A war against the Song started by fourth Jin head, Wanyan Liang, was fruitless. He lost the Battle of Caishi (1161) and was later killed by his very own antagonized officers. An intrusion of the Jin inspired by Song revanchism (1206– 1208) was additionally ineffective. After 10 years, the Jin propelled a fruitless military battle against the Song in 1217 to supplant an area they had lost to the attacking Mongols. The Song aligned with the Mongols in 1233, and in the following year mutually caught Caizhou, last asylum of the Jin ruler. The Jin administration fallen that year in 1234. After the death of the Jin, the Song administration itself turned into an objective of the Mongols, and fell in 1279. 

The wars incited a time of innovative, social, and statistic changes in China. Fights between the Song and Jin realized the presentation of different explosive weapons. The attack of De'an in 1132 was the principal recorded utilization of the flame spear, an early predecessor of guns. There were likewise reports of fights battled with simple black powder bombs like the ignitable "huopao" or the detonating "tiehuopao", combustible bolts, and other related weapons. In northern China, Jurchens were the decision minority of a domain overwhelmingly occupied by previous subjects of the Song. Jurchen transients settled in the vanquished regions and absorbed with the nearby culture. The Jin, a success line, founded a brought together majestic organization displayed on past Chinese administrations, putting together their authenticity with respect to Confucian reasoning. Melody displaced people from the north resettled in southern China. The north was the social focal point of China, and its triumph by the Jin lessened the territorial stature of the Song tradition. The Southern Song, be that as it may, immediately came back to monetary thriving, and exchange with the Jin was rewarding in spite of many years of fighting. Lin'an, the Southern Song capital, ventured into a noteworthy city for business. 

The Jurchens were a Tungusic-talking gathering of semi-agrarian clans possessing zones of upper east Asia that are currently part of Northeast China. A considerable lot of the Jurchen clans were vassals of the Liao tradition (907– 1125), a realm managed by the itinerant Khitans that included the vast majority of present day Mongolia, a segment of North China, Northeast China, northern Korea, and parts of the Russian Far East. Toward the south of the Liao lay the Han Chinese Song Empire (960– 1276). The Song and Liao found a sense of contentment, yet since a military thrashing to the Liao in 1005, the Song paid its northern neighbor a yearly reimbursement of 200,000 electrical discharges and 100,000 ounces of silver. 

In 1114, the chieftain Wanyan Aguda (1068– 1123) joined the divergent Jurchen clans and drove a rebel against the Liao. In 1115 he named himself ruler of the Jin "brilliant" line (1115– 1234). Educated by a Liao turncoat of the achievement of the Jurchen uprising, the Song sovereign Huizong (r. 1100– 1127) and his most noteworthy military officer the eunuch Tong Guan saw the Liao shortcoming as a chance to recoup the Sixteen Prefectures, a line of braced urban areas and passes that the Liao had added from the Shatuo Turk Later Jin in 938, and that the Song had over and over yet ineffectively endeavored to reconquer. The Song accordingly looked for a collusion with the Jin against their shared adversary the Liao. 

Since the land courses between the Song and Jin were constrained by the Liao, conciliatory trades needed to happen by bridging the Bohai Sea. Exchanges for a partnership started subtly under the falsification that the Song needed to obtain ponies from the Khitans. Melody negotiators went to the Jin court to meet Aguda in 1118, while Jurchen agents touched base in the Song capital Kaifeng the following year. Toward the starting the opposite sides consented to keep whatever Liao domain they would seize in battle. In 1120, Aguda consented to surrender the Sixteen Prefectures to the Song in return for exchange to the Jin of the yearly tributary installments that the Song had been giving the Liao. Before the finish of 1120, in any case, the Jurchens had caught the Liao Supreme Capital, and offered the Song just pieces of the Sixteen Prefectures. In addition to other things, the Jin would keep the Liao Western Capital of Datong at the western end of the Sixteen Prefectures. The opposite sides concurred that the Jin would now assault the Liao Central Capital, though the Song would catch the Liao Southern Capital, Yanjing (cutting edge Beijing). 

The joint assault against the Liao had been gotten ready for 1121, however it was rescheduled for 1122. In February 23 of that year, the Jin caught the Liao Central Capital as guaranteed. The Song deferred their entrance into the war since it redirected assets to battling the Western Xia in the northwest and smothering an expansive prevalent disobedience driven by Fang La in the south. At the point when a Song armed force under Tong Guan's direction at long last assaulted Yanjing in May 1122, the littler powers of the debilitated Liao repulsed the trespassers effortlessly. Another assault bombed in the fall. The multiple times, Tong was compelled to withdraw back to Kaifeng. After the primary assault, Aguda changed the terms of the understanding and just guaranteed Yanjing and six different prefectures to the Song. In mid 1123 it was Jurchen powers that effectively took the Liao Southern Capital. They sacked it and oppressed its populace. 

The brisk breakdown of the Liao prompted more dealings between the Song and the Jin. Jurchen military achievement and their powerful authority over the Sixteen Prefectures gave them more influence. Aguda became progressively disappointed as he understood that in spite of their military disappointments the Song still proposed to catch the greater part of the prefectures. In the spring of 1123 the opposite sides at long last set the terms of the first Song– Jin settlement. Just seven prefectures (counting Yanjing) would be come back to the Song, and the Song would pay a yearly repayment of 300,000 packs of silk and 200,000 taels of silver to the Jin, just as a one-time installment of one million strings of copper coins to remunerate the Jurchens for the duty income they would have earned had they not restored the prefectures. In May 1123 Tong Guan and the Song armed forces entered the plundered Yanjing. 

Scarcely one month after the Song had recouped Yanjing, Zhang Jue (), who had filled in as military legislative leader of the Liao prefecture of Pingzhou about east of Yanjing, killed the primary Jin official in that city and turned it over to the Song. The Jurchens crushed his militaries a couple of months after the fact and Zhang took asylum in Yanjing. Despite the fact that the Song consented to execute him in late 1123, this episode put strain between the two states, in light of the fact that the 1123 settlement had unequivocally illegal the two sides from harboring turncoats. In 1124, Song authorities further incensed the Jin by requesting the cession of nine more outskirt prefectures. The new Jin ruler Taizong (r. 1123– 1135), Aguda's sibling and successor, dithered, yet warrior rulers Wanyan Zonghan and Wanyan Zongwang () passionately would not give them any more region. Taizong in the long run conceded two prefectures, yet by then the Jin pioneers were prepared to assault their southern neighbor. 

Before they could attack the Song, the Jurchens achieved a harmony concurrence with their western neighbors the Tangut Western Xia in 1124. The next year close to the Ordos Desert, they caught Tianzuo, the last head of the Liao, putting a conclusion to the Liao tradition for good. Prepared to end their union with the Song, the Jurchens started arrangements for an intrusion. 

In November 1125 Taizong requested his armed forces to assault the Song. The absconding of Zhang Jue two years sooner filled in as the "casus belli". Two armed forces were sent to catch the significant urban communities of the Song. 

The western armed force, driven by Wanyan Zonghan, withdrew from Datong and headed towards Taiyuan through the mountains of Shanxi, on its way to the Song western capital Luoyang. The Song powers were not anticipating an attack and were found napping. The Chinese general Tong Guan was educated of the military endeavor by an emissary he had sent to the Jin to get the cession of two prefectures. The returning agent announced that the Jurchens were happy to swear off an intrusion if the Song surrendered control of Hebei and Shanxi to the Jin. Tong Guan withdrew from Taiyuan and left order of his troops to Wang Bing. Jin armed forces blockaded the city in mid January 1126. Under Wang Bing's order, Taiyuan hung on sufficiently long to prevent the Jurchen troops from progressing to Luoyang. 

In the interim, the eastern armed force, instructed by Wanyan Zongwang, was dispatched towards Yanjing (present day Beijing) and inevitably the Song capital Kaifeng. It didn't confront much equipped restriction. Zongwang effectively took Yanjing, where Song general and previous Liao representative Guo Yaoshi () changed his devotions to the Jin. At the point when the Song had attempted to recover the Sixteen Prefectures, they had confronted furious opposition from the Han Chinese populace, yet when the Jurchens attacked that region, the Han Chinese did not restrict them by any means. Before the finish of December 1125, the Jin armed force had caught control of two prefectures and restored Jurchen rule over the Sixteen Prefectures. The eastern armed force was nearing Kaifeng by mid 1126. 

Dreading the drawing nearer Jin armed force, Song sovereign Huizong intended to withdraw south. The sovereign forsaking the capital would have been seen as a demonstration of capitulation, so court authorities persuaded him to renounce. There were not many complaints. Safeguarding a domain in emergency from pulverization could really compare to protecting the customs of majestic legacy. In January 1126, a couple of days before the New Year, Huizong abandoned for his child and was downgraded to the formal job of Retired Emperor. The Jurchen powers achieved the Yellow River on January 27, 1126, two days after the New Year. Huizong fled Kaifeng the following day, getting away south and leaving the recently enthroned sovereign Qinzong (r. 1126– 1127) accountable for the capital. 

Kaifeng was blockaded on January 31, 1126. The administrator of the Jurchen armed force guaranteed to save the city if the Song submitted to Jin as a vassal; relinquished the PM and a magnificent ruler as detainees; surrendered the Chinese prefectures of Hejian, Taiyuan, and Zhongshan; and offered a reimbursement of 50 million taels of silver, 5 million taels of gold, 1 million packs of silk, 1 million packs of glossy silk, 10,000 steeds, 10,000 donkeys, 10,000 dairy cattle, and 1,000 camels. This repayment was worth around 180 years of the yearly tribute the Song had been paying to the Jin since 1123. 

With little prospect of assistance from far off arriving, infighting broke out in the Song court between the authorities who upheld the Jin offer and the individuals who contradicted it. Adversaries of the arrangement like Li Gang (; 1083– 1140) revived around the proposition of staying in cautious positions until fortifications arrived and Jurchen supplies ran out. They messed up a trap against the Jin that was done during the evening, and were supplanted by authorities who bolstered harmony exchanges. The fizzled assault pushed Qinzong into fulfilling the Jurchen needs, and his authorities persuaded him to proceed with the arrangement. The Song perceived Jin authority over the three prefectures. The Jurchen armed force finished the attack in March following 33 days. 

Nearly when the Jin armed forces had left Kaifeng, Emperor Qinzong reneged on the arrangement and dispatched two militaries to repulse the Jurchen troops assaulting Taiyuan and reinforce the barriers of Zhongshan and Hejian. A multitude of 90,000 officers and another of 60,000 were vanquished by Jin powers by June. A second campaign to safeguard Taiyuan was additionally fruitless. 

Blaming the Song for disregarding the understanding and understanding the shortcoming of the Song, the Jin commanders propelled a second corrective crusade, again partitioning their troops into two militaries. Wanyan Zonghan, who had pulled back from Taiyuan after the Kaifeng understanding and left a little power accountable for the attack, returned with his western armed force. Overpowered, Taiyuan fell in September 1126, following 260 days of attack. At the point when the Song court got updates on the fall of Taiyuan, the authorities who had supported safeguarding the realm militarily tumbled from support again and were supplanted by advocates who favored conciliation. In mid December the two Jurchen armed forces united on Kaifeng for the second time that year. 

After the annihilation of a few Song armed forces in the north, Emperor Qinzong needed to arrange a ceasefire with the Jin, yet he submitted a gigantic vital goof when he instructed his outstanding armed forces to ensure prefectural urban areas rather than Kaifeng. Ignoring the significance of the capital, he left Kaifeng shielded with less than 100,000 fighters. The Song powers were scattered all through China, frail to stop the second Jurchen attack of the city. 

The Jin ambush initiated in mid December 1126. Indeed, even as battling seethed on, Qinzong kept on sueing for harmony, however Jin requests for an area were tremendous: they needed all territories north of the Yellow River. After over twenty days of substantial battle against the assaulting powers, Song protections were devastated and the confidence of Song troopers was on the decay. On January 9, 1127, the Jurchens got through and began to plunder the vanquished city. Sovereign Qinzong endeavored to mollify the victors by offering the rest of the abundance of the capital. The illustrious treasury was discharged and the assets of the city's inhabitants were seized. The Song ruler offered his unlimited surrender a couple of days after the fact. 

Qinzong, the previous sovereign Huizong, and individuals from the Song court were caught by the Jurchens as prisoners. They were taken north to Huining (present day Harbin), where they were deprived of their imperial benefits and decreased to average people. The previous heads were embarrassed by their captors. They were ridiculed with vilifying titles like "Tangled Virtue" and "Twofold Muddled". In 1128 the Jin influenced them to play out a custom implied for war offenders. The brutal treatment of the Song sovereignty diminished after the demise of Huizong in 1135. Titles were conceded to the expired ruler, and his child Qinzong was elevated to Duke, a situation with a pay. 

Numerous components added to the Song's rehashed military bumbles and consequent loss of northern China to the Jurchens. Customary records of Song history held the corruption of Huizong's majestic court in charge of the decrease of the administration. These accounts denounced Huizong and his authorities for their ethical disappointments. Early Song heads were anxious to order political changes and restore the moral system of Confucianism, however the eagerness for changes bit by bit kicked the bucket after the reformist Wang Anshi's removal as chancellor in 1076. Defilement defaced the rule of Huizong, who was more gifted as a painter than as a ruler. Huizong was known for his lavishness, and supported the exorbitant development of patio nurseries and sanctuaries while uprisings undermined the state's grasp on power. 

A cutting edge investigation by Ari Daniel Levine puts a greater amount of the fault on inadequacies in the military and bureaucratic authority. The loss of northern China was not inescapable. The military was overextended by an administration excessively guaranteed of its own military ability. Huizong occupied the state's assets to fizzled wars against the Western Xia. The Song emphasis on a more prominent offer of Liao region just prevailing with regards to inciting their Jin partners. Melody strategic oversights belittled the Jin and permitted the unrestricted ascent of Jurchen military power. The state had copious assets, except for ponies, yet dealt with its advantages ineffectively amid fights. Not at all like the sweeping Han and Tang domains that went before the Song, the Song did not have a critical a dependable balance in Central Asia where an extensive extent of its ponies could be reproduced or acquired. As Song general Li Gang noted, without a reliable supply of ponies the tradition was at a huge disservice against Jurchen mounted force: "the Jin were triumphant simply because they utilized iron-protected rangers, while we contradicted them with troopers. It is just not out of the ordinary that [our soldiers] were dissipated and scattered." 

The Jin administration had not expected or wanted the fall of the Song tradition. Their expectation was to debilitate the Song so as to request more tribute, and they were caught off guard for the greatness of their triumph. The Jurchens were engrossed with reinforcing their standard over the zones once constrained by Liao. Rather than proceeding with their intrusion of the Song, a domain with a military that dwarfed their own, they received the system of "utilizing Chinese to control the Chinese". The Jin trusted an intermediary state would be equipped for overseeing northern China and gathering the yearly repayment without requiring Jurchen intercessions to suppress against Jin uprisings. In 1127, the Jurchens introduced a previous Song official, Zhang Bangchang (張邦昌; 1081– 1127), as manikin sovereign of the recently settled "Da Chu" (Great Chu) administration. The manikin government did not stop the opposition in northern China, however the radicals were spurred by their displeasure towards the Jurchens' plundering as opposed to by a feeling of devotion towards the uncouth Song court. Various Song authorities, positioned in towns dissipated crosswise over northern China, held their loyalty to the Song, and furnished volunteers composed state armies contradicted to the Jurchen military nearness. The revolt hampered the capacity of the Jin to apply power over the north. 

Then, one Song sovereign, Zhao Gou, had gotten away catch. He had been held up in Cizhou while on a conciliatory mission, and never made it back to Kaifeng. He was absent in the capital when the city tumbled to the Jurchens. The future Emperor Gaozong figured out how to avoid the Jurchen troops following him by moving starting with one area then onto the next, bridging Hebei, Henan, and Shandong. The Jurchens attempted to draw him back to Kaifeng where they could at long last catch him, however did not succeed. Zhao Gou at last landed in the Song Southern Capital at Yingtianfu (; present day Shangqiu) toward the beginning of June 1127. For Gaozong (r. 1127– 1162), Yingtianfu was the first in a progression of transitory capitals called "xingzai" . The court moved to Yingtianfu as a result of its chronicled significance to Emperor Taizu of Song, the organizer of the administration, who had recently served in that city as a military senator. The imagery of the city was intended to verify the political authenticity of the new head, who was enthroned there on June 12. 

Subsequent to ruling for scarcely one month, Zhang Bangchang was convinced by the Song to venture down as ruler of the Great Chu and to perceive the authenticity of the Song majestic line. Li Gang forced Gaozong to execute Zhang for selling out the Song. The ruler yielded and Zhang was pressured into suicide. The executing of Zhang demonstrated that the Song was eager to incite the Jin, and that the Jin presently couldn't seem to cement their power over the recently vanquished regions. The accommodation and annulment of Chu implied that Kaifeng was presently back under Song control. Zong Ze (; 1059– 1128), the Song general in charge of sustaining Kaifeng, beseeched Gaozong to move the court back to the city, yet Gaozong cannot and withdrew south. The southward move denoted the finish of the Northern Song and the start of the Southern Song time of Chinese history. 

The relative of Confucius at Qufu, the Duke Yansheng Kong Duanyou fled south with the Song Emperor to Quzhou, while the recently settled Jin line (1115– 1234) in the north selected Kong Duanyou's sibling Kong Duancao who stayed in Qufu as Duke Yansheng. Zhang Xuan 張選, an extraordinary grandson of Zhang Zai, likewise fled south with Gaozong. 

The Song disbandment of the Great Chu and execution of Zhang Bangchang irritated the Jurchens and disregarded the bargain that the two gatherings had arranged. The Jin restored their assaults on the Song and immediately reconquered quite a bit of northern China. In late 1127 Gaozong moved his court further south from Yingtianfu to Yangzhou, south of the Huai River and north of the Yangtze River, by cruising down the Grand Canal. The court went through over a year in the city. At the point when the Jurchens progressed to the Huai River, the court was somewhat cleared to Hangzhou in 1129. Days after the fact, Gaozong barely got away on horseback, only a couple of hours in front of Jurchen vanguard troops. After an overthrow in Hangzhou nearly deposed him, in May 1129 he moved his capital back north to Jiankang (present day Nanjing) on the south bank of the Yangtze. After one month, in any case, Zong Ze's successor Du Chong () abandoned his powers from Kaifeng, presenting Jiankang to assault. The sovereign moved back to Hangzhou in September, leaving Jiankang in Du Chong's hands. The Jin in the end caught Kaifeng in mid 1130. 

From 1127 to 1129, the Song sent thirteen international safe havens to the Jin to talk about harmony terms and to arrange the arrival of Gaozong's mom and Huizong, however the Jin court disregarded them. In December 1129, the Jin began another military hostile, dispatching two armed forces over the Huai River in the east and west. On the western front, a military attacked Jiangxi, the region where the Song matron ruler lived, and caught Hongzhou (, present-day Nanchang). They were requested to withdraw a couple of months after the fact when the eastern armed force pulled back. 

In the interim, on the eastern front, Wuzhu instructed the fundamental Jin armed force. He crossed the Yangtze southwest of Jiankang and took that city when Du Chong surrendered. Wuzhu set out from Jiankang and progressed quickly to attempt to catch Gaozong. The Jin caught Hangzhou (January 22, 1130) and after that Shaoxing further south (February 4), however broad Zhang Jun's (1086– 1154) fight with Wuzhu close Ningbo gave Gaozong time to get away. When Wuzhu continued interest, the Song court was escaping on boats to islands off the shore of Zhejiang, and after that further south to Wenzhou. The Jin sent boats to pursue Gaozong, however neglected to get him. They surrendered the interest and the Jurchens withdrew north. After they pillaged the undefended urban communities of Hangzhou and Suzhou, they at long last began to confront opposition from Song armed forces driven by Yue Fei and Han Shizhong. The last even exacted a noteworthy annihilation on Jurchen powers and attempted to keep Wuzhu from intersection back toward the north bank of the Yangtze. The little water crafts of the Jin armed force were outmatched by Han Shizhong's armada of seagoing vessels. Wuzhu in the end figured out how to cross the waterway when he had his troops utilize combustible bolts to kill Han's boats by consuming their sails. Wuzhu's troops returned south of the Yangtze one final time to Jiankang, which they plundered, and after that traveled north. However the Jin had been found napping by the quality of the Song naval force, and Wuzhu never attempted to cross the Yangtze River again. In mid 1131, Jin armed forces between the Huai and the Yangtze were repulsed by outlaws faithful to the Song. Zhang Rong (), the pioneer of the desperados, was given an administration position for his triumph against the Jin. 

After the Jin invasion that nearly caught Gaozong, the sovereign arranged conciliation official Zhang Jun (1097– 1164), who was responsible for Shaanxi and Sichuan in the far west, to assault the Jin there to alleviate weight on the court. Zhang set up together a vast armed force, however was vanquished by Wuzhu close Xi'an in late 1130. Wuzhu progressed further west into Gansu, and drove as far south as Jiezhou (, present day Wudu). The most essential fights among Jin and Song in 1131 and 1132 occurred in Shaanxi, Gansu, and Sichuan. The Jin lost two fights at Heshang Yuan in 1131. Subsequent to neglecting to enter Sichuan, Wuzhu withdrew to Yanjing. He came back toward the western front again from 1132 to 1134. The Jin assaulted Hubei and Shaanxi in 1132. Wuzhu caught Heshang Yuan in 1133, yet his development was ended by a thrashing at Xianren Pass. He abandoned taking Sichuan, and not any more significant fights were battled between the Jin and Song for the remainder of the decade. 

The Song court came back to Hangzhou in 1133, and the city was renamed Lin'an. The royal tribal sanctuary was worked in Lin'an later that equivalent year, a sign that the court had by and by set up Lin'an as the Song capital without a formal presentation. It was treated as an impermanent capital. Somewhere in the range of 1130 and 1137, the court would sporadically move to Jiankang, and back to Lin'an. There were proposition to make Jiankang the new capital, however Lin'an won out on the grounds that the court thought of it as an increasingly secure city. The regular hindrances that encompassed Lin'an, including lakes and rice paddies, made it progressively troublesome for the Jurchen mounted force to rupture its strongholds. Access to the ocean made it simpler to withdraw from the city. In 1138, Gaozong authoritatively announced Lin'an the capital of the administration, yet the name of brief capital would at present be set up. Lin'an would remain the capital of the Southern Song for the following 150 years, developing into a noteworthy business and social focus. 

Qin Hui, an authority of the Song court, prescribed a quiet answer for the contention in 1130, saying that, "On the off chance that it is alluring that there will be no more clashes under Heaven, it is essential for the southerners to remain in the south and the northerners in the north." Gaozong, who viewed himself as a northerner, at first rejected the proposition. There were motions toward harmony in 1132, when the Jin liberated a detained Song representative, and in 1133, when the Song offered to turn into a Jin vassal, however a bargain never emerged. The Jin prerequisite that the outskirt between the two states be moved south from the Huai River to the Yangtze was excessively substantial of an obstacle for the opposite sides to achieve an understanding. 

The proceeding with revolt of hostile to Jin powers in northern China hampered the Jurchen crusades south of the Yangtze. Hesitant to give the war a chance to delay, the Jin chose to make Da Qi (the "Incomparable Qi"), their second endeavor at a manikin state in northern China. The Jurchens trusted that this state, ostensibly administered by somebody of Han Chinese plunge, would almost certainly pull in the loyalty of estranged individuals from the uprising. The Jurchens likewise experienced a deficiency of talented labor, and controlling the sum of northern China was not authoritatively attainable. In the last a long time of 1129, Liu Yu (; 1073– 1143) won the support of the Jin sovereign Taizong. Liu was a Song official from Hebei who had been an administrator of Jinan in Shandong before his deserting to the Jin in 1128. Da Qi was framed late in 1130, and the Jin enthroned Liu as its head. Daming in Hebei was the principal capital of Qi, before its turn to Kaifeng, previous capital of the Northern Song. The Qi government organized military enrollment, made an endeavor at changing the organization, and ordered laws that authorized the accumulation of high assessments. It was likewise in charge of providing a huge segment of the troops that battled the Song in the seven years following its creation. 

The Jin allowed Qi more self-sufficiency than the principal manikin administration of Chu, however Liu Yu was committed to comply with the requests of the Jurchen commanders. With Jin support, Da Qi attacked the Song in November 1133. Li Cheng, a Song turncoat who had joined the Qi, drove the crusade. Xiangyang and adjacent prefectures tumbled to his military. The catch of Xiangyang on the Han River gave the Jurchens a section into the focal valley of the Yangtze River. Their southward push was ended by the general Yue Fei. In 1134, Yue Fei crushed Li and retook Xiangyang and its encompassing prefectures. Soon thereafter, in any case, Qi and Jin started another hostile further east along the Huai River. Out of the blue, Gaozong issued a decree formally censuring Da Qi. The armed forces of Qi and Jin won a progression of triumphs in the Huai valley, however were repulsed by Han Shizhong close Yangzhou and by Yue Fei at Luzhou (, present day Hefei). Their abrupt withdrawal in 1135 in light of the demise of Jin Emperor Taizong gave the Song time to regroup. The war recommenced in late 1136 when Da Qi assaulted the Huainan circuits of the Song. Qi lost a fight at Outang (), in current Anhui, against a Song armed force driven by Yang Qizhong (; 1102– 1166). The triumph helped Song assurance, and the military chief Zhang Jun (1097– 1164) persuaded Gaozong to start plans for a counterattack. Gaozong first concurred, yet he surrendered the counteroffensive when an officer named Li Qiong () murdered his better official and deserted than the Jin with a huge number of warriors. In the mean time, Emperor Xizong (r. 1135– 1150) acquired the Jin position of royalty from Taizong, and pushed for harmony. He and his commanders were frustrated with Liu Yu's military disappointments and trusted that Liu was furtively contriving with Yue Fei. In late 1137, the Jin diminished Liu Yu's title to that of a sovereign and nullified the province of Qi. The Jin and Song recharged the arrangements towards harmony. 

Gaozong advanced Qin Hui in 1138 and place him responsible for considerations with the Jin. Yue Fei, Han Shizhong, and an extensive number of authorities at court reprimanded the harmony suggestions. Helped by his control of the Censorate, Qin cleansed his adversaries and proceeded with arrangements. In 1138 the Jin and Song consented to an arrangement that assigned the Yellow River as outskirt between the two states and perceived Gaozong as a "subject" of the Jin. But since there remained restriction to the arrangement in both the courts of the Jin and Song, the bargain never became effective. A Jurchen armed force driven by Wuzhu attacked in mid 1140. The Song counteroffensive that pursued accomplished substantial regional additions. Melody general Liu Qi () won a fight against Wuzhu at Shunchang (present day Fuyang in Anhui). Yue Fei was allocated to head the Song powers safeguarding the Huainan locale. Rather than progressing to Huainan, notwithstanding, Wuzhu withdrew to Kaifeng and Yue's military tailed him into Jin region, defying a request by Gaozong that restricted Yue from going into all out attack mode. Yue caught Zhengzhou and sent fighters over the Yellow River to work up a worker defiance to the Jin. On July 8, 1140, at the Battle of Yancheng, Wuzhu propelled an unexpected assault on Song powers with a multitude of 100,000 infantry and 15,000 horsemen. Yue Fei guided his rangers to assault the Jurchen troopers and won an unequivocal triumph. He proceeded to Henan, where he recovered Zhengzhou and Luoyang. Later in 1140, Yue was compelled to pull back after the sovereign arranged him to come back to the Song court. 

Sovereign Gaozong bolstered settling a harmony bargain with the Jurchens and looked to get control over the emphaticness of the military. The military campaigns of Yue Fei and different officers were an obstruction to harmony exchanges. The administration debilitated the military by compensating Yue Fei, Han Shizhong, and Zhang Jun (1086– 1154) with titles that alleviated them of their direction over the Song armed forces. Han Shizhong, a faultfinder of the bargain, resigned. Yue Fei additionally reported his acquiescence as a demonstration of dissent. In 1141 Qin Hui had him detained for resistance. Accused of injustice, Yue Fei was harmed in prison on Qin's requests in mid 1142. Jurchen conciliatory weight amid the harmony talks may have assumed a job, however Qin Hui's supposed conspiracy with the Jin has never been demonstrated. 

After his execution, Yue Fei's notoriety for protecting the Southern Song developed to that of a national people saint. Qin Hui was maligned by later antiquarians, who blamed him for deceiving the Song. The genuine Yue Fei varied from the later legends dependent on his endeavors. In opposition to conventional legends, Yue was just a single of numerous officers who battled against the Jin in northern China. Conventional records have likewise accused Gaozong for Yue Fei's execution and submitting to the Jin. Qin Hui, in an answer to Gaozong's appreciation for the accomplishment of the harmony arrangements, told the sovereign that "the choice to make harmony was completely Your Majesty's. Your worker just done it; what accomplishment was there in this for me?" 

On October 11, 1142, after about a time of dealings, the Treaty of Shaoxing was confirmed, finishing the contention between the Jin and the Song. By the terms of the arrangement, the Huai River, north of the Yangtze, was assigned as the limit between the two states. The Song consented to pay a yearly tribute of 250,000 taels of silver and 250,000 packs of silk to the Jin. 

The bargain diminished the Southern Song Dynasty status to that of a Jin vassal. The record assigned the Song as the "immaterial state", while the Jin was perceived as the "unrivaled state". The content of the bargain has not made due in Chinese records, an indication of its mortifying notoriety. The substance of the understanding were recouped from a Jurchen life story. When the arrangement had been settled, the Jurchens withdrew north and exchange continued between the two realms. The harmony guaranteed by the Treaty of Shaoxing went on for the following 70 years, however was interfered with twice. One military battle was started by the Song and the other by the Jin. 

Wanyan Liang drove an upset against Emperor Xizong and turned out to be fourth ruler of the Jin tradition in 1150. Wanyan Liang introduced himself as a Chinese sovereign, and wanted to join China by vanquishing the Song. In 1158, Wanyan Liang gave a "casus belli" by declaring that the Song had broken the 1142 harmony bargain by securing ponies. He established a disagreeable draft that was the wellspring of boundless distress in the domain. Against Jin revolts emitted among the Khitans and in Jin territories circumscribing the Song. Wanyan Liang did not permit contradiction, and resistance to the war was seriously rebuffed. The Song had been told in advance of Wanyan Liang's arrangement. They arranged by verifying their guards along the outskirt, principally close to the Yangtze River, however were hampered by Emperor Gaozong's hesitation. Gaozong's longing for harmony made him disinclined to inciting the Jin. Wanyan Liang started the intrusion in 1161 without formally announcing war. Jurchen armed forces by and by driven by Wanyan Liang left Kaifeng on October 15, achieved the Huai River verge on October 28, and walked toward the Yangtze. The Song lost the Huai to the Jurchens however caught a couple Jin prefectures in the west, moderating the Jurchen advance. A gathering of Jurchen officers were sent to cross the Yangtze close to the city of Caishi (south of Ma'anshan in current Anhui) while Wanyan Liang built up a base close Yangzhou. 

The Song official Yu Yunwen was in order of the military shielding the waterway. The Jurchen armed force was vanquished while assaulting Caishi between November 26 and 27 amid the Battle of Caishi. The oar wheel boats of the Song naval force, furnished with trebuchets that shot explosive bombs, overpowered the light ships of the Jin armada. Jin ships were unfit to contend on the grounds that they were littler and quickly built. The bombs propelled by the Song contained blends of black powder, lime, pieces of iron, and a toxic substance that was likely arsenic. Conventional Chinese records consider this the defining moment of the war, portraying it as a military miracle that verified southern China from the northern intruders. The importance of the fight is said to have equaled a likewise adored triumph at the Battle of Fei River in the fourth century. Contemporaneous Song accounts guaranteed that the 18,000 Song officers told by Yu Yunwen and entrusted with shielding Caishi had the capacity to vanquish the attacking Jurchen armed force of 400,000 troopers. Present day history specialists are increasingly wary and consider the Jurchen numbers a misrepresentation. Tune students of history may have confounded the quantity of Jurchen officers at the Battle of Caishi with the all out number of troopers under the direction of Wanyan Liang. The contention was not the uneven fight that conventional records suggest, and the Song had various favorable circumstances over the Jin. The Song armada was bigger than the Jin's, and the Jin were unfit to utilize their most noteworthy resource, mounted force, in a maritime fight. 

A cutting edge investigation of the combat zone has demonstrated that it was a minor fight, in spite of the fact that the triumph boosted Song assurance. The Jin lost, yet just endured around 4,000 losses and the fight was not lethal to the Jurchen war exertion. It was Wanyan Liang's poor associations with the Jurchen commanders, who detested him, that bound the odds of a Jin triumph. On December 15, Wanyan Liang was killed in his military camp by irritated officers. He was prevailing by Emperor Shizong (r. 1161– 1189). Shizong was compelled into consummation the disliked war with the Song, and requested the withdrawal of Jin powers in 1162. Sovereign Gaozong resigned from the royal position that equivalent year. His misusing of the war with Wanyan Liang was one of numerous purposes behind his relinquishment. Conflicts between the Song and Jin proceeded with the outskirt, however died down in 1165 after the exchange of a harmony arrangement. There were no real regional changes. The settlement directed that the Song still needed to pay the yearly reimbursement, however the repayment was renamed from "tribute", which had inferred a subordinate relationship, to "installment". 

The Jin were debilitated by the weight of the rising Mongols toward the north, a progression of floods coming full circle in a Yellow River flood in 1194 that crushed Hebei and Shandong in northern China, and the dry spells and swarming insects that tormented the south close to the Huai. The Song were educated of the Jurchen issue by their diplomats, who ventured out two times every year to the Jin capital, and began inciting their northern neighbor. The threats were affected by chancellor Han Tuozhou. The Song Emperor Ningzong (r. 1194– 1224) looked into the war exertion. Under Han Tuozhou's supervision, arrangements for the war continued bit by bit and carefully. The court revered the irredentist saint Yue Fei and Han arranged the distributing of verifiable records that advocated war with the Jin. From 1204 onwards, Chinese furnished gatherings struck Jurchen settlements. Han Tuozhou was assigned the head of national security in 1205. The Song financed extremists in the north that declared supporter feelings. These early conflicts kept on heightening, incompletely abetted by revanchist Song authorities, and war against the Jin was authoritatively announced on June 14, 1206. The archive that declared the war guaranteed the Jin lost the Mandate of Heaven, a sign that they were unfit to control, and required an uprising of Han Chinese against the Jin state. 

Tune armed forces driven by general Bi Zaiyu (; d. 1217) caught the scarcely shielded fringe city of Sizhou (on the north bank of the Huai River opposite present day Xuyi County) yet endured extensive misfortunes against the Jurchens in Hebei. The Jin repulsed the Song and moved south to blockade the Song town of Chuzhou on the Grand Canal only south of the Huai River. Bi shielded the town, and the Jurchens pulled back from the attack following three months. By the fall of 1206, nonetheless, the Jurchens had caught numerous towns and army installations. The Jin started a hostile against Song prefectures in the focal front of the war, catching Zaoyang and Guanghua (; on the Han River close present day Laohekou). By the fall of 1206, the Song hostile had just flopped appallingly. Trooper assurance sank as climate conditions declined, supplies ran out, and hunger spread, driving numerous to forsake. The huge abandonments of Han Chinese in northern China that the Song had expected never appeared. 

An outstanding selling out occurred on the Song side, nonetheless: Wu Xi (; d. 1207), the representative general of Sichuan, deserted to the Jin in December 1206. The Song had relied upon Wu's achievement in the west to redirect Jin fighters from the eastern front. He had assaulted Jin positions before in 1206, however his military of around 50,000 men had been repulsed. Wu's deserting could have implied the loss of the whole western front of the war, yet Song followers killed Wu on March 29, 1207, preceding Jin troops could assume responsibility for the surrendered regions. A Bing (; d. 1221) was given Wu Xi's position, however the union of Song powers in the west went into disrepair after Wu's end and leaders turned on one another in the following infighting. 

Battling proceeded in 1207, however before that year's over the war was at a stalemate. The Song was currently on edge, while the Jin neglected to make gains in Song region. The disappointment of Han Tuozhou's forceful approaches prompted his destruction. On December 15, 1207, Han was pounded the life out of by the Imperial Palace Guards. His accessory Su Shidan () was executed, and different authorities associated with Han were expelled or banished. Since neither one of the combatants was anxious to proceed with the war, they came back to exchanges. A harmony settlement was marked on November 2, 1208, and the Song tribute to the Jin was restored. The Song yearly repayment expanded by 50,000 taels of silver and 50,000 packs of texture. The arrangement likewise stipulated that the Song needed to present to the Jin the head of Han Tuozhou, who the Jin considered in charge of beginning the war. The heads of Han and Su were separated from their unearthed cadavers, displayed to people in general, at that point conveyed to the Jin. 

The Mongols, a roaming confederation, had brought together amidst the twelfth century. They and other steppe migrants at times struck the Jin domain from the northwest. The Jin shied far from correctional undertakings and was content with mollification, like the acts of the Song. The Mongols, once in the past a Jin tributary, finished their Jurchen vassalage in 1210 and assaulted the Jin in 1211. In light of this occasion, the Song court discussed finishing tributary installments to the debilitated Jin, yet they again abstained from alienating the Jin. They declined Western Xia's ideas of associating against the Jin in 1214 and eagerly gone along when in 1215 the Jin rejected a solicitation to bring down the yearly repayment. Then, in 1214, the Jin withdrew from the blockaded capital of Zhongdu to Kaifeng, which turned into the new capital of the tradition. As the Mongols extended, the Jin endured regional misfortunes and assaulted the Song in 1217 to make up for their contracting an area. Intermittent Song strikes against the Jin were the official legitimization for the war. Another feasible rationale was that the triumph of the Song would have given the Jin a spot to escape should the Mongols prevail with regards to assuming responsibility for the north. Shi Miyuan (; 1164– 1233), the chancellor of Song Emperor Lizong (r. 1224– 1264), was reluctant to battle the Jin and postponed the affirmation of war for two months. Melody commanders were to a great extent independent, permitting Shi to dodge fault for their military bungles. The Jin progressed over the outskirt from the inside and western fronts. Jurchen military triumphs were constrained, and the Jin confronted rehashed strikes from the neighboring province of Western Xia. In 1217, the Song officers Meng Zongzheng () and Hu Zaixing () vanquished the Jin and kept them from catching Zaoyang and Suizhou. 

A second Jin battle in late 1217 showed improvement over the first. In the east, the Jin made little progress in the Huai River valley, however in the west they caught Xihezhou and Dasan Pass (; current Shaanxi) in late 1217. The Jin endeavored to caught Suizhou in Jingxi South circuit again in 1218 and 1219, however fizzled. A Song counteroffensive in mid 1218 caught Sizhou and in 1219 the Jin urban communities of Dengzhou and Tangzhou were plundered twice by a Song armed force told by Zhao Fang (; d. 1221). In the west, direction of the Song powers in Sichuan was given to A Bing, who had recently been rejected from this position. He effectively safeguarded the western front, however was unfit to progress further on account of nearby uprisings in the region. The Jin endeavored to blackmail a reimbursement from the Song yet never gotten it. In the remainder of the three battles, in mid 1221, the Jin caught the city of Qizhou (; in Huainan West) somewhere down in Song domain. Melody armed forces driven by Hu Zaixing and Li Quan (; d. 1231) vanquished the Jin, who at that point pulled back. In 1224 the two sides conceded to a harmony arrangement that finished the yearly tributes to the Jin. Political missions between the Jin and Song were likewise cut off. 

In February 1233, the Mongols took Kaifeng after an attack of over 10 months and the Jin court withdrew to the town of Caizhou. In 1233 Emperor Aizong (r. 1224– 1234) of the Jin dispatched ambassadors to beseech the Song for provisions. Jin emissaries answered to the Song that the Mongols would attack the Song after they were finished with the Jin—a gauge that would later be demonstrated valid—however the Song disregarded the notice and rebuked the solicitation. They rather framed a partnership with the Mongols against the Jin. The Song gave supplies to the Mongols as an end-result of parts of Henan. The Jin administration crumbled when Mongol and Song troops vanquished the Jurchens at the attack of Caizhou in 1234. General Meng Gong () drove the Song armed force against Caizhou. The penultimate sovereign of the Jin, Emperor Aizong, ended his very own life. His fleeting successor, Emperor Mo, was killed in the town a couple of days after the fact. The Mongols later turned their sights towards the Song. Following quite a while of war, the Song tradition likewise fell in 1279, when the rest of the Song supporters lost to the Mongols in a maritime fight close Guangdong. 

Jurchen vagrants from the northeastern scopes of Jin domain settled in the Jin-controlled terrains of northern China. Comprising under 10% of the complete populace, the a few million decision Jurchens were a minority in a locale that was as yet overwhelmed by 30 million Han Chinese. The southward extension of the Jurchens made the Jin change their decentralized administration of semi-agrarian clans to a bureaucratic Chinese-style tradition. 

The Jin government at first advanced an autonomous Jurchen culture close by their selection of the concentrated Chinese majestic organization, yet the domain was bit by bit sinicized after some time. The Jurchens wound up familiar with the Chinese language, and the logic of Confucianism was utilized to legitimize the decision government. Confucian state customs were embraced amid the rule of Emperor Xizong (1135– 1150). The Jin actualized supreme tests on the Confucian Classics, first territorially and after that for the whole domain. The Classics and different works of Chinese writing were converted into Jurchen and concentrated by Jin scholarly people, however not very many Jurchens effectively added to the traditional writing of the Jin. The Khitan content, from the Chinese group of contents, framed the premise of a national composition framework for the realm, the Jurchen content. Each of the three contents were working dialects of the administration. Jurchen tribes embraced Chinese individual names with their Jurchen names. Wanyan Liang (Prince of Hailing; r. 1150– 1161) was an excited defender of Jurchen sinicization and authorized arrangements to energize it. Wanyan Liang had been acculturated by Song representatives from adolescence, and his imitating of Song rehearses earned him the Jurchen epithet of "aping the Chinese". He examined the Chinese works of art, drank tea, and played Chinese chess for entertainment. Under his rule, the authoritative center of the Jin state was moved south from Huining. He instated Beijing as the Jin fundamental capital in 1153. Royal residences were raised in Beijing and Kaifeng, while the first, progressively northerly living arrangements of Jurchen chieftains were pulverized. 

The head's political changes were associated with his craving to vanquish all of China and to legitimize himself as a Chinese sovereign. The possibility of overcoming southern China was stopped by Wanyan Liang's death. Wanyan Liang's successor, Emperor Shizong, was less energetic about sinicization and turned around a few of Wanyan Liang's orders. He endorsed new arrangements with the plan to moderate the absorption of the Jurchens. Shizong's denials were deserted by Emperor Zhangzong (r. 1189– 1208), who advanced changes that changed the political structure of the administration closer to that of the Song and Tang traditions. In spite of social and statistic changes, military threats between the Jin and the Song persevered until the fall of the Jin. 

In the south, the retreat of the Song line prompted significant statistic changes. The number of inhabitants in displaced people from the north that resettled in Lin'an and Jiankang (current Hangzhou and Nanjing) in the end became more noteworthy than the number of inhabitants in unique occupants, whose numbers had dwindled from rehashed Jurchen strikes. The administration empowered the resettlement of worker vagrants from the southern areas of the Song to the underpopulated regions between the Yangtze and the Huai waterways. 

The new capital Lin'an developed into a noteworthy business and social focus. It ascended from a mediocre city of no unique significance to one of the world's biggest and generally prosperous. Amid his stay in Lin'an in the Yuan administration (1260– 1368), when the city was not as well off as it had been under the Song, Marco Polo commented that "this city is more noteworthy than any on the planet". When retaking northern China turned out to be less conceivable and Lin'an developed into a noteworthy exchanging city, the administration structures were stretched out and revamped to all the more likely befit its status as a supreme capital. The unassumingly estimated majestic castle was extended in 1133 with new roofed back streets and in 1148 with an augmentation of the royal residence dividers. 

The loss of northern China, the social focus of Chinese development, decreased the local status of the Song line. After the Jurchen success of the north, Korea perceived the Jin, not the Song, as the real administration of China. The Song's military disappointments decreased it to a subordinate of the Jin, transforming it into a "China among equivalents". The Song economy, be that as it may, recuperated rapidly after the move south. Government incomes earned from saddling outside exchange about multiplied between the end of the Northern Song period in 1127 and the last long stretches of Gaozong's reign in the mid 1160s. The recuperation was not uniform, and regions like Huainan and Hubei that had been straightforwardly influenced by the war took a very long time to come back to their pre-war levels. Regardless of numerous wars, the Jin stayed one of the principle exchanging accomplices of the Song. Melody interest for remote items like hide and steeds went unabated. Antiquarian trusts that Song trade with the north was sufficiently productive that it made up for the silver conveyed every year as a reimbursement to the Jin. 

The fights between the Song and the Jin prodded the innovation and utilization of black powder weapons. There are reports that the flame spear, one of the soonest precursors of the gun, was utilized by the Song against the Jurchens assaulting De'an (; present day Anlu in eastern Hubei) in 1132, amid the Jin attack of Hubei and Shaanxi. The weapon comprised of a lance connected with a flamethrower fit for shooting shots from a barrel developed of bamboo or paper. They were worked by troopers under the order of Chen Gui (), who drove the Song armed force shielding De'an. The flame spears with which Song officers were prepared at De'an were worked for obliterating the wooden attack motors of the Jin and not for battle against the Jin infantry. Tune officers made up for the constrained range and portability of the weapon by timing their assaults on the Jin attack motors, holding up until they were inside scope of the shoot spears. Later flame spears utilized metal barrels, terminated shots more distant and with more prominent power, and could be utilized against infantry. 

Early simple bombs like the "huopao" discharge bomb () and the "huopao" () bombs impelled by trebuchet were likewise being used as combustible weapons. The safeguarding Song armed force utilized "huopao" () amid the first Jin attack of Kaifeng in 1126. On the contradicting side, the Jin propelled combustible bombs from attack towers down onto the city beneath. In 1127, "huopao" () were utilized by the Song troops guarding De'an and by the Jin officers assaulting the city. The administration official Lin Zhiping () proposed to make flammable bombs and bolts compulsory for all warships in the Song naval force. At the skirmish of Caishi in 1161, Song ships terminated "pili huoqiu" (), likewise called "pili huopao" bombs (), from trebuchets against the boats of the Jin armada told by Wanyan Liang. The explosive blend of the bomb contained powdered lime, which delivered blinding smoke once the packaging of the bomb broke. The Song likewise sent flammable weapons at the clash of Tangdao amid that year. 

Explosive was likewise connected to bolts in 1206 by a Song armed force positioned in Xiangyang. The bolts were no doubt a flammable weapon, yet its capacity may likewise have looked like that of an early rocket. At the Jin attack of Qizhou () in 1221, the Jurchens battled the Song with black powder bombs and bolts. The Jin "tiehuopao" (, "iron "huopao""), which had solid metal housings, are the main known bombs that could detonate. The bomb should have been fit for exploding so as to enter the iron packaging. The Song armed force had a substantial supply of ignitable bombs, however there are no reports of them having a weapon like the Jin's exploding bombs. A member in the attack related in the "Xinsi Qi Lu" (辛巳泣蘄錄) that the Song armed force at Qizhou had an armory of 3000 "huopao" (), 7000 ignitable black powder bolts for crossbows and 10000 for bows, just as 20000 "pidapao" (), likely cowhide packs loaded up with explosive.