Skirmish of Caishi 

The Battle of Caishi (Battle of Ts'ai-shih; ) was a noteworthy maritime commitment of the Jin– Song Wars of China that occurred on November 26– 27, 1161. Officers under the direction of Wanyan Liang, the Jurchen ruler of the Jin administration, attempted to cross the Yangtze River to assault Song China. Yu Yunwen, a common authority, directed the shielding Song armed force. The oar wheel warships of the Song armada, outfitted with trebuchets that propelled ignitable bombs made of explosive and lime, definitively crushed the light ships of the Jin naval force. 

Beginning in 1125 the Jin had vanquished all Song regions north of the Huai River. In 1142, a harmony arrangement settled the outskirt between the two states, putting the Jin responsible for northern China and the Song responsible for the south. Wanyan Liang was enthroned in 1150, and was determined to joining northern and southern China under a solitary head. In 1158, he affirmed that the Song had disregarded the 1142 settlement, an affection for announcing war on the Song. He started arrangements for the war in the next year. He established a draft in which all physically fit men were required to enroll. The draft was disliked, accelerating revolts that were later stifled. The Jin armed force left the capital of Kaifeng on October 15, 1161, and pushed through from the Huai to the Yangtze River absent much obstruction from the Song. 

The Song were braced along the Yangtze front. Wanyan Liang intended to cross the waterway at Caishi, south of current Nanjing. He left from the shore of the Yangtze on November 26, and conflicted with Song powers driven by Yu Yunwen in a maritime commitment. Wanyan Liang lost the fight and withdrew to Yangzhou. Wanyan Liang was killed in a military camp by his very own men not long after the Caishi fight. A military upset had occurred in the Jin court while Wanyan Liang was missing, enthroning Emperor Shizong as the new head. A harmony bargain marked in 1165 finished the contention among Song and Jin. 

Melody sources likely swelled the quantity of Jin officers and setbacks at Caishi, however the 18,000 figure for the Song armed force is conceivable. Present day contemplates recommend that the fight was littler and that the two sides were more uniformly coordinated than customary records propose. Regardless, the triumph helped the resolve of the Song infantry and ended the southern development of the Jin armed force. 

The Song (960– 1276) were a Chinese tradition. To their north were the Jurchens, a confederation of semi-agrarian clans from Manchuria in upper east Asia. While the Song and Jurchen had once been military partners, the Jurchen clans, brought together under the standard of Wanyan Aguda, plotted a revolt in 1114 to end their vassalage under the Khitan-drove Liao line. Aguda built up the Jin line in 1115 and embraced the title of ruler. The Jin arranged a joint assault with the Song against the Khitans. They arranged the assault for 1121 and after that rescheduled to 1122. In 1122, the Jurchens caught the Liao Supreme and Western Capitals. The Song attempted yet neglected to catch the Liao Southern Capital of Yan (present day Beijing), which fell soon thereafter to the Jin. The military shortcoming of the Song gave the Jin increasingly political influence over them. Dealings between the Song and Jin delivered a settlement in 1123, yet reciprocal relations decayed as a result of regional disagreements regarding the Sixteen Prefectures. In 1125, the Jurchens attacked the Song. 

By 1127, Jin had vanquished a large portion of northern China and assaulted the Song capital of Kaifeng twice. In the second attack of Kaifeng, Emperor Qinzong of the Song was caught. The Jurchens took him and the Song illustrious family to Manchuria as prisoners. Individuals from the Song court who had avoided catch fled south, where they built up an impermanent capital, first in the Song southern capital (present day Shangqiu), and afterward in Hangzhou in 1129. The move of the Song capital south to Hangzhou flags the progress from the Northern Song period toward the Southern Song. Qinzong's more youthful sibling, Prince Zhao Gou, was enthroned as Qinzong's successor in the southern capital in 1127; he is referred to after death as Emperor Gaozong. The Jurchen general Wuzhu crossed the Yangtze River in 1130 and endeavored to catch Gaozong, however the Emperor got away. Wuzhu withdrew north over the Yangtze, where he warded off a more grounded Song armada instructed by Han Shizhong. 

The Jin continued with their development into the rest of the Song regions south of the Yangtze. They confronted a rebellion of Song followers in the north, the passings of some essential heads, and military offensives by Song commanders like Yue Fei. The Jurchens made the manikin legislature of Da Qi to fill in as a support state among Song and Jin, yet Qi neglected to overcome the Song. The Jin annulled Qi in 1137. As the Jin abandoned overcoming the Southern Song, strategic talks for a harmony arrangement continued. Marked in 1142, the Treaty of Shaoxing built up the limit between the two states along the Huai River, which runs north of the Yangtze. The arrangement prohibited the Song from obtaining steeds from the Jin, however sneaking proceeded in the fringe markets. The relations between the two states were generally serene from 1142 to 1161, the year Wanyan Liang did battle. 

Wanyan Liang was delegated Jin ruler in 1150 subsequent to murdering his cousin and ancestor, Emperor Xizong, in a royal residence overthrow. Wanyan Liang viewed himself as to a greater degree a Chinese dictator ruler than a Jurchen pioneer who controlled through an inborn committee. The "Historical backdrop of Jin" battles that Wanyan Liang told his authorities that the three wants of his life were victory, total power, and ladies. His definitive aspiration was to lead over all of China, not simply the north. In his adolescence, Wanyan Liang received Song rehearses like drinking tea by gaining from Song emissaries, and once he had progressed toward becoming ruler, he sought after an arrangement of sinicizing the state. His fondness for the way of life of the Song earned him the Jurchen moniker of "aping the Chinese". He moved the Supreme Capital of the Jin from Huining in Manchuria to Beijing and elevated Kaifeng to his Southern Capital in 1157. He additionally moved government organizations south, tore down castles of Jurchen chieftains in Manchuria, and built new royal residences in Beijing and Kaifeng. He made arrangements to move the Jin capital further south to the focal point of China. Wanyan Liang's development ventures depleted the Jin treasury. 

Plans for a war against the Southern Song started in 1158. That year, Wanyan Liang asserted that the Song had broken the 1142 settlement that prohibited them from procuring ponies. In 1159, he started developing his military in anticipation of an attack. He obtained weapons, which he put away in Beijing, just as ponies purportedly numbering 560,000. Wanyan Liang comprehended that an intrusion of the Song would require a great deal of men. He guaranteed that Han Chinese warriors were drafted into the war exertion close by Jurchen fighters. The enlistment drive endured until 1161. Maritime encounters were likely in light of the fact that the Jin anticipated going by waterway. Boats were seized for the war and 30,000 of the volunteers were allocated to the Jin armada. Wanyan Liang approved the structure of boats for the war in March 1159, under the support of the Ministry of War. Development started in the Tong () prefecture close Beijing. Wanyan Liang designated himself leader of the military and took individual direction of the Jurchen powers. The draft was disliked. A few rebellions emitted against it, huge numbers of them in the Jin regions neighboring the Song. Be that as it may, Wanyan Liang permitted no contradiction. He had his stepmother executed in the wake of hearing that she was condemning of the war exertion. 

So as to take out any test to his authenticity as ruler of an assembled China, Wanyan Liang requested the execution of every male individual from the Song and Liao regal families living in Jin region. The execution of 130 individuals from the two regal families in the range of a couple of months demonstrated disagreeable, and the Khitans before long revolted in Manchuria. They wouldn't be drafted into the military, keeping up that enrollment would leave the country of the Khitans unprotected from adversary clans on the steppes. Wanyan Liang rebuked their requests. The Khitan rebels murdered a few Jurchen authorities. The defiance was divided, and there were discrete plans either to spread the revolt further by working from Shangjing, the previous Liao capital, or to move the Khitan individuals from Manchuria to Central Asia, where the Kara-Khitan Khanate had shaped after the downfall of Liao. Wanyan Liang was compelled to occupy assets and men from the war exertion to stifle the resistance. 

Strategic trades between the Song and Jin did not quit amid the period going before the war. The "Historical backdrop of Song" asserts that the Song understood that the Jin were getting ready for an intrusion when they saw the thoughtlessness of one of the Jin negotiators. Some Song authorities anticipated the looming war, however Emperor Gaozong would have liked to keep up serene relations with the Song's northern neighbor. His hesitance to alienate the Jin postponed the stronghold of the Song outskirt safeguards. The Song rapidly constructed only three military battalions in 1161. Wanyan Liang withdrew from Kaifeng on October 15, 1161. The hostile involved four militaries, and Wanyan Liang by and by drove the military that entered Anhui. The Jin passed the Huai River limit on October 28, progressing into Song region. The Song obstruction was insignificant on the grounds that they had braced the southern shore of the Yangtze River and not the Huai. 

Wanyan Liang's military fabricated its place to stay close Yangzhou on the northern side of the Yangtze River. The Jin advance had been impeded by Song triumphs in the west, where the Song caught a few prefectures from the Jin. Wanyan Liang directed his powers to cross the Yangtze at Caishi, south of present day Nanjing. A maritime fight among Jin and Song occurred on November 26 and 27, 1161. The Song troops were driven by Yu Yunwen – a researcher official – and his lieutenants Dai Gao, Jian Kang, Shi Zhun, and others. Yu, who was a Drafting Official of the Secretariat ("zhongshu sheren" ), was at Caishi to disseminate grants to Song fighters who had been chosen for their remarkable administration; it was by chance that his visit matched with Wanyan Liang's crusade. When he originally arrived, the Song powers at Caishi were dispersed and came up short on a focal pioneer. Yu took order and manufactured a firm armed force. The Jin played out a custom penance of ponies daily before the fight. On November 26, Jin troops set out from the shore of the Yangtze and connected with the Song armada. A portion of the boats they boarded were disgracefully constructed. The Jin had lost a few ships in Liangshan, where they were hindered by the shallow profundities of Liangshan Lake as they were being transported to the Grand Canal. Wanyan Liang had desperately mentioned the development of more ships in 1161 to make up for those still stuck in Liangshan. One record of the war battles that the Jin ships were developed in seven days with materials reused from decimated structures. The lack of vessels and the low quality of those accessible kept the Jin from shipping more troopers required for battling a maritime fight with the Song. 

The Song military reaction was likely more grounded than Wanyan Liang had foreseen. The oar wheel boats of the Song naval force could move all the more quickly and defeat the slower Jin ships. The Song kept their armada holed up behind the island of Qibao Shan. The boats were to leave the island once a scout on horseback declared the methodology of the Jin sends by flagging a hid banner on the island's pinnacle. When the banner ended up unmistakable, the Song armada started their assault from the two sides of the island. Melody warriors worked footing trebuchets that propelled combustible "thunderclap bombs" and other delicate cased explosives containing lime and sulfur, which made a poisonous blast when the packaging broke. The Jin fighters who figured out how to cross the waterway and achieve the shore were ambushed by Song troops looking out for the opposite side. The Song won a definitive triumph. Wanyan Liang was crushed again in a second commitment the following day. In the wake of consuming his outstanding boats, he withdrew to Yangzhou, where he was killed before he could complete arrangements for another intersection. 

Assessments for the quantity of warriors and setbacks at the fight differ generally. A Song source reports that there were 18,000 Song fighters positioned in Caishi, a number that history specialist Herbert Franke thinks about conceivable. Be that as it may, Song gauges for the quantity of Jin troops are likely expanded. One report asserts that 400,000 Jin fighters were available at the fight. This number is dubious, remembering that the Song had just 120,000 warriors battling on the whole front. Tune students of history may have befuddled the all out number of Jin work force sent on the front with the quantity of Jin warriors at Caishi. The swelled figure could have alluded to the quantity of officers that the Jin armed force had before intersection the Huai River toward the Yangtze. The renunciations and losses from smothering rebellions while propelling southward would have contracted that number when the Jin achieved the Yangtze. The "Historical backdrop of Jin", a record composed from the point of view of the Jin, reports Jin losses between one "meng'an" (a Jurchen unit of a thousand fighters) and a hundred men, and two "meng'an" and two hundred men. The "Historical backdrop of Song" reports Jin setbacks numbering four thousand fighters and two leaders of "wanhu" (ten thousand men) rank. A record of the fight by an alternate Song source holds that 24,000 Jin warriors kicked the bucket and that 500 soldiers and five "meng-a" were taken as detainees. An increasingly traditionalist Song source evaluates that the Jin just had 500 officers and 20 ships at Caishi. It isn't sure which of these figures is increasingly exact; Franke trusts that the most secure end that can be drawn is that the quantity of Jin losses was not more noteworthy than four thousand. 

A record of the Song's innovative capacities is given in the "Hai Qiu Fu" ("Rhapsodic Ode on the Sea-eel Paddle Wheel Warships"): 

The men inside them paddled quick on the treadmills, and the boats skimmed advances just as they were flying, yet nobody was obvious ready. The foe felt that they were made of paper. At that point unexpectedly a thunderclap bomb was let off. It was made with paper (container) and loaded up with lime and sulfur. (Propelled from trebuchets) these thunderclap bombs came dropping down from the air, and after gathering the water detonated with a clamor like thunder, the sulfur blasting into flares. The container case bounced back and broke, dissipating the lime to frame a smoky mist, which blinded the eyes of men and ponies so they could see nothing. Our boats at that point went ahead to assault theirs, and their men and steeds were altogether suffocated, so they were totally crushed. 

There were up to 340 ships in the Song armada amid the clash of Caishi in 1161. The Song armada utilized trebuchets to assault the Jin ships with flammable bombs ("pili huoqiu" or "huopao" ; "thunderclap discharge balls") that contained a blend of black powder, lime, pieces of iron, and a toxic substance that was likely arsenic. Reports that the bomb delivered a noisy sound proposes that the nitrate substance of the black powder blend was sufficiently high to make a blast. The powdered lime in the bombs at Caishi produced a haze of blinding smoke like nerve gas. The "huoqiu" discharged the smoke once the packaging of the bomb broke. Wires actuated the bombs in the wake of propelling. 

The Jin recruited a great many metal forgers to assemble the reinforcement and weaponry of the armada, and laborers to uncover the waterway essential for transporting the boats from Tong to the Grand Canal through the northern port of Zhigu (), present day Tianjin. The Jin heavily clad their light ships with thick rhinoceros stows away. The boats had two stories; on the lower deck were the rowers in charge of paddling the ship, while officers on the upper deck could shoot rocket weapons. Three distinct varieties of the warships were developed. A few of the boats progressed toward becoming impeded in Liangshan, and the boats worked to supplant them were of a mediocre quality. The Jin armada were unfit to vanquish the bigger and quicker warships of the Song. 

The fight is noteworthy in the innovative history of the Song naval force. The mechanical advances of the Song naval force guaranteed its entrance toward the East China Sea, where they contended with the military powers of Jin and Mongol adversaries. In spite of the fact that "huopao" propelled by the ship-mounted trebuchets had been developed decades sooner, the bombs did not end up required on Song warships until 1129. Oar wheel ships worked with treadmills were built persistently in different sizes somewhere in the range of 1132 and 1183. The specialist Gao Xuan concocted a ship furnished with up to eleven oar wheels on each side, and Qin Shifu, another designer, planned the iron plating for protecting the boats in 1203. Every one of these advances upheld a quick increment in the extent of the power; as per the twentieth century student of history Joseph Needham, "From a sum of 11 squadrons and 3,000 men [the Song navy] ascended in one century to 20 squadrons totalling 52,000 men". 

Customary Chinese historiography praised the skirmish of Caishi as an imperative triumph for China. Caishi was held in a similar regard as the Battle of Fei River in 383, when the Eastern Jin crushed the northern trespassers of the Former Qin. Notwithstanding, its depiction as a triumph against overpowering chances, in which 18,000 Song troopers defeated a multitude of about a large portion of a million men, is likely an embellishment. Current antiquarians trust that the quantity of Jin fighters was far lower. The Song had various points of interest, and the fight was more uniformly coordinated than contemporaneous antiquarians propose. The Song had bigger boats and sufficient time to get ready while the Jin armed force accumulated supplies and ships for the intersection. It was additionally unimaginable for the Jin to utilize mounted force, the most essential resource of the Jurchen military, amid a maritime commitment. 

A cutting edge examination of the foundation of the contention and the combat zone has additionally demonstrated that it was a littler commitment than generally accepted. Its belongings were more mental than material. The fight was not exclusively in charge of damning Wanyan Liang's military battle; his own failings likewise prompted his ruin. Wanyan Liang's officers hated him, and his association with his men had weakened through the span of the war. His tyranny made him similarly disagreeable among his very own kin. There was an across the board objection to his reign in the realm, and Wanyan Liang's arrangements had estranged the Jurchens, the Khitans, and the Han Chinese. Antagonized officers plotted to slaughter him, and he was killed on December 15, 1161. Sovereign Shizong succeeded Wanyan Liang as leader of the Jin. He had been enthroned a long time before the death, in a military upset that introduced him as ruler while Wanyan Liang was missing from the court. Shizong inevitably revoked a considerable lot of Wanyan Liang's sinification strategies. 

The triumph supported the confidence of the Song officers and expanded disappointment among the Jin armed force. Updates on the triumph improved trust in the administration and supported the security of the Song. The Jurchens surrendered their aspirations of overcoming the Southern Song and reunifying China. The Jin armed force pulled back in 1162, and strategic relations between the two states continued. Ruler Gaozong resigned nine months after the finish of the fight. The purposes behind his resignation are confounded, however Gaozong's treatment of the war with Wanyan Liang may have had a section in his choice to leave. He had overlooked the admonitions of a Jin assault and his desires for appeasement kept down designs for reinforcing the Song safeguards. 

Military conflicts proceeded in Huainan and Sichuan, however Jin attacks after Caishi had no purpose of achieving the Yangtze. The Jin had found that southern China's numerous lakes and streams hindered their mounted force. They marked a harmony arrangement with the Song in 1165, finishing threats. The Huai River fringe continued as before and the Song kept on paying yearly repayments to the Jin, yet the Song never again perceived their state as a Jin vassal.