Benevolence Point 

Benevolence Point is an American sci-fi therapeutic show, made by Trey Callaway, David Simkins, and Milo Frank, which initially disclosed for one season on United Paramount Network (UPN) from October 6, 1998, to July 15, 1999. With an ensemble cast led by Joe Morton, Maria del Mar, Alexandra Wilson, Brian McNamara, Salli Richardson, Julia Pennington, Gay Thomas, Jordan Lund, and Joe Spano, the arrangement centers around the specialists and medical attendants in a 23rd-century clinic space station situated in profound space. The official makers were Trey Callaway, Michael Katleman, Lee David Zlotoff, Joe Voci, and Scott Sanders. 

Callaway adjusted "Benevolence Point" from his unique screenplay, "Songbird One". It was gotten by Mandalay Television, and the idea was in the end overhauled as a TV venture and renamed "Benevolence Point"; creation on the film venture had finished because of the poor business execution of the 1997 film "Starship Troopers". The TV program was a piece of a three-million-dollar bargain among Mandalay and Columbia TriStar Television to create 200 hours of material. It was shot in Vancouver to diminish creation costs, the emergency clinic sets being built on a progression of sound stages. Executive Joe Napolitano has adulated the show for its utilization of a total set to take into account increasingly unpredictable coordinating. In spite of Callaway imagining "Kindness Point" as a sidekick to "", it was matched with "Moesha" and "Dumbfounded" as its lead-in on Tuesday evenings. At first centered around moral and medicinal cases, the show's storylines bit by bit moved toward relating the characters' close to home connections, to all the more likely fit UPN's fundamentally high schooler statistic. 

"Leniency Point" was set on break after just three scenes were publicized, and was supplanted by the unscripted tv series "America's Greatest Pets" and the sitcom "Reunited". The show experienced low ratings, with a normal of two million watchers. The last four scenes of the arrangement were communicated in two 2-hour obstructs on Thursday evenings in July 1999. It has never been discharged on DVD or Blu-beam, or made accessible on internet gushing administrations. Basic reaction to "Leniency Point" was blended; a few analysts commended its portrayal and utilization of sci-fi components, while others observed it to be uninteresting and unimaginative. Callaway expressed that he had the potential story curves for the full first season officially arranged before the show's scratch-off. 

Set in the year 2249, "Leniency Point" spins around specialists and attendants working in a medical clinic space station in profound space. The "cutting edge emergency clinic" is portrayed as "the last stop for anything going out, the principal stop for anything returning" by one of the show's characters. It is noted for existing on the "edges of the cosmic system", on a state called Jericho. The office incorporates propelled therapeutic gear, for example, "counterfeit bellies, holographic three-dimensional X-beam projections [and] zero-gravity surgical tables". A talking PC known as Hippocrates, voiced by arrangement co-maker Trey Callaway, is appeared as the essential technique to screen a patient's status. 

The specialists and medical caretakers chip away at both human and extraterrestrial patients through the span of the arrangement. In the arrangement, the restorative staff is alluded to as "prescription nauts". Regardless of the modern setting, the characters' dress and hairdos hold fast to 1990s style patterns. In Frank Garcia and Mark Phillips' book "Sci-fi Television Series, 1990– 2004", they contrasted the idea driving the show with James White's "Part General" arrangement, Murray Leinster's tales about a specialist who goes to various planets, and G. Harry Stine's book "Space Doctor". "Kindness Point's" setting and shooting style additionally gotten correlations with the TV restorative dramatization "ER"; the arrangement itself was advanced as ""ER" in space". 

As indicated by an official statement from UPN, the arrangement includes the characters' endeavors to "balanc[e] confounded individual lives with the requests of working in a front line clinic". Every scene incorporates story circular segments including individual and expert issues, the staff's connections increasing more conspicuousness as the arrangement advanced. Outsider physiologist Grote Maxwell (Joe Morton) fills in as the office's lead specialist and specialist. Senior specialist Haylen Breslauer (Maria del Mar) coordinates Maxwell's activities as his manager and closest companion. Dru Breslaur (Alexandra Wilson) starts working at the medical clinic in the pilot scene, making pressure in light of her stressed association with her more seasoned sister Haylen, and her past sentiment with Dr. C. J. Jurado (Brian McNamara). Jurado is described through his high drive, with his story circular segment including an adoration triangle with Dru and his present sweetheart Lieutenant Kim Salisaw (Salli Richardson). While functioning as a specialist, Rema Cooke (Gay Thomas) develops increasingly worried about her patients' rights. 

The android head nurture ANI (Julia Pennington) and the outsider specialist Dr. Batung (Jordan Lund) additionally help to battle the continuous medicinal crises at the clinic. ANI (Android Nursing Interface) is spoken to as "incredibly effective and appealing", the office's different medical attendants despising her as they feel that she sets an unthinkable standard for them to coordinate. All through the arrangement, ANI grows more feelings, for example, crying and giggling, and attempts to get familiar with them. Batung, who is a piece of the slug-like species the Shenn, is depicted as lacking bedside habits by acting unfeelingly toward his patients. His negative conduct is ascribed to his absence of experience working with human collaborators and patients. The clinic is controlled by the Chief of Staff Harris DeMilla (Joe Spano), who is frequently entrusted to deal with its moral issues. 

Made by Trey Callaway, David Simkins, and Milo Frank, "Benevolence Point" was initially created as an idea for a component film. Callaway drew his essential motivation for the first screenplay from an idea by Frank, entitled "Songbird One". And keeping in mind that pitching the plan to film administrators, Callaway said in his end remarks that he could likewise imagine it as the system for a fruitful TV arrangement. "Songbird One" was in the long run acquired by Mandalay Entertainment, a creation organization headed by Peter Guber, yet the film's generation was slowed down after the poor business execution of the 1997 film "Starship Troopers". Be that as it may, a maker who saw Callaway's unique pitch to Mandalay Entertainment's administrators chose to reformat "Songbird One" as a TV arrangement dependent on Callaway's last comments in the gathering. After the idea's endorsement for TV, "Songbird One" was renamed "Benevolence Point". 

Amid generation, Callaway envisioned the arrangement as a "friend piece" to "", with the expectation that it would have a common viewership. Despite the fact that components of "Songbird One" were kept, Callaway said that "[he] truly begun once again and reconceived it totally as an arrangement starting from the earliest stage". Preceding the arrangement being formally green-lit, Callaway teamed up with author David Simkins to set up an introduction of a "low-planned 30 minute" pilot. Simkins did not chip away at the arrangement after his pilot, yet his commitments earned him a credit as one of its co-makers. John de Lancie, who was noted for going about as Q in "", had attempted the job of DeMilla, and Steve Johnson planned the non-humanoid outsiders. The pilot introduction was shot in Los Angeles, yet the sets were totally revamped for the arrangement's scenes. Three non-humanoid characters, including ANI and Batung, were added to the show following this introduction. UPN administrators reacted emphatically to the introduction, and requested thirteen scenes of the arrangement, which was considered an "a large portion of season's value". "Kindness Point" was one of four shows delivered by Mandalay Television that showed up in the 1998– 99 United States TV plan, nearby "Cupid", "Reality check", and "Goodness Baby". The show's generation was a piece of a three-million-dollar manage Columbia TriStar Television to deliver 200 hours of material; a larger part of the substance made from this understanding was financially fruitless. 

Callaway deliberately picked performing artists when throwing every job. He concentrated on keeping up the arrangement as a "character-driven plot", to dependably make "what is new with individuals' souls and psyches" more imperative than embellishments. In spite of trying out different performers to voice Hippocrates, Callway repeated the job from the pilot; he would later say that he experienced issues with the restorative and specialized vocabulary required for the character. Like "The X-Files" and "Stargate SG-1," the show was shot in Vancouver to exploit lower creation costs. A lion's share of the team had taken a shot at "The X-Files". The official makers were: Trey Callaway, Michael Katleman, Lee David Zlotoff, Joe Voci, and Scott Sanders. Jon Ehrlich made the show's subject. 

The whole arrangement was shot on sound stages. Generation architects Greg Loewen and Graemay Murray structured the therapeutic office as a "roundabout center with workplaces and rooms transmitting outward", and incorporated a second floor in which DeMilla could supervise the whole medical clinic's tasks. Executive Joe Napolitano applauded the sets while shooting the scene "Final Resort", calling the show "a great treat store for a chief" because of the usefulness and size of the emergency clinic. He clarified that the set empowered him to coordinate long goes for and stroll and talk arrangements absent much trouble. The arrangement required broad prosthetic work for Dr. Batung and the non-human patients. The utilization of Lund's prosthetic cosmetics required a few hours every day that he was shot. Napolitano said that he observed this to be a test to the creation plan, clarifying that there would be talks about the measure of prosthetics important for Batung relying upon the scene. Batung's prosthetic work incorporated a tail that folded over his neck and shoulders; Lund was pushed around the set on a sled to impersonate the character's developments as a slug. Napolitano likewise determined that the patients required a comparable measure of time and work for their prosthetic cosmetics, for example, a man who has gills under his jaw. 

Callaway said he was amazed by UPN's wiping out of "Leniency Point" due to their solid help of the show. He felt the choice was made to a limited extent as a result of the show's high creation costs. He likewise inferred that the choice to communicate the pilot in the meantime as the World Series brought about the loss of "Leniency Point"s target gathering of people. To more readily interface with UPN's adolescent watchers, Callaway moved the show's concentration from therapeutic and moral cases to the characters' connections. Regardless of these updates, he said that UPN administrators wanted to flying demonstrations like "Moesha" over sci-fi programs. At the point when UPN declared the show's crossing out, the eighth scene was amidst generation. Scenes initially composed for the scene were amended and altered into the seventh scene to frame a total arrangement finale. 

In a meeting about the arrangement, Callaway said that he had created total story circular segments for each character for the remainder of the main season. Hayden would have kept on managing sentiments of "achiness to visit the family", which is characterized as "a devastating interstellar condition remarkable to people that at last connected their survival to coming back to Earth" with regards to the show. Batung would have languished results over dismissing "the defensive overlap of his species", and ANI would build up an antitoxin for an infection that spread from PCs to people in the pilot scene. Callaway portrayed ANI's future character advancement as "a definitive conflict between the natural and mechanical universes". The status of Grote's missing family would in the long run be revealed after he leads a salvage mission with C. J. to the "Sahartic Divide". Dru would be gone up against by her "old addictions" and Cooke would test her hypothesis that the worldly projection houses a human's spirit and is associated with "yearning to go home". 

Following the choice to extend its programming to Thursday and Friday evenings, UPN grabbed six unique arrangement. "Leniency Point" was one of two sci-fi network shows grabbed by UPN – the second being the time travel-themed "Seven Days". Scott D. Puncture of "Deseret News" depicted the system's decision of two sci-fi dramatizations and two nineteenth century programs ("The Secret Diary of Desmond Pfeiffer" and "Inheritance") as appearing "clear twisted toward the unordinary". Before its debut, the show was advanced through its incorporation of Joe Morton in a featuring job. Despite the fact that Callaway imagined "Leniency Point" as a partner to "Star Trek: Voyager", UPN combined the "Star Trek" portion with "Seven Days." "Benevolence Point" was at first communicated on Tuesday evenings at 9 pm EST, after the sitcoms "Moesha" and "Dumbfounded". The "Moesha" and "Dumbfounded" square was held over from the earlier year. "Excitement Weekly's" Dan Snierson noticed that "Benevolence Point" confronted intense challenge from different shows in a similar schedule vacancy, basically "Simply Shoot Me!", "Turn City", and "Felicity". The arrangement conveyed a TV-PG parental rating, implying that it was made a decision as "unsatisfactory for youthful youngsters". 

UPN set "Benevolence Point" on rest on October 27, 1998, after the show found the middle value of a rating of 1.5 million watchers. The declaration was made ten days after the arrangement debut; just three scenes had publicized. It was supplanted by the unscripted tv arrangement "America's Greatest Pets" and the sitcom "Rejoined". The show positioned number 157 dependent on the Nielsen Media Research's review of projects airing from September 21, 1998, to May 26, 1999, with a normal of two million watchers. It tied with "America's Greatest Pets" and "". Joal Ryan of "E! News" composed that the system's choice was not an unexpected given that most watchers were uninformed of the show's presence. While writing about the show's status, Ryan scrutinized the rehashed disappointments of sci-fi restorative dramatizations. In October 1998, news sources were detailing that the arrangement may at present come back to UPN's primetime plan at some point later on. The arrangement's last four scenes were communicated in two 2-hour obstructs on Thursday evenings in July 1999. "Leniency Point" was incorporated on the rundown of fizzled restorative shows by "The Blade's" Rob Owen, alongside "MDs" and "3 lbs". It has never been discharged on DVD or Blu-beam, nor been discharged on a web based spilling administration. 

"Benevolence Point" has gotten blended basic criticism. Before the show's debut, an essayist from SouthCoastToday.com composed that it would speak to "Star Trek" fans through its utilization of "foreboding exchange and a lot of gross-out symbolism". David Bianculli of "The New York Daily News" lauded "Leniency Point" as an improvement over "UPN's watch-me-please trick appears", and recognized the manner in which the show concentrated on its characters and restorative cases while it "relegat[ed] the advanced components to the foundation". "The Milwaukee Journal Sentinel's" Joanne Weintraub positively contrasted the show with "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", composing that "both arrangement pay attention to their enhancements and their regularly facetious exchange gently". "Assortment's" Laura Fries composed that the arrangement had potential in the event that it clung to its own guidelines and concentrated on genuine dramatization. Fries featured Michael Katleman's coordinating as "fresh" and applauded the show's specialized credits. 

"Leniency Point" additionally accumulated negative responses from TV pundits, with GamesRadar's Dave Golder including it on his rundown of the most exceedingly bad sci-fi and dream network shows ever for its "[t]rite, clear and mushy" storylines. "The Los Angeles Times"' Howard Rosenberg censured the show's dependence on its sci-fi setting and innovation to divert the watchers from "its smell and absence of creativity". Despite the fact that Rosenberg felt the show's idea had potential and found Batung to a fascinating character, he exhorted the group of onlookers to "change this bedpan quick". Lee Sandlin of "The Chicago Reader" included "Kindness Point" in his appraisal of the most noticeably bad network shows in the 1998– 1999 season, reprimanding its absence of creativity and poor composition. The arrangement was vigorously panned by Kevin Wagner of the sci-fi online magazine "The Sci-Fi Guys", who observed the pilot's story bend to be uninteresting and the utilization of elastic gloves as a path for cutting edge control to be unrealistic."The Sun-Sentinel"s Hal Boedeker refered to "Kindness Point" and "The Secret Diary of Desmond Pfeiffer" as "illegitimate toll" that estranged its group of onlookers and brought down viewership by 40%. 

A few media observers made negative correlations between "Leniency Point" and other TV programs. The show was portrayed as reminiscent of a "Saturday Night Live" production "that sounded more splendid on paper than it plays broadcasting live" by "The Sun-Sentinel"s Tom Jicha, who felt it filled in as a satire of "ER." Caryn James of "The New York Times" composed that "Kindness Point" was the "crackpot new arrangement", saying it was not convincing either in a sensational or batty way. Manager Jason Snell condemned the show as a retread of "Emergency Center" and "General Hospital", portraying it as an "express misuse of an interesting reason", and "The Chicago Tribune's" Steve Johnson considered it the ""ER"- in-space mess". Both Snell and Johnson urged UPN to drop the arrangement following the declaration of its rest.