Allah jang Palsoe 

Allah jang Palsoe (; Perfected Spelling: Allah yang Palsu; Malay for "The False God") is a 1919 phase show from the Dutch East Indies that was composed by the ethnic Chinese creator Kwee Tek Hoay dependent on E. Phillips Oppenheim's short story "The False Gods". More than six acts, the Malay-language play pursues two siblings, one a passionate child who holds solidly to his ethics and individual respect, while different venerates cash and organizes individual increase. Over 10 years, the two discover that cash (the main false god) isn't the way to satisfaction. 

Kwee Tek Hoay's first stage play, "Allah jang Palsoe" was composed as a pragmatist reaction to unconventional contemporary theaters. In spite of the fact that the distributed stageplay sold ineffectively and the play was esteemed hard to perform, "Allah jang Palsoe" discovered accomplishment on the stage. By 1930 it had been performed by different ethnic Chinese troupes to famous recognition and spearheaded an assemblage of work by creators, for example, Lauw Giok Lan, Tio Ie Soei, and Tjoa Tjien Mo. In 2006 the content for the play, which keeps on being performed, was republished with refreshed spelling by the Lontar Foundation. 

Siblings Tan Kioe Lie and Tan Kioe Gie are getting ready to leave their Cicuruk home to look for some kind of employment: Kioe Lie will go to Bandung, while Kioe Gie will go to Batavia (presently Jakarta) and become a letter-setter. As they are pressing, Kioe Lie's life partner Gouw Hap Nio visits. She abandons a few snacks with their dad, the poor rancher Tan Lauw Pe, before returning home, promising to deal with Pe while his children are away. The siblings get done with pressing, bid a fond farewell to their dad, and head for the train station. 

After three years, Kioe Lie visits his sibling in the last's Batavia home. Kioe Gie has turned into an editorial manager of the paper "Kamadjoean" and is known as a liberal giver. Kioe Lie, in the interim, has turned into the chief of a custard processing plant, yet is wanting to leave for contending business kept running by Tjio Tam Bing, who has offered him double the pay. Kioe Gie requests that he reevaluate, or possibly not take any clients, yet Kioe Lie is determined to his objectives. Before Kioe Lie leaves, the siblings talk about marriage: since Kioe Lie has no plan to wed Hap Nio soon, Kioe Gie requests that authorization wed first. Despite the fact that Kioe Lie dislikes Kioe Gie's sweetheart, a poor vagrant young lady named Oeij Ijan Nio, he concurs. 

An additional four years pass, and Kioe Gie has progressed toward becoming proofreader in-head of "Kemadjoean" and wedded Ijan Nio. He is concerned, nonetheless, over the paper's new political introduction: the proprietor, Oeij Tjoan Siat, is planning to make the paper professional Dutch East Indies, a position that Kioe Gie thinks about a selling out to the ethnic Chinese. At the point when Tjoan Siat comes to Kioe Gie's home to request that he pursue the previous' new political leanings, vigorously impacted by a regularly scheduled installment of 2,000 gulden offered by an anonymous ideological group, Kioe Gie cannot and leaves. 

Amid the next week Kioe Gie and his better half offer their assets and get ready to move back to Cicuruk. This takeoff is postponed by a visit from Kioe Lie, who uncovers that he will wed Tam Bing's widow Tan Houw Nio – Tam Bing having kicked the bucket the prior year. Kioe Gie is stunned, both in light of the fact that the widow has a similar surname and on the grounds that Kioe Lie had guaranteed their dad on his deathbed to wed Hap Nio. After a broad contention, Kioe Lie repudiates his sibling and leaves. 

After five years, Kioe Lie and Houw Nio's marriage is coming up short. Attributable to poor speculations (some profited), Houw Nio's betting, and Kioe Lie's keeping of an escort, they have lost their fortune. Kioe Lie attempts to persuade his better half to offer her gems, in this manner enabling him to restore the stolen cash. Houw Nio, nonetheless, cannot, guides him to sell the house and his paramour's adornments, and afterward leaves. Before long a short time later, Kioe Lie's companion Tan Tiang A cautions him that he will be captured by the police except if he escapes the settlement. Together they lease a vehicle and Kioe Lie sets out toward the port at Batavia. 

Going through Cicuruk, the vehicle stalls and, while the escort endeavors to fix it, Kioe Lie takes cover in an adjacent home. He discovers that it has a place with Kioe Gie and Hap Nio, who have developed a huge homestead, greenhouse, and plantation that give them adequate pay. The two humanitarians are companions with the territory's first class, and Hap Nio is cheerfully hitched to a rich manor executive. At the point when Kioe Gie and his associates come back from playing tennis, they find Kioe Lie covering up disgracefully under a piano. Kioe Lie concedes that he wasn't right to be covetous. At the point when a cop arrives, Kioe Lie admits to harming Tam Bing, at that point keeps running outside and shoots himself. 

"Allah jang Palsoe" was the main stage play by the writer Kwee Tek Hoay. Destined to an ethnic Chinese material trader and his significant other, Kwee was brought up in Chinese culture and schools that concentrated on advancement. When he composed the show, Kwee Tek Hoay was a functioning advocate of Buddhist philosophy. Be that as it may, he likewise composed broadly on topics identifying with the local populace of the archipelago and was a sharp social eyewitness. He read broadly in Dutch, English, and Malay, and drew on these readings in the wake of turning into an author. 

As indicated by the antiquarian Nio Joe Lan, "Allah jang Palsoe" was the main stage show in Malay by a Chinese author. The six-demonstration work was written in vernacular Malay, the "most widely used language" of the Indies, and depended on E. Phillips Oppenheim's short story "The False Gods". Despite the fact that in his foreword Kwee Tek Hoay apologized for the nature of the stage play, composing that "the substance and course of action of this book are a long way from what you could call flawless", Sumardjo acclaims his language, feeling that the story streamed well. 

At the time "Allah jang Palsoe" was composed, organize exhibitions were intensely impacted by orality. Contemporary theaters, for example, "bangsawan" and "stamboel", were unscripted and by and large utilized fabulous settings and plotlines. Kwee Tek Hoay vigorously opposed such eccentricity, thinking of it as "better to state things as they may be, than to make occasions out of nothing, which albeit maybe all the more engaging and fulfilling to watchers or perusers, are misrepresentations and falsehoods, conflicting with reality". Subsequent to censuring contemporary writers who only recorded existing stories, Kwee Tek Hoay communicated the expectation that at last an interesting type of Chinese Malay theater—roused by European showy customs yet managing Chinese topics—could be created. "Allah jang Palsoe" was planned to be the primary distributed stage play in this new custom. 

Kwee Tek Hoay made various suggestions for the play's throwing, costuming, setting, and music. He composed that if adequately gifted on-screen characters to depict Kioe Lie and Kioe Gie couldn't be discovered, "it is smarter to not play out this show", and that Ijan Nio expected to demonstrate "an ideal lady or spouse", instead of the "furious and harsh" Houw Nio. He gave four set structures, to be utilized at suitable focuses in the plot, and surrendered recommendations for setting the required foundations and props. Kwee suggested that the play incorporate just a single tune, John Payne and Henry Bishop's "Home! Sweet Home!", which was to be performed in the 6th demonstration with either English or Malay vocals and a trio of piano, viola, and guitar or mandolin. 

The title "Allah jang Palsoe" is a reference to cash, with a fundamental instructional message that cash isn't everything on the planet, and that a voracious hunger for it would transform one into "a cash creature". All through the exchange, cash is alluded to as the bogus God, with Lie as a character who idolizes cash to the point of overlooking his different obligations and just understanding his mistake after it is past the point of no return. Gie, in spite of the fact that he becomes rich, does not think about cash as a divine being, however is a donor and holds to his ethics. The Indonesian artistic pundit Sapardi Djoko Damono composes that such a message would have been well known among ethnic Chinese of the contemporary Indies, and all things considered the play would have been a most loved of social associations. 

The Indonesian abstract commentator Jakob Sumardjo in like manner notes cash as the focal issue of "Allah jang Palsoe", composing that the play demonstrates people successfully gain it—notwithstanding giving up their qualities. He composes that the ruining idea of cash stays present in the best of times, and considers Kwee Tek Hoay's message to have been excessively vigorously situated in profound quality instead of contemplations of social and human elements. Thus, he composes, perusers are brought to comprehend the desire for cash as a "human sickness" which must be survived: they ought to pursue the case of Tan Kioe Gie, not Tan Kioe Lie. John Kwee of the University of Auckland, refering to Gie's takeoff from "Kamadjoean", recommends this was a test aimed at the Chinese Malay press, at that point ending up progressively business. 

"Allah jang Palsoe" likewise contains subjects disconnected to cash. The sinologist Thomas Rieger takes note of the nearness of a Chinese national character, indicating Gie as a young fellow "exceeding expectations in all Confucianist esteems", leaving his agreeable occupation as opposed to turning into a theological rationalist for the Dutch pilgrim government to the disadvantage of his ethnic Chinese friends. Another sinologist, Myra Sidharta, takes a gander at Kwee Tek Hoay's perspective on ladies. She composes that his delineation of a perfect lady was not yet completely created in "Allah jang Palsoe", however she observes Houw Nio to be a portrayal of how a lady ought not act: narrow minded and dependent on betting. 

In an introduction to his 1926 show "Korbannja Kong-Ek" ("The Victim of Kong-Ek"), Kwee Tek Hoay composed that he had drawn motivation from the pragmatist Norwegian writer Henrik Ibsen in that work, having perused and rehash the writer's plays. Damono discovers indications of Ibsen's impact officially present in "Allah jang Palsoe". He looks at the stage headings in "Allah jang Palsoe" to those in Ibsen's "Hedda Gabler" and observes them to be comparative in their dimension of detail. 

The content for "Allah jang Palsoe" was discharged by the Batavia-based distributer Tjiong Koen Bie in mid-1919. This release incorporated a foreword from the creator, four delineations of prescribed stage stylistic layout, various execution rules, and a short blueprint of the condition of the performance center among the ethnic Chinese. Kwee Tek Hoay paid for this printing, a keep running of 1,000 duplicates, out of his own pocket and saw substantial monetary misfortunes. The stage play was republished in 2006, utilizing the Perfected Spelling System, as a component of the principal volume of the Lontar Foundation's compilation of Indonesian stage shows. 

"Allah jang Palsoe" was generally welcomed and extensively embraced. Troupes were permitted to play out the play as a philanthropy musical show, however continues were to go to the branch in Bogor. One execution is recorded as accumulating 10,000 gulden. As indicated by a promotion, by 1930 the play had been performed "multiple times" and was famous with ethnic Chinese theater troupes. 

Kwee Tek Hoay got various letters from aficionados of "Allah jang Palsoe", impelling him to keep composing. Considering the play too troublesome for local troupes to organize, when one such troupe, the Union Dalia Opera, mentioned consent to perform it, Kwee Tek Hoay rather composed another story for them. This later turned into his top of the line novel "Boenga Roos dari Tjikembang" ("The Rose of Cikembang"). Another of Kwee Tek Hoay's stage shows, "Korbannja Kong-Ek", was motivated by a companion, who kept in touch with him a letter requesting another encouraging and instructive play in the wake of perusing "Allah jang Palsoe". 

In 1926 Kwee Tek Hoay composed that, after "Allah jang Palsoe", the nature of stage exhibitions in the Indies had expanded observably. Nio takes note of that the amount of stage plays by ethnic Chinese creators in like manner expanded. In spite of the fact that relatively few were at last distributed, the group of work spearheaded by "Allah jang Palsoe" included plays by Kwee Tek Hoay ("Korbannja Kong-Ek", "Mait Hidoep", "Plesiran Hari Minggoe"), Lauw Giok Lan ("Pendidikan jang Kliroe"), Tio Ie Soei ("Jan Tio"), and Tjoa Tjien Mo ("Beng Lee Koen", "Hsi Shih"). 

Sumardjo composes that, however "Allah jang Palsoe" was distributed seven years before the Rustam Effendi's "Bebasari" (by and large considered the main canonic Indonesian stage dramatization), Kwee Tek Hoay's composition demonstrates every one of the signs of a scholarly work. In spite of the fact that the dramatization isn't viewed as a major aspect of the Indonesian artistic ordinance, exhibitions have proceeded into the 21st century. In May 2003, the Jakarta-put together put with respect to a shortened act coordinated by E. Sumadiningrat. Another Jakarta-based troupe, Teater Bejana, has included it in their collection.