The Million Second Quiz 

The Million Second Quiz is an American diversion demonstrate that was facilitated by Ryan Seacrest and communicated by NBC. The arrangement disclosed from September 9 to September 19, 2013. For a main million seconds (11 days, 13 hours, 46 minutes, and 40 seconds), challengers endeavored to keep up control of a "cash seat" by winning incidental data matches against different competitors, procuring cash for consistently they involved the seat. At some random minute, the four most elevated scoring candidates other than the one in the seat were sequestered together. At the point when time ran out, the four top scorers got the cash they had amassed and contended in a stepladder playoff for a top prize of $2,000,000. 

Official delivered by Stephen Lambert, Eli Holzman, and David Hurwitz, "The Million Second Quiz" was situated as a live, multi-stage TV occasion, which Lambert named "the Olympics of test", that would advance NBC's lineup for the 2013– 14 TV season. The arrangement was cross-advanced through a few NBCUniversal properties, and NBC communicate a live prime time appear for every night of the challenge (with the exception of September 15, because of "Sunday Night Football") and a two-hour finale. Utilizing a portable application, watchers could play the diversion against others and conceivably procure an opportunity to show up as a candidate amid the prime time scenes. Outside the prime time scenes, the program was likewise webcast all through the challenge by methods for the "Million Second Quiz" application and NBC.com. 

Faultfinders contended that the befuddling configuration of "The Million Second Quiz", alongside its absence of dramatization and specialized issues with the show's application amid the main days of the arrangement, made watchers lose enthusiasm for watching it on air. In spite of the fact that cresting at 6.52 million watchers for its debut, evaluations relentlessly dropped amid the show's kept running before rising again close to the finale. 

The test was set in an "hourglass-molded structure" situated on a rooftop in midtown Manhattan. An indoor set in a similar structure was likewise developed for use amid the non-prime time parts of the amusement and for any harsh climate circumstances, as happened on Day 4. Competitors played in a test rivalry that ran 24 hours per day for 1,000,000 seconds, actually 11 days, 13 hours, 46 minutes, and 40 seconds. 

At some random time, one candidate sat in the "Cash Chair" and amassed cash while shielding his/her situation against a progression of challengers in straight on test sessions. Every session kept going a set number of seconds; after an inquiry was perused, the competitors had five seconds to furtively secure their answers on isolated keypads. The hopeful in the seat earned cash at a rate of $10 every second, notwithstanding when sessions were not being played and amid the prime time business breaks. At the point when this hopeful lost a session, he/she quit procuring cash and the challenger assumed responsibility for the seat. Just the four hopefuls with the most elevated all out rewards kept their cash once the commencement check came up short on schedule. 

Each prime time communicate hour comprises of three sessions: the "Challenger" session, the "Line Jumper" session, and the "Champ's Defense" session. Questions begin at one point each, with the esteem expanding by one at regular intervals. Whenever, either hopeful may twofold as opposed to replying; doing as such duplicates that question's esteem and powers the rival to act. A multiplied adversary may either reply or "turn around," quadrupling the point esteem and constraining the first contender to reply. On the off chance that a multiplied or backtracked hopeful answers erroneously or neglects to act inside five seconds, the focuses are granted to his/her rival. Candidates may twofold as frequently as they wish amid a session. 

Toward the finish of the session, the hopeful with the higher score wins and either holds the Money Chair or replaces its present inhabitant. On the off chance that the session finishes in a tie score, a sudden death round inquiry is asked; the challenger who secures in the right answer initially is the victor. In the event that them two miss, the candidate who has collected more cash wins the session. On the off chance that an inquiry is in play when the check runs out, it is finished under the ordinary standards. 

The "Challenger" session includes an individual who has effectively finished an on location tryout process. The "Line Jumper" episode of every scene includes a challenger who has accomplished an adequately high score on the official "Million Second Quiz" application, permitting him/her to avoid the tryouts and advance legitimately onto the show. 

At some random time, the four hopefuls who have gathered the most cash in their sessions live in "Champs' Row," a region of living quarters set up beside the hourglass. They are in danger of being uprooted in the event that another person outscores them. Amid a "Victor's Defense" session, the current "Influence Player" picks one of the four Winners' Row inhabitants (counting himself/herself) to go head to head against the present Money Chair tenant. The victor guarantees the failure's whole rewards notwithstanding his/her very own and accept control of the Money Chair, while the washout is dispensed with. In scene one, the Power Player was the hopeful with the most rewards; beginning with scene two, it was the contender who had the most astounding number of right answers from playing along in Winners' Row that day. Hopefuls who are vanquished in the Winner's Defense sessions lose all rewards they have aggregated. All other vanquished challengers, including those dislodged from Winners' Row by being out-scored, may experiment with again for an opportunity to win their way once more into the Money Chair. 

Outside the one-hour TV sections, all sessions most recent 500 seconds (eight minutes and twenty seconds). Each inquiry is worth one point, and no multiplying is permitted. Competitors outside of prime time play relentless put something aside for a ten-minute restroom break each hour, and their sessions are live-spilled on NBC's site. 

When the commencement clock achieves zero, the four hopefuls with the most elevated sums all through the diversion keep the majority of their credited rewards and contend in a progression of three disposal sessions; the fourth and third-place champs go head to head in a 400-second session, the victor of the principal session faces the second-place victor (400 seconds), and the victor of the second session faces the primary spot victor (500 seconds). The victor of the last session gets a further $2,000,000. 

In the season finale, Andrew Kravis vanquished Brandon Saunders to win the stupendous prize, for a general aggregate of $2,326,346. Seacrest then reported that Kravis' rewards would be expanded to $2,600,000 to make him the untouched most elevated acquiring standard season candidate on a solitary American diversion appear, outperforming Ken Jennings' $2,522,700 kept running on "Danger!" in 2004. 

The idea of "The Million Second Quiz" was proposed to make the demonstrate a national occasion; while pitching the configuration to NBC, maker Stephen Lambert contrasted the diversion with a tennis match and called it "the Olympics of test." To advance the arrangement, NBC depended on a cross-stage limited time methodology like what it had utilized in the past for "The Voice"; including appearances by host Ryan Seacrest on other NBC programs, for example, the system's NFL pre-amusement appear, "Football Night in America". to help the show, and tie-in commercials for projects airing crosswise over other NBCUniversal properties, (for example, USA Network). The program itself likewise filled in as a vehicle for advancing NBC's then-forthcoming lineup for the 2013– 14 TV season. 

NBC needed the diversion's prime time divides publicized live from an open air area in Manhattan with the city horizon for foundation. Generation planner Anton Goss, who additionally planned the set for NBC's "The Voice", thought of a three-story bowed steel structure in the state of a mammoth hourglass bound with lights and containing the hand crafted Money Chair - "...on a housetop with the city behind us...we need to accomplish something significant...It resembles we're constructing our own little high rise." Because of the 18,000 lb weight of the hourglass structure notwithstanding cheap seats brimming with group of onlookers individuals amid show times, the structure's housetop required shoring so the second floor could help convey the vast burdens. Geiger Engineers gave the basic building to the hourglass and other housetop structures just as the required housetop shoring. Two years after the U.S. rendition of the show was communicated, a global form of the show publicized on China's Hunan TV in September 2015, entitled . 

"The Million Second Quiz" debuted on September 9, 2013; the non-prime time test started multi day sooner at 7:17 AM EDT. The primary scene began with 867,826 seconds remaining. The show kept running for ten scenes before it finished up on September 19, 2013. 

"The Million Second Quiz" got negative audits from TV commentators, and evaluations went down after some time: its debut and finale were seen by 6.52 and 4.95 million watchers separately, however fell lower in the middle. The evaluations were for the most part observed as poor; "TVWeek" depicted the show as "appraisals tested," and keeping in mind that NBC leader of option and late-night programming Paul Telegdy was happy with the introduction scene's appraisals, Michael O'Connor of "The Hollywood Reporter" portrayed it as an "appraisals calamity." O'Connor credited the poor evaluations to the show's confounding arrangement and furthermore cited a system official as saying: "I don't have the foggiest idea how much more terrible it can get." 

"The New York Times" Mike Hale trusted that the general disappointment of the arrangement was a consequence of its indistinct organization, the "hackneyed" topic of huge numbers of its inquiries (refering to precedents which went from American history to the name of Kim Kardashian's feline), the way that second screen cooperations with amusement demonstrates were not another idea, and that the show and its intuitive segments were not "focalized" enough. "Variety"s Brian Lowry contended that NBC was "excessively frantic to turn "The Million Second Quiz" into 'an occasion,'" and furthermore expressed "having watched the opening 2,600 seconds of genuine "Million Second Quiz" content, hello, wake me when it's "nearly" finished." 

Composing for "The A.V. Club", Sonia Saraiya felt that "The Million Second Quiz", rather than other significant unscripted TV dramas, for example, "Older sibling", was an "advertised show about publicity" that was "so profoundly defective thus all around disagreeable that it won't stay in anybody's memory for long. ... In this uncontrollably costly disappointment, it's conceivable to see such a significant number of NBC's defects, all in a similar bundle." However, she was satisfied the show's creation for highlighting hopefuls who were "benevolent" and "relatable," as opposed to "picked for their unpardonable character." "Computerized Spy"s Catriona Wightman questioned the arrangement would almost certainly hold viewership: "Even while I kind of appreciated the main scene regardless of myself, I can't envision getting to be fixated on it to that degree - is there actually enough there to support that sort of intrigue?" 

Composing from a non-prime time competitor's point of view, Seth Stevenson, a columnist for "Slate", by and by partook in an evening time space and was condemning of the show's treatment of challengers, uncovering, "Generation collaborators murmured that a couple of candidates who'd beat 5-Hour Energy shots—with an end goal to remain alert—had been enlisting alarmingly quick resting heartbeat rates." Stevenson additionally included: "I bumbled out onto eleventh Avenue at 2:15 a.m. toward the beginning of today, two timetable days after my internment started, and...hadn't won any cash. I hadn't met Ryan Seacrest. What's more, my unhinged "Story" meeting will presently live in NBC's video vaults for interminability, in any media designs currently existing or ever to be contrived all through the known and obscure cosmic system. In any event I'm almost certain that is the thing that the discharge said. I'm still too amped up on 5-Hour Energy no doubt."