Not My Life 

Not My Life is a 2011 American free narrative film about human dealing and contemporary bondage. The movie was composed, delivered, and coordinated by Robert Bilheimer, who had been approached to make the movie by Antonio Maria Costa, official executive of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. Bilheimer arranged "Not My Life" as the second portion in a set of three, the first being "A Closer Walk" and the third being the unproduced "Take Me Home". The title "Not My Life" originated from a June 2009 meeting with Molly Melching, author of Tostan, who said that numerous individuals preclude the truth from claiming contemporary servitude since it is an awkward truth, saying, "No, this isn't my life." 

Taping of "Not My Life" took four years to finish, and archived human dealing in 13 nations: Albania, Brazil, Cambodia, Egypt, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Italy, Nepal, Romania, Senegal, Uganda, and the United States. The first and last scenes of the film occur in Ghana, and show youngsters who are compelled to angle in Lake Volta for 14 hours every day. The film likewise delineates sex dealing exploited people, some of whom are just five or six years of age. 

Fifty individuals are met in the film, including insightful columnist Paul Radu of Bucharest, Katherine Chon of the Polaris Project, and Iana Matei of Reaching Out Romania. Wear Brewster of Agape International Missions says that the majority of the young ladies they have saved from youngster sex the travel industry in Cambodia distinguish Americans as the customers who were the most injurious to them. The movie was committed to Richard Young, its cinematographer and co-executive, after he kicked the bucket in December 2010. It had its debut the next month at the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York City. The portrayal was totally rerecorded in 2011, supplanting Ashley Judd's voice with that of Glenn Close. The rendition of the film that was broadcast by CNN International as a component of the CNN Freedom Project was shorter than the form appeared at the debut. In 2014, a re-altered variant of the film was discharged. 

"Not My Life" addresses numerous types of subjection, including the military utilization of youngsters in Uganda, automatic bondage in the United States, constrained asking and refuse picking in India, sex dealing in Europe and Southeast Asia, and different sorts of tyke misuse. The film additionally centers around the general population and associations occupied with neutralizing human dealing. The film attests that most casualties of human dealing are kids. On-screen character Lucy Liu said that individuals who watch "Not My Life" "will be stunned to discover [human trafficking] is occurring in America." Lucy Popescu of CineVue censured the film for concentrating on the people in question, contending that the culprits of dealing ought to have been managed all the more noticeably. "Not My Life" was named Best World Documentary at the Harlem International Film Festival in September 2012. 

"Not My Life" is a narrative film about human dealing and contemporary subjugation. It tends to numerous types of bondage, including the military utilization of youngsters in Uganda, automatic subjugation in the United States, unfree work in Ghana, constrained asking and refuse picking in India, sex dealing in Europe and Southeast Asia, and different sorts of tyke misuse. The focal point of the film is on dealing exploited people, particularly ladies and youngsters, the last of whom are frequently double-crossed by grown-ups that they trust. The film likewise centers around the general population and associations occupied with neutralizing human dealing, including individuals from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), Free the Slaves, Girls Educational and Mentoring Services (GEMS), International Justice Mission (IJM), the Somaly Mam Foundation, Terre des hommes, Tostan, UNICEF, United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), and the United States Department of State (US DoS). "Not My Life" has been designated "a useful example". It portrays the commodification of a large number of individuals and distinguishes the acts of dealers as undermining worldwide financial matters, security, manageability and wellbeing. 

"Not My Life" points out the way that, in the United States, the condemning for human dealing is less serious than for medication dealing. The film demonstrates a connection between contemporary subjugation and globalization. It attests that most human dealing exploited people are youngsters, in spite of the fact that the movie producers have perceived the way that a huge number of grown-ups are likewise dealt. The film delineates human dealing as an issue of good and wickedness, furnishes interviews with overcomers of human dealing, and displays investigation from against dealing advocates. All through the film, Robert Bilheimer urges watchers to by and by battle human dealing. Bilheimer was saving in his utilization of measurements in the film, feeling that over-burdening watchers with figures may numb them to the issues. 

As indicated by Nancy Keefe Rhodes of "Stone Canoe", a U.S. artistic diary, the film's crowds are probably going to have the predisposition that human dealing isn't subjection in a similar sense that the Atlantic slave exchange was, and numerous individuals trust that subjugation was abrogated quite a while back with so much instruments as the U.S. Liberation Proclamation and Thirteenth Amendment. Rhodes composes that society presently utilizes "subjugation" in current settings just as an analogy, with the goal that references to genuine contemporary servitude can be rejected as metaphor, and she portrays the film's objective as to "recover the first term [slavery] and persuade us that what's going on now is the thing that happened at that point: very sorted out and unavoidable, deliberate, exceptionally productive and ... completely as coercive and wantonly unfeeling." Rhodes says that "bondage" has begun to be utilized in its unique sense again as of late, yet that groups of onlookers' perspectives on contemporary subjugation are in any case affected by the slave-like symbolism in such movies as "Hustle and Flow" (2005) and "Dark Snake Moan" (2007). The Academy Award-winning "Hustle and Flow" depicts a pimp as the saint, while "Dark Snake Moan" highlights Christina Ricci as a youthful nymphomaniac; the showcasing for "Dark Snake Moan" focused on suggestive, sexualized slave symbolism, including a sparsely clad Ricci in chains. As per Rhodes, Bilheimer "rescue[s] current slaves from portrayal as outlandish animals, to reestablish their mankind" and enable groups of onlookers to identify with them. For this reason, Bilheimer recounts accounts of people with regards to their networks and families. While Bilheimer had recently done broad social equity work with religious associations, he didn't convert in the film, regardless of the numerous open doors the film managed him to do as such. 

Fifty individuals are met in "Not My Life", including Katherine Chon of the Polaris Project, analytical writer Paul Radu of Bucharest, Vincent Tournecuillert of Terre des hommes, Iana Matei of Reaching Out Romania, UNICEF Director of Programs Nicholas Alipui, Susan Bissell of UNICEF's Child Protection Section, Antonio Maria Costa of UNODC, Somaly Mam of the Somaly Mam Foundation, Molly Melching of Tostan in Senegal, and Suzanne Mubarak, who was First Lady of Egypt at the time. The sex dealing unfortunate casualties appeared in the film incorporate kids as youthful as five and six years of age. 

"Not My Life" starts with a dark screen on which the words "Human dealing is servitude" show up in white. An arrangement shot in Ghana pursues, indicating kids who are compelled to angle in Lake Volta for 14 hours per day. A significant number of the kids bite the dust because of the working conditions. A 10-year-old kid swims through the dim water towards the camera, investigating it, and holds his breath submerged while endeavoring to unsnarl an angling net. Next, Senegalese talibes, Muslim young men who go to Quranic schools, show up. There are around 50,000 talibes in Senegal who are compelled to ask in the city to profit for their instructors; youngsters who don't meet their portions are beaten. A considerable lot of these youngsters experience the ill effects of skin and stomach maladies as a result of their eating regimen of ruined nourishment—one exhibits his sick hands to the camera, just for a grown-up to force him away by the ear. The film at that point moves to India and delineates kids, for the most part wearing flip-flops, illicitly dealing with risky waste in Ghazipur and New Delhi landfills. Romani families are appeared Central and Eastern Europe, and the portrayal demonstrates that Romani young men are frequently dealt with the end goal of constrained youngster asking, and that Romani young ladies are routinely dealt as tyke whores. The storyteller says that the benefits of human dealing "are based on the backs and in the beds of our planet's childhood." 

In Zoha Prison in Romania, there are interviews with dealers serving jail sentences that the film recommended were excessively short in light of the seriousness of the wrongdoing of human dealing. The run of the mill sentence for this wrongdoing is six or seven years, while the sentence for dealing in medications is regularly twenty years. Two Romanian dealers, Traian and Ovidiu, bear witness to having starved, punched, and kicked the young ladies they dealt. Ovidiu describes a story, in a meeting recorded in February 2007, about seizing a whore and offering her for sex when he was 14. He communicates no regret for these activities. The sentences served by Traian and Ovidiu were short enough that, when the film was discharged, they were no longer in jail. Ana, a young lady they dealt, is additionally met in the film, saying that she lost a tooth in one of her beatings. She portrays being pregnant at the time, however not advising this to her captors as a result of fears for the unborn kid's wellbeing. 

Radu is met in this part of the film, as is Tournecuillert, who talks about his encounters in Albania, where he found out about the sex dealing of young ladies and how a portion of the young ladies would be shot or consumed to death as a notice to different young ladies. He depicts how Albanian young ladies are regularly gathered together to be explicitly dealt in Italy. He further clarifies that, typically, before they leave Albania, the dealers execute one of the young ladies before the others—generally by consuming or shooting—to exhibit what will transpire who endeavor to get away. Matei includes that, for beguilement, a portion of the young ladies would be covered buzzing with just their heads staying over the ground. Eugenia Bonetti, a pious devotee, talks about her work helping young ladies escape from bondage in Italy. 

Another meeting is with a Wichita, Kansas lady named Angie who was undermined with another young lady, Melissa, in the American Midwest when they were youngsters. Angie relates how they were relied upon to have intercourse with truck drivers and take their cash. She depicts an episode when, after Melissa discovered photos of a man's grandkids in his wallet, they understood he was mature enough to be their own granddad. "I needed to kick the bucket," she says, near tears. Outside the film, Bilheimer said that Angie's dealer anticipated that her should take part in forty sex acts a night, and took steps to execute her on the off chance that she can't. "It's not simply truck drivers," FBI specialist Mike Beaver says. "We're seeing them bought and mishandled by both cubicle and manual people." This announcement segues into a Washington, D.C., scene wherein two young ladies in their initial youngsters are appeared by a control on K Street, changing into whores' clothing. 

Angie was safeguarded amid Operation Stormy Nights, an enemy of human-dealing task did by the FBI, in 2004. Bilheimer said that, while there is no chance to get of being sure what number of young ladies like Angie are by and large explicitly dealt in the U.S., "determined individuals out there have landed at an absolute minimum figure of ... one hundred thousand young ladies, eight to fifteen [performing] ten sex acts multi day" signifying "a billion unpunished violations of sexual savagery on a yearly premise." 

Another American casualty of sexual dealing, Sheila White, portrays an occurrence in 2003 when she was whipped by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. She says that no one even inquired as to whether she required help. White inevitably got away from being dealt and proceeded to work with GEMS to bring issues to light on the issue in New York. In 2012, after the film was discharged, Barack Obama, President of the United States, perceived White's work and revealed to her story amid a discourse to the Clinton Global Initiative. 

The following scenes in the film delineate youngster work in Nepal, and demonstrate that kid laborers in the material business are ordinarily focused by sex dealers. A whorehouse attack in India, driven by Balkrishna Acharya of the Rescue Foundation in Mumbai, is then appeared. Ten young ladies are protected from a four-by-three-foot storeroom and a creep space. The madam responds irately, seeing the strike as removing her work. At that point, the dealing of kids into the sex business is delineated in Cambodia. A few scenes occur in Svay Pak, Phnom Penh, one of the least expensive sex the travel industry goals in the Mekong Delta. Ladies of the Somaly Mam Foundation are delineated working with young ladies who have been explicitly dealt. A substantial number of these young ladies are envisioned one by one, every youngster blurring into the following against the setting of an entryway. A meeting with one of the Somaly Mam Foundation specialists, Sophea Chhun, uncovers that her girl, Sokny, was grabbed in 2008 at age 23. "In all likelihood Sokny too was sold," Chhun says, guaranteeing that "the police treated it like she wasn't essential"— maybe, she recommends, on the grounds that Sokny was a received kid. Wear Brewster of Agape International Missions is met, and says that the majority of the young ladies they have safeguarded from kid sex the travel industry in Cambodia recognize Americans as the customers who were the most damaging to them. Bilheimer concurred with this attestation in a meeting outside the film. 

In Guatemala City, Guatemalan dealer Efrain Ortiz is demonstrated being captured, and the film shows that he was later given a jail sentence of 95 years. Ortiz had two children he had been utilizing for waste gathering and five little girls he had been submitting inbreeding with. Bilheimer goes with IJM delegates Pablo Villeda, Amy Roth, and Gary Haugen as they and the neighborhood police capture Ortiz; he is accused of misuse of youngsters and brutality against ladies. Ortiz looks shocked as he is cuffed. Haugen, President of IJM, proceeded to be named a Trafficking in Persons (TIP) Hero in the 2012 US DoS TIP Report. 

Beauty Akallo, an Ugandan lady who was once stole by Joseph Kony to be utilized as a youngster officer in the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), is talked with, saying that "this sort of underhandedness must be ceased." She was compelled to slaughter another young lady as a feature of her introduction into the LRA, a typical practice among armed forces that utilize tyke fighters. The film expresses that she was eventually restored and turned into a mother. 

Minister Desmond Tutu, who Bilheimer had recently met for "The Cry of Reason", shows up towards the finish of the film, saying, "Every one of us has the ability to be a holy person." Bilheimer included Tutu in "Not My Life" since he felt that groups of onlookers may need peaceful guiding subsequent to watching the film. The last scene of "Not My Life" comes back to the kid holding his breath submerged in Ghana. His name is uncovered to be Etse, and it is expressed that he and six other dealing unfortunate casualties appeared in the film have been safeguarded. A portion of the final words in the film are spoken by Brazilian human rights advocate Leo Sakomoto: "I can't see a decent life while there are individuals living like creatures. Not on the grounds that I'm a decent individual, not on the grounds that it's my obligation, but since they are human—like me." 

The venture that progressed toward becoming "Not My Life" was started by the official executive of the UNODC, Antonio Maria Costa, who needed to commission a film that would "convey the issue of present day subjection to the consideration of popular feeling, comprehensively—particularly the benevolent, reputable and God-dreading individuals who don't think something so shocking is occurring in their own neighborhood." With this objective at the top of the priority list, Costa moved toward Worldwide Documentaries, an East Bloomfield, New York-based association that had created two movies with which he was well-known: "The Cry of Reason", which records inward protection from South African politically-sanctioned racial segregation by method for Beyers Naudé's story; and "A Closer Walk", which is about the study of disease transmission of HIV/AIDS. Costa messaged Bilheimer, Director of Worldwide Documentaries, requesting that he make the movie he imagined. Costa said that he pick Bilheimer in light of the fact that the executive had built up a "strong notoriety [for] tending to troublesome subjects... consolidating creative ability, a philosophical view about improvement and a compassionate feeling about what to do about the issues." 

Bilheimer acknowledged Costa's recommendation, and accordingly composed, created, and coordinated "Not My Life" as an autonomous film. Bilheimer, who had gotten an Academy Award selection for "The Cry of Reason", said that "the persistent, unpunished, and timid abuse of a huge number of people for work, sex, and several sub-classes thereof is just the most shocking and harming articulation of supposed human development we have ever observed." Bilheimer's better half, Heidi Ostertag, is Worldwide Documentaries' Senior Producer, and she co-created "Not My Life" with him. She said that she discovered making a film about human dealing troublesome in light of the fact that "individuals would prefer not to discuss this issue." Bilheimer found that the associations he had made amid the generation of "A Closer Walk" were likewise helpful while creating "Not My Life" on the grounds that poor people and the outsider are at the most serious danger of both HIV/AIDS and human dealing; there is, therefore, much cover between the gatherings defrauded by these two pains. Bilheimer endeavored to form the film so that all aspects of it would outline an announcement made by Abraham Lincoln: "If servitude is right, nothing isn't right." 

When making this film, Bilheimer held that a contemporary abolitionist development did not yet exist. He depicted his motivation in making the film as to bring issues to light and start such a development. He additionally wished to impart to his groups of onlookers that not all human dealing is sexual. Dealers "carry out unspeakable, wanton demonstrations of brutality against their kindred individuals," he stated, "and are infrequently rebuffed for their violations." Production of "Not My Life" was bolstered by the United Nations Global Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking (UN.GIFT), UNICEF, and UNODC, furnishing Worldwide Documentaries with $1 million in subsidizing verified by Costa. 

Bilheimer said that the dimension of remorselessness he found in shooting "Not My Life" was more noteworthy than anything he had seen while reporting politically-sanctioned racial segregation in South Africa for "The Cry of Reason". Bilheimer validated ending up increasingly mindful of the worldwide degree of human dealing as he approached making "Not My Life". The film's title originated from a June 2009 meeting with Molly Melching, organizer of Tostan, an association devoted to human rights instruction working in ten African nations. As Bilheimer and Melching talked in Thiès, Senegal, examining how individuals frequently prevent the truth from claiming contemporary subjugation since it is an awkward truth, Melching stated, "Individuals can say, 'No, this isn't my life.' But my life can change. How about we change together." 

Shooting of "Not My Life" occurred more than four years in Africa, Asia, Europe, and North and South America archiving human dealing in thirteen nations: Albania, Brazil, Cambodia, Egypt, Ghana, Guatemala, India, Italy, Nepal, Romania, Senegal, Uganda, and the United States. Shooting in Ghana occurred more than four 18-hour days, amid which the film group needed to go over washboard streets in Land Rovers and did not rest. Recording in Svay Pak occurred in March 2010, and shooting in Abusir, Egypt occurred the next month. 

In Guatemala, Bilheimer encouraged the capture of dealer Ortiz by leasing a vehicle for the police to use, so as to film the capture as a component of "Not My Life". Bilheimer said that, amid the creation of the film, he and his team were astonished to find that dealers utilize comparable strategies for terrorizing over the globe, "as though there were ... unwritten standing rules and tactics ... The untruths are the equivalent." 

Susan Tedeschi, Derek Trucks, and Dave Brubeck played out the signature melody for "Not My Life", Bob Dylan's "Ruler Protect My Child", which was delivered by Chris Brubeck. After the underlying screenings in mid 2011, the film experienced a progression of amendments, considering data accumulated from in excess of thirty screenings for center gatherings. Soon thereafter, the portrayal was totally rerecorded; Bilheimer supplanted Ashley Judd's voice with that of Glenn Close, who had recently worked with him on "A Closer Walk". The rendition of the film that was broadcast by CNN International was shorter than the variant appeared at the debut. A much shorter variant, just 30 minutes in length, was made considering school gatherings of people. 

Content identifying with the Egyptian blended sex schools organized by Suzanne Mubarak was accumulated, however Bilheimer inevitably expelled quite a bit of this substance from the film on the grounds that the Arab Spring made the data in this part of the film obsolete, in spite of the proceeded with presence of the vast majority of these schools. A great part of the meeting with Molly Melching was evacuated also. Amid the altering of "Not My Life", Bilheimer cut the meeting with Tutu, however later re-included a solitary citation. In this meeting, Bilheimer informed Tutu regarding meeting ordinarily sensible, sympathetic ladies who, when talking about human dealers, state things like "Hang him up by his balls and afterward cut them off!" Tutu, leader of reality and compromise commission, shocked Bilheimer with his reaction, saying that "these individuals have submitted immense acts," yet that, as indicated by Christianity, dealers can at present be reclaimed and become holy people. 

As had happened with Bilheimer's past film, "A Closer Walk", "Not My Life" had a few see screenings before its official discharge. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) facilitated a review screening at the Willard InterContinental Washington in September 2009 as a component of multi day-long symposium on human dealing. A review screening in Egypt, incorporating the material shot in that nation that was later evacuated, occurred in December 2010 at the International Forum against Human Trafficking in Luxor. 

Soon thereafter, on December 15, the movie's cinematographer and co-executive Richard Young kicked the bucket. "Not My Life" was along these lines devoted to him. Bilheimer said that Young had confidence in the film definitely more than he himself had. 

The film had its official debut in Alice Tully Hall at the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts in New York City on January 19, 2011. Melanne Verveer, United States Ambassador-everywhere for Global Women's Issues, gave a discourse, saying, "All of us is called to act. I trust that today around evening time every one of us will make their own dedication." Additional screenings were held in Los Angeles and Chicago soon thereafter. That October, "Not My Life" had its universal debut in London. CNN International disclosed the film in two sections a couple of days after the fact as a component of the CNN Freedom Project. The Swedish debut was gone to by Crown Princess Victoria. Bilheimer perceived that individuals combatting human dealing need assets, so he considered different choices as for the protected innovation of "Not My Life", at last choosing to discharge the film at charge notwithstanding selling licenses for boundless private screenings. On November 1, a 83-minute rendition of the film was discharged on DVD by Worldwide Documentaries, which likewise started carefully conveying the film and selling the boundless licenses. LexisNexis, the legislatures of Arizona and Minnesota, and the U.S. Store for UNICEF all bought licenses. The last association intended to utilize the film as a component of an enemy of human-dealing effort. 

"Not My Life" was screened at the 2012 UNIS-UN Conference in New York City, the topic of which was human abuse. Fragments from the film were incorporated into "Would you be able to Walk Away?", a 2012 presentation on contemporary servitude at President Lincoln's Cottage at the Soldiers' Home in Washington, DC. An inn network introduced the film to its staff in London in anticipation of the 2012 Summer Olympics to bring issues to light about the kinds of human dealing that may happen related to the occasions. Bilheimer started an Indiegogo crowdfunding effort in 2012 to permit nearby associations contradicting human dealing to screen the film. That equivalent year, he communicated an eagerness to discharge fifteen-minute portions from the film to enable its message to contact more individuals. 

In a 2012 meeting, Bilheimer said that he considered "A Closer Walk" and "Not My Life" to be the initial two portions in a set of three; he proposed to make an ecological film called "Take Me Home" as the third portion. Starting at 2013, in any case, the Worldwide Documentaries site expressed that Bilheimer was thinking about various subjects for his next film, incorporating neediness in the United States, the consequence of the 2010 Haiti tremor, and posttraumatic stress issue among U.S. Armed force veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Bilheimer said in 2013 that "Not My Life" "is definitely not an ideal film using any and all means, however it is having an effect." He said that he might want to proceed onward to another film venture, yet that he would keep advancing "Not My Life" since he figured it could help battle human dealing. 

All through 2013, the World Affairs Councils of America facilitated "Not My Life" screenings in an assortment of urban areas over the United States, supported by the Carlson Family Foundation. That equivalent year, the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency gave Worldwide Documentaries a give to do hostile to human dealing work over a three-year time frame. "Not My Life" was screened at the Mexican film celebration Oaxaca FilmFest in November 2012; BORDEReview in Warsaw, Poland, in May 2013; and the Pasadena International Film and New Media Festival in February 2014. 

In May 2014, the Somaly Mam Foundation discharged an explanation that Somaly had left her administration of the association because of examinations with respect to charges about her own history. The next month, Bilheimer discharged an announcement accordingly, saying that he had re-altered the film so as to evacuate the scenes portraying Somaly and that the new form would be accessible in the blink of an eye. Bilheimer composed that "the narrating in the Cambodia portion of "Not My Life" stays flawless is still extremely moving, with a considerably more honed center, presently, on the young ladies themselves." In this announcement, Bilheimer mentioned that individuals screening past renditions of the film tell their groups of onlookers that the nearness of Somaly in the film is justifiably a diversion, that the film isn't fundamentally about Somaly but instead about the a large number of kids in bondage on the planet, and that this center is what is most essential about the film. 

For the 2014 re-arrival of the film, Bilheimer added new substance identifying with India, incorporating a meeting with Kailash Satyarthi, author of the non-administrative association Bachpan Bachao Andolan which contradicts youngster work. This substance underscores that there are more human dealing unfortunate casualties in India than in some other nation on the planet. The new form of the film, which was co-created with the Delhi-based Riverbank Studios, was 56 minutes in length and debuted at the India International Center in New Delhi on June 26. Satyarthi was one of the specialists in a board talk going with the screening, as was Indian producer Mike Pandey, who had overseen Riverbank Studios' side of the co-creation. The film was planned to air on Doordarshan (DD) in Hindi three days after the fact. In July, Bilheimer called his proceeded with work on the film "a work of affection" and said that "very much an excess of quiet still encompasses the issue" of human dealing. 

At the USAID review screening, performing artist Lucy Liu, who has worked with MTV EXIT and created the narrative film "Redlight", said that individuals who watch "Not My Life" "will be stunned to discover [human trafficking] is going on in America"; she said that there were 80,000 ladies being explicitly struck every day and she called human dealing the "cannibalization of the planet's childhood." According to UN.GIFT, before "Not My Life", there was "no single specialized instrument that viably depict[ed] the issue in general for a mass group of onlookers." Susan Bissell, UNICEF's Child Protection Section boss, concurred with this attestation, and said that the film "investigates the hidden causality that such huge numbers of different movie producers have missed [and] it will change the manner in which we see our lives, in some key ways." She likewise said that "Not My Life" is a critical narrative since it focuses on underreported types of maltreatment. A commentator from "Medicinal News Today" commended the film for "bringing issues to light and talking about forbidden subjects," contending that these exercises "are basic to engage families, networks, and governments to stand up sincerely and make a move against maltreatment." 

Lucy Popescu of CineVue called the film "an incredible arraignment of the worldwide exchange individuals and the maltreatment of defenseless individuals," yet condemned the film for concentrating on human dealing unfortunate casualties, contending that the culprits ought to have been managed all the more noticeably. She praised Bilheimer on the few meetings with dealers that he included, yet she denounced as lacking the "main passing reference to the a great many men who participate in sexual the travel industry, similar to the individuals who travel to Cambodia to 'purchase' damaged youngsters who they would then be able to maltreatment for a considerable length of time at once." Popescu additionally called the film "oversimplified", contending that it ought to have all the more obviously communicated that sex dealing exploited people are not ready to give authentic agree to sexual action since they are anxious about the possibility that that their lives may be in peril on the off chance that they don't go along. John Rash of the "Star Tribune" called the film "a clamor of concerned voices talking about a current scourge." Rash lauded the film for its worldwide extension, yet recommended that this land expansiveness enables American crowds to overlook the way that the dealing of kids is pervasive in the United States and not simply in different nations. 

"Not My Life" was named Best World Documentary at the Harlem International Film Festival in September 2012. Nancy Keefe Rhodes of "Stone Canoe" considered it an "exceptionally distilled ... amazing movie," portraying Bilheimer as "focused on solid narrating and movie as-make." She compliments Bilheimer on switching back and forth between American groupings and scenes in different nations, permitting "the encounters of young ladies with whom an American crowd may all the more promptly recognize [to] become one among many woven into the texture of worldwide dealing." Tripurari Sharan, Director General of DD, said that his association was satisfied to air the movie and trusted that doing as such would realize more prominent mindfulness crosswise over India about human dealing in the nation. He called the film "both an eye-opener and a significantly moving suggestion to take action".