2014 U.S. Open Cup Final 

The 2014 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup Final was played on September 16, 2014, at PPL Park, presently known as Talen Energy Stadium, in Chester, Pennsylvania. The match decided the victor of the 2014 U.S. Open Cup, a competition open to beginner and expert groups partnered with the United States Soccer Federation. This was the 101st release of the most seasoned challenge in United States soccer. Seattle Sounders FC won the match, vanquishing the Philadelphia Union. The horde of 15,256 saw the groups go into additional time level at 1– 1 preceding the Sounders scored twice more to end the match 3– 1. 

Philadelphia and Seattle both play in the top level of American soccer, Major League Soccer (MLS), and skirted the underlying phases of the competition with passages into the fourth round of play. The Sounders were amidst a Supporters' Shield-winning customary season, while the Union's begin was poor to the point that their mentor was supplanted seven days preceding their first diversion in the challenge. Philadelphia verified its compartment in the last by vanquishing the Harrisburg City Islanders, the New York Cosmos, the New England Revolution, and FC Dallas. Seattle's street to the last included triumphs over PSA Elite, the San Jose Earthquakes, the Portland Timbers, and the Chicago Fire. 

The mentors both picked solid squads in their endeavors to win the trophy, however Sounders forward Kenny Cooper, later chose as Player of the Tournament, did not show up in the last. The Union's Maurice Edu gave his group the lead with an objective in the main half, yet the Sounders evened out with a second half strike by Chad Barrett, and the match went into additional time. Despite the fact that Philadelphia controlled times of the match with chances all through, Clint Dempsey led the pack for Seattle in the primary additional timeframe, and Obafemi Martins fixed a Seattle triumph with a late objective. Seattle earned a $250,000 money prize, just as a compartment into the 2015– 16 CONCACAF Champions League. Philadelphia got a $60,000 money prize as the challenge's sprinter up. 

The U.S. Open Cup is a yearly American soccer rivalry open to every United State Soccer Federation subsidiary groups, from beginner grown-up club groups to the expert clubs of Major League Soccer (MLS). The 2014 challenge was the 101st version of the most established soccer competition in the United States. For the third back to back season, all American-based MLS groups earned programmed capability into the third round legitimate. Beforehand, just eight groups from MLS could meet all requirements for the competition: six consequently dependent on the earlier year's class results, and two more by means of a play-in competition. 

Groups from Philadelphia and the encompassing district have had an effective history in the Open Cup: Bethlehem Steel F.C. won five trophies somewhere in the range of 1915 and 1926, the Uhrik Truckers won in 1936, and the Philadelphia Ukrainians won multiple times amid the 1960s. The Union's elective pullover, worn all through the challenge, included an extensive letter "B" in the lower left corner to respect Bethlehem. 

The Union started the MLS ordinary season with just 3 wins in 16 diversions. Their head mentor John Hackworth was terminated, and Jim Curtin was named as his break substitution, seven days before the primary Open Cup coordinate against their lower-association offshoot Harrisburg City Islanders on June 17. An effective keep running in the Open Cup could rescue the season, and Curtin said that the group was taking the home amusement "in all respects genuinely". Harrisburg plays in the USL Professional Division—the third division of American soccer—however Philadelphia still played a few of its normal starters, and did not allow Harrisburg to utilize two recently lent Union players. Philadelphia was nearly wiped out, however Maurice Edu scored a leveling objective in the 89th moment, and Andrew Wenger scored two additional objectives in additional opportunity to propel the Union with a score of 3– 1. 

On June 24, Philadelphia played at home versus the New York Cosmos of the second-level North American Soccer League in what was just Curtin's second diversion as head mentor. Additional time was again required as the groups finished guideline tied at one each before Sébastien Le Toux scored the amusement victor in the 115th moment. Soon after the objective, a scuffle ejected between the groups that brought about two Cosmos players and one Union player being sent off for pushing and pushing. Two of New York's associate mentors were additionally catapulted for their parts in the confusion. 

The group were at home against the New England Revolution of MLS for the fifth round, on July 8. They effectively won with objectives from Conor Casey and Le Toux. The last's strike made him the advanced period Open Cup objectives pioneer with an aggregate of 14 scored in his profession. Le Toux had a solid history with Seattle and the competition before moving to the Union in 2009; he recently played for the second-division manifestation of the Sounders and won the 2009 Open Cup with the MLS side. He would later be named the sprinter up to the year's Most Valuable Player of the Tournament. A residue storm joined by thunder and lightning stopped the diversion for an hour after the 61st moment, yet the Revolution couldn't recoup from the two-objective shortfall. 

On August 12, Philadelphia made a trip to MLS side FC Dallas for the elimination round. Amobi Okugo scored an objective in the main half before Dallas evened out. The match went to kicks as guideline and additional time brought about a stalemate. Goalkeeper Zac MacMath made jumping recoveries of two Dallas endeavors in the shoot-out to secure the Union's place in the last—the nearest the group had been to winning a trophy in its five-year history. 

The Seattle Sounders won the Open Cup in 2009, 2010, and 2011. They additionally achieved the last in 2012 yet were dispensed with by a lower-level side right off the bat in 2013. In 2014, they drew novice club PSA Elite, a formative lower-division group that had just been successful in its initial three rounds of the competition. Seattle has most Open Cup home amusements at Tukwila's Starfire Sports arena. The ground holds around 4,000, which is a lot littler than their typical home arena, CenturyLink Field. Mentor Sigi Schmid was cited as saying "I might suspect our folks flourish with the closeness of the group. It causes goad them on to great exhibitions." Seattle was driving MLS entering the round on June 18, and effectively won 5– 0. Kenny Cooper scored twice in the triumph. 

The Sounders facilitated the San Jose Earthquakes at Starfire on June 24 and the two groups scored in the principal half. The Earthquakes second-string goalie, David Bingham, kept his group in the match by preventing three shots from Chad Barrett late in the second half. Neither one of the teams scored in additional time and the diversion went to a shoot-out. After the shoot-out finished 4– 1, goalkeeper Marcus Hahnemann celebrated by drinking a lager before the brew garden and the home fans. 

On July 9, Seattle conflicted with its opponent, the Portland Timbers, at Starfire for the quarterfinal. The Sounders went on top with an Osvaldo Alonso objective, however previous Sounder Steve Zakuani helped Darlington Nagbe to score a very late equalizer for the Timbers in the 93rd moment. Additional time saw the launch of Portland's Diego Chara while Cooper and Marco Pappa both found the back of the net to give the home group a 3– 1 triumph. 

The group's elimination round match was at home against Chicago Fire on August 13. The Fire were without 2013's MLS Most Valuable Player, Mike Magee, because of suspension. Cooper and Andy Rose each scored twice while Obafemi Martins and Pappa both had an objective each. Seattle completed the diversion with three objectives in the last four and a half minutes in the persuading 6– 0 triumph. The primary objective of the match was Cooper's last of the challenge as he didn't play in the resulting last. He finished the competition with an aggregate of 13 vocation Open Cup objectives, one short of Le Toux's cutting edge time aggregate of 14. Cooper got six out of 2014 alone, and he would proceed to be named 2014's Player of the Tournament. 

The United States Soccer Federation decided the host of the last with a coin flip on August 4, 2014. The champ of the hurl was whoever was successful in the FC Dallas/Philadelphia Union elimination round, implying that the diversion would occur at PPL Park in Chester, Pennsylvania. It was the eleventh time the more noteworthy Philadelphia area facilitated the last and the first since 1994. The Union showcased the amusement by openly showing the trophy at nearby eateries, milestones, and occasions. 

The Open Cup isn't held in as high see as the MLS Cup, however it is as yet an essential accomplishment. For Philadelphia, it spoke to their first-since forever chance at a trophy, though Seattle had been to the finals multiple times in the club's six-year history. With a triumph, the Sounders would tie the Fire with four generally speaking successes by a MLS group. 

The untouched record between the clubs remained at 3– 2 for Seattle. The Sounders had beaten the Union before in the year amid group play, however Philadelphia had improved from that point forward. When of the last, the Union had a 10-diversion unbeaten streak at home. Seattle had as of late lost three of five MLS coordinates however was as yet a standout amongst the best groups in the class. Seattle was the top choice, with one savant contrasting Philadelphia with enduring longshot Rocky Balboa of the film arrangement "Rough". 

Player choice amid the past phases of the Open Cup was a test because of key work force accepting call-ups for the World Cup. The Sounders had profundity that could withstand losing players, and did not rest starters in the number one spot up to the last diversion. The Union rested a few starters amid the earlier end of the week's group coordinate. Philadelphia's Casey, Le Toux, and Cristian Maidana were noteworthy assaulting dangers, while Seattle had the striking pair of Martins and Clint Dempsey. Protectively, Edu was Philadelphia's most grounded player. Seattle likewise had a solid barrier with youthful national group prospect DeAndre Yedlin, and possible MLS Defender of the Year Chad Marshall. 

Kickoff was planned for 7:30 pm neighborhood time. Armando Villarreal was the ref and his partners were Peter Manikowski and Corey Parker. The fourth official was Jose Carlos Rivero. There were no suspensions or wounds of note. The climate was shady with a temperature of . 

Sounders mentor Schmid made changes in accordance with his standard beginning lineup. Pappa did not begin because of an ongoing come back from universal obligation with Guatemala, while star striker Martins was on the seat too. Despite the fact that he won the Golden Boot for most objectives scored, Cooper was fundamentally a seat player consistently and did not begin the match. Albeit coming up short on those playmakers, the Sounders turned out assaulting, and their first once in a lifetime opportunity came in the tenth moment when Rose threw a low cross close to the substance of the objective to Dempsey, whose subsequent shot was off-outline. 

The Union expanded its pace with Andrew Wenger playing wide on the left where he over and again moved beyond Yedlin to get to the byline or slice back to shoot. Maidana and Le Toux fortified Philadelphia's situation by consolidating on the opposite side of the field to infiltrate Seattle's safeguard. Wenger associated with Le Toux who made a go, however Seattle goalkeeper Stefan Frei was speedy enough to make the stop. In the 38th moment, Maidana was fouled by Leonardo González wide right of the punishment territory. Maidana's subsequent free kick twisted towards the back post where Brad Evans lost his balance and Edu looked the ball with his temple to place it in the back of the net. The home group kept control of the principal half and kept making scoring openings. 

Neither one of the teams made substitutions at halftime. The Sounders turned out on the assault and were granted a corner kick only three minutes into the period. Carlos Valdes endeavored to clear the ball yet Marshall headed it towards objective for MacMath to clear. Barrett scored from short proximity and the match was level at 1– 1. 

Seattle kept up force with Yedlin starting to defeat Wenger while Martins supplanted Barrett in the 60th moment. Philadelphia's midfield on the other hand started to declare predominance and Maidana had a breakaway in the 72nd moment. Yedlin dashed to make up ground to stop the assault in what MLS would call the "guarded play of the amusement". Dempsey got an opportunity to score off a cross from Pappa in the 76th moment yet couldn't kick it into high gear a foot on the ball. Martins at that point got another opportunity that went wide before control moved once more to Philadelphia. 

Seattle supplanted Lamar Neagle with Pappa in the 74th moment trying to make preference. Philadelphia replied with two additional odds that nearly won the match. Casey got a yellow card at the 57th moment and was later supplanted by Pedro Ribeiro. In the 88th moment, Raymon Gaddis won the ball and made a go that was diverted. Ribeiro made a go yet it needed power. In stoppage time, Vincent Nogueira had another nearby shot that struck the post and ricocheted hazardously near the objective before being cleared. 

Martins opened additional time with a shot on objective while the Sounders played progressively higher on the field. Seattle led the pack in the 101st moment when Dempsey and Martins associated on a play that brought about Dempsey making a low shot. Martins, Dempsey, and Pappa viably countered Philadelphia's assaults in the second 50% of additional time and Pappa hit the crossbar on an endeavored shot. Valdes had a brilliant chance to tie the match in the 111th moment when he made a header towards the Sounders objective, however the shot was powerless and effectively spared. In spite of the fact that Philadelphia was squeezing the assault, Martins scored in the 114th moment to put the Sounders up 3– 1. 

The two groups had chances amid the match with Philadelphia making a particularly extreme push in the last 15 minutes. While the two guards battled all through, Frei and MacMath joined for a sum of seven spares (four and three, individually). Schmid told the press after the last: "From a fans' point of view, it was presumably an extremely, exceptionally engaging amusement." An essayist for "Sports Illustrated" jested that "Schmid's choice not to begin Obafemi Martins and Pappa was befuddling — and afterward resembled a flash of brilliance", as both were necessary to the Sounders offense in the later phases of the diversion. Schmid told columnists amid a post-coordinate meeting that Martins did not begin because of a muscle strain. The mentor likewise lauded the capacity of Martins and Dempsey to finish key goes with one another. The Sounders got a $250,000 money prize for winning the competition. It was Dempsey's first club trophy of his long profession, and he beat Martins in casting a ballot to be named the Player of the Round. Yedlin and Frei likewise gotten votes. Seattle proceeded to win the MLS Supporters' Shield for having the best record in the class before being disposed of from the playoffs. The Open Cup win conceded the group a spot in the 2015– 16 CONCACAF Champions League. 

As sprinter up, Philadelphia was granted $60,000. Curtin told the media after the amusement: "I've never been pleased with anything in my life that finished in a misfortune before ... This is the first run through." Curtin's initiative making progress toward the last persuaded the players, fans, media, and front office of his capacity to deal with the club. In spite of the fact that the group missed the association playoffs, his execution was sufficient for the group to expel the "break" tag from his title as head mentor. 

GOL TV had broadcasting rights for the competition somewhere in the range of 2012 and 2014. The station isn't appeared numerous TV bundles, however Comcast got the feed in the Philadelphia territory. Participation at PPL Park was 15,256, the most reduced for an Open Cup last in six years. A live stream was made accessible over the Internet for a charge, however the quality was poor to the point that discounts were guaranteed after just 20 minutes. After the amusement, an author for "The Seattle Times" panned the communicate courses of action and low participation at PPL Park, saying, "It's a disgrace so few had the capacity to see it."