Blunt Headlam 

Air Vice Marshal Frank Headlam, (15 July 1914 – 23 December 1976) was a senior leader in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Conceived and taught in Tasmania, he joined the RAAF as an air cadet in January 1934. He represented considerable authority in flying guidance and route before the flare-up of World War II. In April 1941, he wound up leader of No. 2 Squadron, which worked Lockheed Hudsons. The squadron was conveyed to Dutch Timor in December, and saw activity against Japanese powers in the South West Pacific. In the wake of coming back to Australia in February 1942, Headlam held staff arrangements and preparing directions, completing the war a gathering skipper. 

Headlam filled in as Officer Commanding North-Western Area in 1946, and as Director of Training from 1947 to 1950. In 1950– 51, amid the Malayan Emergency, he was positioned at Singapore as administrator of No. 90 (Composite) Wing and, later, RAF Tengah. He twice filled in as acting Air Member for Personnel, in 1957 and 1959– 60, getting arrangement as a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1958. Advanced air bad habit marshal, he progressively held the places of Air Officer Commanding (AOC) Operational Command in 1961– 62, AOC No. 224 Group RAF from 1962 to 1965 amid the Indonesia– Malaysia "Konfrontasi", Deputy Chief of the Air Staff in 1965– 66, and AOC Support Command in 1966– 67. He was named a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1965. Following a presenting on London as Head of the Australian Joint Services Staff from 1968 to 1971, he resigned from the Air Force and kicked the bucket in Melbourne five years after the fact. 

The child of ranchers Malcolm and Hilda Headlam, Frank Headlam was conceived on 15 July 1914 in Launceston, Tasmania. He was educated at Clemes College, Hobart, and registered in 1932. Against the desires of his folks he joined the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) as an air cadet on 16 January 1934. He experienced flying guidance with No. 1 Flying Training School (FTS) at RAAF Point Cook, Victoria, and was charged as a pilot officer on 1 January 1935. 

Subsequent to finishing a change course, Headlam was relegated to the Seaplane Squadron at Point Cook. No bigger than a trip as indicated by the official history of the pre-war RAAF, Seaplane Squadron was a piece of No. 1 FTS and worked Supermarine Southampton flying vessels and de Havilland Gipsy Moth floatplanes, among different sorts. Amid this presenting Headlam was advanced on flying officer, on 1 July 1935, and composed a paper on national guard in which he recommended that with "solid aviation based armed forces, maritime powers (counting submarines), and fixed resistances, Australia might be made for all intents and purposes immune". As per Air Force history specialist Alan Stephens, this paper "essentially, characterized the 'counter lodgment' idea which has been an industrious element of RAAF key reasoning". 

Headlam finished a flying teachers course in July 1936 and joined the staff of No. 1 FTS. He was elevated to flight lieutenant on 1 March 1937. Beginning in July 1938, he was one of six understudies to participate in the RAAF's first Long Specialist Navigation Course, kept running by Flight Lieutenants Bill Garing and Alister Murdoch at Point Cook. The course included a few epic preparing flights that pulled in significant media consideration, including a twelve-day, round-Australia trip by three Avro Ansons, one of which was guided by Headlam, in November. The next month, Headlam drove the three Ansons on a six-day venture forward and backward over Central Australia. He along these lines passed the route course with an uncommon qualification. On 27 January 1939 he was presented on RAAF Station Laverton, Victoria, as a flight authority. He served at first with No. 2 Squadron, before exchanging to No. 1 Squadron on 29 August. The two units worked Ansons. 

Following the flare-up of World War II, No. 1 Squadron was occupied with guard escort and sea observation obligations off south-eastern Australia. Headlam kept on presenting with the squadron as a flight leader until 15 January 1940, when he was relegated to Headquarters Laverton as the station route officer. On 27 March he was presented on the staff of RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne. He was elevated to squadron pioneer on 1 June 1940. After two weeks he wedded Katherine Bridge at St Paul's Anglican Church in Frankston; the couple would have a child and a little girl. 

Headlam was given order of No. 2 Squadron at Laverton on 15 April 1941, and raised to wing administrator on 1 July. Furnished with Lockheed Hudsons, the squadron principally led sea watches in southern waters until 5 December, when four of its air ship were requested to Darwin, Northern Territory, in light of fears of Japanese animosity in the Pacific. On 7 December, this separation set up itself at Penfui, close Koepang in Dutch Timor, while No. 2 Squadron's eight outstanding Hudsons were positioned at Darwin on backup. The next day, mindful that Australia was presently at war in the Pacific, one of the Penfui-based Hudsons assaulted the Japanese pearler "Nanyo Maru", which was associated with being a radio ship, and constrained it ashore. By 12 December, Headlam had exchanged to Penfui as boss of the base, just as No. 2 Squadron. 

Amid January 1942, No. 2 Squadron's air ship were scattered at Penfui, Boeroe Island, and Darwin. The Penfui separation assaulted Japanese delivery participating in the intrusion of Celebes. Two Hudsons shot down or harmed three Japanese floatplanes that assaulted them as they were shelling a vehicle transport on 11 January; the following day the two Hudsons were themselves shot somewhere around Mitsubishi Zeros. Penfui was shelled by the Japanese out of the blue on 26 January 1942, and assaulted consistently from that point, harming some air ship. The flawless Hudsons were pulled back to Darwin however Headlam and his staff stayed at Penfui to empower the base to be utilized via airplane amid surveillance missions from Australia. On 18 February, Headlam was requested to clear the entirety of his faculty aside from a little gathering to devastate the landing strip with help from Sparrow Force. He came back to Darwin the next day, similarly as the city encountered its first assault by the Japanese. Four of No. 2 Squadron's Hudsons were crushed in the assault; the rest of migrated to Daly Waters, where they kept on doing observation and besieging missions against Japanese focuses in Timor. 

Headlam stayed in Darwin as Controller of Operations at Headquarters North-Western Area Command until 12 May 1942, when he was presented on Nhill, Victoria, as boss of No. 2 Air Navigation School, working Ansons. No. 97 (Reserve) Squadron was framed from the school's work force in June. On 20 July 1943, Headlam took direction of No. 2 Air Observer School (AOS), additionally working Ansons, at Mount Gambier, South Australia. He was elevated to amass skipper on 1 December 1943, and was selected the debut boss of No. 3 AOS, working Ansons and Fairey Battles out of Port Pirie, on 9 December. In the wake of giving over direction of No. 3 AOS, he started learns at RAAF Staff School in Mount Martha, Victoria, on 2 October 1944. He was named senior regulatory staff officer at North-Western Area Command on 12 January 1945. 

Headlam progressed toward becoming Officer Commanding North-Western Area in January 1946. Presented on Britain toward the year's end, he went to the Royal Air Force Staff College, Andover, and presented with RAAF Overseas Headquarters, London. On his arrival to Australia, in November 1947, he moved toward becoming Director of Training at RAAF Headquarters. In November 1950, Headlam was delegated to assume control over direction of No. 90 (Composite) Wing from Group Captain Paddy Heffernan. Headquartered at RAF Changi, Singapore, No. 90 Wing controlled RAAF units working amid the Malayan Emergency: No. 1 (Bomber) Squadron, flying Avro Lincolns, and No. 38 (Transport) Squadron, flying Douglas C-47 Dakotas. The Lincolns directed region besieging missions over socialist held region, just as strikes against pinpoint targets. The Dakotas were entrusted with dispatch flights, VIP transport and restorative departures crosswise over South East Asia, and in Malaya with carrying troops and load, dropping supplies to benevolent powers and despatching promulgation handouts. Headlam was marginally harmed on 20 December, when a No. 38 Squadron Dakota he was co-steering on a supply drop crash-arrived at Kampong Aur in Pahang, following motor disappointment. In August 1951 he was named leader of RAF Tengah, Singapore, notwithstanding his post as boss of No. 90 Wing. Headlam gave over direction of No. 90 Wing in December 1951. 

On 19 February 1952, Headlam ended up senior air staff officer (SASO) at Eastern Area Command in Penrith, New South Wales. Amid his term as SASO, the RAAF started re-furnishing with English Electric Canberra stream planes and CAC Saber fly warriors. The Air Force additionally experienced a noteworthy authoritative change, as it progressed from a geologically based direction and-control framework to one dependent on capacity, bringing about the foundation of Home (operational), Training, and Maintenance Commands. Eastern Area Command, considered a "true" operational central station attributable to the prevalence of battle units under its control, was redesigned as Home Command in October 1953. Headlam was named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1954 New Year Honors for his "outstanding capacity and commitment to obligation". He was elevated to acting air commodore in May. His arrangement as confidant to Queen Elizabeth II was declared on 7 October 1954. 

Headlam was elevated to substantive air commodore on 1 January 1955. In November he was presented on RAAF Overseas Headquarters, London, and the next year attempted examinations at the Imperial Defense College. Coming back to Australia, he filled in as acting Air Member for Personnel at the Department of Air, Canberra, from 19 March to 21 October 1957, between the terms of Air Vice Marshals Fred Scherger and Allan Walters, and again from 24 August 1959 to 28 March 1960, between the terms of Walters and Air Vice Marshal Bill Hely. In this job Headlam involved a seat reporting in real time Board, the administration's controlling body that included its senior officers and was led by the Chief of the Air Staff. He was likewise one of two RAAF delegates to serve on a board, led by specialist William John Allison, looking at states of guard administration; the panel's proposals prompted a multiplying of flight pay, among different upgrades. Headlam's different positions at the Department of Air included Air Commodore Plans from October 1957 to January 1959, and Director General Plans and Policy from January to August 1959. The last task place him responsible for the RAAF's Directorate of Intelligence. Headlam was named a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1958 Queen's Birthday Honors, gazetted on 3 June. In May 1960 he wound up acting Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. 

On 30 January 1961, Headlam joined the staff of Operational Command (OPCOM), the successor association to Home Command, in charge of the course of RAAF operational units. He took over as Air Officer Commanding (AOC) OPCOM from Air Vice Marshal Val Hancock in April. Headlam was elevated to air bad habit marshal on 29 May. On 17 July 1962, he was presented on RAAF Base Butterworth, Malaya, and took up the arrangement of AOC No. 224 Group RAF in Singapore multi week later. He was prevailing as AOC OPCOM via Air Vice Marshal Alister Murdoch. As AOC No. 224 Group, Headlam had by and large duty regarding local air guard and hostile air activities amid the Brunei Rebellion in December 1962, and the resulting "Konfrontasi" among Indonesia and Malaysia that authoritatively started the next month. Separated from his first spouse in 1956, he wedded bereft social specialist Vernon Spence at the Sydney library office on 20 January 1964. He gave over No. 224 Group to Air Vice Marshal Christopher Foxley-Norris on 30 November. 

Coming back to Australia, Headlam moved toward becoming Deputy Chief of the Air Staff (DCAS) on 26 January 1965. He was named a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) "in acknowledgment of recognized administration in the Borneo Territories" on 22 June. His residency as DCAS concurred with the most critical rearmament program the Air Force had embraced since World War II, and with labor deficiencies coming from this extension and from Australia's expanding association in the security of South East Asia. The first RAAF helicopters were focused on the Vietnam War towards the finish of his term, and he made a trip to Saigon with the Chief of the General Staff, Lieutenant General Sir John Wilton, in March 1966 to design the arrangement. The prior year, Wilton had prescribed to Air Marshal Murdoch, the Chief of the Air Staff, that two Iroquois be sent to Vietnam for acclimation purposes; Murdoch had repelled Wilton, and the RAAF helicopter squadron was considered underprepared for its military co-activity job when it at last deployed. Headlam succeeded Air Vice Marshal Douglas Candy as AOC Support Command, Melbourne, on 8 August 1966. Bolster Command had been framed in 1959, by blending the RAAF's previous Training and Maintenance Commands. On 1 January 1968, Headlam was presented on London as Head of the Australian Joint Services Staff. He filled in as an Extra Gentleman Usher to the Queen from 17 November 1970 to 5 June 1971. 

Coming back to Australia in June 1971, Headlam took resettlement leave before resigning from the Air Force on 3 August. He made his home in Melbourne, where he passed on matured 62 on 23 December 1976, after an extensive fight with malignant growth. Made due by his kids and his second spouse, he was given a private burial service and incinerated at Springvale Crematorium.