Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy 

Lego Star Wars II: The Original Trilogy is a Lego-themed activity experience computer game created by Traveler's Tales and distributed by LucasArts and TT Games Publishing. It was discharged on 11 September 2006. Some portion of the "Lego Star Wars" arrangement, it depends on the "Star Wars" sci-fi media establishment and Lego Group's "Star Wars"- themed toy line. It pursues the occasions of the "Star Wars" films "Star Wars", "The Empire Strikes Back" and "Return of the Jedi". The diversion enables players to expect the jobs of more than 50 Lego variants of characters from the film arrangement; modified characters can likewise be made. Camera development was improved from its ancestor—""; and the idea of "vehicle levels" was investigated all the more altogether. The diversion was uncovered at American International Toy Fair 2006. Advancements for the diversion were set up at chain stores over the United States. 

"Lego Star Wars II" was basically and financially effective; it has sold over 8.2 million duplicates worldwide as of May 2009. Commentators lauded the diversion for its comedic and "lovable" depiction of the film arrangement and for their inclination of the first set of three to the prequel set of three. Nonetheless, the amusement's low trouble, and its Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS forms by and large, were gotten all the more inadequately. The diversion got grants from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts and Spike TV, among others. A cell phone adjustment, "Lego Star Wars II Mobile", was later created by Universomo, distributed by THQ, and discharged on 19 December 2006. "Lego Star Wars II" and were incorporated in "", discharged in 2007. 

"Lego Star Wars II"s ongoing interaction is from a third-individual point of view, and happens in a 3D amusement world that contains articles, situations and characters intended to take after Lego pieces. Its ongoing interaction—a blend of the activity experience, stage, and some of the time bewilder kinds—shares components with that of "" (2005). While "Lego Star Wars" pursued the occasions of "" (1999), "" (2002), and "" (2005), "Lego Star Wars II" depends on "Star Wars" (1977), "The Empire Strikes Back" (1980), and "Return of the Jedi" (1983). The diversion humorously retells the set of three's occasions utilizing cutscenes without discourse. The player accept the jobs of the movies' characters, every one of whom have explicit weapons and capacities. Whenever, a second player can join the amusement, by initiating a second controller. Amid ongoing interaction, players can gather Lego studs – little, circle molded articles, that fill in as the diversion's money. The player has a wellbeing meter, which is shown on the diversion's heads-up presentation. The player's wellbeing is spoken to by four hearts; when these hearts are exhausted the player bites the dust and a little measure of their studs bob away. Notwithstanding, they in a flash respawn and can frequently re-gather the lost studs. 

The amusement's focal area is the Mos Eisley saloon, a spaceport bar on the planet Tatooine. At the counter, the player may utilize their Lego studs to buy characters, vehicles, ongoing interaction insights and additional items, or enact cheat codes. In a little region outside the bar, players may see gathered vehicles. The diversion is broken into levels, which are gotten to from the saloon; each film is spoken to by six dimensions, speaking to enter areas and scenes in that film. The areas incorporate Hoth, Bespin, Dagobah, Tatooine, the Death Star, and Endor. The amusement additionally includes extra dimensions. Amid levels, the player massacres adversaries, assembles questions out of Lego blocks and drives vehicles, Certain dimensions are played totally while directing vehicles, including a TIE warrior, a Snowspeeder, and the Millennium Falcon. Levels should initially be played in Story Mode. This opens the following dimension just as a Free Play mode for the as of late finished dimension. Ongoing interaction is indistinguishable in the two modes. In any case, Story Mode confines playable characters to those followed in the film scenes the dimensions depend on, while Free Play offers each one of those opened. Levels can be replayed in either mode to gather studs and mystery things. 

Three sorts of mystery things are accessible: gold blocks, minikits, and control blocks. Inside each dimension is shrouded one power block. At the point when a power block is gathered, its relating additional, for example, strength or stud multipliers, ends up accessible for procurement. Each dimension likewise contains ten concealed minikits, that is, ten bits of a "Star Wars" vehicle. At the point when the sum total of what ten have been gathered, the player is granted a gold block. Gathering a specific number of gold blocks opens free rewards, for example, a nozzle that heaves studs. Gold blocks are additionally granted when levels are finished, and when a predefined number of studs is collected in a dimension; ninety-nine gold blocks are accessible. The vehicles spoken to by the minikits are shown outside the saloon. As every vehicle is finished (each of the ten minikits gathered), it winds up accessible for play in a reward level. 

More than 50 characters from the movies are playable through the span of the amusement, including varieties of Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, Han Solo, Chewbacca, Lando Calrissian, R2-D2, C-3PO, Darth Vader, Wicket the Ewok, and Boba Fett. Character capacities have a more noteworthy job in "Lego Star Wars II" than in "Lego Star Wars". Certain characters outfitted with weapons can utilize a catching snare in predesignated zones. Characters employing lightsabers can redirect shots, twofold hop and utilize the Force. R2-D2, C-3PO, and other droid characters are expected to open certain entryways. Little characters like the Ewok and Jawa can slither through seals to achieve generally out of reach territories. Abundance seekers, for example, Boba Fett, may utilize warm detonators to pulverize generally indestructible items. Sith, as Darth Vader, can utilize the Force to control dark Lego objects. A few characters have exceptional capacities; for instance, Chewbacca can tear foes' arms from their attachments, Darth Vader can gag adversaries with the Force, Princess Leia has a slap assault, and Lando Calrissian can utilize a kung-fu-like assault. Exceptional capacities are regularly important to open insider facts, and story mode does not generally furnish characters with required capacities. This implies a few mysteries must be found in free play mode. The player can open the "Utilization Old Save" additional, which imports every opened character from "Lego Star Wars" for use in free play; in any case, a "Lego Star Wars" spared amusement must be available on a similar memory card that contains "Lego Star Wars II"s spare information. 

Players can make two tweaked characters in the Mos Eisley bar. These characters can be manufactured utilizing both various parts and those of opened characters; 2,258,163,204 mixes are conceivable. Entering two cheat codes, promoted by IGN, makes pieces for a Santa Claus character accessible. The amusement produces names for the characters dependent on the pieces utilized (for instance, a character produced using bits of Darth Vader and C-3PO may have the name "Darth-3PO"); on the other hand, the player may make a name. 

"Lego Star Wars II" was made by the Cheshire amusement engineer Traveler's Tales. LucasArts — occupied with different tasks — had conceded distributing of "Lego Star Wars" to Eidos Interactive, yet recovered the "fundamental assets" to distribute its spin-off close by TT Games Publishing. "Lego Star Wars II" was made for Microsoft Windows, OS X, Xbox, GameCube, PlayStation 2, Game Boy Advance (GBA), Nintendo DS, PlayStation Portable (PSP), and Xbox 360. Contrasts exist between stages: the DS and GBA adaptations have some unexpected playable characters in comparison to different variants, and the DS and PSP renditions support a "Remote Lobby" for multiplayer ongoing interaction. 

"Lego Star Wars II" utilizes an adjusted "Lego Star Wars" motor. Nonetheless, numerous ongoing interaction enhancements were made over its antecedent, most eminently camera points and development. Camera development in community was a particular purpose of worry, as LucasArts got basic input from fans over this issue. Voyager's Tales hoped to develop the idea of levels finished altogether in vehicles. These "vehicle levels" were investigated all the more completely in "Lego Star Wars II" than in its ancestor. Because of protests from fans, LucasArts and Traveler's Tales allowed the capacity to manufacture blocks to all non-droid characters. Character customization, a totally new idea, was viewed as a noteworthy improvement over the first amusement, and is one of three highlights featured on the diversion's last back spread. Tom Stone, executive at Traveler's Tales, expressed of the different enhancements made over the first diversion: 

The originators endeavored to reproduce the movies' characters and occasions in a "charming" manner. Associate maker Jeff Gullet said that, in the amusement's entertainment of an "Arrival of the Jedi" scene where Luke Skywalker "hops off the board ... furthermore, somersaults onto the rowboat", Skywalker "plays out a full scale gymnastic daily practice with a wide range of bounces from the board. It's funny". LucasArts maker David Perkinson stated, "except if you have the core of the Emperor, you are going to laugh at huge numbers of [the characters] the first occasion when you see them – you simply need to. They're so darn charming!" 

On 2 February 2006, pictures of the amusement were spilled to the Internet. Be that as it may, they were immediately expelled, and LucasArts, whenever called, did not verify or refute the amusement's advancement. The amusement was formally declared on 10 February, at American International Toy Fair 2006. A see was later facilitated at Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) 2006. Since the first "Lego Star Wars" had been generally welcomed economically and basically, selling 3.3 million duplicates by March 2006 and winning a few honors, its spin-off was exceptionally foreseen by the two enthusiasts of the first diversion and computer game productions, for example, IGN and GameSpot. In the blink of an eye before the diversion's discharge, advancements were set up at chain stores over the United States, including Toys "R" Us, Wal-Mart, Target, Best Buy, GameStop, and Circuit City. 

In Europe, "Lego Star Wars II" was discharged on 11 September 2006, for PC, Xbox, GameCube, GBA, DS, and Xbox 360; on 15 September for PlayStation 2; and on 10 November for PSP. The amusement's North American discharge fell on 12 September for all stages, matching with the arrival of the individual two-circle DVD arrivals of the movies on which it was based. The diversion's Australian discharge fell on 15 September for all stages, however the Xbox 360 form was not discharged in this locale. The OS X rendition of the diversion was discharged in 2007. The PlayStation 2 and Nintendo DS forms were the main forms that saw discharge in Japan, which happened on 2 November 2006. The amusement got a rating of E10+ from the Entertainment Software Rating Board (for "animation brutality" and "rough diversion"), 3+ from PEGI, and A from CERO. 

A cell phone adjustment of the amusement was created by Universomo and distributed by THQ. It was discharged on 19 December 2006. A few ongoing interaction highlights —, for example, two-dimensional illustrations, restricted character choice, and inclusion just of the film "Star Wars" — recognize this form of the diversion from the variants for different stages. "Lego Star Wars" and "Lego Star Wars II" were later incorporated in "", created by Traveler's Tales and distributed by LucasArts. "The Complete Saga" joined upgrades from the continuation into the first amusement, and extended the Mos Eisley bar to enable access to the two recreations' dimensions. It was made for Windows, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, Wii, and DS. It was discharged on 6 November 2007. 

Upon discharge, "Lego Star Wars II" was emphatically gotten by pundits, who adulated its depiction of the movies' characters and occasions. "Nintendo Power" staff essayist Chris Shepperd guaranteed that "[t]he cute LEGO adjustments likewise prompted some diverting story minutes: the 'I am your dad' scene from The Empire Strikes Back is extremely valuable". Analysts from GameSpy, 1UP.com, GameSpot, IGN, and "" offered comparative assessments. Shepperd and "Variety"s Ben Fritz called the amusement "lovable". In surveys of the Xbox 360 rendition, "Official Xbox Magazine" lauded the amusement's "off center silliness", and "Electronic Gaming Monthly" expressed that "[y]ou need to offer credit to the splendid moron who constrained this amazing yet on a very basic level bizarro thought on LucasArts." Jeff Bell, corporate VP of worldwide showcasing for Microsoft, complimented "Lego Star Wars II" for growing the scope of shoppers for the Xbox 360, taking note of its family-accommodating intrigue. 

The diversion was applauded because of analysts' inclination of the first set of three over the prequel set of three. Andrew Reiner of "Amusement Informer" said that "contrasting [the prequel trilogy] with the movies in the first set of three is like contrasting Jar Binks with Han Solo". Shepperd lauded the dimension plan of "Lego Star Wars II", and called its antecedent's surroundings "sterile". These perspectives were resounded by analysts from 1UP.com, "Assortment", GameSpot, GameSpy, "Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine" (for the PlayStation 2), and "BusinessWeek". 

Faultfinders were isolated on the diversion's dimension of trouble. Fritz guaranteed that, however "Lego Star Wars II" gave just a "short voyage", it was "heaps of fun". GameSpots Ryan Davis evaluated that it could be finished in six hours, however applauded its reward content. GameSpy and 1UP.com's analysts thought comparatively. A survey by "USA Today"s Brett Molina guaranteed that "[t]he amusement's trouble is adjusted all around ok so kids won't feel excessively disappointed while more established gamers will in any case locate a strong test" and gave the diversion a general score of 8 out of 10. "Official Xbox Magazine"s audit lauded its "peculiar riddles". IGN's Jeremy Dunham and Reiner were increasingly disparaging of the apparent low trouble. 

Pundits disdained the amusement's Game Boy Advance and Nintendo DS renditions. Davis trusted that the Game Boy Advance rendition could be finished in two hours. GameSpy staff essayist Phil Theobald weeped over this present rendition's poor controls, simple dimensions and vehicle-guiding areas. He inferred that "for the love of all that is pure and holy, [one should] get one of the [home] support renditions". Theobald, Davis, and IGN's Craig Harris reprimanded the high number of glitches in the DS adaptation. 

"Lego Star Wars II" won and was selected for various honors, and positioned on a few computer game records. The official "Star Wars" site announced "Lego Star Wars II" to be the best "Star Wars"- related result of 2006. The diversion won iParenting Media Awards' "2006 Greatest Products Call", and was put on "Peruser's Digest"s September 2006 "5 Things We Don't Want You to Miss" list, "Time" magazine's rundown of the main ten computer games of 2006, and GameSpy's PC "Round of the Year" list. It got the 2006 Game of the Year grant from Nick Jr. what's more, from IGN (for PC recreations as it were). It won Spike TV Video Game Awards 2006's "Best Game Based on a Movie or TV Show", and "Best Gameplay" from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts' third British Academy Video Games Awards. It got BAFTA designations in three different classifications, including "Best Game". Interestingly, the beforehand inadequately gotten DS form was recorded as one of the "tears" on IGN's September 2009 "Cheers and Tears" rundown of activity amusements for the DS. The editors of "PC Games Magazine" named "Lego Star War II" the fifth-best PC round of 2006, and called it "an eminent activity/experience, one with [...] a nearly little dog hound like request that you adore it." 

"Lego Star Wars II" sold over 1.1 million duplicates worldwide in its opening week. The PlayStation 2, GameCube, Xbox 360, and Xbox adaptations were the third, fifth, eighth, and ninth-top of the line rounds of September 2006, individually. The GameCube, Xbox, and PlayStation 2 adaptations were the third, eighth, and ninth-top of the line rounds of 2006, individually. All stages aside from PC joined, the diversion was the third-most elevated selling of 2006 in the United States, behind "Chafe NFL 07" and "Vehicles". All stages joined, the amusement was the fifth-most noteworthy selling of 2006 in the United Kingdom. The GameCube, GBA, and DS adaptations were the principal, second, and fifth top rated of January 2007 for their particular stages. By 2 May 2009, the diversion's overall deals had outperformed 8.2 million. It has been ensured as a feature of the spending lines Platinum Hits for the Xbox 360, Greatest Hits for the PlayStation 2 (each speaks to an overall deals aggregate of somewhere around 400,000 on its particular stage), and Player's Choice for the GameCube (250,000).