Clash of Ramillies 

The Battle of Ramillies (), battled on 23 May 1706, was a clash of the War of the Spanish Succession. For the Grand Alliance – Austria, England, and the Dutch Republic – the fight had pursued an uncertain crusade against the Bourbon multitudes of King Louis XIV of France in 1705. Despite the fact that the Allies had caught Barcelona that year, they had been compelled to surrender their crusade on the Moselle, had slowed down in the Spanish Netherlands and endured rout in northern Italy. However in spite of his adversaries' misfortunes Louis XIV needed harmony, yet on sensible terms. Along these lines, just as to keep up their force, the French and their partners attacked in 1706. 

The crusade started well for Louis XIV's officers: in Italy Marshal Vendôme crushed the Austrians at the Battle of Calcinato in April, while in Alsace Marshal Villars constrained the Margrave of Baden back over the Rhine. Energized by these early picks up Louis XIV encouraged Marshal Villeroi to head toward the hostile in the Spanish Netherlands and, with triumph, gain a 'reasonable' harmony. In like manner, the French Marshal set off from Leuven ("Louvain") at the head of 60,000 men and walked towards Tienen ("Tirlemont"), as though to undermine Zoutleeuw ("Léau"). Likewise resolved to battle a noteworthy commitment, the Duke of Marlborough, president of Anglo-Dutch powers, gathered his military – somewhere in the range of 62,000 men – close Maastricht, and walked past Zoutleeuw. With the two sides looking for the fight to come, they before long experienced each other on the dry ground between the Mehaigne and Petite Gheete streams, near the little town of Ramillies. 

In under four hours Marlborough's Dutch, English, and Danish powers overpowered Villeroi's and Max Emanuel's Franco-Spanish-Bavarian armed force. The Duke's unobtrusive moves and changes in accentuation amid the fight – something his rivals neglected to acknowledge until it was past the point of no return – got the French in a strategic bad habit. With their adversary broken and steered, the Allies had the capacity to completely abuse their triumph. Town after town fell, including Brussels, Bruges and Antwerp; before the finish of the crusade Villeroi's military had been driven from the greater part of the Spanish Netherlands. With Prince Eugene's consequent accomplishment at the Battle of Turin in northern Italy, the Allies had forced the best loss of region and assets that Louis XIV would endure amid the war. In this manner, the year 1706 demonstrated, for the Allies, to be an "annus mirabilis". 

After their grievous annihilation at Blenheim in 1704, the following year brought the French some reprieve. The Duke of Marlborough had proposed the 1705 crusade – an intrusion of France through the Moselle valley – to finish crafted by Blenheim and induce King Louis XIV to make harmony yet the arrangement had been upset by companion and adversary alike. The hesitance of his Dutch partners to see their wildernesses exposed of troops for another bet in Germany had denied Marlborough the activity yet of far more prominent significance was the Margrave of Baden's declaration that he couldn't join the Duke in quality for the coming hostile. This was to some extent because of the unexpected changing of troops from the Rhine to strengthen Prince Eugene in Italy and part because of the decay of Baden's wellbeing expedited by the re-opening of a serious foot wound he had gotten at the raging of the Schellenberg the earlier year. Marlborough needed to adapt to the passing of Emperor Leopold I in May and the promotion of Joseph I, which unavoidably confounded issues for the Grand Alliance. 

The versatility of the French King and the endeavors of his officers, likewise added to Marlborough's issues. Marshal Villeroi, applying significant weight on the Dutch authority, Count Overkirk, along the Meuse, took Huy on 10 June before proceeding towards Liège. With Marshal Villars sitting solid on the Moselle, the Allied authority – whose provisions had at this point turned out to be short – was compelled to cancel his battle on 16 June. "What a disrespect for Marlborough," celebrated Villeroi, "to have made false developments with no outcome!" With Marlborough's takeoff north, the French exchanged troops from the Moselle valley to strengthen Villeroi in Flanders, while Villars walked off to the Rhine. 

The Anglo-Dutch powers increased minor remuneration for the fizzled Moselle battle with the accomplishment at Elixheim and the intersection of the Lines of Brabant in the Spanish Netherlands (Huy was likewise retaken on 11 July) yet an opportunity to convey the French to an unequivocal commitment escaped Marlborough. The year 1705 demonstrated as a rule desolate for the Duke, whose military frustrations were just halfway remunerated by endeavors on the political front where, at the courts of Düsseldorf, Frankfurt, Vienna, Berlin and Hanover, Marlborough tried to reinforce support for the Grand Alliance and concentrate guarantees of brief help for the next year's battle. 

On 11 January 1706, Marlborough at last achieved London toward the finish of his political visit yet he had just been arranging his methodology for the coming season. The principal alternative (despite the fact that it is easily proven wrong to what degree the Duke was focused on such a venture) was an arrangement to exchange his powers from the Spanish Netherlands to northern Italy; once there, he planned connecting up with Prince Eugene so as to crush the French and defend Savoy from being overwhelm. Savoy would then fill in as an entryway into France by method for the mountain passes or an intrusion with maritime help along the Mediterranean coast by means of Nice and Toulon, regarding increased Allied endeavors in Spain. It appears that the Duke's favored plan was to come back to the Moselle valley (where Marshal Marsin had as of late assumed responsibility for French powers) and again endeavor a development into the core of France. Be that as it may, these choices before long ended up scholastic. Soon after Marlborough arrived in the Dutch Republic on 14 April, news touched base of enormous Allied difficulties in the more extensive war. 

Resolved to demonstrate the Grand Alliance that France was as yet unfaltering, Louis XIV arranged to dispatch a twofold amazement in Alsace and northern Italy. On the last front Marshal Vendôme crushed the Imperial armed force at Calcinato on 19 April, driving the Imperialists back in perplexity (French powers were currently in a situation to get ready for the since quite a while ago foreseen attack of Turin). In Alsace, Marshal Villars shocked Baden and caught Haguenau, driving him back over the Rhine in some issue, along these lines making a risk on Landau. With these turns around, the Dutch wouldn't mull over Marlborough's eager walk to Italy or any arrangement that exposed their fringes of the Duke and their military. In light of a legitimate concern for alliance agreement, Marlborough arranged to battle in the Low Countries. 

The Duke left The Hague on 9 May. "God realizes I run with overwhelming sadness," he composed six days after the fact to his companion and political partner in England, Lord Godolphin, "for I have no desire for doing anything impressive, except if the French do what I am sure they won't … " – at the end of the day, court fight. On 17 May the Duke focused his Dutch and English troops at Tongeren, close Maastricht. The Hanoverians, Hessians and Danes, in spite of prior endeavors, found, or created, squeezing purposes behind retention their help. Marlborough composed an intrigue to the Duke of Württemberg, the leader of the Danish unexpected – "I send you this express to demand your Highness to present by a twofold walk your rangers in order to go along with us at the most punctual minute … " Additionally, the King "in" Prussia, Frederick I, had kept his troops in quarters behind the Rhine while his own debate with Vienna and the States General at The Hague stayed uncertain. By and by, the Duke could think about no conditions why the French would leave their solid positions and assault his military, regardless of whether Villeroi was first fortified by generous exchanges from Marsin's direction. In any case, in this he had erred. In spite of the fact that Louis XIV needed harmony he needed it on sensible terms; for that, he required triumph in the field and to persuade the Allies that his assets were in no way, shape or form depleted. 

Following the accomplishments in Italy and along the Rhine, Louis XIV was presently cheerful of comparative outcomes in Flanders. A long way from remaining on edge consequently – and unbeknown to Marlborough – Louis XIV was relentlessly driving his marshal without hesitation. "[Villeroi] started to envision," composed St Simon, "that the King questioned his fearlessness, and set out to stake at the same time with an end goal to vindicate himself." Accordingly, on 18 May, Villeroi set off from Leuven at the head of 70 legions, 132 squadrons and 62 gun – containing a general power of somewhere in the range of 60,000 troops – and crossed the waterway Dyle to look for the fight to come with the adversary. Prodded on by his developing trust in his capacity to out-general his rival, and by Versailles' assurance to retaliate for Blenheim, Villeroi and his commanders foreseen achievement. 

Neither one of the opponents expected the conflict at the definite minute or spot where it happened. The French moved first to Tienen, (as though to compromise Zoutleeuw, relinquished by the French in October 1705), preceding turning southwards, setting out toward Jodoigne – this line of walk took Villeroi's military towards the restricted gap of dry ground between the Mehaigne and Petite Gheete streams near the little towns of Ramillies and Taviers; however neither authority very refreshing how far his rival had voyage. Villeroi still accepted (on 22 May) the Allies were an entire day's walk away when in truth they had stayed outdoors close Corswaren trusting that the Danish squadrons will make up for lost time; as far as it matters for him, Marlborough esteemed Villeroi still at Jodoigne when in actuality he was presently moving toward the level of Mont St. André with the expectation of setting up a campsite close Ramillies (see map at right). Be that as it may, the Prussian infantry was not there. Marlborough wrote to Lord Raby, the English inhabitant at Berlin: "On the off chance that it ought to satisfy God to give us triumph over the adversary, the Allies will be little obliged to the King [Frederick] for the achievement." 

The next day, at 01:00, Marlborough dispatched Cadogan, his Quartermaster-General, with a propelled gatekeeper to survey a similar dry ground that Villeroi's military was currently making a beeline for, nation that was notable to the Duke from past crusades. After two hours the Duke pursued with the fundamental body: 74 units, 123 squadrons, 90 bits of ordnance and 20 mortars, totalling 62,000 troops. At about 08:00, after Cadogan had quite recently passed Merdorp, his power reached a gathering of French hussars gathering scavenge on the edge of the level of Jandrenouille. After a short trade of shots the French resigned and Cadogan's dragoons squeezed forward. With a short lift in the fog, Cadogan before long found the cleverly requested lines of Villeroi's development watch some off; a galloper rushed back to caution Marlborough. After two hours the Duke, joined by the Dutch field authority Field Marshal Overkirk, General Daniel Dopff, and the Allied staff, rode up to Cadogan where seemingly within easy reach toward the westbound he could recognize the massed positions of the French armed force conveying for the fight to come along the front. Marlborough later told Bishop Burnet that, 'the French armed force looked the best of any he had ever observed'. 

The war zone of Ramillies is fundamentally the same as that of Blenheim, for here too there is a gigantic zone of arable land unrestricted by woods or supports. Villeroi's privilege laid on the towns of Franquenée and Taviers, with the waterway Mehaigne ensuring his flank. A vast open plain, about wide, lay among Taviers and Ramillies, however not at all like Blenheim, there was no stream to thwart the rangers. His inside was verified by Ramillies itself, lying on a slight prominence which gave removed perspectives toward the north and east. The French left flank was secured by broken nation, and by a stream, the Petite Gheete, which runs profound among steep and elusive inclines. On the French side of the stream the ground ascends to Offus, the town which, together with Autre-Eglise more distant north, tied down Villeroi's left flank. Toward the west of the Petite Gheete rises the level of Mont St. André; a second plain, the level of Jandrenouille – whereupon the Anglo-Dutch armed force amassed – ascends toward the east. 

At 11:00, the Duke requested the military to take standard fight arrangement. On the extreme appropriate, towards Foulz, the British legions and squadrons took up their posts in a twofold line close to the Jeuche stream. The inside was shaped by the mass of Dutch, German, Protestant Swiss and Scottish infantry – maybe 30,000 men – confronting Offus and Ramillies. Likewise confronting Ramillies Marlborough set an incredible battery of thirty 24-pounders, hauled into position by a group of bulls; further batteries were situated neglecting the Petite Gheete. To their left side, on the expansive plain among Taviers and Ramillies – and where Marlborough figured the definitive experience must happen – Overkirk drew the 69 squadrons of the Dutch and Danish steed, bolstered by 19 contingents of Dutch infantry and two gunnery pieces. 

In the mean time, Villeroi conveyed his powers. In Taviers to his right side, he put two brigades of the Greder Suisse Régiment, with a littler power forward in Franquenée; the entire position was secured by the boggy ground of the Mehaigne stream, in this way keeping an Allied flanking development. In the open nation among Taviers and Ramillies, he set 82 squadrons under General de Guiscard bolstered by a few interleaved detachments of French, Swiss and Bavarian infantry. Along the Ramillies– Offus– Autre Eglise edge line, Villeroi situated Walloon and Bavarian infantry, bolstered by the Elector of Bavaria's 50 squadrons of Bavarian and Walloon rangers put behind on the level of Mont St. André. Ramillies, Offus and Autre-Eglise were altogether stuffed with troops and put in a condition of resistance, with back roads blockaded and dividers circle holed for rifles. Villeroi likewise situated incredible batteries close Ramillies. These firearms (some of which were of the three barrelled kind initially observed at Elixheim the earlier year) delighted in great curves of flame, ready to completely cover the methodologies of the level of Jandrenouille over which the Allied infantry would need to pass. 

Marlborough, in any case, saw a few vital shortcomings in the French demeanors. Strategically, it was basic for Villeroi to involve Taviers to his right side and Autre-Eglise to his left side, however by receiving this stance he had been compelled to over-broaden his powers. In addition, this manner – inward in connection to the Allied armed force – allowed Marlborough the chance to frame a progressively minimal line, attracted up a shorter front between the 'horns' of the French sickle; when the Allied blow came it would be increasingly thought and convey more weight. Also, the Duke's attitude encouraged the exchange of troops over his front definitely more effectively than his adversary, a strategic preferred standpoint that would develop in significance as the occasions of the evening unfurled. In spite of the fact that Villeroi had the choice of encompassing the flanks of the Allied armed force as they conveyed on the level of Jandrenouille – taking steps to surround their military – the Duke accurately checked that the naturally wary French administrator was resolved to a cautious fight along the edge line. 

At 13:00 the batteries went without hesitation; a little later two Allied sections set out from the furthest points of their line and assaulted the flanks of the Franco-Bavarian armed force. Toward the south the Dutch Guards, under the order of Colonel Wertmüller, approached with their two field weapons to catch the village of Franquenée. The little Swiss army in the town, shaken by the abrupt surge and unsupported by the units to their back, were before long constrained back towards the town of Taviers. Taviers was of specific significance to the Franco-Bavarian position: it secured the generally unsupported flank of General de Guiscard's mounted force on the open plain, while in the meantime, it enabled the French infantry to represent a danger to the flanks of the Dutch and Danish squadrons as they approached into position. In any case, scarcely had the withdrawing Swiss rejoined their companions in that town when the Dutch Guards restored their assault. The battling among the back streets and houses before long disintegrated into a furious blade and clubbing "mêlée", yet the prevalence in Dutch capability before long told. The practiced French officer, Colonel de la Colonie, remaining on the plain adjacent recalled – "this town was the opening of the commitment, and the battling there was nearly as lethal as the remainder of the fight set up together." By about 15:00 the Swiss had been pushed out of the town into the bogs past. 

Villeroi's correct flank fell into disarray and was presently open and helpless. Cautioned to the circumstance de Guiscard requested a quick assault with 14 squadrons of French dragoons presently positioned in the back. Two different units of the Greder Suisse Régiment were additionally sent, yet the assault was ineffectively co-ordinated and thusly went in piecemeal. The Anglo-Dutch commandants presently sent got off Dutch dragoons into Taviers, which, together with the Guards and their field weapons, poured concentrated musketry-and canister-discharge into the propelling French troops. Colonel d'Aubigni, driving his regiment, fell mortally injured. 

As the French positions faltered, the main squadrons of Württemberg's Danish pony – presently unrestricted by foe fire from either town – were additionally sent into the assault and fell upon the uncovered flank of the Franco-Swiss infantry and dragoons. De la Colonie, with his Grenadiers Rouge regiment, together with the Cologne Guards who were brigaded with them, was currently requested forward from his post south of Ramillies to help the vacillating counter-assault on the town. Be that as it may, on his entry, everything was disorder – "Barely had my troops got over when the dragoons and Swiss who had gone before us, came tumbling downward on my brigades in full flight … My very own colleagues turned about and fled alongside them." De La Colonie figured out how to rally a portion of his grenadiers, together with the remainders of the French dragoons and Greder Suisse contingents, however it was a completely fringe activity, offering just delicate help for Villeroi's correct flank. 

While the assault on Taviers went on the Earl of Orkney propelled his first line of English over the Petite Gheete in a decided assault against the blockaded towns of Offus and Autre-Eglise on the Allied right. Villeroi, posting himself close Offus, observed tensely the redcoats' development, aware of the guidance he had gotten on 6 May from Louis XIV – "Have specific consideration to that piece of the line which will persevere through the principal stun of the English troops." Heeding this exhortation the French authority started to exchange forces from his inside to fortify the left, drawing more foot from the officially debilitated appropriate to supplant them. 

As the English forces dropped the delicate slant of the Petite Gheete valley, battling through the boggy stream, they were met by Major General de la Guiche's restrained Walloon infantry sent forward from around Offus. After concentrated volleys, demanding substantial losses on the redcoats, the Walloons changed back to the ridgeline in great request. The English set aside some effort to change their positions on the dry ground past the stream and proceed up the incline towards the houses and blockades on the edge. The energy of the English ambush, in any case, was with the end goal that they took steps to get through the line of the towns and out onto the open level of Mont St André past. This was possibly risky for the Allied infantry who might then be helpless before the Elector's Bavarian and Walloon squadrons quietly looking out for the level for the request to move. 

Despite the fact that Henry Lumley's English mounted force had figured out how to cross the boggy ground around the Petite Gheete, it was soon apparent to Marlborough that adequate rangers backing would not be practicable and that the fight couldn't be won on the Allied right. The Duke, thusly, canceled the assault against Offus and Autre-Eglise. To ensure that Orkney complied with his request to pull back, Marlborough sent his Quartermaster-General face to face with the order. Notwithstanding Orkney's protestations, Cadogan demanded consistence and, reluctantly, Orkney gave the word for his troops to fall back to their unique positions on the edge of the level of Jandrenouille. It is as yet not clear how far Orkney's development was arranged just as a bluff; as indicated by student of history David Chandler it is presumably progressively exact to deduce that Marlborough propelled Orkney in a genuine test with the end goal of sounding out the conceivable outcomes of the segment. By the by, the assault had filled its need. Villeroi had given his own thoughtfulness regarding that wing and fortified it with substantial collections of pony and foot that should have been partaking in the definitive battle south of Ramillies. 

In the interim, the Dutch strike on Ramillies was picking up pace. Marlborough's more youthful sibling, General of Infantry, Charles Churchill, requested four detachments of foot to assault the town. The strike comprised of 12 forces of Dutch infantry told by Major Generals Schultz and Spaar; two units of Saxons under Count Schulenburg; a Scottish detachment in Dutch administration driven by the second Duke of Argyle; and a little unit of Protestant Swiss. The 20 French and Bavarian units in Ramillies, upheld by the Irish dragoons who had left Ireland in the Flight of the Wild Geese to join Clare's Dragoons and a little detachment of Cologne and Bavarian Guards under the Marquis de Maffei, set up a decided safeguard, at first driving back the assailants with extreme misfortunes as honored in the melody "Clare's Dragoons": 

<poem> 

At the point when on Ramillies' ridiculous field 

The confounded French were compelled to yield, 

The victor Saxon in reverse reeled 

Prior to the charge of Clare's Dragoons. 

"Viva là, the new unit!" 

"Viva là the bygone one as well!" 

"Viva là, the Rose will blur" 

"The Shamrock sparkle always new!" 

</poem> 

Seeing that Schultz and Spaar were floundering, Marlborough now requested Orkney's second-line British and Danish brigades (who had not been utilized in the attack on Offus and Autre-Eglise) to move south towards Ramillies. Protected as they were from perception by a slight overlay in the land, their leader, Brigadier-General Van Pallandt, requested the regimental hues to be left set up on the edge of the level to persuade their adversaries they were still in their underlying position. Along these lines, unbeknown to the French who stayed negligent of the Allies' genuine quality and goals on the contrary side of the Petite Gheete, Marlborough was tossing his full weight against Ramillies and the open plain toward the south. Villeroi in the mean time, was all the while moving more saves of infantry the other way towards his left flank; vitally, it would be some time before the French authority saw the unobtrusive change in accentuation of the Allied attitudes. 

At around 15:30, Overkirk propelled his massed squadrons on the open plain in help of the infantry assault on Ramillies. Overkirk's squadrons – 48 Dutch, bolstered to their left side by 21 Danish – consistently progressed towards the foe (taking consideration not to rashly tire the steeds), before breaking into a run to pick up the impulse for their charge. The Marquis de Feuquières composing after the fight depicted the scene – "They progressed in four lines … As they moved toward they propelled their second and fourth lines into the interims of their first and third lines; so when they made their development upon us, they shaped just a single front, with no middle spaces." 

The underlying conflict supported the Dutch and Danish squadrons. The dissimilarity of numbers – exacerbated by Villeroi stripping their positions of infantry to fortify his left flank – empowered Overkirk's mounted force to toss the main line of French pony back in some issue towards their second-line squadrons. This line likewise went under extreme weight and, thus, was constrained back to their third-line of rangers and the couple of forces as yet staying on the plain. In any case, these French horsemen were among the best in Louis XIV's military – the "Maison du Roi", bolstered by four first class squadrons of Bavarian Cuirassiers. Capably driven by de Guiscard, the French mounted force encouraged, pushing back the Allied squadrons in fruitful nearby counterattacks. On Overkirk's correct flank, near Ramillies, ten of his squadrons all of a sudden broke positions and were dispersed, riding quick to the back to recoup their request, leaving the left flank of the Allied strike on Ramillies hazardously uncovered. Despite the absence of infantry support, de Guiscard tossed his mounted force forward trying to part the Allied armed force in two. 

An emergency undermined the inside, however from his vantage point Marlborough was on the double mindful of the circumstance. The Allied leader presently gathered the mounted force on the conservative to strengthen his middle, leaving just the English squadrons in help of Orkney. On account of a blend of fight smoke and positive landscape, his redeployment went unnoticed by Villeroi who made no endeavor to exchange any of his own 50 unused squadrons. While he trusted that the crisp fortifications will arrive, Marlborough flung himself into the "mêlée", mobilizing a portion of the Dutch rangers who were in disarray. Be that as it may, his own inclusion about prompted his demise. Various French horsemen, perceiving the Duke, came flooding towards his gathering. Marlborough's steed tumbled and the Duke was tossed – "Milord Marlborough was freed over," composed Orkney some time later. It was a basic snapshot of the fight. "Significant General Murray," reviewed one onlooker, " … seeing him fall, walked up in all scurry with two Swiss legions to spare him and stop the adversary who were cutting all down in their direction." Fortunately Marlborough's recently selected confidant, Richard Molesworth, jogged to the salvage, mounted the Duke on his pony and made great their getaway, before Murray's restrained positions tossed back the seeking after French troopers. 

After a concise delay, Marlborough's equerry, Colonel Bringfield (or Bingfield), drove up one more of the Duke's extra ponies; yet while helping him onto his mount, the heartbreaking Bringfield was hit by an errant cannonball that sheared off his head. One record has it that the cannonball flew between the Captain-General's legs before hitting the heartbreaking colonel, whose middle fell at Marlborough's feet – a minute in this manner portrayed in a startling arrangement of contemporary playing a game of cards. By and by, the threat passed, empowering the Duke to take care of the situating of the mounted force fortifications encouraging down from his correct flank – a difference in which Villeroi remained willfully ignorant. 

The time was about 16:30, and the two armed forces were in close contact over the entire front, from the skirmishing in the swamps in the south, through the tremendous rangers fight on the open plain; to the wild battle for Ramillies at the middle, and toward the north, where, around the houses of Offus and Autre-Eglise, Orkney and de la Guiche confronted each other over the Petite Gheete prepared to recharge threats. 

The landing of the exchanging squadrons currently started to tip the parity for the Allies. Tired, and enduring a developing rundown of setbacks, the numerical mediocrity of Guiscard's squadrons fighting on the plain finally started to tell. After prior neglecting to hold or retake Franquenée and Taviers, Guiscard's correct flank had turned out to be perilously uncovered and a lethal hole had opened on the privilege of their line. Exploiting this break, Württemberg's Danish mounted force presently cleared forward, wheeling to infiltrate the flank of the Maison du Roi whose consideration was on the whole fixed on keeping down the Dutch. Clearing advances, basically without obstruction, the 21 Danish squadrons transformed behind the French around the zone of the Tomb of Ottomond, confronting north over the level of Mont St André towards the uncovered flank of Villeroi's military. 

The last Allied fortifications for the rangers challenge toward the south were finally in position; Marlborough's prevalence on the left could never again be denied, and his quick moving arrangement grabbed hold of the combat zone. Presently, excessively late, Villeroi endeavored to redeploy his 50 unused squadrons, however an edgy endeavor to frame line confronting south, extending from Offus to Mont St André, flopped among the things and tents of the French camp imprudently left there after the underlying sending. The Allied authority requested his mounted force forward against the now vigorously dwarfed French and Bavarian horsemen. De Guiscard's correct flank, without appropriate infantry support, could never again oppose the surge and, turning their steeds northwards, they broke and fled in total issue. Indeed, even the squadrons as of now being mixed together by Villeroi behind Ramillies couldn't withstand the surge. "We had not got forty yards on our retreat," recalled Captain Peter Drake, an Irishmen presenting with the French – "when the words "sauve qui peut" experienced the extraordinary part, if not the entire armed force, and put all to perplexity" 

In Ramillies the Allied infantry, presently strengthened by the English troops brought down from the north, finally got through. The Régiment de Picardie held fast yet were gotten between Colonel Borthwick's Scots-Dutch regiment and the English fortifications. Borthwick was slaughtered, as was Charles O'Brien, the Irish Viscount Clare in French administration, battling at the leader of his regiment. The Marquis de Maffei endeavored one final remain with his Bavarian and Cologne Guards, yet it demonstrated futile. Seeing a surge of horsemen quick drawing closer from the south, he later reviewed – " … I went towards the closest of these squadrons to educate their officer, however as opposed to being tuned in to [I] was promptly encompassed and called upon to request quarter." 

The streets driving north and west were gagged with criminals. Orkney now sent his English troops back over the Petite Gheete stream to by and by tempest Offus where de la Guiche's infantry had started to float away in the disarray. To one side of the infantry Lord John Hay's 'Scots Grays' additionally picked their way over the stream and charged the Régiment du Roi inside Autre-Eglise. "Our dragoons," composed John Deane, "pushing into the town … made horrendous butcher of the foe." The Bavarian Horse Grenadiers and the Electoral Guards pulled back and framed a shield about Villeroi and the Elector however were dispersed by Lumley's mounted force. Stuck in the mass of outlaws escaping the combat zone, the French and Bavarian leaders barely gotten away catch by General Cornelius Wood who, ignorant of their personality, needed to satisfy himself with the seizure of two Bavarian Lieutenant-Generals. Far toward the south, the leftovers of de la Colonie's detachment headed the other way towards the French held stronghold of Namur." 

The retreat turned into a defeat. Individual Allied leaders drove their troops forward in interest, permitting their beaten foe no possibility to recoup. Before long the Allied infantry could never again keep up, yet their mounted force were off the rope, heading through the social affair night for the intersections on the Dyle waterway. Finally, be that as it may, Marlborough demanded the cessation of the interest not long after 12 pm close Meldert, from the field. "It was in fact a genuinely stunning sight to see the hopeless survives from this relentless armed force," composed Captain Drake, "… diminished to a bunch." 

What was left of Villeroi's military was presently broken in soul; the unevenness of the loss figures sufficiently exhibits the degree of the fiasco for Louis XIV's military: ("see underneath"). Moreover, several French troopers were escapees, a significant number of whom could never remuster to the hues. Villeroi additionally lost 52 gunnery pieces and his whole designer boat train. In the expressions of Marshal Villars, the French thrashing at Ramillies was – "The most despicable, mortifying and grievous of defeats." 

Town after town currently surrendered to the Allies. Leuven fell on 25 May 1706; after three days, the Allies entered Brussels, the capital of the Spanish Netherlands. Marlborough understood the incredible open door made by the early triumph of Ramillies: "We presently have the entire summer before us," composed the Duke from Brussels to Robert Harley, "and with the gift of God I will utilize it." Malines, Lierre, Ghent, Alost, Damme, Oudenaarde, Bruges, and on 6 June Antwerp, all in this way tumbled to Marlborough's successful armed force and, similar to Brussels, announced the Austrian contender for the Spanish position of royalty, the Archduke Charles, as their sovereign. Villeroi was powerless to capture the procedure of breakdown. At the point when Louis XIV educated of the calamity he reviewed Marshal Vendôme from northern Italy to take direction in Flanders; however it would be a long time before the order changed hands. 

As news spread of the Allies' triumph, the Prussians, Hessians and Hanoverian contingents, since quite a while ago postponed by their particular rulers, anxiously joined the quest for the broken French and Bavarian powers. "This," composed Marlborough tediously, "I take to owe our late achievement." Meanwhile, Overkirk took the port of Ostend on 4 July along these lines opening an immediate course to the English Channel for correspondence and supply, however the Allies were gaining inadequate ground against Dendermonde whose senator, the Marquis de Valée, was adamantly standing up to. Just later when Cadogan and Churchill went to assume responsibility did the town's guards start to come up short. 

Vendôme formally took over order in Flanders on 4 August; Villeroi could never again get a noteworthy direction – "I can't predict an upbeat day in my life spare just that of my demise." Louis XIV was additionally lenient to his old companion – "At our age, Marshal, we should never again anticipate favorable luck." In the interim, Marlborough contributed the detailed stronghold of Menin which, after an expensive attack, yielded on 22 August. Dendermonde at long last surrendered on 6 September pursued by Ath – the last triumph of 1706 – on 2 October. When Marlborough had shut down the Ramillies battle he had precluded the French most from claiming the Spanish Netherlands west of the Meuse and north of the Sambre – it was a phenomenal operational triumph for the English Duke however by and by it was not definitive as these additions did not crush France. 

The quick inquiry for the Allies presently was the means by which to manage the Spanish Netherlands, a subject which the Austrians and the Dutch were oppositely restricted. Ruler Joseph I, following up in the interest of his more youthful sibling King 'Charles III', missing in Spain, guaranteed that reconquered Brabant and Flanders ought to be put under quick ownership of a representative named without anyone else. The Dutch, in any case, who had provided the significant offer of the troops and cash to verify the triumph (the Austrians had created nothing of either) asserted the administration of the locale till the war was finished, and that after the harmony they should keep on garrisoning Barrier Fortresses more grounded than those which had fallen so effectively to Louis XIV's powers in 1701. Marlborough intervened between the two gatherings yet supported the Dutch position. To influence the Duke's supposition, the Emperor offered Marlborough the governorship of the Spanish Netherlands. It was an enticing offer, however for the sake of Allied solidarity, it was one he won't. At last England and the Dutch Republic assumed responsibility for the recently won domain for the length of the war; after which it was to be given over to the immediate principle of 'Charles III', subject to the booking of a Dutch Barrier, the degree and nature of which still couldn't seem to be settled. 

In the mean time, on the Upper Rhine, Villars had been constrained onto the cautious as many battalions had been sent north to support falling French powers in Flanders; there was presently no probability of his endeavor the re-catch of Landau. Further uplifting news for the Allies landed from northern Italy where, on 7 September, Prince Eugene had steered a French armed force before the Piedmontese capital, Turin, driving the Franco-Spanish powers from northern Italy. Just from Spain benefited Louis XIV get in any way news where Das Minas and Galway had been compelled to withdraw from Madrid towards Valencia, enabling Philip V to reappear his capital on 4 October. With everything taken into account however, the circumstance had changed significantly and Louis XIV started to search for approaches to end what was quick turning into a ruinous war for France. For Queen Anne additionally, the Ramillies battle made them abrogate centrality – "Presently we have God be expressed gratitude toward so cheerful a prospect of harmony." Instead of proceeding with the energy of triumph, in any case, breaks in Allied solidarity would empower Louis XIV to invert a portion of the significant mishaps endured at Turin and Ramillies. 

The all out number of French losses can't be determined unequivocally, so total was the breakdown of the Franco-Bavarian armed force that day. David G. Chandler's "Marlborough as Military Commander" and "A Guide to the Battlefields of Europe" are reliable concerning French loss figures i.e., 12,000 dead and injured in addition to somewhere in the range of 7,000 taken prisoner. James Falkner, in "Ramillies 1706: Year of Miracles," likewise notes 12,000 dead and injured and states 'up to 10,000' taken prisoner. In "The Collins Encyclopedia of Military History", Dupuy puts Villeroi's dead and injured at 8,000, with a further 7,000 caught. Neil Litten, utilizing French files, proposes 7,000 murdered and injured and 6,000 caught, with a further 2,000 forsaking. John Millner's diaries – "Concise Journal" (1733) – is increasingly explicit, recording 12,087 of Villeroi's military were slaughtered or injured, with another 9,729 taken prisoner. In "Marlborough", notwithstanding, Correlli Barnett puts the all out loss figure as high as 30,000 – 15,000 dead and injured with an extra 15,000 abducted. Trevelyan gauges Villeroi's setbacks at 13,000, however includes, 'his misfortunes by departure may have multiplied that number'. La Colonie precludes a setback figure in his "Accounts of an old Campaigner"; yet Saint-Simon in his "Diaries" states 4,000 murdered, including 'numerous others were injured and numerous critical people were taken prisoner'. Voltaire, be that as it may, in "Histoire du siècle du Louis XIV" records, 'the French lost there twenty thousand men'.