John Plagis 

Ioannis Agorastos "John" Plagis, DSO, DFC and Bar (1919– 1974) was a Southern Rhodesian flying expert in the Royal Air Force (RAF) amid the Second World War, noted particularly as far as concerns him in the protection of Malta amid 1942. The child of Greek settlers, he was acknowledged by enrollment specialists simply after Greece joined the Allies in late 1940. Following spells with No. 65 Squadron and No. 266 (Rhodesia) Squadron, he joined No. 249 (Gold Coast) Squadron in Malta in March 1942. Flying Spitfire Mk Vs, Plagis was a piece of the global gathering of Allied pilots that effectively protected the deliberately imperative island against numerically better Axis powers throughout the following couple of months. Flying with No. 185 Squadron from early June, he was pulled back to England toward the beginning of July 1942. 

After a spell as a teacher in the UK, Plagis came back to activity in September 1943 as authority of No. 64 Squadron, flying Spitfire Mk VCs over northern France. He took order of No. 126 (Persian Gulf) Squadron in June 1944, and drove numerous assaults on German positions amid the attack of France and the crusade that pursued; he was shot down over Arnhem amid Operation "Market Garden", yet just delicately injured. Subsequent to changing over to Mustang IIIs, he instructed a wing based at RAF Bentwaters that bolstered bombarding missions. He completed the war with the position of squadron pioneer and stayed with the RAF a while later, working Gloster Meteors at the leader of No. 266 (Rhodesia) Squadron. 

Plagis was the top-scoring Southern Rhodesian pro of the war, and the most noteworthy scoring pro of Greek root, with 16 affirmed elevated triumphs, including 11 over Malta. Granted the Distinguished Service Order and different awards, he was additionally a standout amongst Rhodesia's most designed veterans. The Southern Rhodesian capital, Salisbury, regarded his wartime commitments by naming a road in its northern Alexandra Park neighborhood after him. On his arrival home in the wake of resigning from the RAF with the position of wing leader in 1948, he set up home at 1 John Plagis Avenue, opened a container store bearing his name, and was a chief of a few organizations, incorporating Central African Airways during the 1960s. He challenged the Salisbury City voting demographic in the 1962 general decision, running for the Rhodesian Front, however neglected to win. He kicked the bucket in 1974, allegedly by suicide. 

John Plagis was conceived on 10 March 1919 in Gadzema, a mining town close Hartley, about south-west of the Southern Rhodesian capital Salisbury. His folks, Agorastos and Helen Plagis, were Greek migrants from the island of Lemnos; he had five kin. Initiated with the Greek name Ioannis Agorastos, Plagis utilized the English type of Ioannis, John, from adolescence, and went to Prince Edward School in Salisbury. 

Having been keen on flight since he was a kid, Plagis volunteered for the Southern Rhodesian Air Force (SRAF) not long after the flare-up of war in September 1939. He was turned down in light of the fact that he was the child of remote nationals and hence not a resident, in spite of having lived in Rhodesia for his entire life. After Italy attacked Greece in late October 1940, carrying the Greeks into the war on the Allied side, Plagis connected once more—this opportunity to join the Royal Air Force, which had retained the SRAF in April 1940—and was acknowledged. Preparing first in Southern Rhodesia, at that point England, Plagis go out with the position of flight sergeant in June 1941 with better than expected evaluations in the majority of his flying appraisals. 

In spite of the fact that he was formally in the RAF as a Greek (he turned into a Rhodesian native simply after the war), Plagis viewed himself as a Rhodesian flyer and wore bear flashes on his uniform signifying him all things considered. He named every flying machine he steered amid the war after his sister Kay, and painted that name in favor of every cockpit. After quickly flying Spitfires with No. 65 Squadron RAF, Plagis joined No. 266 (Rhodesia) Squadron, a practically all-Rhodesian Spitfire unit, on 19 July 1941. He served in the UK for about a large portion of a year, amid which he was charged as a pilot officer, before being presented on the Mediterranean performance center in January 1942. 

Plagis' first real task was Operation "Spotter", the first of numerous British undertakings to fortify the blockaded island of Malta notwithstanding German and Italian ambushes amid the Battle of the Mediterranean. Malta was viewed as of crucial key significance, and its barrier was looking progressively unsafe in March 1942. "Spotter" was an arrangement to fortify its British battalion with 16 new Spitfire Mk Vs, which would be conveyed almost from Gibraltar on the plane carrying warship HMS "Bird", at that point traveled to Malta; the pilots would then turn out to be a piece of the seriously drained No. 249 (Gold Coast) Squadron. The group of pilots involved eight British aviators, four Australians, two New Zealanders and two Southern Rhodesians—Plagis and his dear companion Pilot Officer Doug Leggo. 

The activity, completed on 7 March 1942, was generally effective and 15 of the 16 Spitfires achieved Malta. Plagis and Leggo landed to locate a third Rhodesian, Flight Officer George "Buck" Buchanan, officially appended to the squadron. A further conveyance of 16 Spitfires, Operation "Picket I", was endeavored on 21 March, yet this was less effective; just nine of the planes arrived. Thirteen Spitfire support activities were at last propelled among March and October 1942, assuming a key job in the attack. The "Luftwaffe" and the Italian "Regia Aeronautica" in the interim endeavored to bomb Malta into accommodation, transforming the runways into "a wild of pits, the docks ... a ruins, Valletta a mass of broken limestone ..." 

The "Luftwaffe" propelled a noteworthy assault against key Maltese runways at sunrise on 20 March. Leggo, who had not dozed for over 24 hours, came back to the runway in the early hours having gone through the night with a sweetheart. As the German planes moved toward he was requested to get ready to fly. Plagis endeavored to prevent his companion from going, yet Leggo demanded flying, and took off at 08:05 as a feature of a gathering of four Spitfires and 12 Hurricanes meaning to capture a squadron of Messerschmitt Bf 109s. He was before long observed to fly inadequately. A German pilot saw this and assaulted Leggo from short proximity, truly harming his flying machine and compelling him to parcel out. Another Bf 109 at that point swooped and either terminated at Leggo or fallen his parachute with its slipstream, making him tumble to his demise. At the point when Plagis realized what had occurred, he was melancholy, considering himself capable. In his diary, he promised to "shoot down ten for Doug—I will as well, on the off chance that it takes me a lifetime". 

Plagis shot down his first foe airplane on 25 March 1942, and on 1 April accomplished four progressively flying triumphs in a solitary evening, along these lines turning into the Siege of Malta's first Spitfire pro. His bringing down of four foes in a couple of hours won him much commendation from bosses and journalists, and added to his developing notoriety as a forceful yet skilful battle pilot. He was granted the Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC) on 1 May 1942, the reference taking note of that he had "demolished 4 and presumably crushed a further 3 antagonistic airplane". "With complete lack of interest to chances against him, he squeezes home his assaults with aptitude and strength," it proceeded—"He has set an exceptional precedent." 

On 11 May, Plagis endeavored to down an Italian Reggiane Re.2001 by flying directly at it to smash it; taking unpredictable equivocal moves, the Italian airplane slowed down and nearly collided with the ocean. Supposing he had brought down the foe, Plagis asserted a short time later to have accomplished an airborne triumph without shooting a shot, however the Italian flight revealed no misfortunes. Plagis' Spitfire was delicately hit amid this commitment, and the Rhodesian had some karma returning securely; he arrived with just three gallons (14 liters) of fuel left. On 16 May, Plagis and an English expert, Pilot Officer Peter Nash, crushed a Bf 109 for a common murder that turned into No. 249 Squadron's 100th triumph over Malta. In the midst of the proceeding with attack, the requirement for a noteworthy supply caravan to Malta was getting to be dire; the Governor Lord Gort cautioned Britain toward the beginning of June that if no provisions dropped by August, he would need to surrender to keep a starvation. 

Plagis was elevated in the field to flight lieutenant on 4 June 1942 and exchanged to No. 185 Squadron to direction "B" Flight. He shot down two Re.2001s two days after the fact to convey his count of triumphs to ten (subsequently satisfying his vow following Leggo's demise), and demolished a Bf 109 on 7 June. After a month, he got a Bar to his DFC, having been pronounced to have indicated "excellent ability and chivalry in combat ... Unfazed by prevalent quantities of assaulting air ship, he squeezes home his assaults with extraordinary assurance." Plagis left Malta when his visit terminated on 7 July 1942, flying first to Gibraltar, at that point the UK. The British at long last conveyed crucial supplies to Malta on 15 August with Operation "Platform" (referred to in Malta as the "Santa Clause Marija Convoy"). 

On touching base in England, Plagis was observed to experience the ill effects of lack of healthy sustenance, scabies and physical and mental weariness. He quickly convalesced in a nursing home, at that point went through a year as a teacher in England. He was elevated to trial flying officer on 1 October 1942. 

Plagis came back to activity in September 1943, when he was selected boss of No. 64 Squadron, at that point flying Spitfire Mk VCs over northern France from RAF Coltishall in Norfolk. Plagis brought down a Bf 109 over France on 24 September 1943, at that point a Focke-Wulf Fw 190 on 23 November, and formally got the position of flight lieutenant on 8 December 1943. 

Toward the beginning of June 1944, Plagis accepted order of No. 126 (Persian Gulf) Squadron, flying Spitfire Mk IXs that had as of late been moved from Malta to aid the attack of Normandy. Six of the squadron's planes had been bought by the Persian Gulf Spitfire Fund, and properly named after the giving sheikdoms; Plagis' flying machine, which he picked due to the vast letter "K" on its tail (resounding his sister's name), had "Muscat" painted in English and Arabic content on its side. He added to this a full rendering of "Kay" and other individual improvements. 

In the wake of driving No. 126 Squadron on assaults into Normandy amid the Allied intrusion, Plagis partook in a large number of the assaults on German positions in northern France and the Low Countries that pursued throughout the following couple of months. He was shot down over Arnhem in the Netherlands amid Operation "Market Garden" in September 1944, however endured just minor wounds and immediately came back to activity. He got the Distinguished Service Order on 3 November for his "participat[ion] in a lot of fights amid which much harm has been caused on ... [German] delivery, radio stations, oil stockpiling tanks, control plants and different establishments". The reference especially focused on a commitment in which a little gathering of Allied contenders driven by Plagis had taken on a far predominant power of foe flying machine and shot down five of them, Plagis himself bringing down two. Plagis was portrayed as "a daring and creative pioneer whose precedent has demonstrated an uncommon wellspring of motivation". 

Plagis changed over to Mustang IIIs alongside the remainder of his squadron at RAF Bentwaters in Suffolk amid December 1944 and January 1945, and spent the remainder of the war flying plane escort missions at the head of Bentwaters Wing, which incorporated No. 126 Squadron. He was elevated to squadron pioneer on 28 March 1945. Germany surrendered on 7 May, finishing the war in Europe. 

Plagis completed the war with a count of 16 foe flying machine affirmed devastated (counting two shared triumphs considered a large portion of an execute every), two shared presumably decimated, six harmed and one shared harmed. This made him Southern Rhodesia's most astounding scoring pro of the war, just as the top-scoring expert of Greek beginning. He was a standout amongst the most-brightened Southern Rhodesian servicemen of the war. 

Plagis remained with the RAF following the finish of threats, and from September 1946 to December 1947 directed No. 266 (Rhodesia) Squadron in England and Germany, flying Gloster Meteor F.3s. He was granted the Airman's Cross by the administration of the Netherlands in October 1946. Subsequent to resigning from the military with the position of wing administrator, Plagis returned home to Southern Rhodesia in 1948. A road in the north Salisbury suburb of Alexandra Park had been named after him in acknowledgment of his wartime abuses; he moved into the house toward the stopping point, 1 John Plagis Avenue. He wedded in 1954 and had three children and a girl. 

Plagis set up and ran a jug store bearing his name in Salisbury, and was associated with a few organizations amid the following three decades, filling in as an executive on organization sheets, including Central African Airways from 1963 to 1968. He joined the Rhodesian Front on its development in 1962, and was its competitor in Salisbury City in that year's general decision, losing to the United Federal Party's John Roger Nicholson by 631 votes to 501. As indicated by a report distributed by the Zimbabwe African National Union in 1969, Plagis was by then working in the workplace of the Rhodesian Prime Minister Ian Smith (himself a Second World War Spitfire pilot), with obligation regarding the head's composed correspondence. 

In later life, Plagis turned into a companion of British pro Douglas Bader, an unmistakable supporter of Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence in 1965. Bader, Smith and Plagis regularly mingled. Plagis additionally knew L Ron Hubbard, the American organizer of Scientology, who quickly migrated to Salisbury in 1966. Hubbard started various business conspires in Rhodesia, including the buy of the Bumi Hills Hotel at Kariba. Plagis was one of two nearby specialists who joined forces with Hubbard in the Bumi Hills bargain. He likewise sold Hubbard an enthusiasm for his possessions before the American was expelled. 

Plagis kicked the bucket in 1974, matured 54 or 55; as indicated by Lauren St John, a writer from Gadzema, he had ended his own life, having never really straightened out to the non military personnel world.