Yugoslav torpedo vessel T1 

The Yugoslav torpedo vessel "T1 was a seagoing torpedo watercraft that was worked by the Royal Yugoslav Navy somewhere in the range of 1921 and 1941. Initially 76 T", a 250t-class torpedo pontoon of the Austro-Hungarian Navy worked in 1914, she was outfitted with two weapons and four torpedo tubes, and could convey 10– 12 maritime mines. She saw dynamic administration amid World War I, performing guard, escort and minesweeping assignments, against submarine tasks and shore siege missions. She was a piece of the escort drive for the Austro-Hungarian man of war SMS "Szent István" amid the activity that brought about the sinking of that send by Italian torpedo pontoons in June 1918. Following Austria-Hungary's annihilation soon thereafter, "76 T" was assigned to the Navy of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, which turned into the Royal Yugoslav Navy, and was renamed "T1". At the time, she and seven other 250t-class water crafts were the main present day maritime vessels of the juvenile sea compel. 

Amid the interwar period, "T7" and the remainder of the naval force were engaged with preparing activities and travels to amicable ports, yet movement was restricted by decreased maritime spending plans. This ship was caught by the Italians amid the German-drove Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia in April 1941. After her primary combat hardware was modernized, she presented with the Royal Italian Navy under her Yugoslav assignment. Following the Italian capitulation in September 1943, she was come back to the Royal Yugoslav Navy estranged abroad. She was dispatched by the Yugoslav Navy after World War II, and after a refit which included substitution of her combat hardware, she filled in as Golešnica until 1959. 

In 1910, the Austria-Hungary Naval Technical Committee started the plan and advancement of a beach front torpedo vessel, determining that it ought to be fit for supporting for 10 hours. This determination was based a desire that the Strait of Otranto, where the Adriatic Sea meets the Ionian Sea, would be barricaded by threatening powers amid a future clash. In such conditions, there would be a requirement for a torpedo pontoon that could cruise from the Austro-Hungarian Navy () base at the Bocche di Cattaro (Bay of Kotor) to the Strait amid obscurity, find and assault barring boats and come back to port before morning. Steam turbine control was chosen for drive, as diesels with the vital power were not accessible, and the Austro-Hungarian Navy did not have the reasonable experience to run turbo-electric water crafts. Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino (STT) of Trieste was chosen for the agreement to assemble eight vessels, in front of one other giver. The T-gather assignment connoted that they were worked at Trieste. 

The 250t-class T-gather pontoons had a waterline length of , a light emission and an ordinary draft of . While their structured uprooting was , they dislodged about completely stacked. The team comprised of 39 officers and enrolled men. The vessels were controlled by two Parsons steam turbines driving two propellers, utilizing steam created by two Yarrow water-tube boilers, one of which consumed fuel oil and the other coal. The turbines were evaluated at with a most extreme yield of and intended to drive the water crafts to a top speed of . They conveyed of coal and of fuel oil, which gave them a scope of at . The T-bunch had one pipe instead of the two channels of the later gatherings of the class. Because of deficient financing, "76 T" and the remainder of the 250t class were basically beach front vessels, in spite of the first goal that they would be utilized for "high oceans" activities. They were the primary little Austro-Hungarian Navy vessels to utilize turbines, and this added to continuous issues with them. 

The water crafts were initially to be equipped with three Škoda L/30 weapons, and three torpedo tubes, however this was changed to two firearms and four torpedo tubes before the principal pontoon was finished, so as to institutionalize the deadly implement with the accompanying F-gathering. They could likewise convey 10– 12 maritime mines. 

The third of its class to be finished, "76 T" was set down on 24 June 1913, propelled on 15 December 1913 and finished on 20 July 1914. In 1914, one assault rifle was included. 

At the episode of World War I, "76 T" was a piece of the first Torpedo Group of the third Torpedo Craft Division of the Austro-Hungarian first Torpedo Craft Flotilla. Amid the war, "76 T" was utilized for caravan, escort and minesweeping assignments, hostile to submarine tasks, and shore assault missions. She additionally directed watches and bolstered seaplane strikes against the Italian coast. On 24 May 1915, "76 T" and seven other 250t-class vessels were engaged with the shelling of different Italian shore-based targets known as the Bombardment of Ancona, with "76 T" associated with the activity against Ancona itself. In late November 1915, the Austro-Hungarian armada conveyed a power from its principle armada base at Pola to Cattaro in the southern Adriatic; this power included six of the eight T-amass torpedo vessels, so it is conceivable that one of these was "76 T". This power was entrusted to keep up a perpetual watch of the Albanian coastline and prohibit any troop transports crossing from Italy. 

On 3 May 1916, "76 T" and five other 250t-class water crafts were going with four destroyers when they were engaged with a surface activity off Porto Corsini, close Ravenna, against an Italian power driven by the flotilla heads "Cesare Rossarol" and "Guglielmo Pepe". On this event the Austro-Hungarian power withdrew behind a minefield with no harm to the torpedo pontoons, and just chip harm to the destroyer . In 1917, one of her 66 mm weapons was put on an enemy of flying machine mount. By 1918, the Allies had fortified their continuous barricade on the Strait of Otranto, as predicted by the Austro-Hungarian Navy. Accordingly, it was ending up progressively troublesome for the German and Austro-Hungarian U-water crafts to overcome the strait and into the Mediterranean Sea. In light of these barricades, the new leader of the Austro-Hungarian Navy, "Konteradmiral" Miklós Horthy, chose to dispatch an assault on the Allied protectors with ships, scout cruisers, and destroyers. 

Amid the evening of 8 June, Horthy left the maritime base of Pola in the upper Adriatic with the man of war ships and . At about 23:00 on 9 June 1918, after certain challenges getting the harbor protection torrent opened, the battleships and , escorted by one destroyer and six torpedo vessels, including "76 T", likewise left Pola and set course for Slano, north of Ragusa, to meet with Horthy in anticipation of an organized assault on the Otranto Barrage. About 03:15 on 10 June, while coming back from an uneventful watch off the Dalmatian coast, two Italian Navy () MAS water crafts, "MAS 15" and "MAS 21", recognized the smoke from the Austrian boats. The two pontoons effectively entered the escort screen and split to draw in the gunboats separately. "MAS 21" assaulted "Tegetthoff", yet her torpedoes missed. Under the direction of Luigi Rizzo, "MAS 15" terminated two torpedoes at 03:25, the two of which hit "Szent István". The two pontoons avoided interest in spite of the fact that Rizzo needed to demoralize "76 T" by dropping profundity charges afterward. The torpedo hits on "Szent István" were side by side her engine compartments, which overflowed, thumping out capacity to the siphons. "Szent István" upset under three hours in the wake of being torpedoed. 

"76 T" endure the war unblemished. In 1920, under the terms of the earlier year's Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, by which backside Austria formally finished World War I, she was allotted to the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (KSCS, later Yugoslavia). Alongside three other 250t-class T-assemble pontoons, "77 T," "78 T" and "79 T", and four 250t-class F-amass vessels, she presented with the Royal Yugoslav Navy (, KJRM; Краљевска Југословенска Ратна Морнарица). Taken over in March 1921, in KJRM administration, "76 T" was renamed "T1". At the point when the naval force was framed, she and the other seven 250t-class pontoons were the main present day maritime vessels in the KJRM. In 1925, practices were led off the Dalmatian coast, including most of the naval force. In May and June 1929, six of the eight 250t-class torpedo water crafts went with the light cruiser "Dalmacija", the submarine delicate "Hvar" and the submarines and , on a journey to Malta, the Greek island of Corfu in the Ionian Sea, and Bizerte in the French protectorate of Tunisia. It isn't clear whether "T1" was one of the torpedo vessels included. The boats and teams established a decent connection while visiting Malta. In 1932, the British maritime attaché revealed that Yugoslav boats occupied with few activities, moves or gunnery preparing because of diminished spending plans. 

In April 1941, Yugoslavia entered World War II when it was attacked by the German-drove Axis powers. At the season of the attack, "T1" was doled out toward the Southern Sector of the KJRM's Coastal Defense Command based at the Bay of Kotor, alongside her sister dispatch "T3" and various minesweepers and other art. "T1" was caught by the Italian Navy not long after the initiation of threats and was worked by them under her Yugoslav assignment, directing seaside and second-line escort obligations in the Adriatic. Her weapons were additionally supplanted by two L/40 against airplane firearms. After the Italians surrendered in September 1943, she was returned by them to the KJRM in a state of banishment in December 1943. She was charged by the Yugoslav Navy (, Југословенска Pатна Mорнарица) after the war, filling in as "Golešnica". Her post-war fit-out included supplanting her weapons with two firearms on single mounts and four weapons, and evacuating her torpedo tubes. She proceeded in Yugoslav administration until October 1959, when she was stricken.