fourth Army (Kingdom of Yugoslavia) 

The fourth Army was a Royal Yugoslav Army arrangement prepared preceding the German-drove Axis intrusion of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia amid World War II. It was drawn from the peacetime fourth Army District. Whenever activated, it comprised of three divisions, a unit quality separation, one steed mounted force regiment and one autonomous infantry regiment. It framed piece of the first Army Group, and was in charge of shielding a huge segment of the Yugoslav– Hungarian outskirt, being conveyed behind the Drava stream among Varaždin and Slatina. Like every Yugoslav arrangement at the time, the fourth Army had genuine insufficiencies in both portability and capability. 

In spite of worries over a conceivable Axis intrusion, orders for the general preparation of the Royal Yugoslav Army were not issued by the legislature until 3 April 1941, out of dread this would outrage Adolf Hitler and accelerate war. At the point when the attack started on 6 April, the fourth Army was just incompletely assembled, and this shortcoming was exacerbated by fifth-section exercises inside its significant units and higher home office. Rebellions of Croat officers broke out in each of the three divisions in the initial couple of days, making noteworthy disturbance their assembly and arrangement. The town of Bjelovar was taken over by renegade troops. Across the board departures of Croat troops, a considerable lot of whom turned on their Serb confidants, made control significantly increasingly troublesome. German action in the fourth Army segment in the initial four days included constrained target assaults to catch intersections over the Mura and Drava waterways, alongside air assaults by the Luftwaffe. 

The arrangement and development of German bridgeheads were encouraged by fifth-segment components of the Croatian patriot "Ustaše" association and their sympathizers among the Croat-larger part people of the fourth Army division. Components of the fourth Army put up dispersed protection from the Germans, however it started to pull back southwards on 9 April, and on 10 April it immediately stopped to exist as an operational arrangement despite two decided reinforced pushes by XXXXVI Motorized Corps from bridgeheads at Zákány and Barcs. The fourteenth Panzer Division caught Zagreb late that day, and the Germans encouraged the declaration of an autonomous Croatian state. A ranking staff officer at the central station of the first Army Group who identified with the "Ustaše" issued orders diverting developments and units of the fourth Army far from the propelling Germans, and fifth-section components captured some fourth Army base camp staff. 

Under the administration of its administrator, "Armijski đeneral" Petar Nedeljković, the for the most part ethnic Serb leftovers of the fourth Army endeavored to set up cautious positions in northeastern Bosnia, yet were forgotten about by the fourteenth Panzer Division as it drove east towards Sarajevo, which fell on 15 April. A truce was concurred on that day, and the remaining parts of the fourth Army were requested to quit battling. The Yugoslav Supreme Command surrendered genuinely successful on 18 April. 

The Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was made with the merger of Serbia, Montenegro and the South Slav-possessed territories of Austria-Hungary on 1 December 1918, in the quick result of World War I. The Army of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was set up to protect the new state. It was conformed to the core of the successful Royal Serbian Army, just as equipped developments brought up in areas previously constrained by Austria-Hungary. Numerous previous Austro-Hungarian officers and warriors progressed toward becoming individuals from the new armed force. From the earliest starting point, much like different parts of open life in the new kingdom, the military was commanded by ethnic Serbs, who considered it to be a methods by which to verify Serb political authority. 

The military's improvement was hampered by the kingdom's poor economy, and this kept amid the 1920s. In 1929, King Alexander changed the name of the nation to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, at which time the military was renamed the Royal Yugoslav Army (, VKJ). The military spending plan stayed tight, and as pressures ascended crosswise over Europe amid the 1930s, it wound up hard to verify weapons and weapons from different nations. Subsequently, at the time World War II broke out in September 1939, the VKJ had a few genuine shortcomings, which included dependence on draft creatures for transport, and the extensive size of its developments. Infantry divisions had a wartime quality of 26,000– 27,000 men, when contrasted with contemporary British infantry divisions of a large portion of that quality. These attributes brought about moderate, cumbersome developments, and the insufficient supply of arms and weapons implied that even the substantial Yugoslav arrangements had low capability. Commanders more qualified to the channel fighting of World War I were joined with a military that was neither prepared nor prepared to oppose the quick moving consolidated arms approach utilized by the Germans in their attacks of Poland and France. 

The shortcomings of the VKJ in system, structure, hardware, portability and supply were exacerbated by genuine ethnic disunity inside Yugoslavia, coming about because of two many years of Serb authority and the specialist absence of political authenticity accomplished by the focal government. Endeavors to address the disunity came past the point where it is possible to guarantee that the VKJ was a firm power. Fifth-segment movement was likewise a genuine concern, from the Croatian patriot "Ustaše" yet additionally from the nation's Slovene and ethnic German minorities. 

Yugoslav war plans saw the fourth Army sorted out and activated on a geographic premise from the peacetime fourth Army District, which was partitioned into three divisional locale, every one of which was subdivided into regimental areas. Zagreb, Dugo Selo and Sisak were key places for the activation and grouping of the fourth Army because of their great rail foundation. Preceding the issue of activation orders for the fourth Army, the fourth Army District base camp had been associated with arranging fringe protections and directing activities for outskirt troops, including pulverization plans for scaffolds and other foundation in case of war. 

On 8 June 1940, the Yugoslav Supreme Command had issued requests to the fourth Army District home office to make every single fundamental planning for protection and annihilations and requested a 14-day practice for fringe troops. fourth Army District central station presented an advancement report on this work on 30 January 1941. This report demonstrated that along the Hungarian outskirt, dugouts and channels had been built for the prompt barrier of the Drava waterway along the Yugoslav-Hungarian fringe, specifically at Varaždin, Koprivnica, Virovitica and Slatina, however no deterrents, for example, security fencing entrapments or hostile to tank trench had been created. 

The fourth Army was directed by "Armijski đeneral" Petar Nedeljković, and his head of staff was "Brigadni đeneral" Anton Lokar. The fourth Army comprised of: 

Armed force level help was given by the mechanized first Heavy Artillery Regiment, the 81st Army Artillery Regiment, the mechanized fourth Anti-Aircraft Battalion, six fringe protect legions and the mechanized fourth Army Anti-Aircraft Company. The fourth Air Reconnaissance Group involving eighteen Breguet 19s was joined from the Royal Yugoslav Army Air Force (, VVKJ) and was based at Pleso runway close Velika Gorica only south of Zagreb. The troops of the fourth Army incorporated a high level of Croats. 

The fourth Army was a piece of the first Army Group, which was in charge of the resistance of northwestern Yugoslavia. The fourth Army guarded the eastern area along the Hungarian outskirt, and the seventh Army along the German and Italian fringes. The first Cavalry Division was to be held as the first Army Group hold around Zagreb. On the left of the fourth Army, the limit with the seventh Army kept running from Gornja Radgona on the Mura stream through Krapina and Karlovac to Otočac. On the privilege of the fourth Army was the second Army of the second Army Group, the limit running from only east of Slatina through Požega towards Banja Luka. The Yugoslav barrier plan saw the fourth Army sent in a cordon behind the Drava among Varaždin and Slatina. The arranged sending of the fourth Army from west to east was: 

Outskirt protect units in the fourth Army region of duty comprised of: 

In the wake of persistent weight from Adolf Hitler, Yugoslavia marked the Tripartite Pact on 25 March 1941. After two days, a military overthrow ousted the administration that had marked the agreement, and another legislature was framed under the VVKJ leader, "Armijski đeneral" Dušan Simović. A general preparation was not called by the new government until 3 April 1941, out of dread of culpable Hitler and along these lines accelerating war. A similar day as the overthrow, Hitler issued Führer Directive 25, which called for Yugoslavia to be treated as an antagonistic state and, on 3 April, Führer Directive 26 was issued, specifying the arrangement of assault and order structure for the attack. 

As indicated by a 1953 U.S. Armed force think about dependent on German sources, when the intrusion started, the 40th ID was halfway assembled, and the staying two divisions had just initiated activating. The Yugoslav student of history Velimir Terzić portrayed the preparation of the fourth Army in general on 6 April as "just halfway", and states the central station of the fourth Army was activating upper east of Dugo Selo, east of Zagreb, with 30– 35 percent of the staff officers and 10 percent of the troopers having revealed for obligation. 

Separation "Ormozki" was an adhoc arrangement dependent on the central command of the first Cavalry Brigade, with an infantry regiment appended from the 32nd Infantry Division "Triglavski", and two rangers regiments and a squadron of mounted force gunnery joined from the first Cavalry Division. On 6 April, it was gathering in the Ormož territory, as pursues: 

The 39th Infantry Regiment was later exchanged to the 42nd ID, leaving Detachment "Ormozki" transcendently as a rangers development. 

The 42nd ID had just started activation, and was to a great extent in its preparation focuses or moving to fixation territories. On 6 April, the components of the division were situated as pursues: 

Requests were issued for the 36th Infantry Regiment to join the 27th ID, supplanted by the 39th Infantry Regiment from Detachment "Ormozki". Two big guns batteries from the 40th Artillery Regiment of the 40th ID that were preparing in Varaždin were requested to join the 42nd ID. 

The 27th ID had just initiated assembly, and was to a great extent in its activation focuses or moving to fixation regions. On 4 April, Nedeljković had announced that the division couldn't move for an additional 24 hours because of absence of vehicles. A little extent of the division was in its arranged positions on 6 April: 

The 40th ID was halfway activated, with certain components of the division as yet preparing, some in fixation territories, and just a little extent really sent in their arranged positions: 

The 43rd Infantry Regiment was requested to walk east to join the seventeenth Infantry Division "Vrbaska" (seventeenth ID), which was a piece of the second Army Group's second Army. The 89th Infantry Regiment, initially assigned to the seventeenth ID, was requested to walk from its assembly area in Sisak and join the 40th ID to supplant the 43rd Infantry Regiment. The divisional rangers did not get adequate steeds, and needed to convey by walking as infantry. The division was without big guns support all through the battling on the grounds that the 40th Artillery Regiment did not finish assembly. 

Armed force level help units were activating as pursues: 

At the season of the intrusion, numerous units of the fourth Army were still at their assembly focuses or in their fixation territories, and just a couple of units had really sent into their arranged positions to guard the fringe. Numerous recruits did not answer to their assembly focuses. The coordinations of the fourth Army were in a poor state, primarily because of an absence of domesticated animals and vehicles for transport, yet in addition because of fifth-segment harm by the "Ustaše" and their sympathizers, to the degree that numerous units did not have 10 percent of their vehicle needs. It was likewise prepared ineffectively, ailing in numerous apparatuses of present day fighting, including tanks, light ordnance, hostile to flying machine weapons and air support. These lacks influenced the two its battling force and spirit. 

German Army home office needed to catch the scaffolds over the Drava unblemished, and from 1 April had issued requests to the second Army to direct starter tasks went for catching the extensions at Barcs and Zákány by "upsets de fundamental". Accordingly, constrained target assaults were propelled along the line of the Drava by the XXXXVI Motorized Corps of "General der Panzertruppe" Heinrich von Vietinghoff, in spite of the way that they were not expected to dispatch hostile activities until 10 April. Comparable tasks happened on the extraordinary left flank of the fourth Army, where assaulting gatherings and watches from LI Infantry Corps, directed by "General der Infanterie" Hans-Wolfgang Reinhard, caught high ground on the south side of the Drava. 

In the early long stretches of 6 April 1941, units of the fourth Army were situated at their assembly focuses or were walking toward the Hungarian fringe. LI Infantry Corps caught the unblemished extension over the Mura at Gornja Radgona. About 05:20, the Yugoslav 601st Independent Battalion on the outskirt in the Prekmurje area forward of Detachment "Ormozki" was assaulted by German troops progressing over the German fringe, and started pulling back south into the Međimurje locale. About 06:20, Germans troops likewise crossed the Hungarian fringe and assaulted outskirt troops at Dolnja Lendava. Not long after this, further assaults were made along the Drava among Ždala and Gotalovo in the region of the 27th Infantry Division "Savska" with the aim of verifying intersections over the stream, however they were fruitless. The Germans cleared the vast majority of Prekmurje up to Murska Sobota and Ljutomer amid the day. 

A bike mounted separation of "Generalmajor" Benignus Dippold's 183rd Infantry Division caught Murska Sobota without experiencing opposition. Amid the day, the German Luftwaffe shelled and strafed Yugoslav positions and troops on the walk. By the evening, German troops had caught Dolnja Lendava, and by the night it had turned out to be obvious to the Germans that the Yugoslavs would not be opposing adamantly at the fringe. XXXXVI Motorized Corps was then arranged to start catching scaffolds over the Mura at Mursko Središće and Letinja, and over the Drava at Zákány and Barcs. The neighborhood assaults were adequate to kindle disagree inside the generally Croat fourth Army, who would not avoid Germans they considered their deliverers from Serbian abuse amid the interwar period. Toward the evening, German Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" plunge aircraft of "Sturzkampfgeschwader 77" escorted by Messerschmitt Bf 109E contenders got the Breguet 19s of the fourth Air Reconnaissance Group on the ground at Velika Gorica, annihilating a large portion of them. 

The proceeding with assembly and grouping of the fourth Army was hampered by heightening fifth-segment exercises and publicity instigated by the "Ustaše". A few units quit preparing, or started coming back to their activation focuses from their fixation regions. Amid the day, Yugoslav damage units endeavored to devastate connects over the Mura at Letinja, Mursko Središće and Kotoriba, and over the Drava at Zákány. These endeavors were just halfway fruitful, because of the impact of "Ustaše" promulgation and the rescinding of the devastation arranges by the head of staff of the 27th Infantry Division "Savska", Major Anton Marković. The Yugoslav radio system in the fourth Army zone was attacked by the "Ustaše" on 6 April, and radio interchanges inside the fourth Army stayed poor all through the battling. 

Surveillance units of the XXXXVI Motorized Corps crossed the Mura at Letenye and Mursko Središće right off the bat 7 April, and caught Čakovec. "Ustaše" purposeful publicity drove the greater part of two regiments from the 42nd ID to revolt; just two legions from the units sent to their distributed positions. Despite the German development, the outskirt troops of the 601st Independent Battalion and 341st Reserve Regiment pulled back towards the Drava. 

About 05:00 on 7 April, a few regiments of the XXXXVI Motorized Corps started crossing the Drava at Zákány, and assaulted towards Koprivnica. In light of the German intersection at Zákány, the 53rd Infantry Regiment of the 27th ID pulled back towards Koprivnica and took up protective positions in a progression of towns including Torčec. To stop this German entrance and addition more opportunity for the grouping of the 27th ID, components of the 27th Artillery Regiment were sent to help the guarded line close Torčec, which was put under the direction of the division's leader for infantry. About 07:30, the leader of the Yugoslav first Army Group, "Armijski đeneral" Milorad Petrović, met with Nedeljković at Zagreb and requested him to go to Koprivnica and set up a counterattack against the bridgehead, to start at 15:00. The counterattack plan bombed, as the vital units couldn't achieve their positions. 

About 10:30, the Germans achieved the protective line close Torčec, and battling started. The few remaining Breguet 19s of the fourth Air Reconnaissance Group mounted assaults on the scaffold over the Drava at Zákány. After the Germans strengthened their bridgehead with two additional brigades, they defeated the Yugoslav safeguards, who had endured huge misfortunes and were running low on big guns ammo. About 18:00, the 53rd Infantry Regiment pulled back to Koprivnica with its mounted guns backing, and it stayed in the town amid the night. At 23:00, after requests from Petrović that he was to assault on 8 April no matter what, Nedeljković issued orders for a counterattack to be done at an opportune time 8 April. 

About 19:00 on 7 April, German units in regimental quality with a couple of tanks started to cross the Drava close Barcs in the segment of the 40th ID. They rapidly conquered the opposition of the second Battalion of the 393rd Reserve Regiment, who were influenced by "Ustaše" purposeful publicity. The Yugoslavs surrendered their positions and weapons and withdrew to Virovitica. The 108th Infantry Regiment of the 40th ID had assembled in Bjelovar and on 7 April was walking towards Virovitica to take up positions. That night, Croat individuals from that regiment revolted, capturing their Serb officers, non-dispatched officers and fighters. The regiment at that point walked back to Bjelovar, where it got together with different defiant units about early afternoon on 8 April. 

As the 108th Infantry Regiment was in charge of the correct part of the divisional safeguard, this implied the 42nd Infantry Regiment, which was initially mindful just for the left segment, needed to reach out over the whole divisional facing. Amid the night, the authority of the divisional mounted force squadron sent watches towards the German bridgehead, however nearby "Ustaše" sympathizers deceived them into trusting the Germans were at that point over the Drava at Barcs in quality. The Germans were then ready to combine their bridgehead at Barcs medium-term. 

By late night on 7 April, Petrović's reports to Supreme Headquarters noticed that the fourth Army was depleted and its assurance had been debased altogether, and that Nedeljković agreed with his authority's appraisal. Amid the day, Nedeljković moved his central command from Zagreb to Bjelovar. 

On 8 April, the German XXXXVI Motorized Corps proceeded with its constrained target assaults to extend their bridgeheads at Barcs and Zákány, catching Kotoriba, a town upstream from Legrad. A German regiment got through the fringe troops in the area of the 40th ID, and drew nearer Virovitica. Now, the whole divisional segment was safeguarded by the divisional mounted force squadron which had been transported there in demanded vehicles because of the absence of steeds. Two understrength and faltering forces of the 42nd Infantry Regiment landed at Pčelić, southwest of Virovitica. 

In the regions of the 42nd ID and Detachment "Ormozki", the Germans cleared the region north of the Drava, and outskirt monitor units were pulled back south of the waterway. On this day, the 39th Infantry Regiment was exchanged to the 42nd ID from the Detachment "Ormozki", and the 36th Infantry Regiment of the previous joined the 27th ID. 

By early afternoon, the revolutionaries of the 108th Infantry Regiment were drawing closer Bjelovar, where they were joined by components of the 42nd Infantry Regiment and different units of the 40th ID. The pioneer of the renegades in Bjelovar was "Kapetan" Ivan Mrak, a hold pilot. At the point when Nedeljković wound up mindful of the dissidents approach, he requested the neighborhood gendarmerie leader to look after request, however was exhorted this would not be conceivable, as nearby recruits would not report for obligation. Home office of the fourth Army announced the nearness of the renegades to Headquarters first Army Group, and it was recommended that the VVKJ could bomb the dissident units. The eighth Bomber Regiment at Rovine got a notice request to utilize its Bristol Blenheim Mk I light aircraft to bomb the 108th Infantry Regiment, however the thought was later surrendered. Rather, it was chosen to demand that the pioneer of the Croatian Peasant Party, Vladko Maček, intercede with the renegades. 

Josip Broz Tito and the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, at that point situated in Zagreb, alongside the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Croatia, sent a designation to fourth Army home office encouraging them to issue arms to laborers to help shield Zagreb. Pavle Gregorić, who was an individual from both Central Committees, went to the base camp twice, and had the capacity to talk quickly with Nedeljković, however couldn't persuade him to do as such. Around the same time, Maček, who had come back to Zagreb after quickly joining Simović's post-overthrow government, consented to send an emissary to the 108th Infantry Regiment of the 40th ID encouraging them to comply with their officers, however they didn't react to his intrigue. 

Later in the day, two trucks of radicals landed at fourth Army base camp in Bjelovar with the aim of killing the staff. The base camp watchman constrain kept this, however the activities staff quickly pulled back from Bjelovar to Popovača. After the renegades issued a few unanswered ultimatums, around 8,000 radicals assaulted Bjelovar, helped by fifth-reporters inside the city. The city at that point surrendered, and numerous Yugoslav officers and warriors were caught by the dissidents. At the point when Nedeljković knew about the fall of the city, he called the Mayor of Bjelovar, Julije Makanec, and took steps to bomb the city if the detainees were not quickly discharged. Confined officers from fourth Army base camp and the 108th Infantry Regiment were then sent to Zagreb. About 16:00, Nedeljković educated the Ban of Croatia, Ivan Šubašić, of the revolt, however Šubašić was frail to impact occasions. About 18:00, Makanec declared that Bjelovar was a piece of an autonomous Croatian state. 

On the morning of 8 April, the 27th ID was sent around Koprivnica. The 104th Infantry Regiment bolstered by components of the 27th Artillery Regiment was sent upper east of the town behind the Drava among Molve and Hlebine. The second Cavalry Regiment of the first Cavalry Division, which had been riding from its activation focus in Virovitica to Zagreb, was distributed to the 27th ID to help with setting up its forward barriers, and was sent with two mounted guns batteries between the edges of Koprivnica and Bregi. The 53rd Infantry Regiment, and the remainders of the second Battalion of the 36th Infantry Regiment and the first Battalion of the 35th Infantry Regiment (totalling around 500 men), and the first Battery of the 27th Artillery Regiment were situated in the town itself. The second Battalion of the 36th Infantry Regiment had not yet touched base in Koprivnica, and the divisional rangers squadron had come to the extent Ivanec. Most of the 81st Cavalry Regiment, which were armed force level troops, were out and about from Zagreb to Koprivnica, despite the fact that its first Squadron, which had been transported to Koprivnica in vehicles on 7 April, was conveyed as a component of a station line forward of Koprivnica supporting the first Battalion of the 53rd Infantry Regiment. The divisional base camp was found southwest of Koprivnica at Reka. 

As per Nedeljković's requests, Marić's 27th ID was to attempt a counterattack against the Zákány bridgehead on 8 April. Bolstered by two batteries of Skoda 75 mm Model 1928 mountain firearms of the 27th Artillery Regiment, the assault comprised of three sections meeting on the bridgehead. The correct segment, assaulting from the region of Bregi, was to comprise of the second Cavalry Regiment upheld by the divisional automatic weapon organization. The inside segment, comprising of the 53rd Infantry Regiment and the remainders of the second Battalion of the 36th Infantry Regiment and the first Battalion of the 35th Infantry Regiment, legitimately upheld by the first Battery of the 27th Artillery Regiment, would assault from Koprivnica. The left section, assaulting from the region of Herešin, was to comprise of the gotten off 81st Cavalry Regiment. Since guaranteed support from the 36th Infantry Regiment, 81st Cavalry Regiment and armed force level mounted guns had not appeared, Marić deferred the counterattack to 16:00. When it was in the end propelled, just the second Cavalry Regiment and the first Squadron of the 81st Cavalry Regiment stayed in contact with the Germans, south of Peteranec, and the second Cavalry Regiment held that zone for the duration of the evening of 8/9 April, in spite of overwhelming German cannons fire. Of different units engaged with the counterattack, most were just at 25 percent of their full quality due to "Ustaše"- impacted departures started by the insubordination inside the 40th ID. Two brigades of the 36th Infantry Regiment abandoned amid 8 April. 

By the night of 8 April, the Yugoslav Supreme Headquarters was under the mixed up impression that the circumstance in the fourth Army's territory of activity was moderately great, trusting the entrance of German troops had been incidentally stopped. The uprisings and departures inside the fourth Army significantly affected the certainty of the flanking second and seventh Armies, and added to promote withdrawals. This was especially set apart in the territory of the seventh Army, which was compelled to pull back from the Drava the evening of 8/9 April because of the circumstance in the fourth Army on its correct flank, prompting the loss of Maribor. 

The Mura division was calm on 9 April. The 42nd ID took the 39th Infantry Regiment under direction, yet the 105th Infantry Regiment and 341st Reserve Regiment started to deteriorate because of renunciations. Because of the circumstance on the correct flank of the 42nd ID, fourth Army home office requested it and Detachment "Ormozki" to pull back from the Drava to behind the Bednja to adjust to the line being held by the 27th ID on its quick right flank. 

On 9 April, the German XXXXVI Motorized Corps finished its arrangements for full-scale hostile activity by extending its bridgehead at Zákány. The mounted force units kept on battling the Germans around Peteranec, however the left segment of the divisional forefront started to deteriorate. The leader of the correct part, "Pukovnik" Mihailo Georgijević, requested his troops to hold their positions and went to divisional base camp to request that endorsement release the Croats in his units. Marić would not advise fourth Army central station of this thought, so Georgijević went to Zagreb to address Petrović, and to additionally encourage him to pull back all troops that still needed to battle to a line south of the Sava. As per Georgijević, Petrović requested him to advise Marić to consider incapacitating his Croat troops, and to keep on holding positions at stake of the Bilogora, yet to lead a battling withdrawal towards Zagreb and Sisak if the German weight was excessively extraordinary. The aim of these requests was not executed, as fifth-section components changed the wording so arranges were issued to release Croat troops and to withdraw towards Zagreb without battling. 

About 09:00, Marić and Marković went to Zagreb to see Petrović, who requested them to quickly come back to their division and keep on opposing the Germans. On the arrival venture, they experienced the greater part of their division pulling back towards Križevci, except for the mounted force units as yet battling north of Koprivnica. Marić ended the retreat, and set up positions around Mali Grabičani, making his base camp at Križevci. Georgijević rejected his Croat troops and withdrew with the remainder of his power towards Zagreb, and the leader of the 104th Infantry Regiment released every one of his troops. Toward the evening, the hard-squeezed mounted force units started to pull back. About 14:00, the second Cavalry Regiment pulled back to Novigrad Podravski by means of Bregi, yet getting a threatening gathering from the Croat populace, proceeded towards Bjelovar. About 18:00, the first Squadron of the 81st Cavalry Regiment pulled back by means of Koprivnica, achieving the remainder of the division about 23:00. About 19:00, the Germans involved Koprivnica without obstruction. Before sun-down, Marić's division numbered around 2,000 troops, the 36th Infantry Regiment and 81st Cavalry Regiment were generally scattered, the 53rd Infantry Regiment had viably stopped to exist, and his mounted guns regiment had just two steeds to pull weapons. 

The radicals in Bjelovar utilized the broadcast station and phone trade in the town to issue false requests to parts of the 104th Infantry Regiment guiding them to pull back from their positions. The renegades likewise reached the Germans by phone and sent delegates to meet the Germans at the Drava bridgeheads, to prompt them that the streets had been addressed of issues, and Makanec welcomed them to enter Bjelovar. Nedeljković's dangers to bomb the town did not appear, and dissidents and defectors started to merge on Bjelovar, carrying with them numerous Serb officers and fighters who before long filled the town's correctional facilites. 

On the morning of 9 April, the German bridgehead at Barcs had extended to Lukač, north of Virovitica. Following up the withdrawal of the divisional mounted force squadron, the Germans seized Suho Polje, west of Virovitica, slicing the fundamental street to Slatina, and the dissident Croat troops at Bjelovar reached them. By 11:00, the 40th ID cutting edge comprised of the first and second Battalions of the 42nd Infantry Regiment and a troop of the divisional mounted force squadron on the right, and the fourth Battalion of the 42nd Infantry Regiment and a troop of the divisional rangers on the left. The third Battalion of the 42nd Infantry Regiment was held inside and out. The left flank was screened by the remainder of the divisional mounted force squadron conveyed around Pitomača. The 89th Infantry Regiment, walking from its fixation zone in Sisak, touched base at divisional home office at Pivnica Slavonska, to supplant the 43rd Infantry Regiment, which had been exchanged to the seventeenth ID. 

Different fortifications included components of the fourth Army against air ship units sent from Lipik, yet the divisional mounted guns regiment had not finished preparation. The renegades in Bjelovar issued false requests to the first Battalion of the 42nd Infantry Regiment, guiding it to fall back to Bjelovar. At 11:15, Nedeljković touched base at divisional central station and in the blink of an eye a while later arranged Raketić to dispatch a counterattack on the German bridgehead at Barcs at day break the next day. Nedeljković likewise visited "Divizijski đeneral" Dragoslav Milosavljević, the officer of the seventeenth ID on the correct flank of the fourth Army; he attempted to orchestrate support from the division amid the pending assault, yet most of that division's troops presently couldn't seem to land from Bosnia, and all it had the capacity to do was advance its left flank, positioning forces in Čačinci and Crnac west of Slatina. The 40th ID spent the rest of the day planning for the counterattack, however were obstructed by German big guns and air assaults. In a sign of the condition of his division, amid a visit to the cutting edge, Raketić and his head of staff were terminated at by troops of the 42nd Infantry Regiment. 

Components of the fourth Army started to pull back southwards on 9 April. The evening of 9/10 April, those Croats that had stayed with their units likewise started to betray or turn on their leaders, and in the 40th ID, practically all the rest of the troops were Serbs. Because of the expanding force of the revolt, Petrović presumed that the fourth Army was never again a powerful development and couldn't avoid the Germans. Maček issued a further incapable request to quiet the defiance. On the night of 9 April, "Generaloberst" Maximilian von Weichs, officer of the German second Army, was prepared to dispatch real hostile activities from the bridgeheads on the next day. His arrangement included two primary purposes. The first would be led by the fourteenth Panzer Division of "Generalmajor" Friedrich Kühn breaking out of the Zákány bridgehead and driving towards Zagreb. The second would see "Generalmajor" Walter Neumann-Silkow's eighth Panzer Division break out of the Barcs bridgehead and turn east between the Drava and Sava to assault towards Belgrade. 

At an opportune time 10 April, "Pukovnik" Franjo Nikolić, the leader of the tasks staff with the central command of the first Army Group, left his post and visited the senior "Ustaše" pioneer Slavko Kvaternik in Zagreb. He at that point came back to home office and diverted fourth Army units around Zagreb to either stop tasks or convey to harmless positions. These activities decreased or disposed of furnished protection from the German development. 

About 09:45, the LI Infantry Corps started crossing the Drava, however development of an extension close Maribor was suspended in light of the fact that the stream was in flood. In spite of this, the 183rd Infantry Division figured out how to verify an elective intersection point, and built up a bridgehead. This intersection point was a somewhat demolished scaffold, protected by a solitary company of the first Bicycle Battalion of Detachment "Ormozki". This intersection, joined with the withdrawal of the seventh Army's 38th Infantry Division "Dravska" from the line Slovenska Bistrica– Ptuj, uncovered the left flank of Detachment "Ormozki". The Detachment endeavored to pull back south, yet started to crumble amid the night 10/11 April, and the first Bicycle Battalion left to come back to Ljubljana. Toward the evening, the rest of the components of the 42nd ID additionally started to pull back however Varaždinske Toplice to Novi Marof, leaving the "Ustaše" to assume responsibility for Varaždin. 

Around the same time, the fourteenth Panzer Division, upheld by plunge planes, crossed the Drava and drove southwest towards Zagreb on snow-canvassed streets in amazingly chilly conditions. Introductory air observation showed extensive groupings of Yugoslav troops on the divisional hub of development, yet these troops ended up being pulling back towards Zagreb. Debased by revolt and fifth-segment action, the 27th ID numbered around 2,000 effectives when the German assault started. The fourteenth Panzer Division vanguard achieved their situations in the Bilogora extend around 08:00, and the leftovers of the division started pulling back towards Križevci under overwhelming air assault. When they achieved the town around 14:00, they were immediately circled by German mechanized troops that had outmaneuvered them. The divisional base camp staff got away, however were caught a little further not far off at Bojnikovec. The remainders of the second Cavalry Regiment needed to battle their way towards Bjelovar, yet were assaulted by German tanks on the edges, caught and confined. The fourteenth Panzer Division proceeded with its totally unopposed drive on Zagreb utilizing two courses, KriževciDugo SeloZagreb and BjelovarČazmaIvanić-GradZagreb. 

About 17:45 on 10 April, Kvaternik and SS-"Standartenführer" Edmund Veesenmayer went to the radio station in Zagreb and Kvaternik broadcasted the formation of the Independent State of Croatia (, NDH). The 35th Infantry Regiment of the 27th ID was disbanded by its administrator when he heard updates on the announcement. By 19:30 on 10 April, lead components of the fourteenth Panzer Division had achieved the edges of Zagreb, having shrouded about in a solitary day. When it entered Zagreb, the fourteenth Panzer Division was met by cheering groups, and had caught 15,000 Yugoslav troops, including 22 officers. 

About 19:45, the first Army Group held a meeting in Zagreb, similarly as German tanks were entering the city. Nedeljković revealed to Petrović that he could never again hold his positions, yet in spite of this, Petrović requested him to hold for in any event 2– 3 days to empower the withdrawal of the seventh Army to the Kupa stream. Nedeljković answered that he never again had a military, and recommended that all Serb officers and men be requested back to shape a guarded line along the Sava and Una waterways. Petrović would not think about this, yet requested the first Cavalry Division to frame a cautious line along the Sava among Jasenovac and Zagreb. 

The 40th ID was battered by German big guns shoot amid the evening of 9/10 April. Truly exhausted by abandonment and debilitated by revolt, it was unfit to mount the arranged counterattack against the Barcs bridgehead on the morning of 10 April. The 42nd Infantry Regiment could just marshal 600 men, and the 86th Infantry Regiment somewhat more. The divisional rangers squadron was likewise intensely diminished in quality, and divisional cannons added up to one enemy of airplane battery. The outskirt units, in charge of devastation assignments on hold from Bjelovar south to Čazma, wouldn't pursue orders. Having deserted the counterattack, Raketić chose to build up a cautious line at Pćelić to ruin German development east towards Slatina. 

Not long after day break, the primary purpose of the XXXXVI Motorized Corps, comprising of the eighth Panzer Division driving "Generalmajor" Sigfrid Henrici's sixteenth Motorized Infantry Division, crossed the Drava at Barcs. Hostile to tank fire decimated a couple of the lead tanks, however after the Germans strengthened their vanguard, the obstruction of the 40th ID had been broken by early afternoon. The rest of the troops of the 42nd Infantry Regiment were either caught or fled into the slopes toward the south. Units of the 89th Infantry Regiment, which had been giving profundity to the guarded position, started withdrawing south towards Slavonska Požega. "Ustaše" sympathizers and Yugoslav "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic German) troops either fled or surrendered. By 13:30, the hard-squeezed divisional mounted force squadron started to pull back south towards Daruvar, assaulting revolting troops along their course. Raketić himself fled to Nova Gradiška by means of Voćin and Slavonska Požega, amid which his vehicle was again terminated on by agitator troops. The eighth Panzer Division proceeded with southeast between the Drava and Sava waterways, and meeting no further opposition, had come to Slatina before sun-down. Right flank components of the eighth Panzer Division entered south into the Bilogora go, coming to Daruvar and Voćin before dinnertime. 

Late in the day, as the circumstance was winding up progressively edgy all through the nation, Simović, who was both the Prime Minister and Yugoslav Chief of the General Staff, communicate the accompanying message: 

The XXXXVI Motorized Corps experienced little obstruction from the fourth Army, especially from the 27th ID and 40th ID, and by the night of 10 April the entire fourth Army was deteriorating, and all flying machine of the fourth Air Reconnaissance Group had been crushed. Petrović needed to reject Marić as authority of the 27th ID because of doubts that he was a "Ustaše" sympathizer, yet couldn't recognize an appropriate substitution. 

About 23:00, German second Army central command guided the fourteenth Panzer Division to enter past Zagreb towards Karlovac to connect up with the Italian second Army, and furthermore coordinated the eighth Panzer Division and sixteenth Motorized Infantry Division to drive toward the north of Belgrade to interface up with the First Panzer Group which was pushing towards Belgrade from the east. At midnight, second Army base camp pronounced that the Yugoslav northern front had been unequivocally vanquished, and entrusted corps engineer units to solidify connecting crosswise over real streams, especially over the Sava at Brežice west of Zagreb to encourage the development of the fourteenth Panzer Division towards Karlovac. The principle body units of the XXXXVI Motorized Corps pushed ahead to Virovitica and Slatina, and second Army central station pushed ahead to build up itself in Maribor, secured by the 538th Frontier Guard Division. At midnight, Vietinghoff issued orders for the eighth Panzer Division to proceed towards Belgrade by means of Osijek, yet guided the sixteenth Motorized Infantry Division to push west to the extent Sremska Mitrovica then swing south to drive towards Sarajevo by means of Zvornik. 

Held up by frigid climate and snow storms, LI Corps was moving toward Zagreb from the north, and got through a hurriedly settled cautious line among Pregrada and Krapina. Bike mounted troops of the 183rd Infantry Division swung east to verify "Ustaše"- controlled Varaždin. The German-introduced NDH government approached all Croats to quit battling, and at night, LI Infantry Corps entered Zagreb and assuaged the fourteenth Panzer Division. 

On 11 April, Petrović and the staff of first Army Group central command were caught by "Ustaše" at Petrinja, and the back zone staff of fourth Army base camp were caught by "Ustaše" at Topusko. The work force of both central command were before long given over to the Germans by their captors. Nedeljković and his activities staff got away, and advanced toward Prijedor. Different units were withdrawing into Bosnia, including two legions and 2– 3 ordnance batteries from the 40th ID. Nedeljković endeavored to convey back region units of the seventeenth ID into a protective line along the Una at Bosanska Dubica, Bosanska Kostajnica, Bosanski Novi, Bosanska Krupa and Bihać, and called Sarajevo to demand fortifications. With his outstanding troops, Raketić endeavored to set up a guarded line along the Sava among Jasenovac and the mouth of the Vrbas. These endeavors were essentially hampered by "Ustaše" purposeful publicity. 

The 42nd ID and Detachment "Ormozki" were cut off north of Zagreb, and those components that did not scatter to their homes pulled back into the Ivanšćica and Kalnik mountains. Pioneers of a Slovene patriot development declared that they never again perceived the Yugoslav government, and started to call for Slovene warriors to stop battling and return home, exacerbating the impact of "Ustaše" publicity on Croat military staff and quickening the breaking down of Yugoslav powers. 

Components of the fourteenth Panzer Division push west from Zagreb into the back of the pulling back seventh Army and caught Karlovac on 11 April. The separation of the fourth Army and westbound push of the fourteenth Panzer Division opened up the Bosnian inside to the Germans, and furthermore compromised the left flank of the Yugoslav powers endeavoring to set up a guarded line along the Sava. The German requests for the next day were to seek after the remainders of the Yugoslav Army through Bosnia towards Sarajevo, where they would be met by the First Panzer Group assaulting from the south and east. 

The eighth Panzer Division and sixteenth Motorized Infantry Division confronted no obstruction as they drove east towards Belgrade, catching Našice, Osijek, Vinkovci and Vukovar amid the day. The evening of 11/12 April, they caught Sremska Mitrovica, Ruma, and verified a traverse the Danube by means of an intact scaffold close Bogojevo. 

On 12 April, Nedeljković got arranges direct from Simović that he was to protect the Bosanska Krajina area by holding the Germans along the Sava and Una, utilizing another fourth Army shaped from the leftovers of the fourth and seventh Armies. At this point the fourth Army added up to about 250– 300 infantry and 12 gunnery pieces, isolated between Bosanska Kostajnica, Bosanski Novi, Bihać and Prijedor. To defer the German development, he was requested to demolish every one of the scaffolds on the Una before pulling back to a line on the Vrbas. 

The fourteenth Panzer Division quickly caught Vrbosko, connecting up with the Italians as they assaulted down the Adriatic coast, along these lines removing the rest of the components of the seventh Army. It was then arranged to part into three sections to seek after the Yugoslavs crosswise over Bosnia. The northern section set out toward Doboj, the focal segment set out toward Sarajevo, and the southern segment drove towards Mostar in Herzegovina. 

About 18:00, Nedeljković got a phone call from Simović and announced that Bosanska Dubica, Bosanski Novi and Prijedor had all fallen, however that the scaffolds on the Sava and Una would be destroyed soon thereafter, and that he and his outstanding staff would leave at 20:00 for Jajce. At this point, Serb officers and warriors were likewise betraying in huge numbers. 

The next day, the northern segment of the fourteenth Panzer Division drove by means of Glina and crossed the Una at both Bosanska Kostajnica and Bosanski Novi before proceeding with its push east. Components of LI Infantry Corps likewise pushed east, building up bridgeheads over the Kupa. A part of the 40th ID, numbering around 300 troops, which had been holding a situation on the Sava at Bosanska Gradiška, withdrew to Jajce by means of Banja Luka. When they landed at Jajce, Nedeljković requested them to take up blocking positions on the tight Vrbas valley at Krupa out and about between Banja Luka and Mrkonjić Grad. The back region units of the seventeenth ID were requested to obstruct the street from Kotor Varoš to Doboj. 

Because of Nedeljković's solicitation for fortifications, Simović had sent a few units by rail by means of Tuzla. These incorporated a cadet unit and an organization of the 27th Infantry Regiment, disconnected from the first Infantry Division "Cerska". When the fortifications arrived, Banja Luka had been cleared even with German tanks and a "Ustaše"- drove revolt. The cadet brigade was diverted to Ključ to obstruct the street KljučMrkonjić GradJajce. Nedeljković did not have the choice of pulling back by means of Bugojno or Prozor as those towns had been taken over by the "Ustaše". 

On 14 April, under strain from the fourteenth Panzer Division, remainders of the fourth Army kept on pulling back towards Sarajevo through Jajce and Travnik. The cadet regiment at Ključ figured out how to quickly postpone the German development through Mrkonjić Grad, yet were overwhelmed by tanks and air assaults. The scaffold at Jajce was pulverized at 23:15, and Nedeljković pulled back his central station to Travnik. The rest of the units of the fourth Army kept on breaking down. The vanguard of the northern section of fourteenth Panzer Division flooded forward to Teslić, the focal segment just coming to Jajce. 

Right off the bat 15 April, the northern section of the fourteenth Panzer Division shut on Doboj, and in the wake of conquering obstruction around that town, landed in Sarajevo at 20:45. Prior to early afternoon, Nedeljković got orders that a truce had been concurred, and that all fourth Army troops were to stay set up and not fire on German work force. After a postponement in finding fitting signatories for the surrender report, the Yugoslav Supreme Command genuinely surrendered in Belgrade successful at 12:00 on 18 April. Yugoslavia was then involved and dismantled by the Axis powers; Germany, Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria and Albania all attached pieces of its domain. Practically the majority of the Croat individuals from the fourth Army taken as detainees of war were before long discharged by the Axis powers; 90 percent of those held for the span of the war were Serbs.