A Cure for Pokeritis 

A Cure for Pokeritis is a 1912 short quiet film featuring John Bunny and Flora Finch. After Bunny's demise in 1915, a re-discharge was declared with the elective title A Sure Cure for Pokeritis. The film, a residential parody, portrays a lady who stops her significant other's betting propensity by having her cousin arrange a phony police strike on his week by week poker diversion. It was one of numerous comparable shorts delivered by Vitagraph Studios—one-reel comedies featuring Bunny and Finch in a residential setting, referred to famously as "Bunnygraphs" or "Bunnyfinches"— whose ubiquity made Bunny and Finch early film stars. The film has been perceived as a verifiably essential delegate of its period and kind. 

After returning home from a night spent losing at poker, George Brown swears off betting for eternity. Notwithstanding, his companion Bigelow persuades him to subtly keep going to the week by week poker diversion and to tell his significant other Mary that he has been admitted to the Sons of the Morning, a friendly hotel, to clarify his nonappearances. At the point when George rest talks, she ends up suspicious and has her cousin Freddie Dewdrop tail him, enabling her to become familiar with reality. Together with the spouses of the other poker players, she sanctions an arrangement to end the betting. Freddie and the individuals from his Bible examination amass take on the appearance of cops and assault the amusement. The players' spouses at that point arrive, and the "police" leave the men to be chided, purportedly instead of being captured. As the film closes, the Browns accommodate. 

It isn't totally clear what the names of the characters played by Bunny and Finch were planned to be. In the film, the letter written to assemble the spouses distinguishes the two principle characters as Mary and George Brown. In any case, a cast rundown in Vitagraph's in-house production alludes to the primary characters as Mr. what's more, Mrs. Bunny Sharpe, while "Mr. Darker" is given as the name of a minor character. 

"A Cure for Pokeritis" was one of many Vitagraph's one-reel or shorter comedies featuring Bunny and Finch in a local setting, referred to famously as "Bunnygraphs" or "Bunnyfinches". The quantity of these shorts that were initially created is obscure in light of the fact that Vitagraph's movies were commonly not filed. Assessments fluctuate impressively; aggregates more than 150, 200, or 260 have been proposed. The vast majority of the studio's movies are currently viewed as lost. 

The film was an early case of endeavors to move past venue blocking traditions. Amid the police attack, profundity was exhibited by having move make place in both the frontal area and the foundation, and by enabling performing artists to move between the spaces. This cinematography procedure loaned authenticity to the scene, and improved its pacing. 

In the quiet time, motion pictures were joined by an assortment of live and recorded music. Contingent upon the film and the scene, the music may have been the execution of a live piano player or ensemble, recorded music, or missing completely. A few pictures were appropriated with signal sheets demonstrating when music was to be played, or treasurys of explicit melodies to use as backup. Particularly somewhere in the range of 1910 and 1912, these determinations were regularly well known music, picked on the grounds that the melody's title or verses identified with the film somehow or another, as opposed to later endeavors to furnish music with fitting surface. Starting in 1910, Vitagraph gave arrangements of this nature to the majority of their movies. 

Vitagraph's suggested music for "A Cure for Pokeritis" started with "I'm Glad I'm Married" and "I've Got My Eyes on You". The studio recommended possibly "I Don't Believe You" or "I'm an Honorary Member of the Patsy Club" be played as George introduced his implied hotel enrollment. His rest talking was to be joined by "In the event that You Talk in Your Sleep, Don't Mention My Name", trailed by "Back to the Factory, Mary" as Freddie researches. "Challenges, My Dear" was to score the police strike, and "Don't Take Me Home" would play as the film finished. 

The Bunnygraphs, as a class, were illustrative of the film of the period, and were extremely effective, making Bunny the main American comic film star and Finch the primary female star comic. "A Cure for Pokeritis", discharged February 23, 1912, was exclusively generally welcomed, incorporating into showings outside the United States. The "Thames Star", a New Zealand paper, portrayed the film as "screamingly clever". After John Bunny's passing, enthusiasm for his movies drove Vitagraph in 1917 to declare the re-arrival of this film (retitled "A Sure Cure for Pokeritis"), alongside huge numbers of his different works, as "Most loved Film Features". In any case, the parody style of "A Cure for Pokeritis" has not matured well, particularly as opposed to Mack Sennett's droll movies and crafted by later entertainers, for example, Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton. As indicated by film researchers Donald McCaffrey and Christopher Jacobs, present day watchers "will scarcely get a glimmer of a grin" from the film, in spite of the aptitude of its performers. 

The film's topics and its relationship to later works have been the subject of basic investigation. "A Cure for Pokeritis" might be the principal portrayal of poker in film, and gives knowledge into the open's view of the diversion at the time as a male-ruled societal sick. This frame of mind, and a scene like the film's plot, is additionally present in Cassius Marcellus Coolidge's work of art "Sitting up with a Sick Friend", some portion of the "Pooches Playing Poker" arrangement appointed in 1903. "A Cure for Pokeritis" has been contrasted with sitcoms of both the 1940s and the finish of the twentieth century. Film history specialist Wes Gehring of Ball State University believes George to be a precursor of the advanced screw-up paradigm and analyzes the Browns to Laurel and Hardy. Different creators have inspected the film's sex issues. Gerald Mast composed that the comedic viewpoints overlaid a contention among manliness and moralist or women's activist qualities. Brunel University instructor Geoff King saw the male lead's endeavors to escape from a "detaining" spouse to be a repetitive subject in quiet parody, and film analyst Peter Nash found the "picky and feminine" Freddie a case of a contemporary gay stock character. 

In 2011, this film was chosen for protection in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress just like a "socially, verifiably, or tastefully huge" delegate of the Bunnygraph films. 

"A Cure for Pokeritis" is in the open space as is broadly accessible, including on the web. In 1998, Kino International included it in "Droll Encyclopedia", an eight-volume VHS accumulation of quiet movies that was re-discharged in 2002 as a five-circle DVD gathering by Image Entertainment.