Yugoslav screen Drava 

The Yugoslav screen "Drava was a waterway screen worked by the Royal Yugoslav Navy somewhere in the range of 1921 and 1941. She was initially worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy as the name ship of the "Enns"- class stream screens. As SMS "Enns, she was a piece of the Danube Flotilla amid World War I, and battled against the Serbian and Romanian armed forces from Belgrade to the lower Danube. In October 1915, she was covering a land and/or water capable strike on Belgrade when she was holed beneath the waterline by an immediate hit, and must be towed to Budapest for fixes. After brief administration with the Hungarian People's Republic toward the finish of the war, she was exchanged to the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia), and renamed "Drava". She stayed in administration all through the interwar period, yet was not generally in full commission because of spending confinements. 

Amid the German-drove Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, "Drava" went through six days shelling landing strips close Mohács in Hungary and warded off a little flotilla of Hungarian gunboats. On 12 April, she was assaulted by Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" plunge aircraft of the Luftwaffe. The counter flying machine heavy weapons specialists on the ship asserted three foe air ship, yet nine of the "Stukas" scored hits. A large portion of these had little impact, however the last bomb dropped straight down "Drava"s pipe and detonated in her motor room, murdering 54 of the group, including her commander, Aleksandar Berić. Just 13 of the team endure. She was raised and rejected by Hungary amid their control of parts of Yugoslavia. Berić was after death granted the Order of Karađorđe's Star for his penance, and the base of the Serbian River Flotilla at Novi Sad is named after him. 

SMS "Enns" was developed for the Austro-Hungarian Navy as the name ship of the "Enns"- class waterway screens by Schiffswerft Linz and Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino (STT). She was set somewhere near Schiffswerft Linz at Linz on 21 November 1913, as a component of the Austro-Hungarian 1912 Naval Program. She was named after the River Enns, a tributary of the Danube. At the point when World War I broke out in July 1914, development of "Enns" was very much progressed, however after Schiffswerft Linz was taken over by STT, her apparatus was requested from the STT works close Trieste. On 2 August, the apparatus was dispatched via train to Linz and establishment started immediately. She was propelled in September 1914, and finished on 17 October of that year. In spite of the prerequisite that "Enns" and be developed as sister ships, and the way that their size and weapon were indistinguishable, there were huge plan contrasts between the two vessels, as they were built by totally autonomous shipbuilding organizations. "Enns" had a general length of , a light emission and an ordinary draft of . Her standard removal was , and her team comprised of 95 officers and enrolled men. She had two triple-extension steam motors, each driving a solitary propeller shaft. Steam for the motors was given by two Yarrow water-tube boilers, and her motors were evaluated at , with a limit of . She was intended to achieve a top speed of , and conveyed of fuel oil. 

"Enns" was equipped with one twin weapon turret of L/45 firearms mounted forward, and three single L/10 howitzer turrets mounted on the rearward deck. On the upper deck there were two single L/50 hostile to air ship weapons, one on the port side forward of the pipe, and one on the starboard side to the back of the pipe. She was additionally outfitted with six assault rifles. The most extreme scope of her Škoda L/45 firearms was , and her howitzers could shoot their shells a limit of . Her protective layer comprised of belt and bulkheads thick and deck shield thick, and her conning tower and firearm turrets were thick. 

The first plans called for open enemy of flying machine mounts, yet the experience of the current screens in the main fights on the Danube against Serbia exhibited that the mounts required assurance from little arms fire, so protected barbettes were included. These adjustments kept the team in the conning tower from survey straightforwardly rearward of the ship, so a high rectangular stage was put over the conning tower that managed a view toward the back. To stay away from any expansion in her draft from these alterations, her structure was stretched. Because of the earnest requirement for the ship to be put into administration, the arranged adaptive pole was not introduced, and an elective pole was developed utilizing point iron grid. "Enns" was propelled on 29 July 1914 and authorized on 17 October 1914. 

Before long "Enns" was charged into the Danube Flotilla she was in real life against Serbian powers at Belgrade, under the direction of "Linienschiffsleutnant" (LSL) Richard Funk. French cannons support touched base in Belgrade in November, jeopardizing the screen's dock, with "Enns" being the main screen in the flotilla with the range to coordinate the French weapons. On 21 November, "Enns" drew in the French battery in an ordnance duel at a scope of . This stalemate proceeded until the next month when the Serbs quickly cleared Belgrade notwithstanding an Austro-Hungarian strike. After under about fourteen days, the Austrians needed to pull back from Belgrade, and it was soon re-involved by the Serbs, strengthened by the Russians and French. "Enns" proceeded in real life against Serbia and her partners at Belgrade until late December, when the screen base was pulled back to Petrovaradin for the winter. 

In January 1915, British gunnery touched base in Belgrade, further reinforcing its guards. In mid-February, the screens redeployed to a port at Zemun. Following the beginning of the Gallipoli battle, weapons supply to the Ottomans ended up basic, and regardless of the disappointment of a prior endeavor to deliver arms and ammo down the Danube, another endeavor was arranged. On 30 March, the steamer "Belgrad" left Zemun, escorted by "Enns" and the screen . The caravan was undetected as it cruised past Belgrade around evening time amid a tempest, yet after the screens came back to base, the steamer struck a mine close Vinča, and in the wake of going under substantial mounted guns shoot, detonated close Ritopek. On 22 April 1915, a British picket watercraft that had been brought overland by rail from Salonika was utilized to assault the Danube Flotilla mooring at Zemun, terminating two torpedoes without progress. In September 1915, the Central Powers were joined by Bulgaria, and the Serbian Army before long confronted overpowering Austrian and German ground troops. Toward the beginning of October, the Austro-Hungarian Third Army assaulted Belgrade, and "Enns", alongside most of the flotilla, was intensely occupied with help of the intersections close to the Belgrade Fortress and Ada Ciganlija island. Amid the last stream intersection and backing of the subsequent bridgehead, "Enns" was close Grosser Krieg Island on 8 October when she got an immediate hit underneath the waterline and her magazine overwhelmed. She was towed out of risk by the equipped steamer "Almos", and was in the end pulled to Budapest where she was fixed. Amid fixes, the barbettes on her upper deck were supplanted with turrets for the counter air ship weapons. In spite of the fact that the howitzers had not been especially fruitful, an arrangement to supplant the toward the back howitzer mount with a turret like that utilized on SMS "Bodrog" was not completed. 

When she came back to the flotilla after fixes, she saw activity at Rjahovo toward the beginning of October 1916, where she added to the annihilation of the Romanian Flămânda Offensive. The Romanian endeavor to cross the Danube to assault the back of "Generalfeldmarschall" August von Mackensen's Austro-Hungarian Third Army was ruined, and a power comprising of "Enns", the screens , and , the watch vessel "Viza" and the furnished steamer "Balaton" demolished a boat connect close Rjahovo. After raids against Giurgiu to verify trains stacked with coal and oil, in November "Enns" and different boats bolstered the intersection of the Danube by von Mackensen's military at Sistow. The next month, "Enns" assaulted Căscioarele, driving adversary troops out of the town. From late December 1916 to mid-March 1917, "Enns" and different boats of the flotilla wintered at Turnu Severin. 

In March 1917, "Enns" migrated to Brăila in eastern Romania, where it stayed until July 1918. Sent to Linz and Budapest for an upgrade in dry dock, "Enns" at that point came back to eastern Romania and was positioned at Reni where she met a gathering of screens and watch pontoons that had been working against Russia operating at a profit Sea. In October 1918, the Danube Flotilla was under genuine risk of being cut off in the lower Danube by French powers after the Bulgarians closed a peace negotiation with the British and French. After the steamer "Croatia" was terminated on by the French as it attempted to move beyond Lom, she cut her tow line, discharging seven lighters, which steered into the rocks on a sandbank. "Croatia" was hit, endured setbacks and grounded on the Romanian side of the stream. The French recovered three of the lighters and towed them into the dock at Lom. The next day, "Enns" and two different screens figured out how to discharge three of the rest of the lighters while under overwhelming French flame, and towed them upstream. The flotilla kept on withdrawing up the Danube, running the gauntlet of French and Serbian powers. With the disintegration of Austria-Hungary toward the beginning of November, the South Slavs went aground at Vukovar. The Austrian, Hungarian and Czech group individuals from the flotilla proceeded on their voyage, touching base in Budapest on 6 November, and "Enns" started flying the Hungarian banner, as a component of the naval force of the Hungarian People's Republic. On 8 December, the screens were seized by the Allies, and under about fourteen days after the fact "Enns" was towed to Belgrade where she was given over to Serbia to be kept up for the benefit of the new Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (KSCS, later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia). 

Following the peace negotiation, "Enns" was manned by mariners of the KSCS in 1918– 19. Under the terms of the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye closed in September 1919, "Enns" was exchanged to the KSCS alongside a scope of different vessels, including three other waterway screens, and was authoritatively given over to the KSCS naval force and renamed "Drava" in 1920. Her sister send "Motel" was exchanged to Romania and renamed "Besarabia". In 1925– 26, "Drava" was refitted, however by the next year just two of the four stream screens of the KSCS Navy were being held in full commission whenever. In 1932, the British maritime attaché announced that Yugoslav boats were taking part in little gunnery preparing, and few activities or moves, because of diminished spending plans. 

"Drava" was based at Bezdan under the direction of Aleksandar Berić, when the German-drove Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia started on 6 April 1941. She was appointed as leader of the first Mine Barrage Division, and was in charge of the Hungarian outskirt on the Danube, under the operational control of the 30th Infantry Division "Osiječka", which was a piece of the second Army. "Drava" steamed upstream to Mohács in Hungary to shell the runway there on 6 and 8 April, yet was exposed to day by day assaults by the "Luftwaffe". On 10 April, "Drava" and her individual screen were requested to cruise downstream to acclimate with the withdrawals of the first and second Army's from Bačka and Baranja. About 14:00 the next day, a Yugoslav post close Batina flagged "Drava" that a gathering of four Hungarian watch pontoons, equipped with weapons, was descending the Danube from the course of Mohács. "Drava" connected with the watch water crafts at a scope of , and drove the little Hungarian flotilla north once more. Berić pursued this up at 16:00 by indeed shelling the landing strip at Mohács. Confidence on the ship was great, however when Berić met with Army components soon thereafter he ended up mindful of the circumstance somewhere else, and nine team betrayed. 

At an opportune time 12 April, with the other three screens having been left the prior night, "Drava" was assaulted by Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" plunge aircraft of "Sturzkampfgeschwader" 77 flying from Arad, Romania. The counter flying machine heavy weapons specialists on the ship guaranteed three adversary air ship, and nine of the "Stukas" scored hits on her, the vast majority of which had little impact. Be that as it may, the last bomb dropped straight down her channel and detonated in her motor room, executing 54 of the group. Just 13 endure, and she sank off Čib. Having requested the consuming of codes before she sank, Berić and his first officers were among the dead, yet two of the fruitful enemy of air ship heavy weapons specialists, Rade Milojević and Miroslav Šurdilović, endure. Amid their control of parts of Yugoslavia, "Drava" was raised and after that rejected by Hungary. Berić was after death granted the Order of Karađorđe's Star for his penance. In April 2015, a bust of Berić was uncovered at the town of Belegiš, close Stara Pazova. The sleeping shelter of the Serbian River Flotilla in Novi Sad are additionally named after him.