Yugoslav screen Sava 

The Yugoslav screen "Sava was a "Temes"- class stream screen worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy as SMS "Bodrog. She discharged the primary shots of World War I the evening of 28 July 1914, when she and two different screens shelled Serbian protections close Belgrade. She was a piece of the Danube Flotilla, and battled the Serbian and Romanian armed forces from Belgrade to the mouth of the Danube. In the end phases of the war, she was the last screen to pull back towards Budapest, however was caught by the Serbs when she grounded on a sandbank downstream from Belgrade. After the war, she was exchanged to the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia), and renamed "Sava". She stayed in administration all through the interwar period, despite the fact that spending limitations implied she was not generally in full commission. 

Amid the German-drove Axis attack of Yugoslavia in April 1941, "Sava" presented with the first Monitor Division. Alongside her individual screen , she laid mines in the Danube close to the Romanian outskirt amid the initial couple of days of the intrusion. The two screens fended off a few assaults by the "Luftwaffe", yet were compelled to pull back to Belgrade. Because of high waterway levels and low scaffolds, route was troublesome, and "Sava" was abandoned on 11 April. A portion of her team endeavored to escape crosscountry towards the southern Adriatic coast, however all were caught preceding the Yugoslav surrender. The vessel was later raised by the naval force of the Axis manikin state known as the Independent State of Croatia and kept on filling in as "Sava" until the evening of 8 September 1944 when she was again abandoned. 

Following World War II, "Sava" was raised by and by, and was restored to serve in the Yugoslav Navy from 1952 to 1962. She was then exchanged to a state-possessed organization that was in the long run privatized. In 2005, the administration of Serbia conceded her restricted legacy assurance after residents requested that she be protected as a skimming historical center, however little else has been done to reestablish her at the time. In 2015, the Serbian Ministry of Defense and Belgrade's Military Museum procured the ship with the expectation of reestablishing her. 

A "Temes"- class stream screen, the ship was worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy by H. Schönichen, and structured by Austrian maritime planner Josef Thiel. Initially named SMS "Bodrog", she was set down at Neupest on 14 February 1903. Like her sister deliver , she had a general length of , a light emission and a typical draft of . Her standard relocation was , and her group comprised of 86 officers and enrolled men. "Bodrog" had two triple-development steam motors, each driving a solitary propeller shaft. Steam was given by two Yarrow water-tube boilers, and her motors were appraised at . As structured, she had a most extreme speed of , and conveyed of coal. 

"Bodrog" was equipped with two L/35 firearms in single weapon turrets, a solitary L/10 howitzer in a focal rotate mount, and two firearms. The most extreme scope of her Škoda 120 mm firearms was , and her howitzer could discharge its shells a limit of . Her protection comprised of belt, bulkheads and firearm turrets thick, and deck covering thick. The defensive layer on her conning tower was thick. "Bodrog" was propelled on 12 April 1904, charged on 2 August 1904, and finished on 10 November 1904. 

"Bodrog" was a piece of the Danube Flotilla, and toward the beginning of World War I she was situated in Zemun, only upstream from Belgrade on the Danube, under the order of "Linienschiffsleutnant" (LSL) Paul Ekl. She imparted the base to three different screens and three watch vessels. Austria-Hungary proclaimed war on Serbia on 28 July 1914, and a brief time after 1:00 AM that night, "Bodrog" and two different screens discharged the primary shots of the war against Serb fortresses on the Zemun– Belgrade railroad connect over the Sava stream and on Topčider Hill. The Serbs were outgunned by the screens, and by August started to get help from the Russians. This help incorporated the supply and emplacement of maritime firearms and the foundation of stream hindrances and mines. On 8 September, the Austro-Hungarian base at Zemun was emptied despite a Serbian counterattack. "Bodrog" and the minesweeper "Andor" directed a duplicity task towards Pančevo on 19 September, and after six days, "Bodrog" shelled Serb positions on the bank of the Sava close Belgrade. On 28 September, she rendezvoused with the screen at Banovci, and the next day the two screens focused on the Belgrade Fortress and led a surveillance of Zemun. On 1 October, "Bodrog" cruised to Budapest, where she was set in dry dock for about fourteen days. She came back to the flotilla on 15 October. By November, French big guns support had landed in Belgrade, imperiling the screen's dock, and on 12 November, Ekl was supplanted by LSL Olaf Wulff. The stalemate proceeded until the next month, when the Serbs emptied Belgrade despite an Austro-Hungarian strike. On 1 December, "Bodrog" and the recently dispatched screen connected with the withdrawing Serbs. After under about fourteen days, the Austro-Hungarians withdrew from Belgrade, and it was before long recovered by the Serbs with Russian and French help. "Bodrog" proceeded in real life against Serbia and her partners at Belgrade until December, when her base was pulled back to Petrovaradin, close Novi Sad, for the winter. 

The Germans and Austro-Hungarians needed to transport weapons down the Danube to the Ottoman Empire, so on 24 December 1914, "Bodrog" and the minesweeper "Almos" escorted the steamer "Trinitas" stacked with weapons, the watch watercraft "b" and two pulls from Zemun past Belgrade towards the Iron Gates gorge on the Serbian– Romanian fringe. The escort ran the gauntlet of the Belgrade guards safe, however when it came to Smederevo it got data that the Russians had set up a minefield and log obstruction only south of the Iron Gates. It turned back under overwhelming flame, and pulled back similarly as Pančevo without genuine harm to any vessel. "Bodrog" came back to base, and the screen was sent to monitor the weapons and escort the guard back to Petrovaradin. In January 1915, British mounted guns landed in Belgrade, further reinforcing its guards, and "Bodrog" went through the primary months of the year at Zemun. On 23 February, LSL Kosimus Böhm took order. On 1 March, "Bodrog" and a few different vessels including the screen were moved to Petrovaradin. After the initiation of the Gallipoli crusade, weapons supply to the Ottomans wound up basic, so another endeavor was arranged. On 30 March, the steamer "Belgrad" left Zemun, escorted by "Bodrog" and "Enns". The guard was undetected as it cruised past Belgrade around evening time amid a tempest, however after the screens came back to base, "Belgrad" struck a mine close Vinča, and in the wake of going under overwhelming mounted guns shoot, detonated close Ritopek. On 22 April 1915, a British picket watercraft that had been brought overland by rail from Salonika was utilized to assault the Danube Flotilla mooring at Zemun, terminating two torpedoes without progress. 

In September 1915, the Central Powers were joined by Bulgaria, and the Serbian Army before long confronted a mind-boggling Austro-Hungarian, German and Bulgarian ground intrusion. Toward the beginning of October, the Austro-Hungarian third Army assaulted Belgrade, and "Bodrog", alongside most of the flotilla, was intensely occupied with help of intersections close to the Belgrade Fortress and the island of Ada Ciganlija. 

Following the catch of Belgrade on 11 October and the underlying leeway of mines and different impediments, the flotilla cruised downstream to Orșova close to the Hungarian– Romanian fringe and trusted that the lower Danube will be cleared for mines. Beginning on 30 October 1915, they escorted a progression of weapons guards down the Danube to Lom where the weapons were exchanged to the Bulgarian railroad framework for shipment to the Ottoman Empire. 

In November 1915, "Bodrog" and different screens were gathered at Rustschuk, Bulgaria. The Central Powers knew that the Romanians were consulting to enter the war in favor of the Entente, so the flotilla built up a shielded base in the Belene Canal to secure the Danube fringe among Romania and Bulgaria. Amid 1915, the firearms on the "Bodrog" were supplanted with a solitary L/18 weapon, and three automatic weapons were additionally fitted. 

At the point when the Romanians entered the war on 27 August 1916, the screens were again at Rustschuk, and were promptly assaulted by three ad libbed torpedo pontoons working out of the Romanian stream port of Giurgiu. The torpedoes that were terminated missed the screens however hit a lighter stacked with fuel. Entrusted with shelling Giurgiu the next day, the Second Monitor Division, comprising of "Bodrog" and three different screens, set shoot to oil stockpiling tanks, the railroad station and magazines, and sank a few Romanian lighters. While the assault was in progress, the First Monitor Division escorted supply transports back to the Belene harbor. "Bodrog" and her associates at that point wrecked two Romanian watch pontoons and an ad libbed minelayer on their way back to Belene. This was trailed by raids of the Division both east and west of Belene, amid which both Turnu Măgurele and Zimnicea were shelled. 

On 2 October 1916, "Bodrog" and "Körös" assaulted a Romanian barge connect being set up over the Danube at Oryahovo, acquiring five direct hits, in this manner adding to the annihilation of the Romanian Flămânda Offensive. This was trailed by activity supporting the intersection of "Generalfeldmarschall" August von Mackensen's Austro-Hungarian Third Army at Sistow. "Bodrog" at that point wintered at Turnu Severin. 

From 21 February 1917, "Bodrog" and "Körös" were sent as guardships at Brăila. On 1 March, "Bodrog" ended up stuck in ice at adjacent Măcin. LSL Guido Taschler took order of "Bodrog" in 1918. That year's spring defrost saw "Bodrog", "Körös", "Szamos", "Bosna" and a few different vessels sent through the mouth of the Danube into the Black Sea as a major aspect of "Flottenabteilung Wulff" (Fleet Division Wulff) under the order of "Flottenkapitän" (Fleet Captain) Olav Wulff, landing in Odessa on 12 April. On 15 July, she and "Bosna" cruised to the port of Nikolaev, and from 5 August, "Bodrog" was positioned at Cherson. On 12 September, she came back to Brăila alongside different vessels. 

"Bodrog" was sent to Reni close to the mouth of the Danube to secure pulling back Austro-Hungarian troops, touching base there on 1 October. She at that point cruised upstream, coming to Rustschuk on 11 October, and Giurgiu two days after the fact. On 14 October, she was sent at Lom. She was the last Austro-Hungarian screen to pull back towards Budapest and was the special case that neglected to achieve the city. On 31 October 1918, "Bodrog" crashed into a sand bank while exploring through overwhelming haze close Vinča. She was later caught by the Serbian Army. 

From the Armistice to September 1919, "Bodrog" was manned by mariners of the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (, KSCS; later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia). Under the terms of the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, "Bodrog" was exchanged to the KSCS alongside a scope of different vessels, including three other stream screens, yet was not authoritatively given over to the KSCS Navy and renamed "Sava" until 15 April 1920. Her sister transport "Temes" was exchanged to Romania and renamed "Ardeal". In 1925– 26, "Sava" was refitted, yet by the next year just two of the four waterway screens of the KSCS Navy were being held in full commission whenever. In 1932, the British maritime attaché detailed that Yugoslav boats were participating in little gunnery preparing, and few activities or moves, because of diminished spending plans. 

"Sava" was based at Dubovac when the German-drove Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia started on 6 April 1941. She was alloted to the first Monitor Division, and was in charge of the Romanian fringe on the Danube, under the operational control of the third Infantry Division "Dunavska". Her officer was "Poručnik bojnog broda" S. Rojos. 

On that day, "Sava" and her individual screen warded off a few assaults by individual "Luftwaffe" airplane on their base. Throughout the following three days, the two screens laid mines in the Danube close to the Romanian fringe. On 11 April, they were compelled to pull back from Dubovac towards Belgrade. Amid their withdrawal, they went under rehashed assaults by Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" plunge aircraft. "Sava" and her individual screen were flawless, and tied down at the intersection of the Danube and Sava close Belgrade at about 20:00, where they were joined by the . The three chiefs presented, and chose to leave their vessels because of the high water levels in the streams and low scaffolds, which implied there was inadequate leeway for the screens to explore openly. The teams of the screens were then transshipped to two tugboats, yet when one of the pulls was going under a railroad connect, charges on the extension inadvertently detonated and the scaffold fell onto the pull. Of the 110 officers and men on board the vessel, 95 were slaughtered. 

After the abandoning of the screens, around 450 officers and men from the "Sava" and different other riverine vessels assembled at Obrenovac. Equipped just with individual weapons and some assault rifles took from the left vessels, the teams began towards the Bay of Kotor in the southern Adriatic in two gatherings. The littler of the two gatherings achieved its goal, yet the bigger gathering just made it to the extent Sarajevo by 14 April before they were obliged to surrender. The rest of their way to the Bay of Kotor, which was caught by the Italian XVII Corps on 17 April. 

"Sava" was raised and fixed by the naval force of the Axis manikin express the Independent State of Croatia, and served close by her individual screen "Morava", which was raised, fixed, and renamed "Bosna". Alongside six caught speedboats and ten assistant vessels, they made up the riverine police power of the Croatian state. "Sava" was a piece of the first Patrol Group of the River Flotilla Command, headquartered at Zemun. Her team abandoned her close Slavonski Brod the evening of 8 September 1944 and absconded to the Yugoslav Partisans. 

"Sava" was again raised and revamped after World War II. Equipped with two single firearm turrets, three single weapon mounts and six weapons, she served in the Yugoslav Navy from 1952 to 1962. A while later, she was put under the control of a state-possessed organization, which was privatized after the separation of Yugoslavia. In 2005, the administration of Serbia allowed her constrained legacy security after residents requested that she be saved as a coasting exhibition hall, however little else had been done to reestablish her starting at 2014, by which time she was filling in as a rock freight ship. In December 2015, "Sava" was obtained by the Serbian Ministry of Defense and Belgrade's Military Museum, which plan on reestablishing her. The ship is one of just two enduring Austro-Hungarian waterway screens that served amid World War I. The other is SMS "Leitha", an a lot more established screen, which has been a historical center ship moored nearby the Hungarian Parliament Building in Budapest since 2014.