2014 Japanese Grand Prix 

The 2014 Japanese Grand Prix (formally the 2014 Formula 1 Japanese Grand Prix) was a Formula One engine race hung on 5 October 2014 at the Suzuka Circuit in Suzuka, Mie. It was the fifteenth race of the 2014 FIA Formula One World Championship, and the 30th Japanese Grand Prix held as a component of the Formula One World Championship. The 44-lap race was won by Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton, who began from second position. His partner, Nico Rosberg, completed second and Red Bull Racing driver Sebastian Vettel came in third. It was Hamilton's eighth triumph of the period, his first at Suzuka and the 30th of his Formula One profession. 

Substantial downpour from Typhoon Phanfone made the track surface wet and diminished perceivability. Beginning from behind the wellbeing vehicle, the race was halted after two laps and continued 20 minutes after the fact. Rosberg quickly battled off a passing move by Hamilton heading into the principal corner. His vehicle at that point experienced oversteer, and Hamilton decreased the time shortfall between them. Hamilton tested Rosberg for the lead throughout the following four laps, before surpassing him on the 29th lap and pulling ceaselessly. 

The race was booked to keep running for 53 laps, yet was finished on the 46th lap (with the outcome tallied back two laps) after a mishap including Jules Bianchi. Bianchi lost control of his Marussia at Dunlop Curve on the 43rd lap and slammed into a tractor crane that was keeping an eye on Adrian Sutil's Sauber, which had spun off on the past lap. Bianchi continued serious head wounds in the mishap, from which he kicked the bucket in his local France on 17 July 2015, accordingly turning into the principal driver to pass on because of wounds supported in a Formula One race since Ayrton Senna in . The mishap provoked Formula One's overseeing body, the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), to explore the occurrence with a ten-man board in which it was resolved there was no single reason that incited the accident. 

The triumph enabled Hamilton to build his lead in the World Drivers' Championship to ten over Rosberg, with Daniel Ricciardo a far off third. Mercedes expanded their favorable position over Red Bull in the Constructors' Championship, and Williams stayed in front of Ferrari in the fight for third spot with four races left in the season. 

The 2014 Japanese Grand Prix was the fifteenth of 19 planned races of the 2014 FIA Formula One World Championship, and the 30th running of the occasion as a major aspect of the Formula One World Championship. It was hung on 5 October at the eighteeen-turn Suzuka Circuit in Suzuka, Mie. The occasion's authentic name was the "2014 Formula 1 Japanese Grand Prix", and it was booked to keep running for 53 laps. 

Tire provider Pirelli conveyed four sorts of tire to the race: two dry intensifies (the white-united medium "choices" and the orange-grouped hard "primes") and two wet-climate mixes (middle of the road and full wet). The drag decrease framework (DRS) had one initiation zone for the race, on the straight connecting the last and first corners. The circuit experienced changes following the earlier year's race; portions of the track between the fourteenth and fifteenth turns were reemerged, TecPro boundaries were introduced within after the exit of turn 15 and light posts close flotsam and jetsam fences outside turns 13 and 14 were moved back. 

Going into the race, Mercedes driver Lewis Hamilton drove the Drivers' Championship with 241, three in front of colleague Nico Rosberg, with Red Bull driver Daniel Ricciardo third with 181. Ferrari driver Fernando Alonso was fourth with 133, trailed by Ricciardo's colleague Sebastian Vettel with 124. Mercedes drove the Constructors' Championship with 479, having won eleven of the past fourteen races of the period, while Red Bull were second with 305 points, having won the other three races; they were trailed by Williams (187), Ferrari (178) and Force India (117). Mercedes needed to outscore Red Bull by 41 to secure the Constructors' title in Japan. 

In spite of recovering the Drivers' Championship lead at the previous Singapore Grand Prix, Hamilton said that he was not assuaged in view of the closeness of the race. He said that he would adopt Rosberg's race-by-race strategy and was glad to perform well. Hamilton, who still couldn't seem to win the Japanese Grand Prix at Suzuka, set his focus on a triumph at the circuit. Red Bull group essential Christian Horner said that the title was out of their span, in spite of the fact that he trusted further unwavering quality issues with the Mercedes vehicles would drag out the fight. Horner discounted group orders favoring one driver over the other. Rosberg said he was anticipating the race, and his vehicle's speed gave him trust in a decent outcome. 

Tropical storm Phanfone, delegated a class four tempest, was gauge to influence landfall over the eastern Japanese coast on race day with overwhelming precipitation and winds of up to . In spite of the fact that the tempest was anticipated to miss Suzuka, substantial downpour from its northern edge was required to splash the circuit. The Russian Grand Prix, planned for the next week, made it unimaginable for the Japanese Grand Prix to be delayed until Monday because of cargo calendars to Russia for the groups' gear. Bernie Ecclestone, proprietor of Formula One's business rights, raised the likelihood of climbing the begin time, yet later said that the occasion would continue as arranged. The Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) race executive, Charlie Whiting, recommended to race coordinators that the begin time be moved and cautioned them that the race would not happen except if it was proclaimed safe, yet they won't. Honda, the proprietors of the track, purportedly dismissed the begin time change to enable onlookers to touch base at Suzuka in time for the beginning of the race. Whiting was likewise overruled by senior FIA authorities, who restricted the disturbance of the occasion's overall TV inclusion. 

There were driver changes for the race's without first practice session. Max Verstappen supplanted Jean-Éric Vergne as a major aspect of his arrangement for a full-time situate at Toro Rosso in the season. Matured 17 years and three days, Verstappen was the most youthful individual in history to partake in a Formula One race end of the week. Caterham affirmed that Roberto Merhi would supplant Marcus Ericsson, and Kamui Kobayashi would drive in the race. Recipe Renault 3.5 Series driver Will Stevens was reported as taking an interest in the main practice session in Max Chilton's vehicle, however an issue with administrative work sent to the FIA Contract Recognition Board because of a modern activity in Germany kept him from driving. 

Three practice sessions – two on Friday and a third on Saturday – were held before the race on Sunday. The Friday morning and evening sessions kept going an hour and a half each; the third, one-hour session was hung on Saturday morning. Mercedes directed race reproductions to perceive how the vehicles would carry on with a substantial fuel load. Rosberg was quickest in the principal practice session with a lap time of one moment and 35.461 seconds, in front of colleague Hamilton in second. Alonso was third-quickest, in front of Valtteri Bottas and Kimi Räikkönen, with Kevin Magnussen, Ricciardo, Jenson Button, Vettel and Daniil Kvyat balancing the best ten. Verstappen's run finished early when he destroyed over to the side of the track at the S bends with smoke surging from his motor due to a broken fumes valve, while Merhi spun at turn 13, causing Bottas to swerve to maintain a strategic distance from him. 

In the second practice session, Hamilton set the quickest lap of the day at one moment and 35.078 seconds. Rosberg was second with Bottas third, trailed by Button, Vettel and Räikkönen. The best ten was finished by Alonso, Magnussen, Kvyat and Ricciardo. A few vehicles went off the track; Ricciardo disturbed the session for eight minutes when an oversteer sent him into the boundary at turn 18. Kobayashi lost control of the back of his Caterham at turn three, harming his back suspension and front wing, while Vergne ceased his vehicle on the back straight subsequent to leaving the Spoon Curve with a fuel siphon issue. Esteban Gutiérrez later lost control of his Sauber entering the Spoon Curve and collided with the tire boundary. Vergne halted a second time with an electrical issue subsequent to leaving turn 14; this brought about a second warning, which conveyed the session to an early end because of constrained time accessible. Rosberg recorded the quickest lap time of the third practice session at one moment and 33.228 seconds, in front of Hamilton and Alonso. Felipe Massa, Bottas, Ricciardo, Magnussen, Vergne, Kvyat and Button involved positions four through ten. Hamilton drove rapidly into the main turn yet ran wide onto the run-off territory and slammed into the tire boundary, harming the left front quarter of his vehicle, while Gutiérrez lost control of his vehicle's back at the exit of transform 15 however abstained from colliding with the divider. 

Saturday evening's passing session was partitioned into three sections. The initial segment kept running for 18 minutes, taking out vehicles that completed seventeenth or underneath. The 107% guideline was in actuality amid this part, expecting drivers to set a period inside 107% of the quickest lap so as to qualify. The second part kept going 15 minutes, disposing of vehicles that completed eleventh to sixteenth, before the third and last part decided post position to tenth. Autos in the last passing session were not permitted to change tires, utilizing the tires with which they set their fastest lap times. Rosberg set the quickest time in the second and third sessions to secure his eighth shaft position of the period, the twelfth of his profession and his first at Suzuka with a lap time of one moment and 32.506 seconds. He was joined on the lattice's first line by Hamilton, who recorded a lap time almost two-tenths of a second slower than his colleague. Hamilton passed up shaft position when, on his last lap, he hit the chicane kerbing before quickening excessively quick into the last corner. Williams partners Bottas and Massa qualified third and fourth, and Alonso and Ricciardo took fifth and 6th. Mangnussen, whose botches on his snappiest planned lap cost him time, took seventh. His McLaren partner, Button, verified eighth and bolted one of his tires—level spotting it and moderating his occasions. Vettel, battling on corners due incompletely to Red Bull's utilization of wet tires, took ninth. Räikkönen adjusted the main ten qualifiers, experiencing issues with his vehicle's equalization which kept him from pushing hard. 

Vergne was the quickest driver not to progress into the last session; his best lap time of one moment and 34.984 seconds was two seconds off Rosberg's pace in the second session. Since his group had changed his motor, he got a ten-place network punishment, his 6th of the period. This advanced the Force India of Sergio Pérez to eleventh position; the Mexican driver had experienced slower vehicles entering the last chicane, which constrained him to diminish his speed and lose brake and tire temperature. Kvyat's last coordinated lap was upset by slower vehicles; when he entered the main corner his tires had not achieved their ideal temperature, bargaining his run and abandoning him twelfth. Nico Hülkenberg qualified thirteenth in the other Force India after he bolted his tires at the last chicane. Adrian Sutil advanced to the second passing session subsequent to making balance set-up changes, and took fourteenth in its end seconds; his Sauber partner, Gutiérrez, battled with tire temperature and was postponed by traffic on his out-lap, abandoning him fifteenth. Minister Maldonado neglected to progress past the principal qualifying session, however Lotus introduced another motor (his 6th of the year) in his E22 frame on Friday morning. Like Vergne, he brought about a ten-place lattice punishment (persisted to the following race since he qualified inside the best ten base positions). His colleague, Romain Grosjean, took over sixteenth position and meant to qualify higher; in any case, an adjustment in wind course kept him from account a quicker lap time. Ericsson and Jules Bianchi began from seventeenth and eighteenth, with Kobayashi nineteenth and Vergne twentieth. Chilton lost control of his Marussia's back, making him begin 21st. 

There was a lot of standing water on the track toward the begin, since Typhoon Phanfone had conveyed overwhelming precipitation to the zone. The air temperature was , and the track temperature was . Around 142,000 individuals went to the race. The standing water caused substantial splash and impeded perceivability, and all vehicles utilized full wet tires. The race started behind the security vehicle at 15:00 Japan Standard Time (), with no development lap; in spite of the moderate speed, drivers battled for hold on the wet surface. Ericsson lost control of his vehicle in the wake of quickening out of the last turn, turning into the rock trap; marshals drove his vehicle out of the rock, empowering him to continue driving. Following grievances from Hamilton about poor perceivability, the race was suspended after two laps. The autos drove once more into the pit path, arranged in network development and their motors were stopped. A few autos had their ride statures raised to make them less inclined to aquaplaning on their underbody boards. The race was restarted 20 minutes after the fact behind the security vehicle, after the downpour facilitated. Alonso ceased his vehicle with an electrical issue – perhaps a short out from the wet conditions – to turn into the race's first retirement on lap 3. His takeoff elevated Ricciardo to fifth spot, with Magnussen 6th and Button seventh. 

In spite of the fact that Hamilton moved toward becoming worried about his Mercedes' brakes, he was informed that it was a generally minor sensor issue. He and Vergne detailed that conditions had improved, yet Vettel and Massa said that perceivability stayed poor. The security vehicle crashed into the pit path toward the finish of lap 9, and autos were permitted to surpass. Catch quickly made a pit stop to fit middle of the road tires. Hamilton fruitlessly endeavored to surpass Rosberg heading into the principal corner, while Vettel attempted to pass Magnussen going into the fastener, additionally without progress; he at that point ran wide at the Spoon Curve yet stayed on the track. Pérez surpassed Kvyat to guarantee ninth position on the lap. Toward the finish of the principal dashing lap, Rosberg drove Hamilton by 1.3 seconds; trailed by Bottas, Massa, Ricciardo, Magnussen, Vettel, Räikkönen, Pérez and Kvyat. 

Bottas, Ricciardo, Magnussen and Räikkönen made pit stops to change to middle of the road tires on lap 12. After his initial pit stop, Button climbed to eighth spot on a similar lap. Massa and Vettel made their pit stops on lap 13, Vettel moving before Massa and rejoining in front of partner Ricciardo. Rosberg made his pit stop on lap 14 and rejoined in second position, 22 seconds behind Hamilton (who recorded quick part times trying to push forward of Rosberg after the last's pit stop). Hamilton went off onto the run-off zone at the Spoon Curve, diminishing the hole by one moment. Rosberg recovered first position when Hamilton moved toward the exit of the pit path after the last's stop. He announced that his vehicle was oversteering, and Button held a 6.5-second favorable position over both Williams autos. The Red Bull vehicles diminished the hole to Massa in 6th by lap 16, with Vettel moving to within line and passing Massa with a restricted edge at the clip on this lap; Ricciardo then endeavored a comparable move outwardly at the Spoon Curve, however Massa quickened clear heading into 130R corner. 

Magnussen made a second pit stop toward the finish of lap 16 to change his controlling wheel. On lap 17 Ricciardo went to the outside of Massa on the S-bends and moved inside, passing Massa to move into 6th. Rosberg was educated by group radio that more downpour was normal inside eight minutes. Vettel surpassed Bottas around the outside for fourth spot on lap 18; Bottas then tumbled to fifth on lap 19 when Ricciardo passed him around the outside at the S-bends. Vettel started to diminish the hole to third-put Button, with Ricciardo driving at a speed like his colleague. Bottas was gotten by his Williams partner Massa, who pulled far from Hülkenberg (who went off the track at the second turn). Both Red Bull drivers were the quickest by lap 21, yet Vettel was as yet 13 seconds behind Button and a further five seconds behind Rosberg, who presently driven Hamilton by just a single second having kept running off the track at 130R. A dry line started to develop at this point as certain drivers drove through standing water to hold their tire temperatures down. 

DRS was empowered on lap 24. In spite of the fact that Hamilton had shut Rosberg's lead to a large portion of a second and utilized the framework, he couldn't pass his partner. Räikkönen made a pit stop this lap, which turned out badly as his specialists attempted to introduce a right-front wheel nut accurately. Hamilton attempted to pass Rosberg again the accompanying lap by running in his slipstream, yet Rosberg held the line and had enough speeding up to protect in front of the rest of the competition. Hamilton held a more tightly line, while Rosberg griped of more oversteer on lap 26. On lap 27, Hamilton neglected to deactivate his DRS framework and lost control of his back; his brakes bolted, and he went into the turn one run-off territory. Be that as it may, he made up for lost time to Rosberg and ran firmly behind his partner into the clasp without attempting to pass. Hamilton moved over the track amid the lap trying to pass; Rosberg's vehicle shivered, and Hamilton showed signs of improvement run onto the pit-path straight. He was in Rosberg's slipstream before passing him outwardly heading into the primary swing to lead the pack on lap 29. Hamilton pushed hard and pulled far from Rosberg, who lost control heading into the pit-path straight. 

Gutiérrez lost ninth position on lap 30 when he was passed by Kvyat, who drove through standing water within the pit path straight and utilized DRS. Vettel made his second pit stop for middle of the road tires on a similar lap, rejoining in fifth behind Ricciardo however in front of both Williams vehicles. Catch, still third, recorded quicker lap times than Rosberg, shutting the hole to 12.8 seconds by the start of lap 31. Pérez surpassed Gutiérrez to assume control over tenth position on a similar lap. Catch made a second pit stop for new middle of the road tires toward the finish of lap 31; his pit team likewise changed his controlling wheel, extending the stop and putting him behind both Red Bull drivers. Vettel recorded another quickest lap of the race at one moment and 51.915 seconds, 2.3 seconds snappier than Hamilton. Rosberg made his second pit stop, for new halfway tires, on lap 33 and turned out behind Ricciardo. Magnussen experienced understeer and spun 360 degrees subsequent to running onto the run-off territory. Hamilton made a pit stop toward the finish of lap 35 for new middle of the road tires, giving Ricciardo the lead. Overwhelming precipitation started to fall on lap 36; Ricciardo made his pit quit amid this lap and rejoined fifth, behind Hamilton, Rosberg, Vettel and Button. 

On lap 38, Magnussen ran wide onto the main turn run-off zone, while Vergne went off the track at the second corner and Vettel crashed into the rock trap at the S-turns; every one of the three drivers kept running. Ricciardo quit for the day Button on a similar lap and endeavored to pass him around within at the clip; Button safeguarded his position, and Ricciardo ran wide. Hamilton recorded the generally speaking quickest lap of the race on lap 39, at one moment and 51.600 seconds. Climate conditions kept on decaying, bringing about DRS being impaired on lap 41; perceivability was decreased because of blurring light and low overcast spread, while drivers were being astonished by the lights on their guiding wheels. Ricciardo endeavored to surpass Button again that lap by bringing within path into the barrette, yet Button took a wide line. Ricciardo at long last moved beyond at the fastener on lap 42, with Button at that point making a pit stop for full wet tires. On a similar lap, Sutil aquaplaned into the outside tire boundary at the highest point of the slope at Dunlop Curve. Twofold yellow banners were waved at the corner to caution drivers about the occurrence, and Whiting did not utilize the security vehicle. Sutil's vehicle was separated from the track by a tractor crane that lap and turned in reverse toward a hole in the boundary. At that point, on lap 43, Bianchi lost control of his Marussia at , veering directly towards the run-off region outside the Dunlop Curve. In spite of the fact that he connected his throttle and brake pedals all the while, his safeguard framework did not work in light of the fact that the settings of his brake-by-wire framework were contrary. 

Bianchi crashed into the back of the tractor crane, which made broad harm his vehicle; its move bar was pulverized as it slid underneath. The effect shocked the tractor crane off the ground, causing Sutil's vehicle (suspended noticeable all around by the crane) to tumble to the ground. Marshals moved far from the scene to abstain from being struck by Bianchi's Marussia. Computations in July 2015 demonstrated a pinnacle of 254 "g" (2,490 m/s), and information from the FIA's World Accident Database, which sources data from hustling mishaps around the world, show that Bianchi's effect happened 2.61 seconds after loss of control, at a speed of and an edge of 55 degrees. Bianchi was accounted for oblivious after not reacting to a group radio call or marshals. Marshals revealed the mishap, and security and therapeutic vehicles were dispatched. Bianchi was removed from his vehicle and treated at the accident site before being taken by rescue vehicle to the circuit's therapeutic focus. Transport by helicopter was incomprehensible because of the climate, so Bianchi was taken by emergency vehicle with a police escort to Mie Prefectural General Medical Center in Yokkaichi, about 15 km (9.3 mi, a 32-minute drive) from the track. 

A second warning was waved on lap 46, conveying the race to an early end; the outcomes were taken from the running request toward the finish of lap 44. Hamilton accordingly won from partner Rosberg by 9.1 seconds, with Vettel twenty seconds further back in third. Ricciardo completed just shy of ten seconds behind his Red Bull colleague, and about a large portion of a moment in front of Button. Massa, Bottas, Hülkenberg, Vergne and Pérez adjusted the focuses scoring positions. Kvyat, Räikkönen and Gutiérrez filled the following three positions, every one lap behind Hamilton, with Magnussen, Grosjean, Maldonado, Ericcson, Chilton and Kobayashi the remainder of the ordered finishers who were not associated with any occurrence. Bianchi and Sutil were grouped in twentieth and 21st, regardless of their mishaps. Hamilton and Rosberg both drove on two events, with Rosberg driving 26 of the 44 laps and Hamilton the other 18. Hamilton's triumph was his eighth of the period, his first at Suzuka, and the 30th of his Formula One vocation. 

Keeping in mind the truly harmed Bianchi, the best three finishers did not shower champagne. At the platform interviews, led by the 1992 World Champion Nigel Mansell, Hamilton said that it had been a troublesome race end of the week and his speed close to the finish of the race was reminiscent of the 2008 British Grand Prix. Rosberg considered it a decent end of the week for his group, and praised Hamilton on the triumph. Vettel said that he was fortunate that the wellbeing vehicle turned out, and was content with his execution. At a later question and answer session, Hamilton said that he was certain about his vehicle's equalization when he passed Rosberg on lap 28, and saw no distinction in the measure of standing water on the track when all the more substantial downpour fell. Despite the fact that Rosberg's vehicle was set up like Hamilton's, he was discontent with its equalization and endeavored to change it amid his pit stop. As per Vettel, the climate was fringe and his group chosen to make a pit stop when it disintegrated. 

Bianchi's accident eclipsed the race. His dad, Philippe, at first answered to "L'équipe" that Bianchi was in basic condition with head damage and was experiencing an activity to decrease extreme cranial dying. The FIA at that point said that CT filters showed that Bianchi continued an "extreme head damage" in the accident, and would be admitted to the emergency unit medical procedure. His family later announced that he had diffuse axonal damage, horrendous mind damage regular in vehicle mishaps including snappy deceleration. The main family update after Bianchi's crisis medical procedure was made by his dad amid the seven day stretch of 13 October; the driver was supposedly in an "edgy" condition, with specialists saying that his survival would be a wonder. His dad said that he drew trust from the development of seven-time best on the planet Michael Schumacher from his extreme lethargies. Marussia likewise issued customary updates on Bianchi's condition, denying beginning theory about their job in the mishap. Previous FIA president Max Mosley portrayed it as a "crack mishap". 

Debate emerged after a beginner video clasp of Bianchi's accident, demonstrating a marshal waving a green banner at the accident site, was transferred to online life. Four-time best on the planet Alain Prost said that the marshal ought to have moved far from the accident scene, however five-time 24 Hours of Le Mans victor Emanuele Pirro said that it was ordinary practice and any individual who said something else was "mixed up". As indicated by a few reporters, the marshal submitted no infraction. Previous driver and Sky Sports F1 host Martin Brundle called for recuperation vehicles to be banished from driving on the track. Driver steward Mika Salo shielded Whiting's choice not to convey the security vehicle after Sutil's accident, and limited cases that the race was halted for heightening precipitation. Rede Globo lead observer Galvão Bueno, nonetheless, was vocal in his analysis of Whiting's choice, portraying it as "the greatest misstep I've found in 40 years in Formula One". 

The FIA declared a ten-man audit board, made out of previous drivers and group principals, to explore the reason for the mishap and distributed its discoveries a month later in Doha. As indicated by the report, there was no single reason for Bianchi's mishap; contributing variables included track conditions, vehicle speed and the nearness of a recuperation vehicle on the track. The report made a few recommendations to improve security while recuperating debilitated vehicles (which were presented for 2015), and inferred that it would have been difficult to alleviate Bianchi's wounds with changes to cockpit structure. Since 2015, for security reasons, the FIA has necessitated that the begin time of specific Grands Prix be no less than four hours before nightfall or sunset (with the exception of assigned night races). FIA security commission executive Peter Wright was cited in July 2015 as saying that a shut cockpit would not have kept Bianchi's head wounds, and VP Andy Mellow affirmed that appending sway insurance to recuperation vehicles was unfeasible. 

Hospitalized in Yokkaichi, Bianchi stayed in a basic yet stable condition on a therapeutic ventilator. He was expelled from his instigated unconsciousness in November and started breathing unaided, empowering him to be exchanged to the Center Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice (CHU) in Nice. Bianchi stayed oblivious in basic condition there, yet his family were better ready to visit. On 13 July 2015, Bianchi's dad said that he was "less idealistic" about his child's odds in light of the absence of noteworthy advancement and the period of time since the mishap. Bianchi kicked the bucket four days after the fact, matured 25, in this manner turning into the main Formula One driver to be killed by wounds supported amid a Grand Prix since Ayrton Senna in 1994. Bianchi's burial service, on 21 July at Nice Cathedral, was gone to by individuals from the Formula One people group. 

The race result expanded Hamilton's lead over Rosberg in the World Drivers' Championship to ten. Ricciardo and Vettel kept up third and fourth spot, and Alonso stayed in fifth regardless of his retirement. Mercedes propelled further of Red Bull in the Constructors' Championship, with a noteworthy lead over the Austrian group. Williams expanded their favorable position over Ferrari in the fight for third, and Force India held fifth spot with four races left in the season. 

Notes: 

Notes: