John Brooke-Little 

John Philip Brook Brooke-Little, (6 April 1927 – 13 February 2006) was a powerful and well known English author on heraldic subjects, and a long-serving messenger at the College of Arms in London. In 1947, while still an understudy, Brooke-Little established the Society of Heraldic Antiquaries, presently known as the Heraldry Society and perceived as one of the main scholarly social orders in its field. He filled in as the general public's administrator for a long time and after that as its President from 1997 until his demise in 2006. Notwithstanding the establishment of this gathering, Brooke-Little was associated with other heraldic gatherings and social orders and worked for a long time as an officer of arms; starting as Bluemantle Pursuivant, Brooke-Little rose to the second most astounding heraldic office in England: Clarenceux King of Arms. 

John Brooke-Little was conceived in Blackheath, Kent. His mom, Constance Egan, was the writer of numerous youngsters' accounts including the "Epaminondas" books and the undertakings of "Jummy the Baby Elephant". During the 1920s, Egan was the proofreader of "Home Chat". This arranged her for future publication obligations with the Heraldry Society's diary, the "Emblem" during the 1950s. She was the second spouse of Raymond Brooke-Little, who functioned as an electrical architect. His fatherly progenitors, the Littles, originated from Wiltshire and might be followed in the ward registers of Biddestone back to the late seventeenth century. A family of his family shows up in the 1972 release of "Burke's Landed Gentry" under the heading "Brooke-Little of Heyford House". Brooke-Little was instructed at Clayesmore School, a dynamic co-instructive government funded school in Dorset. The school remained an essential piece of Brooke-Little's life, and he later sent his very own youngsters there. He administered the way toward conceding arms to the school while filling in as director of its leading body of governors from 1971 to 1983. 

As a kid, Brooke-Little's first contact with the College of Arms came when he went to see Sir Algar Howard, at that point Garter Principal King of Arms. Howard was the leader of the company of messengers at the College of Arms, and energized Brooke-Little's maturing enthusiasm for the subject of heraldry. While still an understudy, he established a heraldry society with his companions. Brooke-Little went to New College, Oxford in 1949 and read history. His school companions included Colin Cole, later Garter King of Arms, with whom he refounded the torpid Oxford University Heraldry Society. The two men refounded it a second time in 1958. The Society was refounded in 1978, and again in 2005 and as of now holds one address for every term. 

Brooke-Little hitched Mary Pierce, girl of John Raymond Pierce, in 1960. The couple had three children, Philip, Leo, and Merlin, and one little girl, Clare. In 2004, in the wake of having resigned from the College of Arms, Brooke-Little inhabited his Heyford House in Oxfordshire with the groups of both Leo and Merlin. 

Brooke-Little had a noteworthy stroke in 1994. This episode left his versatility and discourse somewhat weakened, however his brain was still very sharp. He proceeded in his heraldic obligations until his retirement three years after the fact. He additionally kept on managing the Heraldry Society after this. He endured a progression of minor strokes over his last a very long time as a messenger and amid his retirement. He was as yet ready to show up at elements of the Heraldry Society, however his job was seriously constrained by weakening joint pain. It was a short arrangement of a few of these little strokes with hardly a pause in between which prompted Brooke-Little's demise on 13 February 2006 in Banbury, Oxfordshire, at 78 years old. He was one of the last enduring officers of arms to serve at the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. The burial service occurred on 23 February 2006, and the tribute was conveyed by Sir Henry Paston-Bedingfeld, York Herald. 

In 1952– 3, Brooke-Little served on the staff amassed by the Earl Marshal to design the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. He was designated a Gold Staff Officer for the Coronation and held a key co-appointment job amid arranging just as on the day. It was his withstanding enthusiasm for heraldry that prompted this arrangement, and this work with the Earl Marshal and the officers of arms prompted his first heraldic arrangement. He joined the College of Arms as Bluemantle Pursuivant in 1956. The position of pursuivant is the lesser of the three dimensions an officer of arms can accomplish, and Brooke-Little related the tale of his arrangement in a publication. In 1956, Sir George Bellew, the Garter King of Arms, had suggested Brooke-Little and Colin Cole for the vacant position of Bluemantle. The two were approached to meet with the Earl Marshal in London. The Earl Marshal was not generally looked with two possibility for an opening; he offered the situation to Cole, who turned it down as his better half was anticipating a kid. Brooke-Little was made Bluemantle. A while later when Sir Gerald Wollaston kicked the bucket, in the following mix Cole was at last given his arrangement as Portcullis Pursuivant. 

In 1967, Brooke-Little was progressed to the situation of Richmond Herald. On 7 July 1980, after very nearly thirty years of administration to the Earl Marshal and the College of Arms, Brooke-Little was selected to supplant Sir Walter Verco as Norroy and Ulster King of Arms, with heraldic specialist in the piece of England north of the Trent, just as in Northern Ireland. While serving in that office, he appreciated telling individuals that the usually held view that the Order of Saint Patrick was terminated was very false. Brooke-Little trusted that as the Ulster King of Arms – the limit in which he dealt with Northern Irish heraldry – he remained "ex officio" an Officer of the Order. As the holder of that office, he and his successors would remain the Order's King of Arms, Registrar and Knight Attendant, until such time as the Sovereign ought to pick formally to abrogate the workplace of Ulster King of Arms or to announce that these positions are not vested in the workplace. The way that the last knight had passed on in 1974 was of little result to such a staunch conventionalist. 

Brooke-Little kept up an enthusiasm for Irish heraldry even after he was advanced from Norroy and Ulster to Clarenceux. After the Director of the National Library of Ireland was made the Chief Herald of Ireland, Brooke-Little wrote to the "Every day Telegraph" of the significance of keeping up a solid convention of heraldic and genealogical aptitude in the Irish Office of Arms. 

At the point when Sir Colin Cole resigned from the workplace of Garter King of Arms in 1992, Brooke-Little was a main contender to supplant him. This is the most noteworthy heraldic office in England; Garter is administrator of the Chapter of the College of Arms, just as the King of Arms of the Order of the Garter. Because of his friendly way of life, however, Brooke-Little was not appropriate to the administrative duties of the workplace of Garter. Rather, the respect went to Sir Conrad Swan. On 19 June 1995, Brooke-Little was delegated to the workplace of Clarenceux King of Arms following the passing of Sir Anthony Wagner. This is the senior of the two common Kings of Arms and the holder of the workplace has ward over England and Wales south of the Trent. The messengers had customarily been delegated "for life on great conduct", yet Brooke-Little moved toward becoming Clarenceux not long after mandatory retirement at age 70 was presented, and he needed to leave after just two years in this post. He finished his heraldic profession while never having accomplished the workplace of Garter King of Arms, or being respected with a knighthood. 

Notwithstanding his obligations as an expert envoy, Brooke-Little held three regulatory positions at the College of Arms. From 1974 until 1982, he filled in as Registrar, with duty to enter every single new allow and affirmations of arms into the College records. Brooke-Little's mark can be found on the turn around of the letters patent for each allow made amid this period. Furthermore, he filled in as the College's custodian from 1974 until 1994 and the treasurer of the College of Arms from 1978 until 1995. He was likewise the chief of the Heralds' Museum at the Tower of London from 1991 to 1997; this gallery is never again working. Despite the fact that Brooke-Little appreciated unmistakable quality as an expert officer of arms and as a creator on heraldic subjects, his job in establishing the Heraldry Society, and in controlling the general public and altering its diary for a long time, was maybe his most noteworthy commitment to the art of heraldry. 

In 1952, as John Brooke-Little was entering the universe of heraldry as a Gold Staff Officer, he started investigating the causes of his own arms. His family had been utilizing the arms "Sky blue, six lioncels wild gules", however some examination demonstrated that the Brooke-Littles reserved no privilege to these arms. John attempted to apply for a give in the interest of his dad. At the point when requested info, his dad noticed that the lions recently utilized were inappropriate and that he figured unicorns would be a decent substitution. Red "gouttes" (beads) implied the family's previous holding of the Manor of Slaughterford. The arms were conceded to Raymond Brooke-Little on 5 March 1952. John quartered these arms with those of his mom, Constance Egan. The entire shield of arms is blazoned "Quarterly: I and IV, argent, goutté de sang three unicorns' heads deleted sable outfitted and crined or langued sky blue (Brooke-Little); II and III, purplish blue, two dolphins haurient and addorsed or, the eyes gules, between four shamrocks slipped or". The peak is blazoned "a demi-unicorn wild deleted sable, equipped, crined and unguled or, langued purplish blue and busted gobony or and gules, with a chain or reflexed over the back and joined with a ring or". In the meantime, the maxim of "Recte Aut Nil" (signifying 'accurately or not in any manner') was without a doubt, just as John Brooke-Little's very much utilized identification, blazoned "a triquetra or interweaved by an annulet argent". 

In 1947, a twenty-year-old Brooke-Little established the Society of Heraldic Antiquaries, which was renamed the Heraldry Society in 1950. It was joined in 1956 and is currently an enrolled philanthropy. The chief object of the general public is to broaden enthusiasm for and information of heraldry, ancestry, priority, and related orders. Brooke-Little served its executive for a long time. In 1997, as he was finishing his vocation as an officer of arms, he changed jobs in the Society to turn into its leader. He served in this job until his demise. Brooke-Little likewise filled in as the Honorary Editor of the general public's insightful diary, the "Emblem". From the main production of the diary until the center of 1965, his mom, Constance Egan, filled in as the overseeing editorial manager of the "Escutcheon", however Brooke-Little dependably impacted the distribution. It was not until 2005 that Brooke-Little at long last given unlimited oversight of the diary to two youthful messengers: Peter O'Donaghue, Bluemantle Pursuivant, and Clive Cheesman, Rouge Dragon Pursuivant. 

Brooke-Little was indispensable to the establishment of the White Lion Society. In 1984, at a gathering of the Heraldry Society, it was proposed to Brooke-Little, at that point Norroy and Ulster King of Arms, that it is suitable to establish a "General public of Friends" of the College of Arms. Brooke-Little clarified that the late Wilfrid Scott-Giles, Fitzalan Pursuivant, had recently recommended a similar thought, proposing the name of the 'White Lion Society' after the heraldic supporters of the College of Arms, which are two white lions (insinuating the supporters of the Mowbray arms which the Earl Marshal acquired from his progenitors). Brooke-Little put the thought before the Chapter of the College not long after and with its endorsement, the Society appeared in 1986. 

Brooke-Little accumulated numerous distinctions and grants amid his season of administration to the Crown. He was named a fourth Class Member of the Royal Victorian Order (a respect currently known as Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order) in 1969 for his administrations at the Investiture of the Prince of Wales. This was trailed by an advancement to Commander of the Royal Victorian Order at the 1984 New Year Honors Though most Kings of Arms up to that time were knighted, that respect was never given to him. The nearest that he came was in 1975 when he was made a Knight of Justice of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem, the British restoration of the antiquated Knights Hospitaller of Saint John. 

Brooke-Little was an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Heraldic and Genealogical Studies and a Chevalier of the Order of the Fleur de Lys. He was Master of the Scriveners' Company from 1985 until 1986, Chairman of the Harleian Society, and President of the English Language Literary Trust for a long time from 1985 until 1996. His heraldic contribution continued as a trustee of the Royal Air Force Heraldry Trust and a counselor on heraldry to the National Trust from 1983 until his passing. 

Notwithstanding his distinctions in Britain, Brooke-Little likewise filled in as Chancellor of the British Association of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta from 1973 to 1977. He was first admitted to the Order as a Knight of Magistral Grace, and would inevitably hold the position of Knight Grand Cross of Grace and Devotion. He was likewise regarded with the Order of Merito Melitense in 1964 and was made a Knight Grand Cross of Grace of the Sacred Military Constantinian Order of Saint George. Notwithstanding these distinctions, he held the Cruz Distinguida (first class) de San Raimundo de Penafort. 

Brooke-Little was the writer or proofreader of something like ten books including: