Billy Joe Tolliver 

Billy Joe Tolliver (conceived February 7, 1966) is a previous American football quarterback who played in the National Football League (NFL) and Canadian Football League (CFL) for twelve seasons with the San Diego Chargers, Atlanta Falcons, Houston Oilers, Shreveport Pirates, Kansas City Chiefs, and New Orleans Saints. Throughout his NFL profession, he played in 79 recreations, finished 891 of 1,707 goes for 10,760 yards, tossed 59 touchdowns and 64 block attempts, and resigned with a passer rating of 67.7. 

An alum of Boyd High School and Texas Tech University, Tolliver was chosen 51st in the 1989 NFL Draft by the San Diego Chargers. He began 19 recreations in two seasons at San Diego before being exchanged to Atlanta, where he saw playing time as a reinforcement for three seasons. In 1994, he wound up one of three beginning quarterbacks for Houston and afterward filled in as quarterback of the Shreveport Pirates in the CFL amid their last period of action in 1995. After not contending in 1996, Tolliver played for both Atlanta and Kansas City in 1997. He at that point began 11 amusements for New Orleans in two seasons yet did not take the field in 2000. A stretch with the Green Bay Packers in the 2001 offseason finished up his expert profession. 

Tolliver was conceived in Boyd, Texas, where he went to neighborhood schools. He played secondary school football at Boyd High School. Amid his senior season, he drove the Boyd Yellow Jackets to a 15– 0– 1 record and the 2– A state title. He amassed in excess of 1,000 surging and passing yards and was named Player of the Year by the "Fortification Worth Star-Telegram". Tolliver was a three– game competitor in secondary school, averaging 15 and 17 bounce back in ball and tossing 14 no-hitters in baseball. 

In the wake of moving on from secondary school, Tolliver played school football at Texas Tech University and was an individual from the Delta Tau Delta Fraternity. His hard tossing style drove Texas Tech head mentor David McWilliams to state, "He tosses the ball harder, and with greater speed, than anybody I've at any point seen." He redshirted his green bean season in 1984 and turned into the beginning quarterback in 1985. On November 9, 1985, Tolliver had his first breakout execution for the Red Raiders as he tossed for a record-setting 422 yards and five touchdowns in a 63– 7 prevail upon Texas Christian University (TCU), an accomplishment that helped him become a commonly recognized name in Texas. As he started his sophomore season, he was viewed as the solitary splendid spot on Texas Tech's offense. Tolliver battled toward the beginning of the year; before the finish of September he had just finished 54 of 123 passes. In the wake of tossing five interferences in a diversion against Baylor, he disregarded the terrible amusement, saying, "even Betty Crocker consumes a cake from time to time." His fortunes kept on sinking when in a diversion in late October against the Rice Owls, he was sidelined, and reinforcement quarterback Monte McGuire aroused the group to a triumph. In any case, Tolliver recaptured his beginning employment and conveyed his group to the 1986 Independence Bowl as Texas Tech won six amusements out of the blue since 1978. He completed the season with 1,802 passing yards and seven touchdowns. 

Tolliver started his lesser year confronting Florida State, an amusement in which he endured a hairline crack in his foot, abandoning him far fetched for the match. He missed the initial three rounds of the period yet returned in Texas Tech's fourth diversion against Baylor, finishing 14 of 25 goes for 189 yards, a touchdown and a capture attempt in a 36– 22 misfortune. Tolliver's next huge execution came against TCU, a similar group he vanquished 63– 7 as a first year recruit. He tossed a touchdown go to Wayne Walker in the last moment to beat TCU 36– 35. He completed the season having gone for 1,422 yards and seven touchdowns in eight amusements. The following season, his senior year, Tolliver and Texas Tech looked to win the Southwest Conference. He began the season solid, tossing a 85-yard go against Arizona—it was the third-longest go in school history—yet the Red Raiders began with two misfortunes. Before the finish of the period, Tolliver had set 16 school records and was granted the Southwest Conference Sportsmanship Award by the class' authorities. After four seasons with Texas Tech, he set the school record for vocation passing yards (6,756), profession pass endeavors (1,008), vocation pass fruitions (493), vocation touchdown passes (38), season passing yards in 1988 (2,869), and single amusement passing yards (446) against Oklahoma State University in 1988. Tolliver was enlisted into Texas Tech's Hall of Honor in 2002. 

Tolliver was chosen by the San Diego Chargers in the second round of the 1989 NFL Draft. The Chargers exchanged third, fourth, and seventh-round picks in return for the New York Giants' second-round pick so as to draft him. Tolliver was marked on July 31, 1989, after a short holdout. He was to contend with Mark Malone and David Archer for the beginning occupation, a spot which in the end went to Jim McMahon after the Chargers exchanged for him. As the 1989 season started with McMahon as the steerage, Tolliver was slated to play the second 50% of the last preseason diversion against the Phoenix Cardinals. After 13 fruitions in 23 endeavors, Tolliver ran the ball late in the amusement and broke his collarbone, sidelining him for somewhere around about a month and a half. Subsequent to spending the initial seven amusements on the harmed hold list, Tolliver was removed the rundown and named the starter for the diversion against the Seattle Seahawks on October 29, supplanting McMahon who had baffled at quarterback. In Tolliver's first begin, he played seventy five percent, tossing six finished goes in 17 endeavors for 41 yards and tossing a capture in a 10– 7 misfortune. Tolliver in this manner lost the beginning employment back to McMahon. In any case, in late November, Tolliver was given the beginning employment back, residual the beginning quarterback the remainder of the period. Tolliver completed the season having played five recreations with 89 culminations in 185 endeavors, 1097 yards, five touchdowns, eight capture attempts, and a 57.9 quarterback rating. 

As the 1990 season started, McMahon was discharged by the group, leaving Tolliver as the beginning quarterback at preparing camp. In the wake of preparing camp and a preseason in which Tolliver began and was eased by quarterbacks Mark Vlasic and youngster John Friesz, Chargers head mentor Dan Henning named Vlasic as the beginning quarterback against the Dallas Cowboys in the season opener, saying that he was "steadier" than Tolliver. After a misfortune against Dallas, Tolliver recovered his beginning employment amid the amusement two against the Cincinnati Bengals. In spite of some unsteady exhibitions in the next weeks, the Chargers' training staff stuck by their quarterback, saying that "the exact opposite thing we need around here is more change." Tolliver played almost the remainder of the period as the beginning quarterback however was substituted by Friesz for the last round of the period against the Los Angeles Raiders. The Chargers made this move on the grounds that, as indicated by Henning, "Tolliver needs to chip away at his weaknesses." Tolliver completed the season having finished 216 of 410 passes, tossed for 2,574 yards, 16 touchdowns, and 16 block attempts, and posting a QB rating of 68.9. 

Despite the fact that Tolliver had the certainty of Dan Henning, Chargers general supervisor Bobby Beathard and proprietor Alex Spanos were unsatisfied with his creation amid the 1990 season, and were looking towards Friesz as the future quarterback. Tolliver was the main man for the beginning quarterback position as preparing camp for the 1991 season started, with Friesz doing combating Bob Gagliano for the reinforcement spot. Be that as it may, subsequent to preparing camp finished, Friesz was named the beginning quarterback for the 1991 season opener against the Pittsburgh Steelers. 

Only a couple of days in the wake of losing the beginning employment, Tolliver was exchanged to the Atlanta Falcons for a fifth-round draft pick. In Atlanta, Tolliver was the reinforcement quarterback behind Chris Miller and nearby new kid on the block Brett Favre, and had influence of seven diversions all through the season. Tolliver's leap forward as a Falcon came against the San Francisco 49ers on November 3. Mill operator was harmed in the second quarter, and Tolliver was acquired for the remainder of the amusement. With one moment left, he tossed a 44-yard Hail Mary go to Michael Haynes, which was gotten for a touchdown and fixing a 17– 14 upset triumph. Because of his execution and Miller's damage, Tolliver was given his first begin the next week against the Washington Redskins. Tolliver's first begin with the Falcons was a 56– 17 victory misfortune. A short time later, Tolliver got his second and last beginning of the period against the Green Bay Packers because of Miller all of a sudden running a fever. Tolliver completed the normal season having finishing 40 of 82 goes with four touchdowns, two block attempts, and a QB rating of 75.8. 

After the Falcons exchanged Favre to the Packers, Miller and Tolliver were the main quarterbacks on the program. Before the season began, Wade Wilson marked with the group, and the two shared the job of reinforcement to Miller. Tolliver played two of the initial eight recreations, at that point was named the beginning quarterback when the Falcons lost Miller for the season because of reconstructive medical procedure to his left side knee. Tolliver's first beginning of the period came against the 49ers. He finished 16 of 25 passes, yet tossed three capture attempts in a 41– 3 misfortune. The following week against the Cardinals, Tolliver was sidelined for the last arrangement as Wilson drove the group to triumph and Tolliver contended with mentor Jerry Glanville. In spite of the contention and shoulder damage, Glanville gave Tolliver the begin the next week against the Buffalo Bills. He played a couple of more amusements before being swapped by Wilson for the remainder of the period, in part because of Wilson tossing five touchdown goes in his first begin in transit to a 35– 7 Falcons triumph. Tolliver completed the season with five touchdowns, five capture attempts, a 55.7% finish rate, and a 70.4 QB rating. 

After the 1992 season, Tolliver was a limited free specialist. Wilson marked an agreement with the Saints, and to supplant him the Falcons marked Bobby Hebert. Tolliver marked a one-year contract in August, in the wake of waiting for a period. Tolliver began the 1993 season as the third-string quarterback behind Hebert and Miller. In any case, Miller re-harmed his left knee in late September, making Tolliver the primary reinforcement to Hebert. Tolliver made his first begin against the Los Angeles Rams, yet was harmed in his second begin against the Saints; the Falcons marked Chris Hakel because of the damage. Tolliver completed the season in infrequent help for Hebert, who stayed irritated by wounds. Through the span of the year, Tolliver played in seven amusements and tossed for just shy of 500 yards, and turned into a free specialist after the season finished. 

Toward the beginning of September 1994, Tolliver was marked to an agreement by the Houston Oilers. He was initially the third-string quarterback, yet ineffectualness by Bucky Richardson drove Tolliver to diminish him in an amusement against the Cleveland Browns. Tolliver played alright to be considered for the beginning employment the next week because of Cody Carlson managing wounds. Tolliver made his first begin in an amusement against the Raiders, however played conflictingly more than seven begins and was supplanted by Richardson in the season finale against the New York Jets. Subsequent to completing the season, Tolliver turned into a free operator and left the NFL. 

Tolliver marked a three-year contract worth about $1 million with the Shreveport Pirates of the Canadian Football League before the 1995 season started. From the get-go in the season, Tolliver got the opportunity to go up against previous partner David Archer in the San Antonio Texans' CFL debut. He completed the season having tossed for 3,767 yards, 16 touchdowns, and 15 block attempts. After the group collapsed following a 5– 13 season, Tolliver was again without a group. In October 1996, Tolliver rejoined the Falcons as the third-string quarterback, this time sitting behind Bobby Hebert and Browning Nagle. He spent the 1996 season on the seat, and did not take a snap in an amusement. He was re-marked by Atlanta in April and allowed a one-year contract worth $325,000. 

Tolliver was slated to rival Tommy Maddox for the reinforcement quarterback spot at Atlanta as preparing camp moved around. Part of the way through August, Maddox was discharged, and Tolliver was made the essential reinforcement behind Chris Chandler. Tolliver played his first NFL diversion since 1994 on September 7, 1997 against the Carolina Panthers. He finished 7 of 17 goes for 79 yards. In the wake of soothing Chandler again the next week, Tolliver was slated to begin the following diversion against the 49ers, in what turned into his solitary beginning appearance of the period. He was slated to begin again against the Denver Broncos, yet rather came in late in the amusement. He was practically ready to lead the Falcons to a rebound triumph over the Broncos, finishing six of nine goes for 85 yards and a touchdown, yet he rather lost to the then-undefeated Broncos as the group stayed winless. At the point when Chandler ran down with damage in late October, mentor Dan Reeves began Tony Graziani. In the blink of an eye a while later, Tolliver was discharged by the Falcons. Toward the beginning of November, Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Elvis Grbac was lost for the season because of a broken collarbone. Accordingly, the Chiefs marked Tolliver to a two-year contract as the third-string quarterback to supplant him. Tolliver completed the season having finished 64 goes in 116 endeavors for 677 yards, five touchdowns, and one capture attempt. Just a single of the 116 endeavors came as a Kansas City quarterback. The 1998 preseason started with Tolliver contending with Pat Barnes for the third-string quarterback work, however this finished when Tolliver was discharged by the Chiefs in August. 

After Saints quarterback Billy Joe Hobert was lost for the season with a cracked Achilles ligament, the Saints marked Tolliver to a two-year bargain. After four begins by Danny Wuerffel, Saints mentor Mike Ditka gave Tolliver the begin against the Atlanta Falcons. In the wake of beginning for about a month and having a couple of great exhibitions, Tolliver was sidelined for Kerry Collins, who completed the season as beginning quarterback. Tolliver completed the year with a standout amongst his most measurably amazing seasons, finishing 110 of 199 goes for 1,427 yards, eight touchdowns, four block attempts, and completing with a QB rating of 83.1. 

Tolliver began the 1999 season as Hobert's reinforcement. Hobert began the initial four amusements however was harmed, leaving Tolliver to begin against the Tennessee Titans on October 17 and the Giants the week after. Hobert began the following diversion, however endured a squeezed nerve in his neck, bringing about Tolliver's third beginning of the period against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Against the 49ers, he scored the third and fourth hurrying touchdowns of his vocation in transit to a 24– 6 win. In any case, the following week against the Jacksonville Jaguars, Tolliver endured a torn MCL, and he was viewed as liable to miss the remainder of the period. A little while later, Tolliver had ricocheted once more from his damage by "treating himself with some WD-40" and was named the starter in the December 12 amusement against the St. Louis Rams. Tolliver was again harmed the next week against the Baltimore Ravens, putting a conclusion to his season, which he completed with a 51.9 finish rate, 1,916 yards, seven touchdowns, 16 capture attempts, and a QB rating of 58.9. 

All through the 1999 season, Tolliver remained a vocal supporter of mentor Ditka regardless of the Saints' 3– 13 record, saying "I believe he's a hell of a football mentor, an incredible spark. We just got the opportunity to begin purchasing what he's selling." Ditka was terminated by the Saints, however as preparing camp for the 2000 season started, Tolliver was the Saints' reinforcement quarterback behind Jeff Blake. On August 1, the Saints exchanged for quarterback Aaron Brooks, which left Tolliver to go after the third-string spot close by Jake Delhomme. The Saints' program was diminished to 53 players, and Tolliver was among those cut. At the point when the Saints lost Jeff Blake for the season in mid-November because of a disjoined foot, Tolliver was re-marked by the Saints, however he didn't play an amusement that season. In July 2001, Tolliver was marked by the Green Bay Packers. This quickly rejoined him with Brett Favre, with whom he was colleagues in Atlanta. Be that as it may, he was cut on August 21, 2001 when Doug Pederson won the reinforcement occupation, and this spell denoted the finish of Tolliver's expert vocation. 

Tolliver was named after his uncle Joe and auntie Billie. He and his significant other, Sheila, have five youngsters, Charles, Austin, Mackenzie, Bryce, and Brody. 

Tolliver is an eager golfer and has played numerous superstar competitions. He is a four-time victor of the American Century Celebrity Golf Championship and won the $75,000 Isuzu Celebrity Golf Challenge in 1996. He is an ordinary contender at the American Century Championship in Lake Tahoe, the yearly challenge to decide the best golfers among American games and excitement superstars. He won the competition in 1996, 2005, 2010 (with another point record of 84 points) and 2013, and has a sum of fourteen top ten completions.