Yugoslav submarine Nebojša 

The Yugoslav submarine "Nebojša" was the second of the "Hrabri"- class diesel-electric submarines worked by the Vickers-Armstrong Naval Yard on the River Tyne in the United Kingdom, for the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia) and was propelled in 1927. Her structure depended on that of the British L-class submarine of World War I, and she was constructed utilizing parts initially amassed for a Royal Navy L-class submarine that was never fabricated. She was equipped with six bow-mounted torpedo tubes, two firearms and one assault rifle, and could jump to . 

Preceding World War II "Nebojša" took an interest in travels to a few Mediterranean ports. Amid the German-drove Axis attack of Yugoslavia in April 1941, she dodged catch by Italian powers, and joined British maritime powers in the Mediterranean where she played out a preparation job. After the war she was taken over by the new Yugoslav government and renamed Tara. She was inevitably stricken in 1954, and rejected in 1958. 

Yugoslav maritime approach in the interwar period needed course until the mid-1920s, despite the fact that it was commonly acknowledged that the Adriatic coastline was adequately an ocean wilderness that the maritime arm was in charge of verifying with the restricted assets made accessible to it. In 1926, an unassuming ten-year development program was started to develop a power of submarines, beach front torpedo pontoons, torpedo planes and ordinary aircraft flying machine to play out this job. The "Hrabri"- class submarines were one of the principal new acquisitions went for building up a maritime power equipped for meeting this test. 

"Nebojša" (Fearless) was worked in 1927 for the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia), by the Vickers-Armstrong Naval Yard on the River Tyne in the United Kingdom. Her plan depended on that of the British L-class submarine of World War I, and she was fabricated utilizing parts initially amassed for HMS "L-68", which was never finished. Alongside her sister submarine "Hrabri", she had a general length of , a light emission and a surfaced draft of . Her surfaced removal was or submerged, and her team comprised of 45 officers and enrolled men. She had an operational profundity of . 

The "Hrabri"- class had two shafts driven by two diesel motors (when surfaced) or two electric engines (when submerged). Their diesel motors were evaluated at and the electric engines at , and they were intended to achieve a top speed of under diesel control while surfaced, and on their electric engines when submerged. They were furnished with six bow-mounted torpedo tubes, and conveyed twelve torpedoes. They were additionally outfitted with two deck firearms (one forward and one behind of the conning tower), and one automatic weapon. Their range of activity was at . 

"Nebojša" was propelled in 1927 as the second submarine of the naval force of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, which later turned into the Royal Yugoslav Navy. Alongside her sister submarine "Hrabri", she left the Tyne in late January 1928. In organization with the Yugoslav submarine delicate , the two submarines landed in the Bay of Kotor on the southern Adriatic coast on 8 April 1928. In May and June 1929, "Hrabri", "Nebojša", "Hvar" and six torpedo pontoons went with the light cruiser "Dalmacija" on a journey to Malta, the Greek island of Corfu in the Ionian Sea, and Bizerte in the French protectorate of Tunisia. The British maritime attaché saw that the boats and teams established an exceptionally decent connection while visiting Malta. On 16 May 1930, "Nebojša" was practicing her group at periscope profundity close to the passage to the Bay of Kotor when she slammed into a Yugoslav steamship. The harm was not genuine and there were no wounds, yet her forward 102 mm firearm was lost over the edge. The vital fixes were done at the dockyard in the Bay of Kotor. 

In June and July 1930, "Hrabri", "Nebojša" and the armada helper "Sitnica" again traveled the Mediterranean, visiting Alexandria and Beirut. In 1932, the British maritime attaché revealed that Yugoslav boats occupied with few activities, moves or gunnery preparing because of decreased spending plans. In September 1933, "Nebojša" and the submarine "Osvetnik" traveled the southern piece of the focal Mediterranean. In August 1936, "Nebojša" and "Osvetnik" visited the Greek island of Corfu. 

Amid the German-drove Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, she and two "Orjen"- class engine torpedo water crafts sidestepped catch by Italian powers at the Bay of Kotor, touching base at Suda Bay, Crete, on 23 April, following eight days adrift. In spite of this, the Italians guaranteed that they had sunk all the Yugoslav vessels. "Nebojša" at that point cruised to Alexandria, yet the Royal Navy thought her unqualified for battle obligations. English Prime Minister Winston Churchill recommended her team may be retrained and used to work the as of late caught German Type VIIC U-watercraft "U-570", yet this thought was before long relinquished. She was based at Valletta in Malta as an enemy of submarine fighting preparing vessel, presenting with the British second Submarine Flotilla in 1942 and the British third Submarine Flotilla in 1943. She kept working in the Mediterranean until the finish of the war, however her administration with the Royal Navy seems to have been constrained to a preparation job. 

After the war she was towed first to Bari in Italy, at that point in August 1945 to the port of Split where she was redesignd, renamed "Tara" and given the flag number 801. She was then exchanged to Pula on the Istrian promontory in the northern Adriatic. Used to prepare the juvenile Yugoslav Navy submarine arm, she was stricken in 1954. One of her firearms was evacuated toward the finish of her profession, and she was in the end rejected in 1958. 

In 2011, to stamp the 70th commemoration of the attack of Yugoslavia, the Military Museum in Belgrade, Serbia facilitated a display which incorporated a banner from the "Nebojša". In April 2013, the 85th commemoration of the landing of the main Yugoslav submarines at the Bay of Kotor was set apart by an occasion in Tivat, Montenegro, gone to by many previous Yugoslav submariners.