Framework Shock 2 

Framework Shock 2 is a 1999 first-individual activity pretending survival awfulness computer game for PCs. The title was structured by Ken Levine and co-created by Irrational Games and Looking Glass Studios. Initially planned to be an independent title, its story was changed amid generation into a spin-off of the 1994 PC diversion "Framework Shock". The changes were made when Electronic Arts—who claimed the "Framework Shock" establishment rights—marked on as distributer. 

The diversion happens on board a starship in a cyberpunk delineation of 2114. The player expect the job of an officer attempting to stem the episode of a hereditary contamination that has crushed the ship. Like "Framework Shock", ongoing interaction comprises of first-individual battle and investigation. It additionally consolidates pretending framework components, in which the player can create aptitudes and qualities, for example, hacking and psionic capacities. 

"Framework Shock 2" was initially discharged in August 1999 for Microsoft Windows. The diversion got basic approval yet neglected to meet business deals desires. Numerous faultfinders later discovered that the diversion was exceptionally powerful in resulting amusement plan, especially on first-individual shooters, and considered it a long ways comparatively radical. It has been incorporated into a few "biggest rounds ever" records. In 2007, Irrational Games discharged an otherworldly successor to the "Framework Shock" arrangement, titled "BioShock", to basic recognition and solid deals. "Framework Shock 2" had been in protected innovation limbo following the conclusion of Looking Glass Studios. Night Dive Studios had the capacity to verify the rights to the diversion and "Framework Shock" establishment in 2013 to discharge a refreshed adaptation of "Framework Shock 2" for present day PCs, including for OS X and Linux frameworks. OtherSide Entertainment reported in 2015 that they have been authorized the rights from Night Dive Studios to deliver a spin-off, "Framework Shock 3". 

As in its ancestor, "Framework Shock", ongoing interaction in "Framework Shock 2" is an amalgamation of the activity pretending amusement and survival loathsomeness sorts. The engineers accomplished this ongoing interaction configuration by rendering the experience as a standard first-individual shooter and including a character customization and improvement framework, which are considered as signature pretend components. The player utilizes scuffle and shot weapons to overcome adversaries, while a pretending framework permits the advancement of helpful capacities. Route is exhibited from a first-individual view and supplemented with a heads-up presentation that demonstrates character and weapon data, a guide, and a simplified stock. 

The backstory is clarified dynamically through the player's securing of sound logs and experiences with spooky ghosts. Toward the start of the diversion, the player picks a profession in a part of the Unified National Nominate, an anecdotal military association. Each part of administration gives the player a lot of beginning rewards made out of specific aptitudes, however may from that point uninhibitedly create as the player picks. The Marine starts with rewards to weaponry, the Navy officer is gifted in fixing and hacking, and the OSA specialist gets a beginning arrangement of psionic powers. 

The player can redesign their aptitudes by utilizing "digital modules" given as remunerations for finishing targets, for example, looking through the ship and afterward spend them at gadgets called "digital overhaul units" to acquire upgraded abilities. Working framework (O/S) units permit one-time character moves up to be made (for example perpetual wellbeing upgrade). An in-amusement cash called "nanites" might be spent on things at candy machines, including ammo supplies and wellbeing packs. "Quantum Bio-Reconstruction Machines" can be enacted and reconstitute the player for 10 nanites in the event that they pass on inside the zone in which the machine lives. Something else, the diversion finishes and advancement must be continued from a spare point. The player can hack gadgets, for example, keypads to open interchange zones and candy machines to decrease costs. At the point when a hack is endeavored, a minigame starts that includes a framework of green hubs; the player must associate three of every a straight column to succeed. Alternatively, electronic lock picks, called "ICE-picks", can be discovered that will consequently hack a machine, paying little mind to its trouble. 

All through the amusement, the player can get different weapons, including skirmish weapons, guns, shotguns, and outsider weapons. Non-skirmish weapons corrupt with use and will break in the event that they are not normally fixed with upkeep instruments. There are an assortment of ammo types, every one of which is most harming to a particular foe. For instance, natural adversaries are helpless against people killing rounds, while mechanical enemies are frail against protective layer penetrating rounds. So also, vitality weapons cause the most harm against robots and cyborgs, and the annelid-made outlandish weaponry is especially unsafe to natural targets. Since ammo is rare, to be successful the player must utilize it sparingly and cautiously scan spaces for provisions. 

The amusement incorporates an exploration work. At the point when new articles are experienced in the diversion, particularly foes, their organs can be gathered and, when joined with synthetic substances found away rooms, the player can inquire about the adversaries and in this manner improve their harm against them. Essentially, some colorful weapons and things must be utilized in the wake of being investigated. OSA specialists adequately have a different weapons tree accessible to them. Psionic forces can be adapted, for example, imperceptibility, fireballs, and teleportation. 

In 2072, after the Citadel Station's destruction, TriOptimum's endeavors to conceal the episode were presented to the media and the organization was raised on charges from numerous people and organizations for the resulting embarrassment. The infection created there slaughtered the station's populace; the merciless noxious A.I supercomputer named SHODAN controlled, and in the end pulverized the Citadel Station with expectations of subjugating and wrecking humankind. After a monstrous number of preliminaries, the organization went bankrupt and their activities were closed down. The United Nations Nominate (UNN), an UN successor, was built up to battle the malignance and defilement of intensity hungry enterprises, including TriOptimum. Man-made consciousness was decreased to most simple errands so as to keep the production of another SHODAN-like pernicious AI, and advancement of new advances was stopped. In the mean time, the programmer, who turned into the most renowned individual on the planet, disappeared from open eye. 

In 2100, after 28 years, the organization's fizzled stocks and resources were purchased by a Russian oligarch named Anatoly Korenchkin, a previous bootleg market administrator who tried to make cash in genuine ways. He re-authorized and reestablished the organization to its previous status in the next decade. Alongside delivering human services and buyer items, Korenchkin marked weapons contracts with different military associations, private and political-claimed. The new UNN was for all intents and purposes feeble with Korenchkin practicing power over them. 

In January 2114, 42 years after the Citadel occasions and 12 years into remaking TriOptimum, the organization made a test FTL starship, the "Von Braun", which is currently on its first venture. The ship is likewise trailed by an UNN space vessel, the "Rickenbacker", which is constrained by Captain William Bedford Diego, child of Edward Diego, the Citadel Station's scandalous administrator and open legend of the Battle of the Boston Harbor amid the Eastern States Police Action. Since the "Rickenbacker" does not have its very own FTL arrangement, the two boats are connected for the trek. Be that as it may, Korenchkin was sufficiently pretentious to make himself the chief of the "Von Braun" in spite of being unpracticed. 

In July 2114, 5 months into the voyage, the boats react to a misery motion from the planet Tau Ceti V, outside the Solar System. A salvage group is sent to the planet's surface where they find peculiar eggs; these eggs, found in an old discharge case, contaminate the salvage group and coordinate them into an outsider fellowship known as "the Many" - a clairvoyant hive mind produced by parasitic worms which can taint and transform a human host. The parasites in the end spread to the two ships and dominate or slaughter a large portion of their teams. 

Attributable to a PC glitch, the rest of the warrior stirs with amnesia in a cryo-tube on the therapeutic deck of the "Von Braun", being embedded with an illicit digital neural interface. He is promptly reached by another survivor, Dr. Janice Polito, who guides him to security before the lodge depressurizes. She requests that he meets her on deck 4 of the Von Braun. En route, the officer fights the contaminated group individuals. The Many likewise clairvoyantly speak with him, endeavoring to persuade him to go along with them. In the wake of restarting the ship's motor center, the fighter achieves deck 4 and finds that Polito is dead. He is then gone up against by SHODAN. It is uncovered she has been acting like Polito to pick up the officer's trust. 

SHODAN makes reference to that she is in charge of making the Many through her bioengineering investigates Citadel Station. The Hacker, who made her, catapulted the woods that contained her tests to avoid them defiling Earth, a demonstration that permitted piece of SHODAN to make due in the forest. The forest accident arrived on Tau Ceti V. While SHODAN went into constrained hibernation, The Many developed outside her ability to control. SHODAN tells the trooper that his solitary possibility for survival lies in crushing her manifestations. Endeavors to recapture control of XERXES, the principle PC on the "Von Braun", come up short. SHODAN advises the trooper that devastating the ship is their solitary choice, however he should transmit her program to the "Rickenbacker" first. While in transit, the officer quickly experiences two survivors, Thomas "Tommy" Suarez and Rebecca Siddons, who escape the ship on board a break unit. 

With the exchange total, the trooper goes to the "Rickenbacker" and learns the two boats have been encompassed by the contamination's source, a colossal mass of bio-natural tissue that has folded itself around the two boats. The officer enters the biomass and annihilates its center, halting the contamination. SHODAN salutes him and recounts her aims to blend genuine space and the internet through the "Von Braun's" quicker than-light drive. The warrior stands up to SHODAN in the internet and thrashings her. The last scene demonstrates Tommy and Rebecca accepting a message from the "Von Braun". Tommy reacts, saying they will return and noticing that Rebecca is acting peculiar. Rebecca is appeared in a SHODAN-like voice, inquiring as to whether he "prefers her new look", as the screen blurs to dark. 

Improvement of "Framework Shock 2" started in 1997 when Looking Glass Studios moved toward Irrational Games with a plan to co-build up another diversion. The improvement group were enthusiasts of "Framework Shock" and tried to make a comparable diversion. Early story thoughts were like the novella "Heart of Darkness". In an early draft, the player was entrusted with killing a crazy administrator on a starship. The first title of the amusement, as indicated by its pitch record, was "Intersection Point". The logic of the plan was to keep on building up the idea of a cell crawler, as "", in a sci-fi setting, the reason for "Framework Shock". In any case, the press mixed up "Framework Shock" to be more like a "Fate" clone which was refered to for poor budgetary achievement of "Framework Shock". With "Intersection Point", the objective was to include huge pretending components and a constant storyline as to remove the amusement from "Fate". 

The title took 18 months to make with a financial plan of $1.7 million and was pitched to a few distributers until Electronic Arts—who claimed the rights to the "Stun" establishment—reacted by proposing the diversion become a spin-off of "Framework Shock". The advancement group concurred; Electronic Arts turned into the distributer and story changes were made to join the establishment. The venture was designated one year to be finished and to make up for the brief timeframe outline, the staff started working with Looking Glass Studio's incomplete Dark Engine, a similar motor used to make "". 

The creators included pretending components in the diversion. Like "Ultima Underworld", another Looking Glass Studios venture, the earth in "Framework Shock 2" is diligent and continually changes without the player's quality. Paper-and-pencil pretending diversions were compelling; the character customization framework depended on "Traveller"s philosophy and was actualized in the anecdotal military branches which, by permitting numerous character ways, the player could get an increasingly open-finished interactivity experience. Loathsomeness was a key concentration and four noteworthy focuses were recognized to effectively join it. Seclusion was considered essential, which brought about the player having minimal physical contact with other aware creatures. Besides, a powerlessness was made by concentrating on a delicate character. Last were the consideration of ill humored audio effects and "the insightful arrangement of lighting and shadows". The amusement's lead originator, Ken Levine, regulated the arrival of "Framework Shock" lowlife SHODAN. Some portion of Levine's plan was to partner the player with her, as he trusted that amusement characters were excessively trusting, expressing "heroes are great, trouble makers are awful. What you see and see is genuine". Levine tried to challenge this thought by having SHODAN sell out the player: "Now and then characters are double-crossed, yet the "player" never is. I needed to abuse that trust and make the player feel that "they", and not [only] the character, were driven on and deluded". This structure decision was disputable with the advancement group. 

A few issues were experienced amid the undertaking. Since the group contained two programming organizations, pressure rose in regards to work assignments and a few designers left the task. Moreover, numerous representatives were to a great extent unpracticed, however everything considered undertaking administrator Jonathan Chey felt this was worthwhile, expressing "inability additionally reared excitement and responsibility that probably won't have been available with an increasingly bored arrangement of designers." The Dark Engine presented issues of its own. It was incomplete, driving the developers to fix programming bugs when experienced. Interestingly, working intimately with the motor code enabled them to compose extra highlights. Not all misfortunes were confined; an exhibition work at E3 was frustrated when it was mentioned all firearms be expelled from the introduction because of then-late Columbine High School slaughter. 

A demo for the amusement, including an instructional exercise and 33% of the main mission, was discharged on August 2, 1999. After nine days, "Framework Shock 2" was delivered to retailers. An improvement fix was discharged a month later and included critical highlights, for example, co-usable multiplayer and power over weapon corruption and adversary respawn rates. A port was made arrangements for the Dreamcast however was dropped. 

Around 2000, with the finish of-support for the amusement by the engineer and distributer, remaining bugs and similarity with more up to date working frameworks and equipment turned into a developing issue. To repay the missing help, a few fanatics of the amusement ended up dynamic in the modding network to refresh the diversion. For example, the "Resurrection" graphical improvement mod supplanted some low-polygonal models with higher quality ones, a "Stun Texture Upgrade Project" expanded the goals of surfaces, and a refreshed dimension supervisor was discharged by the client network. In 2009, a total duplicate of "Framework Shock 2"s Dark Engine source code was found in the ownership of an ex-Looking Glass Studios representative who was at the time proceeding with his work for Eidos Interactive. In late April 2010, a client on the Dreamcast Talk gathering dismantled the substance of a Dreamcast advancement pack he had obtained. In 2012 a few informal updates for "Framework Shock 2" (and other Dark Engine-based recreations) were distributed. 

The protected innovation (IP) privileges of "Framework Shock 2" were gotten for quite a long time in confusions between Electronic Arts and Meadowbrook Insurance Group (the parent organization of Star Insurance Company), the element that procured the benefits of Looking Glass Studios on their conclusion, however as indicated by a legal advisor for Star Insurance, they themselves have since obtained the waiting licensed innovation rights from EA. 

In October 2012 Stephen Kick of Night Dive Studios, trying to convey the amusement to present day frameworks, began exchanges with the rights holders and had the capacity to verify the rights. Kick worked with GOG.com for a planned select discharge on their advanced dispersion site on February 2013, where the amusement was the most mentioned to be added to the index. This form, considered by GOG.com to be an "authority's release", consolidates fan-made updates to the first amusement to make it chip away at present day frameworks arranged by a mysterious client named "Le Corbeau". What's more, the updates permit client made alterations to be connected all the more consistently. The discharge likewise contains extra material, for example, the diversion's soundtrack, maps of the Von Braun, and the first pitch report for the amusement. The update rights likewise permitted a Mac OS X rendition of "Framework Shock 2" to be along these lines discharged on June 18, 2013, through GOG.com. The title was later additionally accessible on Steam on May 10, 2013. In April 2014 a Linux form was additionally discharged. 

From that point forward, Night Dive Studios likewise obtained the rights to "Framework Shock", discharging an improved adaptation of the diversion in September 2015. Kick has revealed they have procured full rights to the arrangement from that point forward. 

"Framework Shock 2" got basic recognition. It got over twelve honors, including seven "Round of the Year" prizes. Audits were extremely positive and commended the title for its half and half ongoing interaction, touchy sound structure, and drawing in story. "Framework Shock 2" is viewed by pundits as exceedingly powerful, especially on first-individual shooters and the repulsiveness classification. In a review article, GameSpot announced the title "well relatively revolutionary" and expressed that it "raised the stakes in emotional and mechanical terms" by making a terrible ongoing interaction experience. In spite of basic praise, the title did not perform well economically; just 58,671 duplicates were sold by April 2000. 

A few productions adulated the title for its open-finished ongoing interaction. With respect to character customization, Trent Ward of IGN expressed the best component of the pretending framework was enabling gamers to "play the diversion as totally extraordinary characters", and felt this made each play-through remarkable. Erik Reckase composing for Just Adventure concurred, saying "There are not many diversions that permit you [to] play the manner in which you need". Alec Norands of Allgame trusted that the distinctive character classes made the amusement "differing enough to request moment replayability". Robert Mayer from "PC Games Magazine" called "Framework Shock 2" "a diversion that really resists order in a solitary classification", and guaranteed that "the activity is once in a while quick paced, it's all the more frequently strategic, putting a premium on thought as opposed to on reflexes." 

Various commentators depicted the diversion as alarming. "PC and Video Games" portrayed the air as "grasping" and ensured perusers they would "hop out of [their] skin" various occasions. Allgame found the sound plan especially powerful, calling it "completely, teeth-clenchingly exasperating", while "PC Gamer"s William Harms initiated "Framework Shock 2" as the most terrifying amusement he had ever played. A few faultfinders observed the weapon corruption framework to chafe, and individuals from the advancement group have likewise communicated second thoughts about the framework. The pretending framework was another purpose of conflict; GameSpot depicted the activity framework as "seriously unequal" in light of the fact that the player can create abilities outside their profession decision. Allgame felt also about the framework, saying it "inclined towards a programmer character". 

Alongside "Deus Ex", Sid Shuman of "GamePro" dedicated "Framework Shock 2" "[one of the] twin barrels of current [first-individual shooter] development", attributable to its intricate pretending interactivity. IGN author Cam Shea alluded to the amusement as "another rehash of the FPS kind", refering to the story, characters, and RPG framework. "PC Zone" commended the amusement as a "fantastic case of an advanced PC diversion" and named it "a science fiction ghastliness artful culmination". The title has been accepted into various highlights posting the best diversions at any point made, including ones by GameSpy, "Edge" , "Realm", IGN, GameSpot and "PC Gamer". IGN additionally positioned "Framework Shock 2" as the 35th most prominent first-individual shooter ever. X-Play considered it the second scariest round ever, behind "Quiet Hill 2". SHODAN has ended up being a mainstream character among most pundits, including IGN, GameSpot and "The Phoenix". 

"Framework Shock 2" won "PC Gamer US"s 1999 "Best Roleplaying Game" and "Extraordinary Achievement in Sound" grants, and was a sprinter up in the magazine's in general "Round of the Year" class. The editors of "PC Gaming World" named it for their "Pretending Game of the Year" prize, which at last went to "". 

"Framework Shock 2" has amassed a religion following, with fans requesting a continuation. On January 9, 2006, GameSpot revealed that Electronic Arts had restored its trademark insurance on the "Framework Shock" name, prompting theory that "Framework Shock 3" may be a work in progress. After three days, "PC and Video Games" announced a dependable source had approached and affirmed the title's generation. Electronic Arts UK made no remark when defied with the data. "PC Gamer UK" expressed the group behind "" (EA Redwood Shores) was accused of its creation. Ken Levine, when asked whether he would steerage the third portion, answered: "that question is totally out of my hands". He communicated hopefulness at the possibility of "Framework Shock 3", yet uncovered that EA had not appeared in his own proposition for a continuation, and was not idealistic with respect to their capacities. Electronic Arts did not affirm another title in the arrangement and permitted the "Framework Shock" trademark enrollment to slip by. Redwood Shores' next discharge was 2008's "Dead Space", an amusement with noted likenesses in topic and introduction to the "Framework Shock" arrangement. As per "Dead Space" creators Ben Wanat and Wright Bagwell, their venture was initially proposed to be "Framework Shock 3", preceding the arrival of "Occupant Evil 4" enlivened them to return to the planning phase and form it into something more thusly, in the long run ending up "Dead Space". 

In November 2015, Night Dive Studios, in the wake of securing the rights to the "Framework Shock" establishment, expressed they are thinking about building up a third title in the arrangement. In December 2015, OtherSide Entertainment, a studio established by previous Looking Glass Studios architect Paul Neurath, reported they were creating "Framework Shock 3" with rights conceded to them by Night Dive Studios. OtherSide had procured rights to make spin-offs of "Framework Shock" a few years before this point however did not reserve the options to the arrangement name, which Night Dive had the capacity to give. The spin-off will highlight Terri Brosius repeating her voice for SHODAN, and will incorporate work from unique "Framework Shock" idea craftsman Robb Waters. Warren Spector, the maker of the principal "Framework Shock", declared in February 2016 that he has joined OtherSide Entertainment and will take a shot at "Framework Shock 3". As indicated by Spector, the story will get promptly from the finish of "Framework Shock 2", with SHODAN having assumed control over Rebecca's body. Starbreeze Studios is giving a $12 million "distributing just" interest in "Framework Shock 3", permitting OtherSide to hold all rights while looking for a 120% rate of profitability pursued by equivalent offers of income part. Starbreeze's venture will enable the amusement to be produced for consoles notwithstanding the arranged PC forms. In any case, in the wake of a few monetary issues in late 2018, Starbreeze has given back the distributing rights to "Framework Shock 3" to OtherSide, and isolated itself from the undertaking. "Framework Shock 3" will utilize the Unity amusement motor, with a mystery appeared amid Unity's press occasion at the 2019 Game Developers Conference. 

In 2007, Irrational Games—quickly known as 2K Boston/2K Australia—discharged an otherworldly successor to the "Framework Shock" arrangement, entitled "BioShock". The diversion happens in a relinquished submerged idealistic network annihilated by the hereditary adjustment of its people and offers numerous interactivity components with "Framework Shock 2": reconstitution stations can be initiated, enabling the player to be restored when they bite the dust; hacking, ammunition preservation, and investigation are basic pieces of ongoing interaction; and extraordinary forces might be gained by means of plasmids, unique capacities that work comparably to psionics in "Framework Shock 2". The two titles additionally share plot likenesses and utilize sound logs and experiences with spooky spirits to uncover backstory. In "BioShock Infinite", Irrational Games incorporated an interactivity highlight called "1999 Mode", explicitly in reference to "Framework Shock 2"s discharge year, intended to furnish a comparative diversion involvement with a higher trouble and dependable impacts of decisions made that would help players to remember "Framework Shock"s unforgiving nature. 

In 2017, Arkane Studios distributed "Prey", which happens on a space station named "Talos I", like "Framework Shock". It, as well, highlights psionic capacities, as "Neuromods", as a central ongoing interaction highlight, and uses a blend of sound logs and bits of content to propel the diversion's backstory. "Prey" likewise includes components like hacking, making, and highlights an overwhelming accentuation on side-journey investigation and watchful preservation of ammo and "Psi Points", player detail that controls what number of psi capacities can be utilized. The amusement highlights group individuals who have turned out to be tainted, however, not as the aftereffect of an AI, yet rather as the consequence of a disappointment of regulation around a baffling outsider animal categories known as the Typhon. Inside the diversion, references are made to "Framework Shock"s designers, for example, the "Mirror" innovation that assumes a noteworthy job in the story's plot.