First Tennessee Park 

First Tennessee Park is a baseball park in downtown Nashville, Tennessee, United States. The home of the Triple-A Nashville Sounds of the Pacific Coast League (PCL), it opened on April 17, 2015, and can situate up to 10,000 people. It supplanted the Sounds' previous home, Herschel Greer Stadium, where the group played from its establishing in 1978 until 2014. 

The recreation center was based on the site of the previous Sulfur Dell, a small time ballpark being used from 1870 to 1963. It is situated among Third and Fifth Avenues on the east and west (home plate, the pitcher's hill, and a respectable halfway point are straightforwardly in accordance with Fourth Avenue to the arena's north and south) and between Junior Gilliam Way and Harrison Street on the north and south. The Nashville horizon can be seen from the arena toward the south. 

The plan of the recreation center fuses components of Nashville's baseball and melodic legacy and the utilization of symbolism enlivened by Sulfur Dell, the city's previous baseball players and groups, and down home music. Its most unmistakable component is its guitar-formed scoreboard—a successor to the first guitar scoreboard at Greer Stadium. The ballpark's wide concourse wraps completely around the arena and gives perspectives on the field from each area. A scenic route past the outfield divider associates with two different scenic routes in the city. 

In spite of the fact that fundamentally a scene for the Nashville Sounds, other university and secondary school baseball crews situated in the region, for example, the Vanderbilt Commodores and Belmont Bruins, have played a few recreations at First Tennessee Park. It is likewise home to the City of Hope Celebrity Softball Game. Since 2018, it has been the home arena of Nashville SC, a soccer crew playing in the United Soccer League Championship. 

As ahead of schedule as 2006, the Nashville Sounds had wanted to leave Herschel Greer Stadium for another ballpark to be called First Tennessee Field, yet the task was deserted after the city, engineers, and group couldn't settle on an arrangement to back its development. Rather, Greer was fixed and moved up to keep it near Triple-A gauges until another arena could be fabricated. In late 2013, discusses the development of another ballpark were resuscitated. Three conceivable locales were distinguished by the engineering firm Populous as being reasonable for another arena: the east bank of the Cumberland River, the North Gulch zone, and Sulfur Dell. Sulfur Dell, the site of the city's unique ballpark from 1870 to 1963, was picked. 

Civic chairman Karl Dean drafted plans for financing the arena and obtaining the important land from the state. The arrangement included the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County (Metro) getting the state-possessed Sulfur Dell property—at that point being used as a parking garage for state workers—in return for paying the state $18 million for the development of a 1,000-vehicle parking structure on the site and $5 million for an underground parking structure beneath the proposed new state library and chronicles. The city likewise gained the arrive on which the Nashville School of the Arts is found. 

The financing plan included open and private subsidizing. At the time, the city intended to pay $75 million for the obtaining of the land and development of the arena venture. Be that as it may, a 2017 review uncovered that it had really paid $91 million in the wake of representing extra expenses related with the sped up calendar and framework work around the task site. The arena is claimed by the city and is rented to the group for 30 years, until 2045. The Sounds possession gather consented to burn through $50 million on another, blended use and retail improvement situated on a plot adjoining the ballpark toward the east. This land was sold to Chris and Tim Ward, children of co-proprietor Frank Ward, on which a two-story retail focus is relied upon to be finished by April 2019. The development of a 285-unit multi-family loft working past the left field divider, to be known as The Derby, is probably gotten ready for finish in 2020, however, , development has not started. North of the site, Embrey Development constructed a secretly supported 306-unit extravagance high rise called The Carillon. The city's unique $75 million arranged consumption brought about assuming $4.3 million in yearly obligation, paid for by five city income streams: a yearly $700,000 Sounds' rent installment, $650,000 in arena created deals charge income, $750,000 in property charges from the Ward siblings' improvements, $675,000 in property charges from the Embrey advancement, and $520,000 in assessment increase financing. The extra overage was paid with existing Metro capital assets. The city pays $345,000 for yearly support of the arena. 

Memphis-based bank First Tennessee obtained the naming rights to the arena for a long time with a possibility for a further ten years, naming it First Tennessee Park. Money related terms of the arrangement were not uncovered. First Tennessee's name had been connected to the group's past endeavor at structure another arena 10 years sooner. 

The ballpark venture got the remainder of its important supports from the Metro Council, the State Building Commission, and the Nashville Sports Authority on December 10, 2013. Weighty occurred on January 27, 2014; the open service was gone to by Mayor Dean, Sounds proprietor Frank Ward, Minor League Baseball president Pat O'Conner, and Milwaukee Brewers General Manager Doug Melvin. At the time, the Sounds were the Triple-A subsidiary of the Brewers. 

The development group started site unearthing on March 3, 2014. Laborers exhumed ancient rarities dating to around 1150 AD. Flame pits and broken bits of clay skillet were found in the ground beneath what might be left field. Archeologists trust the zone was the site of a Native American settlement and that the ancient rarities were the remainders of a workshop where mineral water from underground sulfur-bearing springs was bubbled to gather salt. The antiquities are on changeless showcase in the Tennessee State Museum's Mississippian Period display. A bit of the property was utilized as a city burial ground during the 1800s. The buried were moved. 

Development of the ballpark's steel outline started on August 18; of steel and of cement were utilized. By November 3, the establishment and testing of the arena's without four standing light shafts and two concourse-based lighting exhibits had started. Establishment of the 8,500 seats began on January 20, 2015. The guitar-molded scoreboard started to be introduced on February 23. On March 19, the home plate from Greer Stadium was exchanged to First Tennessee Park, and teams started laying the turf. 

Amid development, the requirement for new water and electrical supply lines emerged. Since these were not figured into the first $65 million cost, another $5 million was appropriated from existing capital assets. Another $5 million was later required to pay for cleaning polluted soil, expanded sub-contractual worker evaluating, extra work costs brought about by postponements brought about by snow and ice, and redesigns including the guitar-molded scoreboard. The Sounds proprietorship group contributed $2 million toward the expense of the scoreboard. These and other extra consumptions, for example, a $9.5 million scenic route, $5.6 million for road clearing, walkways, and electrical work, and $3.6 million in flood counteractive action, brought the all out development cost of the arena to $56 million and the absolute expense of the task to $91 million. 

First Tennessee Park got LEED silver affirmation by the U.S. Green Building Council in April 2015 for its dimension of natural manageability and for utilizing procedures for dependable site improvement, water investment funds, vitality effectiveness, materials determination, and indoor ecological quality. A portion of the ballpark's earth amicable activities incorporate a green rooftop on a concessions working along right field, water gathering, and a downpour garden. An area of scenic route past the outfield divider associates the Cumberland River Greenway to the Bicentennial Mall Greenway. The undertaking group additionally redirected or reused 90 percent of development squander from landfills, and just about 33% of structure materials were provincially sourced. 

In the ballpark's debut amusement on April 17, 2015, the Sounds crushed the Colorado Springs Sky Sox, 3– 2 of every 10 innings, affability of a stroll off twofold hit by Max Muncy that scored Billy Burns from a respectable starting point. Nashville pitcher Arnold León recorded the principal strikeout at First Tennessee Park when Colorado Springs' Matt Long struck out swinging as the leadoff hitter at the highest point of the primary inning. The recreation center's previously hit was a left field single that came in the highest point of the second inning off the bat of Colorado Springs' Matt Clark. Clark likewise recorded the arena's first RBI, slapping a solitary to focus field in the fourth inning that sent Luis Sardiñas over the plate for the recreation center's originally run. The principal grand slam in the recreation center's history was hit by Nashville's Joey Wendle four diversions later on April 21 against the Oklahoma City Dodgers. 

Tickets for the home opener, which went on special March 23, sold out in around 15 minutes. In spite of the fact that berm and standing-room-just tickets are regularly sold just upon the arrival of amusements, the group started selling these ahead of time of the primary diversion because of intense interest. Paid participation for the primary amusement was a standing-room just horde of 10,459. Prior to the amusement, Mayor Dean tossed out the formal first pitch. "The Star-Spangled Banner" was performed by Charles Esten (a star of the TV arrangement "Nashville"), who additionally sang at the recreation center's strip cutting service prior in the day. Additionally present at the lace cutting were group proprietors Masahiro Honzawa and Frank Ward, Pacific Coast League president Branch B. Rickey, Oakland Athletics president Michael Crowley, Mayor Dean, and individuals from the Metro Council who casted a ballot to affirm financing for the arena. The Sounds were, as of now, the Triple-An associate of the Athletics. 

By the top pick break in mid-July, participation had achieved 332,604, a higher participation than in the whole 2014 season at Greer Stadium, which had totaled 323,961 individuals more than 66 amusements. Toward the finish of the 71-diversion 2015 season, 565,548 individuals had gone to an amusement at First Tennessee Park, for a normal participation of 7,965 for every amusement, contrasted with 4,909 for each amusement for the last season at Greer. The ballpark's participation record was set two years after the fact, when on July 3, 2017, 11,764 people watched the Sounds play against the Oklahoma City Dodgers the evening of the group's Independence Day festivity, a 6– 5 Sounds misfortune. 

Notwithstanding other between-innings diversion at the recreation center, for example, amusements and giveaways, the Sounds included the Country Legends Race in 2016. It is like real alliance mascot races, for example, the Sausage Race and Presidents Race. Each diversion amid the center of the fifth inning, individuals in larger than usual froth exaggeration outfits portraying nation artists Johnny Cash, George Jones, Reba McEntire, and Dolly Parton race around the notice track from focus field, through the meeting warm up area, and to the home plate side of the a respectable starting point hole. 

First Tennessee Park was home to its first postseason baseball in 2016 when the Sounds contended in recreations three, four, and five of the Pacific Coast League American Conference title against Oklahoma City. The Sounds won the primary amusement, 6– 5, however lost the following two recreations and the meeting title to the Dodgers, 7– 1 and 10– 9. 

The Sounds will have the Texas Rangers, their Major League Baseball (MLB) subsidiary, at First Tennessee Park for a display amusement on March 24, 2019. This will be the first MLB display diversion held in Nashville since 1999 at Greer Stadium. 

Nashville SC, an extension soccer crew of the United Soccer League, went into a one-year consent to play its debut 2018 season at First Tennessee Park. The club contended in a preseason presentation Major League Soccer (MLS) coordinate against Atlanta United FC on February 10, 2018, in the first-since forever soccer coordinate played at the recreation center. Nashville was vanquished in the midst of a rainstorm by Atlanta, 3– 1, before a horde of 9,059 people. The recreation center's first objective was scored by Atlanta forward Josef Martínez in the 58th moment. Ropapa Mensah, the most youthful player on the Nashville squad, scored the principal objective in Nashville SC establishment history in the 64th moment. Nashville's first normal season home match, booked for March 24 versus the Pittsburgh Riverhounds, was moved to Nissan Stadium so as to oblige a more prominent number of fans. Their second home match was played at First Tennessee Park on April 7 against the Charlotte Independence before a horde of 7,487. Nashville SC won, 2– 0, on forward Alan Winn's objective in the 24th moment; Mensah included a second objective in the 91st moment. The group's most noteworthy participation happened on October 13 when 9,083 fans watched Nashville play to a 3– 3 draw versus FC Cincinnati in the season finale. At First Tennessee Park, Nashville SC's 2018 season participation totaled 125,390 over 15 games, with a normal participation of 8,359 for every diversion. In anticipation of playing their whole 2019 timetable at the recreation center, they contended in a preseason well disposed against MLS side New York City FC on February 22. Nashville tumbled to New York, 2– 0, in the downpour splashed match gone to by 5,384. 

First Tennessee Park started facilitating the yearly City of Hope Celebrity Softball Game in 2015. Begun in 1990, the occasion is played amid the CMA Music Festival held in Nashville, and was recently held at Herschel Greer Stadium from 1991 to 2014. Two groups of blue grass music stars speaking to the Grand Ole Opry and iHeartRadio contend in the amusement with all returns going to subsidize the exploration and treatment of malignancy, diabetes, and other dangerous infections. Past members have included Carrie Underwood, Darius Rucker, Florida Georgia Line, Jason Aldean, Luke Bryan, and Vince Gill. Over $200,000 was raised from the primary amusement held at the recreation center. 

On March 29, 2016, the Vanderbilt Commodores and Belmont Bruins turned into the main university groups to play at the office. The Commodores crushed the Bruins, 8– 2, before a horde of 3,782 people. Vanderbilt, Belmont, and the Lipscomb Bisons have since played consequent recreations at the setting. The recreation center additionally facilitated a couple of Reviving Baseball in Inner Cities youth diversions in its first season. Since 2016, the course of the Rock 'n' Roll Nashville Marathon has driven sprinters to finish a lap around the field's notice track. The first non-game held at First Tennessee Park was the Nashville Brew Festival, hung on October 3, 2015. The celebration highlighted over 50 breweries offering boundless lager with paid confirmation. On July 16, 2016, the recreation center facilitated the main "Huge Guitar Brewfest", a name which alludes to the ballpark's huge guitar-formed scoreboard, highlighting more than fifty neighborhood and art distilleries, four alcohol inspecting tents, and nourishment from The Band Box and snack bars. It has come to be a yearly occasion. 

The Nashville-based American musical crew Kings of Leon, with opener Dawes, performed at First Tennessee Park on September 29, 2017, in the primary show held in the ballpark. 

After Sulfur Dell was destroyed on April 16, 1969, the ballpark's indented field was filled in with shake, soil, and the remaining parts of the obliterated Andrew Jackson Hotel. It was then changed over to various state-possessed parking areas for the close-by Tennessee State Capitol. While Sulfur Dell was settled in a region that was home to the city's landfill, stockyards, the Atlantic Ice House building, and different distribution centers, First Tennessee Park is presently encompassed by new condos, stopping slopes, and eateries. The exterior at the home plate entrance on the arena's north side is built from cast ultra-elite solid boards, zinc boards, and a variety of windows that extends over the full width of the passageway. Toward the south of the arena, past the outfield divider, is a region that associates the city's Cumberland River Greenway to the Bicentennial Mall Greenway. It will be available to people in general on non-diversion days after the encompassing loft structures and retail spaces are finished. 

The show off has a wide concourse that folds over the playing field. The field is recessed beneath the road level concourse so it very well may be seen from the passages and seats. A large portion of the on-field activity can be seen from the concourse; TVs demonstrating live feeds of the diversion are situated there. The seating bowl gives perspectives on Nashville's horizon toward the south. 

The ballpark was worked to withstand a 100-year flood since it is situated on a flood plain. Prior to its redevelopment, the zone, including the first Sulfur Dell ballpark, was inclined to normal flooding from the close-by Cumberland River and it overflowed amid the 2010 Tennessee floods. To avoid water harm, the show off has an acrylic floor covering and the field-level suites are outfitted with separable planks of flooring, nourishment administration tables mounted on casters, and raised floor outlets and electrical switches. 

The ballpark's structure is motivated by Nashville's legacy, as plan components all through the recreation center consolidate melodic and baseball symbolism to interface the recreation center with the city's past. Directional signs are joined by data about previous Nashville players, for example, Al Maul, Tom Rogers, and Turkey Stearnes. The recreation center's suites incorporate shows about Sulfur Dell, the Nashville Vols, a small time group that played there from 1901 to 1961, and in 1963, and other past groups from Nashville. The back of the outfield divider's green metal player's eye has a tin sign denoting the previous area of Sulfur Dell's marquee proclaiming, "Site of Sulfur Dell, Baseball's Most Historic Park, 1870– 1963". A progression of nine vertical boards on the correct field scenic route give data on the historical backdrop of baseball in Nashville from the 1860s through 1963. Another five boards past left field detail certainties about the ancient times of the site. Light stanchions in the show off and the outfield look like the lights introduced at Sulfur Dell. Subtleties including guitar pick-molded seating signage and the utilization of the Sounds' hues distinguish the ballpark with Nashville's blue grass music legacy and mirror the visual personality of the group. 

Before the ballpark's second season in 2016, extra security netting was included behind home plate which stretched out the defensive netting to cover the seating region behind the two burrows. Different increments to the ballpark included six roof fans on the concourse, new water fountains and water bottle filling stations, the opening of a middle field entrance adjoining the new parking structure past right-focus field, and upgrades to the kids' fun zone on the a respectable starting point side. 

The playing surface at First Tennessee Park is secured with of Bermuda Tifway 419 grass turf that was developed on a homestead in San Antonio, Texas, at that point over-seeded with of enduring rye-grass. Over of red mud infield soil was gotten from Laceys Spring, Alabama. The notice track encompassing the field is made of squashed red shale over of sand and of rock. The field is outfitted with a waste framework fit for depleting of water every hour. 

The separation from home plate to the outfield divider ranges from in left field, in focus field, and in right field. First Tennessee Park's correct field divider was set at this shorter-than-typical separation to pay respect to Sulfur Dell's short right field fence that deliberate just . The stopping board is around behind the home plate. The field is set underneath the road level concourse. 

The burrows, which measure by , are sufficiently huge to suit each group's staff without the requirement for help pitchers to sit in the warm up areas. The Sounds' burrow is situated on the third-base side; the meeting group's is situated on the a respectable starting point side. Warm up areas are situated in a foul area along the left-field and right-field lines close to the side of the outfield divider. The home clubhouse has wooden storage spaces, two lounge chairs, three card tables, and a middle table. There is a joined kitchen with two full-measure coolers and space for hot and cold providing food. Other player courtesies incorporate substantial, indoor batting confines, a completely prepared exercise room, and a family space for players' accomplices and kids. In 2016, the umpire changing area was named after previous Major League Baseball umpire and Nashville local Chuck Meriwether. 

In its first season, First Tennessee Park built up a notoriety for being a pitcher's park. In 2015, its park factors were altogether lower than those at different ballparks in the Pacific Coast League (PCL) and crosswise over Triple-A baseball. The recreation center had the least run and grand slam variables of all 30 Triple-A groups, and its hits factor was the fifth-most reduced in Triple-An and the fourth-most minimal in the PCL. In 2016, the recreation center had the least grand slam factors in Triple-An, its runs factor was the 6th most minimal in Triple-An and fifth-least in the PCL, and its hits factor was the seventh-most minimal in Triple-An and the 6th most minimal in the PCL. 

The recreation center was chosen to win the 2016 Tennessee Turfgrass Association's Professional Sports Field of the Year Award, remembering it as the state's top elite athletics field with a characteristic grass playing surface. 

At the point when designed for soccer, one side of the field runs parallel to the a respectable starting point line with the other sideline running from left to right field. One objective is situated past the third base burrow, and the other is close to one side focus field divider. The pitcher's hill is expelled, and the infield earth and segments of the notice track are sodded over. The pitch measures . 

One of Greer Stadium's most particular highlights was its guitar-formed scoreboard. After First Tennessee Park was affirmed, the group reported it would not be moving the first Greer scoreboard, which was mechanically obsolete and hard to keep up, to the new arena. While plans for First Tennessee Park's scoreboard were at first undisclosed, after overpowering help for Greer's guitar from the network, the group reported designs for a bigger, progressively present day guitar-molded scoreboard for the new ballpark. The new guitar scoreboard, paid for completely by the Sounds, was planned by TS Sports related to Panasonic, and was introduced past the right-focus field divider on the concourse. 

The scoreboard, which has a top quality LED screen, is situated amidst the concourse; guests entering or leaving the recreation center through the arena's correct field entrance on Fifth Avenue go under it. Barring the neck and the outskirts of the body and headstock, the outside of the guitar is made out of LED screens. Generally speaking, the guitar measures , its body show is , the headstock show is , and the six tuning pegs are each. While the scoreboard at Greer was equipped for showing just fundamental in-amusement data, for example, the line score, tally, and brief player measurements, the new form can show beautiful designs and movements, photos, live and recorded video, moment replays, the batting request, handling positions, and extended insights. 

Just as the fundamental scoreboard, the ballpark has three more LED presentations. A showcase in the left-focus field divider is utilized for appearing amusement pitching measurements, forthcoming players, and notices. Driven lace sheets are introduced on the facings of each side of the upper deck; these are utilized to show the inning, score, check, and commercials. The arena's three pitch tickers—some portion of expert baseball's pace-of-amusement activities executed in Triple-An and Double-A ball games in 2015—are situated on the straightaway focus field divider and on each side of the stopping board. 

The lower seating bowl is isolated into 24 areas and folds over the playing field from one foul shaft to the next. The second dimension has 16 sections of seating that start behind third base and fold over to initially base. The last nine columns, from line M, on the main dimension between the burrows are shielded by the upper deck. Seats on the two dimensions are customary, plastic arena style seats. All lower-level seats behind home plate, situates behind and between the holes through line P, and all second-level seats have cushioned seat pads. Seats in the three focus upper-deck segments behind home plate and all second-level suites additionally have cushioned seat backs. A grass berm that can oblige 1,500 spectators is situated past the left-focus field divider. 

The recreation center has a few regions held for little and vast gatherings. Four field-level suites, each with 33 exterior seats and extra inside space to oblige up to 50 people, are found straightforwardly behind home plate. The second dimension has 18 suites, each pleasing up to 24 people, with 4 indoor beverage rail seats and 13 outdoor seats in front. Two secured party decks are situated on the second dimension—one at each end—the two of which can oblige up to 75 people each. Between the finish of the lower seating bowl in left field and the outfield berm lies a gathering territory which can suit up to 600 individuals. This territory comprises of a secured excursion region, round open air tables, rearrangeable seats, and the arena seats of segments 101 to 104. A segment of 4-top tables—semi-round tables encompassed by four seats—that can oblige 108 people at 27 tables is situated toward the finish of the lower seating bowl in right field close to a forte concession territory called The Band Box. A little private gathering territory is situated in the power back road before The Band Box and can suit up to 35 people at 4-top tables. Alongside this, and straightforwardly before the scoreboard, is a 200-man assemble excursion territory with standing room and arena seats with beverage rails. 

Four lasting snack bars and a few versatile trucks situated on the concourse offer customary ballpark sustenances including franks, corn hounds, pizza, nachos, delicate pretzels, popcorn, and frozen yogurt. Each stand additionally serves nourishments remarkable to and regular in Nashville and the South, including Nashville hot chicken, pulled pork grill sandwiches, and infant back ribs. The arena's second dimension has a bar, parlor, and concessions territory with perspectives on the field; it is open just by those with suite, party-deck, or upper-deck tickets. Certain menu things, for example, prime rib tacos, sliders, and onion rings are just accessible on the second dimension. 

Another claim to fame concession zone is The Band Box, an open air eatery and bar situated on the correct field concourse. The eatery serves minor departure from conventional ballpark sustenances including cheeseburgers, chicken sandwiches, jalapeño corn wastes, smoked chicken nachos, quinoa cleaved plates of mixed greens, and neighborhood draft specialty brew. It is joined by a 150-man bar to its back neglecting right field. The bar has a bordering lounge territory with love seats, TVs, ping pong, cornhole, foosball, and shuffleboard, which is available to all amusement ticket-holders. Supporters in the contiguous 4-top seating segment can arrange nourishment and beverages from The Band Box and have things conveyed to their seats. On June 28, 2016, a 9-gap smaller than expected green, called The Country Club at The Band Box, opened behind the eatery between the bar and Fifth Avenue. Every one of the nine holes displays workmanship from various neighborhood or territorial specialists. It is available to diversion participants for an extra $5 playing expense. 

A 1,000-vehicle over the ground parking structure, possessed by the state, is found south of the arena's middle field and right field doors on Harrison Street among Fourth and Fifth Avenues. As the carport is utilized by state representatives amid the day, amusement participants are just ready to utilize it for night and end of the week diversions. Other state-possessed free parking areas and paid private parts are situated in the region. The Metro Transit Authority's Music City Circuit gives transport administration to and from a drop-off site at Fifth Avenue and Harrison Street. Nashville BCycle, the city's bicycle share program, has a station at First Tennessee Park. 

First Tennessee Park's single-diversion participation record was determined to July 3, 2017, the evening of the Sounds' Independence Day festivity when the group took on the Oklahoma City Dodgers before a sellout horde of 11,764 people. The recreation center's season participation record of 603,135 was set in 2018, while its normal participation record (8,861) was set in 2017. Five of the best ten most elevated went to diversions happened in 2017. There have been 75 sellout recreations at the arena. Participation records through the culmination of the 2018 season are as per the following. 

Strong shows the victor of each diversion. 

First Tennessee Park has been included in two music recordings. Cole Swindell's "Center of a Memory" (2016) incorporates shots of Swindell in the gathering of people viewing a Nashville Sounds amusement just as film of the diversion and an appearance by the group's mascot, Booster. Previous Sounds pitcher Barry Zito's music video for "That Sound" (2017), which is about Sounds diversions, is made as a rule out of film of Nashville's recreations, players, and fans shot at the arena amid the 2016 season. 

Trisha Yearwood taped scenes for the "Tailgaiting" scene of Food Network's "Trisha's Southern Kitchen" at the ballpark on May 31, 2016. The August 5, 2017, scene of "CMT Hot 20 Countdown" was shot at First Tennessee Park on July 25 and included exhibitions by nation artists Michael Ray and Chris Lane from before that day's diversion. Sections for a progression of season 36 (2018– 2019) scenes of "Wheel of Fortune", including host Pat Sajak tossing out the main pitch, were shot at the ballpark on May 4, 2018.