How Brown Saw the Baseball Game 

How Brown Saw the Baseball Game, otherwise called How Jones Saw the Baseball Game, is an American short quiet satire film created in 1907 and conveyed by the Lubin Manufacturing Company. The film pursues a baseball fan, named Mr. Dark colored, who drinks vast amounts of liquor before a ball game and turns out to be intoxicated to the point that the amusement appears to him in switch movement. Amid creation, trap photography was utilized to accomplish this impact. 

The film was discharged in November 1907. It got positive surveys in a 1908 issue of "The Moving Picture World", a film diary, that announced the film was fruitful and "really amusing." it is misty whether a print of the film has endure. The personalities of the film's cast and generation group are not known. Film antiquarians have noted similitudes between the plot of "How Brown Saw the Baseball Game" and the Edwin S. Watchman coordinated satire film "How the Office Boy Saw the Ball Game" discharged the earlier year. 

Before taking off to a ball game at a close-by ballpark, sports fan Mr. Dark colored beverages a few highball mixed drinks. He touches base at the ballpark to watch the amusement, yet has turned out to be inebriated to the point that the diversion appears to him in switch, with the players running the bases in reverse and the baseball flying once again into the pitcher's hand. After the amusement is finished, Mr. Dark colored is escorted home by one of his companions. When they touch base at Brown's home, they experience his better half who winds up angry with the companion and continues to physically attack him, trusting he is in charge of her significant other's serious inebriation. 

"How Brown Saw the Baseball Game" was created by Lubin Manufacturing Company, an organization established by German-American film pioneer Siegmund Lubin. At the time "How Brown Saw the Baseball Game" was made, the organization was making and appropriating up to three movies per week. The characters of "How Brown Saw the Baseball Game"s chief and cast are not known. 

It is a quiet film shot in highly contrasting, and the completed item included film. For the scenes which occurred at the ballpark, the movie producers utilized a type of trap photography so as to demonstrate the baseball players running in reverse. Siegmund Lubin recorded a copyright for the film, under the other title "How Jones Saw the Baseball Game", on October 26, 1907. 

"How Brown Saw the Baseball Game" was discharged into theaters by Lubin Manufacturing Company on November 16, 1907, was all the while being appeared late as August 1908. Amid this time, the film at times was introduced as a component of a twofold element with the 1907 film "Neighbors Who Borrow", a short satire film about a man who loans almost all that he possesses to his neighbors until his significant other returns home and castigates him for doing as such. 

Commercials for the film touted it as "such fun", and Lubin himself advanced the film as a "screamingly clever joke". It got a positive survey in the June 1908 issue of "The Moving Picture World" which depicted the film as "genuinely clever" and that it ended up being "a veritable achievement". 

Current compositions have frequently recommended that "How Brown Saw the Baseball Game" was created as Lubin Manufacturing Company's option in contrast to the Edwin S. Watchman coordinated satire "How the Office Boy Saw the Ball Game", a film discharged by Edison Studios in 1906 around an office worker escaping his work environment to watch a ball game just to find his manager in a close-by seat. Lubin Manufacturing Company was known for making films like contending movies made by different studios. Lubin had recently made movies looking like Edison Studios' discharges "Uncle Tom's Cabin" and "The Great Train Robbery". 

Writer Jack Spears wrote in his book "Hollywood: The Golden Era" that "How Brown Saw the Baseball Game" and "How the Office Boy Saw the Ball Game" "utilized for all intents and purposes a similar plot"; Rob Elderman's article "The Baseball Film: to 1920" in the diary "Base Ball" in like manner noticed the similitudes of their plotlines. 

, it was misty whether there is an enduring print of "How Brown Saw the Baseball Game"; it has likely turned into a lost film. Whenever rediscovered, the film would be in the open space.