Kona Lanes 

Kona Lanes was a bowling focus in Costa Mesa, California, that opened in 1958 and shut in 2003 following 45 years in business. Known for its cutting edge plan, it included 40 wood-floor bowling paths, an amusement room, a parlor, and a bistro that in the long run turned into a Mexican coffee shop. Worked amid the approach of Googie design, its Polynesian Tiki-themed styling reached out from the huge roadside sign to the structure's neon lights and misrepresented rooflines. 

At the point when Kona Lanes was crushed in 2003, it was one of the final instances of the Googie style in the locale; its sister focus, Java Lanes in Long Beach, was flattened in 2004. A lot of Kona's gear was sold before the devastation; the particular sign was spared and sent to Cincinnati, where a bit is on perpetual showcase in the American Sign Museum. 

Costa Mesa's arranging bonus affirmed a proposition to manufacture a retail chain on the site; following open clamor, those plans were rejected. In 2010, the still-empty land was rezoned for senior natives' lofts and business improvement. Development on the condos started ten years after Kona Lanes was decimated. 

Kona Lanes opened in 1958, highlighting the Tiki-propelled signage and design that ended up well known after World War II, including what the "Los Angeles Times" called its "flashy neon lights and conspicuous rooflines intended to pull in drivers like moths". The structure on Harbor Boulevard close Adams Avenue was one of three in the Googie style that engineers Powers, Daly, and DeRosa planned at around a similar time; Kona Lanes and its sister focus, Java Lanes, utilized names that recommended South Pacific island regions. Creator Andrew Hurley called them "costly and appealing structures that shouted, 'Have some good times here, and Kona held quite a bit of that climate throughout the years. Its enormous neon-lit road sign stayed for the life of the structure, and Kona was the main bowling foundation in the region to dismiss programmed scoring gear all through its reality. 

Kona Lanes facilitated the Southern California PBA Open twice in 1964; Billy Hardwick won in April and Jerry Hale in December. Long-term general chief Dick Stoeffler, referred to at the time as the maker and host of "television Bowling Tournament" on KTLA, completed third amid the broadcast finals in his own structure in December, behind Hale and Hardwick. At the point when Stoeffler moved consecutive 300 amusements in a single group session at Kona in 1968, he was one of just four men in the United States to have dealt with the accomplishment. 

Champions who bowled at Kona Lanes amid its 45-year history incorporate three-time Professional Bowlers Association Tour victor Jack Biondolillo; six-time male Bowling Writers Association of America Bowler of the Year and future PBA Hall of Famer Don Carter; John Haveles, an Orange County Bowling Hall of Fame inductee who started a spell as Kona's administrator in 1974; future Michigan Women's Bowling Association Hall of Famer Cora Fiebig; two-time female BWAA Bowler of the Year Aleta Sill; and Barry Asher, the various PBA Tour champion and Hall of Fame inductee who later ran the expert shop at Fountain Bowl in close-by Fountain Valley. Kona Lanes and Tustin Lanes facilitated almost 10,000 groups of five players each partaking in the United States Bowling Congress Women's Championships in 1986. 

Under Dick Stoeffler's administration, Kona Lanes kept occupied 24 hours per day, which made him a standout amongst the best owners in the nation. Stoeffler met his future spouse there, and different couples had comparable encounters. Kona was regularly so bustling that clients needed to reserve a spot to get a path amid open (non-group) bowling hours. At its pinnacle, Kona Lanes arrived at the midpoint of in excess of 80 lines on every one of its 40 paths. 

Bowling as a support sport prospered in the mid 1960s, yet its prevalence was weakened due to overbuilding; the quantity of bowling alleys endorsed by the then-American Bowling Congress topped at around 11,000 by mid-decade, and Kona was one of more than 30 in southern California alone. A decrease allied bowling beginning during the 1980s was additionally accused for the downturn, however an AMF Bowling official contended that the client base stayed unfaltering in light of the fact that an expansion in open bowling compensated for less group bowlers. 

Jack Mann purchased Kona Lanes in 1980 and re-marked it New Kona Lanes the next year. Mann's family claimed a few bowling focuses in the locale; he was behind the formation of Fountain Bowl in 1973 and the fleeting Regal Lanes in Orange in 1974. He likewise claimed Tustin Lanes before pitching it to his most youthful child, Alex. Mann purchased Kona not on the grounds that he cherished bowling, but since it would keep on paying profits in the event that he was never again ready to work. He later sold Kona to his child Jack Jr. 

The middle's parlor, known as the Outrigger Room, facilitated numerous nearby specialists throughout the years. Jazz quintet The Redd Foxx Bbq discharged four melodies recorded there, and Roscoe Holland recorded a lot of eight live exhibitions for his collection "Past the Reef". 

In later years, a great part of the bowlers' region was taped off for shake shows and end of the week advancements like Club Crush, which demonstrated mainstream among young people and furthermore prompted collection chronicles. An arranged occasion highlighting a neighborhood punk shake amass was closed somewhere around the Costa Mesa Police Department, prompting negative exposure. 

Kona Lanes kept on losing business to fresher focuses, in spite of endeavors to speak to an increasingly assorted client base by facilitating nearby music acts, supporting a Polynesian-themed eatery called Kona Korral, and advancing contrivances like "naked bowling". In the end, the property turned out to be more significant than the business. The landowners, C.J. Segerstrom and Sons, gave Jack Mann Jr. a decision: burn through $10– 20 million to refresh the middle, or surrender it. Mann picked the last as opposed to spend such a total on a site without a long haul rent. 

Plans to construct a Kohl's retail chain on the site involved by Kona Lanes and the officially shut Edwards Cinema Center and Ice Capades Chalet were affirmed by the city's arranging magistrates, however they were met with opposition by neighbors who did not trust the store was a solid match for the region. At that point city hall leader Karen Robinson grumbled that Costa Mesa's arrangement creators were disposing of entertainment as a component of the nature of inhabitants' lives, and requested the chiefs' choice in February 2003. The city committee later rejected the proposition. The proceeding with endeavors to spare Kona Lanes fizzled; it shut for good in May 2003 and was crushed before long. 

The 7.5-section of land bundle was rezoned in 2010 for senior lodging that was relied upon to give another client base to the eateries and retailers as of now in the zone and for business advancements still to come. The part had sat unused for around ten years before development on the 215-unit complex started; Azulón at Mesa Verde opened in 2014. A few dozen palm and eucalyptus trees were spared and replanted on the site. 

Action at Kona Lanes expanded in its last days, because of the nostalgic estimation of potential tokens. Chief Juanita Johnson said individuals were requesting to purchase furniture, office gear, and the sky is the limit from there. "A portion of that is more established than I am." The more generous things, including the first wood paths, had been sold off before annihilation, while dumpster jumpers hit the parking garage every day, searching for any things of intrigue. 

The loss of Kona Lanes was a rehashed theme at political occasions. One Costa Mesa city board applicant said he made a guarantee to open administration when the structure was torn down with little obstruction. Another future committee part concurred that the decimation ought to never have occurred. 

In 2012, Costa Mesa made arrangements to redesign The Triangle, a retail space along Harbor Boulevard two miles south of the Kona Lanes site. Those plans highlighted a 10-path bowling alley that opened in 2014. One city official said the middle addressed occupants' long-term require another, upscale bowling office. 

The colossal, neon-lit KONA LANES BOWL sign was included in distributions by the Costa Mesa Historical Society, alongside "The Book of Tiki" and "Tiki Road Trip"; it additionally roused proficient works of art, and was one of a few Costa Mesa tourist spots memorialized in a wall painting painted on the neighborhood Floyd's 99 Barbershop. In 2003, Costa Mesa Planning Commissioner Katrina Foley drove a push to spare the sign from the piece store. 

Much appreciated to some extent to a private gift, the marquee was trucked 2,500 miles to Cincinnati, one of the initial 20 signs acknowledged by the American Sign Museum. The "Kona Lanes" partition was restored and put on changeless presentation; the bigger "Bowl" segment clasped and tore amid the emptying procedure and couldn't be spared.