Jo Stafford 

Jo Elizabeth Stafford (November 12, 1917July 16, 2008) was an American conventional popular music vocalist and intermittent performing artist, whose profession crossed five decades from the late 1930s to the mid 1980s. Appreciated for the immaculateness of her voice, she initially experienced established preparing to turn into a musical show artist before following a vocation in prominent music, and by 1955 had accomplished more overall record deals than some other female craftsman. Her 1952 tune "You Belong to Me" beat the outlines in the United States and United Kingdom, the record turning into the first by a female craftsman to achieve number one on the U.K. Singles Chart. 

Conceived in Coalinga, California, Stafford showed up at age twelve. While still at secondary school she joined her two more established sisters to shape a vocal trio named The Stafford Sisters, who discovered moderate accomplishment on radio and in film. In 1938, while the sisters were a piece of the cast of Twentieth Century Fox's creation of "Alexander's Ragtime Band", Stafford met the future individuals from The Pied Pipers and turned into the gathering's lead vocalist. Bandleader Tommy Dorsey enlisted them in 1939 to perform back-up vocals for his ensemble. 

Notwithstanding her accounts with the Pied Pipers, Stafford included in solo exhibitions for Dorsey. In the wake of leaving the gathering in 1944, she recorded a progression of pop models for Capitol Records and Columbia Records. A considerable lot of her chronicles were supported by the symphony of Paul Weston. She additionally performed two part harmonies with Gordon MacRae and Frankie Laine. Her work with the United Service Organizations (USO) giving shows for officers amid World War II earned her the moniker "G.I. Jo". Beginning in 1945, Stafford was an ordinary host of the National Broadcasting Company (NBC) radio arrangement "The Chesterfield Supper Club" and later showed up in TV specialsincluding two arrangement called "The Jo Stafford Show", in 1954 in the U.S. what's more, in 1961 in the U.K. 

Stafford wedded twice: first in 1937 to artist John Huddleston (the couple separated in 1943); at that point in 1952 to Paul Weston, with whom she had two youngsters. She and Weston built up a satire routine in which they accepted the character of an awkward parlor act named Jonathan and Darlene Edwards, caricaturing understood tunes. The demonstration demonstrated famous at gatherings and among the more extensive open when the couple discharged a collection as the Edwardses in 1957. In 1961, the collection "Jonathan and Darlene Edwards in Paris" won Stafford her just Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album, and was the primary economically effective farce collection. Stafford to a great extent resigned as an entertainer in the mid-1960s, however proceeded in the music business. She had a concise resurgence in notoriety in the late 1970s when she recorded a front of the Bee Gees hit, "Stayin' Alive" as Darlene Edwards. During the 1990s, she started re-discharging a portion of her material through Corinthian Records, a mark established by Weston. She kicked the bucket in 2008 in Century City, Los Angeles, and is buried with Weston at Holy Cross Cemetery, Culver City. Her work in radio, TV and music is perceived by three stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. 

Jo Elizabeth Stafford was conceived in Coalinga, California, in 1917, to Grover Cleveland Stafford and Anna Stafford (née York)a second cousin of World War I legend Sergeant Alvin York. She was the third of four youngsters. Both her folks appreciated singing and offering music to their family. Stafford's dad sought after accomplishment in the California oil fields when he moved his family from Gainesboro, Tennessee, yet worked in a progression of random occupations. Her mom was a cultivated banjo player, playing and singing a significant number of the people tunes which affected Stafford's later profession. Anna demanded that her kids should take piano exercises, yet Jo was the just a single among her sisters who took an unmistakable fascination for it, and through this she figured out how to peruse music. 

Stafford's first open singing appearance was in Long Beach, where the family lived when she was twelve. She sang "Trust Me If All Those Endearing Young Charms", a Stafford family wistful top choice. Her second was unquestionably progressively sensational. As an understudy at Long Beach Polytechnic High School with the lead in the school melodic, she was practicing in front of an audience when the 1933 Long Beach seismic tremor obliterated piece of the school. With her mom's support, Stafford initially wanted to turn into a musical drama artist and considered voice as a tyke, taking private exercises from Foster Rucker, a host on California radio station KNX. In light of the Great Depression, she surrendered that thought and joined her more established sisters Christine and Pauline in a prevalent vocal gathering The Stafford Sisters. The two more established Staffords were at that point some portion of a trio with an inconsequential third part when the demonstration got a major booking at Long Beach's West Coast Theater. Pauline was too sick to even consider performing, and Jo was drafted in to have her spot so they could keep the commitment. She approached her happiness club instructor for seven days' nonattendance from school, saying her mom required her at home, and this was conceded. The execution was a triumph, and Jo turned into a perpetual individual from the gathering. 

The Staffords' first radio appearance was on Los Angeles station KHJ as a major aspect of "The Happy Go Lucky Hour" when Jo was 16, a job they verified after hopefuls at the tryout were inquired as to whether they had their own melodic accompanist(s). Christine Stafford said that Jo played piano, and the sisters were employed, despite the fact that she had not recently given an open piano act. The Staffords were therefore heard on KNX's "The Singing Crockett Family of Kentucky", and "California Melodies", a system radio show circulated on the Mutual Broadcasting System. While Stafford took a shot at "The Jack Oakie Show" she met John Huddlestona backing artist on the programmeand they were hitched in October 1937. The couple separated in 1943. 

The sisters looked for some kind of employment in the film business as reinforcement vocalists, and following moving on from secondary school, Jo chipped away at film soundtracks. The Stafford Sisters made their first recording,"Let's Get Together and Swing" with Louis Prima, in 1936. In 1937, Jo worked in the background with Fred Astaire on the soundtrack of "A Damsel in Distress", making the game plans for the film, and with her sisters she masterminded the sponsorship vocals for "Decent Work If You Can Get It". Stafford said that her game plan must be adjusted on the grounds that Astaire experienced issues with a portion of the syncopation. In her words: "The man with the syncopated shoes couldn't do the syncopated notes". 

By 1938, the Staffords were included with Twentieth Century Fox's generation of "Alexander's Ragtime Band". The studio acquired numerous vocal gatherings to chip away at the film, including the Four Esquires, the Rhythm Kings and the King Sisters, who started to sing and associated between takes. The Stafford Sisters, the Four Esquires and the Rhythm Kings turned into another vocal gathering called the Pied Pipers. Stafford later stated, "We began singing together only for the sake of entertainment, and these sessions prompted the arrangement of an eight-voice singing gathering that we dedicated 'The Pied Pipers. The gathering comprised of eight individuals, including StaffordJohn Huddleston, Hal Hooper, Chuck Lowry, Bud Hervey, George Tait, Woody Newbury, and Dick Whittinghill. 

As the Pied Pipers, they took a shot at nearby radio and film soundtracks. Whenever Alyce and Yvonne King arranged a gathering for their sweethearts' visit to Los Angeles, the gathering was welcome to perform. The King Sisters' sweethearts were Tommy Dorsey's arrangers Axel Stordahl and Paul Weston, who wound up keen on the gathering. Weston said the gathering's vocals were one of a kind for its time and that their vocal courses of action were much similar to those for symphonic instruments. 

Weston influenced Dorsey to try out the gathering in 1938, and the eight drove together to New York City. Dorsey loved them and marked them for ten weeks. After their second communicate, the sponsorvisiting from overseasheard the gathering sing "Hold Tight (Want Some Seafood Mama)". Until this point, the support knew just that he was paying for Dorsey's program and that its evaluations were exceptionally great; translation circles sent to him by his promoting office dependably arrived broken. He imagined that the execution was horrible, and influenced the publicizing organization speaking to his image to flame the gathering. They remained in New York for a while, getting one employment that paid them $3.60 each, and they recorded some material for RCA Victor Records. Weston later said that he and Stordahl felt duty regarding the gathering, since Weston had organized their tryout with Dorsey. Following a half year in New York and with no work there for them, the Pied Pipers came back to Los Angeles, where four of their individuals left the gathering to look for standard business. Instantly a short time later, Stafford got a phone call from Dorsey, who revealed to her he wished to contract the gathering, yet needed just four of them, including Stafford. After she consented to the offer the staying Pied PipersStafford, Huddleston, Lowry and Wilsontraveled to Chicago in 1939. The choice prompted accomplishment for the gathering, particularly Stafford, who included in both group and solo exhibitions with Dorsey's ensemble. 

At the point when Frank Sinatra joined the Dorsey band, the Pied Pipers gave backing vocals to his chronicles. Their variant of "I'll Never Smile Again" topped the Billboard Chart for twelve weeks in 1940 and built up Sinatra as an artist. Stafford, Sinatra, and the Pied Pipers visited widely with Dorsey amid their three years as a major aspect of his symphony, giving shows at settings over the United States. Stafford made her first solo recording"Little Man with a Candy Cigar"in 1941, after Dorsey consented to her solicitation to record solo. Her open presentation as a soloist with the band happened at New York's Hotel Astor in May 1942. Bill Davidson of "Collier's" magazine detailed in 1951 that in light of the fact that Stafford said something overabundance of 180 lb, Dorsey was hesitant to give her a main vocal job in his ensemble, trusting she was not adequately stylish for the part. Nonetheless, Peter Levinson's 2005 history of Dorsey offers an alternate record. Stafford reviews that she was overweight, however Dorsey didn't take a stab at concealing her as a result of it. 

In November 1942, the Pied Pipers had a conflict with Dorsey when he terminated Clark Yocuma guitarist and vocalist who had supplanted Billy Wilson in the line upwhen he erroneously gave the bandleader confusions at a railroad station in Portland, Oregon. The staying three individuals at that point quit in a demonstration of solidarity. At the time the main melody in the United States was "There Are Such Things" by Frank Sinatra and the Pied Pipers. Sinatra additionally left Dorsey that year. Following their takeoff from the ensemble, the Pied Pipers played a progression of vaudeville dates in the Eastern United States; when they came back to California, they were marked to show up in the 1943 Universal Pictures motion picture "Ladies Incorporated". From that point, they joined the NBC Radio show "Bounce Crosby and Company". Just as working with Bob Crosby, they additionally showed up on radio shows facilitated by Sinatra and Johnny Mercer, and were one of the main gatherings marked to Mercer's new name, Capitol Records, which was established in 1942. Westonwho left Dorsey's band in 1940 to work with Dinah Shorebecame music chief at Capitol. 

While Stafford was all the while working for Dorsey, Johnny Mercer advised her, "Some time or another I will have my own record organization, and you're going to record for me." She along these lines turned into the main solo craftsman marked to Capitol in the wake of leaving the Pied Pipers in 1944. A key figure in causing Stafford to build up her performance profession was Mike Nidorf, an operator who initially heard her as an individual from the Pied Pipers while he was filling in as a Captain with the United States Army. Having recently found specialists, for example, Glenn Miller, Artie Shaw, and Woody Herman, Nidorf was awed by Stafford's voice, and reached her when he was grounded in 1944. After she consented to give him a chance to speak to her, he urged her to diminish her weight and organized a series of commitment that raised her profile, and certainty. 

The achievement of Stafford's performance profession prompted an interest for individual appearances, and from February 1945 she set out on a six-month residency at New York's La Martinique dance club. Her execution was well-receivedan article in the July 1945 release of "Band Leaders" magazine depicted it as "sensational"but Stafford did not appreciate singing before live groups of onlookers, and it was the main dance club setting she played. Talking about her inconvenience with live exhibitions, Stafford told a 1996 meeting with "The New Yorker"s Nancy Franklin, "I'm essentially a vocalist, period, and I believe I'm extremely lousy up before an audienceit's simply not me." 

Stafford's residency with the United Service Organizations (USO) amid World War IIwhich frequently observed her perform for officers positioned in the U.S.led to her getting the moniker "G.I. Jo". On coming back from the Pacific theater, a veteran disclosed to Stafford that the Japanese would play her records on amplifiers trying to make the U.S. troops yearning to go home enough to surrender. She answered by and by to every one of the letters she got from servicemen. Stafford was a most loved of numerous servicemen amid both World War II and the Korean War; her chronicles got broad airplay on the American Forces radio and in some military emergency clinics at lights-out. Stafford's inclusion with servicemen prompted an enthusiasm for military history and a sound information of it. A long time after World War II, Stafford was a visitor at an evening gathering with a resigned maritime officer. At the point when the talk swung to a wartime activity off Mindanao, the officer attempted to address Stafford, who held to her point. He countered her by saying, "Madame, I was there". A couple of days after the gathering, Stafford got a note of expression of remorse from him, saying he had re-read his logs and that she was right. 

Starting on December 11, 1945, Stafford facilitated the Tuesday and Thursday communicates of NBC melodic assortment radio program "The Chesterfield Supper Club". On April 5, 1946, the whole cast, including Stafford and Perry Como, took part in the principal business radio communicate from a plane. The underlying arrangement was to utilize the stand-held receivers utilized in studios however when these turned out to be tricky, the cast changed to hand-held amplifiers, which in light of the plane's compartment pressurization ended up hard to hold. Three flights were made that day; a practice toward the evening, at that point two in the eveningone for the underlying 6:00 pm communicate and another at 10:00 pm for the West Coast communicate. 

Stafford moved from New York to California in November 1946, proceeding to have "Chesterfield Supper Club" from Hollywood. In 1948, she confined her appearances on the show to Tuesdays, and Peggy Lee facilitated the Thursday communicates. Stafford left the show when it was extended to 30 minutes, showing up on September 2, 1949. She came back to the program in 1954; it finished its keep running on NBC Radio the next year. Amid her time with "Chesterfield Supper Club", Stafford returned to a portion of the people music she had appreciated as a tyke. Weston, her conductor on the program, recommended utilizing a portion of the people music for the show. With her recharged enthusiasm for society tunes came an enthusiasm for old stories; Stafford set up a challenge to grant a prize to the best accumulation of American old stories presented by an undergrad. The yearly Jo Stafford Prize for American Folklore was taken care of by the American Folklore Society, with the main prize of $250 granted in 1949. 

Stafford kept on chronicle. She duetted with Gordon MacRae on various tunes. In 1948, their variant of "Express Something Sweet to Your Sweetheart" sold over a million duplicates. The next year, they rehashed their prosperity with "My Happiness", and Stafford and MacRae recorded "Murmuring Hope" together. Stafford started facilitating a week by week program on Radio Luxembourg in 1950; working unpaid, she recorded the voice parts of the shows in Hollywood. At the time, she was facilitating "Club Fifteen" with Bob Crosby for Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) radio. 

Weston moved from Capitol to Columbia Records and, in 1950, Stafford stuck to this same pattern. Content and truly open to working with him, Stafford had a proviso embedded in her agreement with Capitol expressing that if Weston left that mark, she would consequently be discharged from her commitments to them. At the point when that occurred, Capitol needed Stafford to record eight additional tunes before December 15, 1950, and she ended up in the strange circumstance of all the while working for two contending record organizations, an occasion that was uncommon in an industry where performers were viewed as resources. In 1954, Stafford turned into the second craftsman in the wake of Bing Crosby to sell 25 million records for Columbia. She was given a precious stone studded circle to stamp the event. 

In 1950, Stafford started working for Voice of America (VOA), the U.S. government supporter transmitting programs abroad to undermine the impact of socialism. She exhibited a week by week demonstrate that broadcast in Eastern Europe, and "Collier's" magazine distributed an article about the program in its April 21, 1951 issue that talked about her overall ubiquity, incorporating into nations behind the Iron Curtain. The article, titled "Jo Stafford: Her Songs Upset Joe Stalin", earned her the fury of the U.S. Socialist "Every day Worker" paper, which distributed a section incredulous of Stafford and VOA. 

In spite of the fact that Weston and Stafford had known each other since their presentation at the King Sisters' gathering, they didn't turn out to be impractically required until 1945, when Weston went to New York to see Stafford perform at La Martinique. They were hitched in a Roman Catholic service on February 26, 1952, preceding which Stafford changed over to Catholicism. The wedding was directed at St Gregory's Catholic Church in Los Angeles by Father Joe Kearney, a previous guitarist with the Bob Crosby band who left the music business, prepared as a minister and filled in as leader of the Catholic Labor Institute. The couple left for Europe for a consolidated vacation and excursion for work: Stafford had a commitment at the London Palladium. Stafford and Weston had two youngsters: Tim was conceived in 1952, and Amy in 1956. The two kids pursued their folks into the music business. Tim Weston turned into an arranger and maker who assumed responsibility for Corinthian Records, his dad's music mark, and Amy Weston turned into a session vocalist, performing with a trio, "Daddy's Money", and singing in ads. 

During the 1950s, Stafford had a string of famous hits with Frankie Laine, six of which diagrammed. Their two part harmony of the Hank Williams tune "Hello Good Lookin'" made the main ten of every 1951. She had her best-known hits"Jambalaya", "Shrimp Boats", "Have intercourse to Me", and "You Belong to Me"around this time. "You Belong to Me" was Stafford's greatest hit, besting the diagrams in the United States and the United Kingdom. In the U.K., it was the primary melody by a female vocalist to top the graph. The record initially showed up on U.S. graphs on August 1, 1952, and stayed there for 24 weeks. In the U.K., it entered the graphs on November 14, 1952, at number 12, achieved number one on January 16, 1953, and remained on the diagrams for 19 weeks. In a July 1953 meeting, Paul Weston said his better half's enormous hit was extremely the "B" side of the single "Pretty Boy", which both Weston and Columbia Records accepted would be the huge vender. 

Stafford facilitated the 15-minute "The Jo Stafford Show" on CBS-TV from 1954 to 1955, with Weston as her conductor and music arranger. She showed up on NBC's "Club Oasis" in 1958, and on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) arrangement "The Pat Boone Chevy Showroom" in 1959. In the mid 1960s, Stafford facilitated a progression of TV specials called "The Jo Stafford Show", which were revolved around music. The shows were delivered in England and highlighted British and American visitors including Claire Bloom, Stanley Holloway, Ella Fitzgerald, Mel Tormé, and Rosemary Clooney.<ref name="Kloss/Milwaukee Journal"></ref> 

Both Stafford and Weston came back to Capitol in 1961. Amid her second spell at Capitol, Stafford likewise recorded for Sinatra's mark Reprise Records. The collections issued by Reprise were discharged somewhere in the range of 1961 and 1964, and were for the most part changes of melodies from quite a while ago. Sinatra sold Reprise to Warner Brothers in 1963, and they retargeted the name at a high school group of onlookers, giving up a large number of the first craftsmen who had joined with Sinatra. In late 1965, both Stafford and Weston marked to Dot Records. 

Amid the 1940s, Stafford quickly performed satire tunes under the name "Cinderella G. Stump" with Red Ingle and the Natural Seven. In 1947, she recorded a hillbilly-style farce of "Allurement", articulating its title "Tim-tayshun". Stafford made Stump after Weston recommended her for the job when Ingle said his female vocalist was inaccessible for the account session. In the wake of meeting Ingle at an account studio she gave an improvised act. The speed of her voice was deliberately expanded for the tune, giving it the hillbilly stable, and the listening open did not at first realize that her voice was on the record. Since it was a cheerful, off the cuff execution and she acknowledged the standard scale pay, Stafford postponed all sovereignties from the record. Stafford, alongside Ingle and Weston, showed up visit in 1949, and she performed "Enticement" as Cinderella G. Stump. Stafford and Ingle played out the melody on system TV in 1960 for "Startime". Stafford recorded a second melody with Ingle in 1948. "The Prisoner of Love's Song" was a farce of "Detainee of Love", and highlighted in a promotion for Capitol discharges in the January 8, 1949 release of "Board" magazine. 

All through the 1950s, Stafford and Weston engaged gathering visitors by performing plays in which they mimicked a poor parlor act. Stafford sang off-key in a sharp voice and Weston played tunes on the piano in eccentric rhythms. Weston started his impression of an incompetent musician in or around 1955, accepting the appearance "when things got somewhat peaceful, or when individuals started paying attention to themselves too at a Hollywood gathering." He put on an extemporaneous exhibition of the demonstration the next year at a Columbia Records deals tradition in Key West, Florida, in the wake of hearing an especially awful inn piano player. The crowd was energetic about his interpretation of "Stardust", especially Columbia administrators George Avakian and Irving Townsend, who urged Weston to make a collection of such melodies. Avakian named Weston's character Jonathan Edwards, for the eighteenth century Calvinist minister of a similar name, and requested that he record under this false name. Weston stressed that he probably won't almost certainly discover enough material for a whole collection, and he requested that his significant other join the undertaking. Stafford named her off-key vocalist persona Darlene Edwards. 

Stafford's making of Darlene Edwards had its underlying foundations in the curiosity tunes that Mitch Miller, the leader of Columbia's craftsmen and collection office, had been choosing for her to sing. These included melodies, for example, "Underneath the Overpass", and on the grounds that she didn't concur with Miller's music decisions for her, Stafford and her studio artists regularly recorded their very own interpretations of the music, playing out the tunes as per their sentiments about them. Since she had some unused studio time at a 1957 chronicle session, as a joke Stafford recorded a track as Darlene Edwards. The individuals who heard bootlegs of the chronicle reacted decidedly, and soon thereafter, Stafford and Weston recorded a collection of melodies as Jonathan and Darlene, entitled "The Piano Artistry of Jonathan Edwards". 

As an exposure trick, Weston and Stafford asserted that Jonathan and Darlene Edwards were a New Jersey relax act which they had found, and denied any close to home association. This ploy prompted much hypothesis about the Edwardses' characters. In an article titled "Two Right Hands" in September 1957, "Time" magazine detailed that a few people trusted the entertainers were Harry and Margaret Truman, however a similar piece recognized Weston and Stafford as the Edwardses. In 1958, Stafford and Weston showed up as the Edwardses on Jack Benny's TV program "Shower of Stars", and in 1960 on "The Garry Moore Show". "The Piano Artistry of Jonathan Edwards" was caught up with a collection of mainstream music benchmarks, "Jonathan and Darlene Edwards in Paris", which was discharged in 1960 and won that year's Grammy Award for Best Comedy Album. The Academy issued two honors for the classification that year; Bob Newhart likewise got an honor for "Expressed Word Comedy" for his collection "The Button-Down Mind Strikes Back!" The Grammy was Stafford's solitary significant honor. 

The couple kept on discharging satire collections for quite a long while, and in 1977 discharged a front of the Bee Gees' "Stayin' Alive" as a solitary, with an Edwards understanding of Helen Reddy's "I Am Woman" as its "B" side. That year additionally observed a short resurgence in the ubiquity of Jonathan and Darlene collections when their front of "Carioca" was highlighted as the opening and shutting topic to "The Kentucky Fried Movie". Their last discharge, "Darlene Remembers Duke, Jonathan Plays Fats", was issued in 1982. To check the event, a meeting with Stafford and Westonin which they accepted the persona of the Edwardsesappeared in the December 1982 release of "Los Angeles Magazine". 

In 1959, Stafford was offered an agreement to perform at Las Vegas, however declined it to focus on her family life. Since she loathed constantly going for TV appearances that removed her from her kids, and never again found the music business fun, she went into semi-retirement in the mid-1960s. She resigned completely in 1975. Aside from the Jonathan and Darlene Edwards material, and re-recording her main tune "Murmuring Hope" with her little girl Amy in 1978, Stafford did not perform again until 1990, at a service respecting Frank Sinatra. The Westons dedicated more opportunity to Share Inc.a philanthropy supporting individuals with formative disabilitiesin which they had been dynamic for a long time. In or around 1983, Concord Records endeavored to influence Stafford to alter her opinion and leave retirement, yet in spite of the fact that a collection was arranged, she didn't feel she would be happy with the completed item, and the venture was racked. 

Stafford won a break of-agreement claim against her previous record name Columbia in the mid 1990s. As a result of a condition concerning the installment of eminences in her agreement, she verified the rights to the majority of the chronicles she made with the organization, including those Weston and she made as Jonathan and Darlene Edwards. After the claim was settled, Stafford and her child Tim reactivated Corinthian Records, which Westona ardent Christianhad began as a name for religious music during the 1970s, and they started discharging a portion of her old material. 

In 1996, Paul Weston kicked the bucket of normal causes; Stafford kept on working Corinthian Records. In 2006, she gave the couple's libraryincluding music plans, photos, business correspondence and recordingsto the University of Arizona. Stafford started experiencing congestive heart disappointment in October 2007, from which she passed on matured 90 on July 16, 2008. She was covered with her better half at the Holy Cross Cemetery in Culver City, California. 

Stafford was respected by faultfinders and the listening open for the virtue of her voice, and was viewed as a standout amongst the most flexible vocalists of her period. Dwindle Levinson said that she was a coloratura soprano, whose operatic preparing enabled her to sing a characteristic falsetto. Her style incorporated various kinds, including enormous band, ditties, jazz, society and satire. The music commentator Terry Teachout portrayed her as "musically liquid while never sounding hesitantly 'lively' ", while Rosemary Clooney said of her, "The voice says everything: excellent, unadulterated, direct, no cunning, supreme pitch, in a split second unmistakable. Those things depict the lady as well." Writing for the "New York Sun", Will Friedwald portrayed her 1947 translation of "Frequented Heart" as "compelling in light of the fact that it's so unpretentious, on the grounds that Stafford keeps something down and doesn't push her feeling in the audience's face." Nancy Franklin portrayed Stafford's form of the people tune "He's Gone Away" as "insightful and delicate, as though she had grabbed a bit of dress once worn by a friend or family member and started singing." Frank Sinatra stated, "It was a delight to sit on the bandstand and hear her out". The vocalist Judy Collins has refered to Stafford's people accounts as an impact without anyone else melodic vocation. The nation vocalist Patsy Cline was additionally propelled by Stafford's work. 

In their pretense of Jonathan and Darlene Edwards, Weston and Stafford earned deference from their the entertainment biz peers. The piano player George Shearing was a fan and would play "Harvest time in New York" in the style of Edwards in the event that he realized the couple were in the group of onlookers. Beam Charles likewise making the most of their execution. Workmanship Carneywho played Ed Norton in the satire arrangement "The Honeymooners"once composed the Edwardses a fan letter as Norton. In any case, not every person valued the Edwards demonstration. Mitch Miller accused the couple's 1962 collection "Chime in With Jonathan and Darlene Edwards" for completion his chime in collections and TV program, while in 2003, Stafford told Michael Feinstein that the Bee Gees had loathed the Edwards' rendition of "Stayin' Alive". 

In 1960, Stafford said there were great and awful indicates working intimately with Weston. His insight into her made it simple for him to orchestrate her music, yet now and then it caused troubles. Weston knew Stafford's capacities and would compose or mastermind expand music since he realized she was fit for performing it. She likewise said she didn't trust she could perform in Broadway musicals since she thought her voice was not sufficiently amazing for stage work. In 2003, she reviewed that there was frequently constrained practice time before she recorded a melody, and how Weston would in some cases slip melodic courses of action under the washroom entryway as she was in the shower preparing to go to the studio. 

Her work in radio, TV and music is perceived by three stars on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. In 1952, audience members of Radio Luxembourg casted a ballot Stafford their most loved female artist. The New York Fashion Academy named her a standout amongst the Best Dressed Women of 1955. "Larks" magazine has detailed that, by 1955, Stafford had amassed more overall record deals than some other female craftsman, and that she was positioned fifth generally speaking. She was named in the Best Female Singer classification at the 1955 Emmy Awards. She won a Grammy for "Jonathan and Darlene Edwards in Paris", and The Pied Pipers' account of "I'll Never Smile Again" was drafted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1982, similar to Stafford's rendition of "You Belong to Me" in 1998. She was accepted into the Big Band Academy of America's Golden Bandstand in April 2007. Stafford and Weston were establishing individuals from the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. 

Stafford's music has been referenced in pop culture. Her account of "Blues in the Night" includes in a scene of James Michener's epic "The Drifters" (1971), while a Marine Corps Sergeant Major in Walter Murphy's "The Vicar of Christ" (1979) hears a radio communicate of her singing "On Top of Old Smoky" quickly before a fight in Korea. Remarking on the last reference for his 1989 book "Vocalists and the Song"which incorporates a section about Staffordthe writer Gene Lees says it "by one way or another sets Stafford's place in the American culture. You're getting entirely well known when your name turns up in crossword baffles; you are woven into a country's history when you turn up in its fiction." 

Stafford was a Democrat, supporting John F. Kennedy for president in 1960. She later performed for President Kennedy at a supper in his respect given by the Southern California Democratic Committee. 

Stafford showed up in movies from the 1930s onwards, including "Alexander's Ragtime Band". Her last on-screen appearance was in the Frank Sinatra tribute "Sinatra 75: The Best Is Yet to Come" in 1990. She declined a few ideas of TV work since she was compelled to retain contents (as she was unfit to peruse the sign cards without her glasses), and the splendid studio lights caused her distress.