Valley View (Romney, West Virginia) 

Valley View is a mid-nineteenth century Greek Revival home and ranch disregarding the South Branch Potomac River northwest of Romney, West Virginia. Valley View is on a projection where Depot Valley joins the South Branch Potomac River valley. 

The Valley View property was a piece of the South Branch Survey of the Northern Neck Proprietary, an extensive tract that was acquired by Thomas Fairfax, sixth Lord Fairfax of Cameron, in 1719. It was settled by John Collins and his family in 1749, and procured by the Parsons family before 1772. The Valley View house was worked by James Parsons Jr. in 1855. After the Civil War, Parsons' widow sold the ranch to Charles Harmison. His significant other, Elizabeth Harmison, propelled by her youth Virginia home, Western View, and the beautiful South Branch Potomac River sees, named the homestead Valley View. The latest of a progression of proprietors, the Mayhew family, purchased the property in 1979. Valley View's present owners, Robert and Kim Mayhew, have reestablished the notable living arrangement and grounds. 

The house at Valley View is a two-story block structure with a rectangular building plan. The front passageway is secured by a little porch, finished with a pediment bolstered by wooden Doric sections. The back of the house, with a two-story wood yard extending crosswise over it, faces the South Branch Potomac River valley and Mill Creek Mountain. Every one of the first eight expansive rooms of the 1855 structure contains a chimney encircled by a wooden trabeated mantelpiece with established components. The first windows, wooden trim, and materials in the primary area of the house are unblemished. The house was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places in 2012 as a locally noteworthy case of Greek Revival engineering. 

The Valley View house is about northwest of downtown Romney, on a projection (referred to locally as the Yellow Banks) where Depot Valley joins the South Branch Potomac River valley. Stop Valley keeps running from West Sioux Lane in Romney to Valley View, and an anonymous tributary of Big Run streams north along its base. Warehouse Valley Road parallels the stream. 

Warehouse Valley is named for Romney Depot, situated toward the finish of a previous goad of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) South Branch line close to the convergence of present-day West Sioux Lane and Depot Valley Road. The unincorporated territory around the station was once known as Valley. A mail station worked there from 1928 until 1937, when its mail was directed through Romney; it is expected that Valley View ranch utilized it, since it was south of the house. 

The Valley View ranch property appends the Wappocomo ranch on the upper east, the corporate furthest reaches of Romney on the east and south and the Yellow Banks on the west. Just as Valley View's tract, the Mayhew family claims rural land wealthy in alluvial soils along the South Branch Potomac River west of the house. The South Branch Valley Railroad separates this farmland, crossing the South Branch Potomac River by means of a wooden trestle. 

Valley View Island, an island in the South Branch Potomac River only north of the mouth of Sulfur Spring Run, is roughly southwest of the Valley View house. Both the house and the island are claimed by the Mayhew family. The island is ringed by timberlands, with farming fields in its inside. At the point when Lots Number17 and19 of the Northern Neck Proprietary South Branch Survey were reviewed in 1749 and resurveyed in 1788, the island had a place with Lot Number19. Around then, the waterway streamed east of the island, along the base of the Yellow Banks; its course later changed to go around the west side of the island. 

Plant Creek Mountain, a tight anticlinal mountain edge, rises westbound from the South Branch Potomac River opposite Valley View. The western lower regions of South Branch Mountain ascend toward the east. The two mountains are secured with Appalachian – Blue Ridge woods of hardwoods and pine. 

The land whereupon Valley View is found was initially part of the Northern Neck Proprietary, a land allow that the ousted Charles II granted to seven of his supporters in 1649 amid the English Interregnum. Following the Restoration of Charles II to the position of royalty in 1660, he recharged the Northern Neck Proprietary allow in 1662, reexamined it in 1669, and again reestablished the first concede favoring the first grantees Thomas Colepeper, second Baron Colepeper and Henry Bennet, first Earl of Arlington in 1672. In 1681, Bennet sold his offer to Lord Colepeper, and Lord Colepeper got another contract for the whole land allow from James II in 1688. 

Following the passings of Lord Colepeper, his better half Margaret, and his girl Katherine, the Northern Neck Proprietary go to Katherine's child Thomas Fairfax, sixth Lord Fairfax of Cameron in 1719, who chose a part of it for his estate. This tract, known as the South Branch Survey of the exclusive, stretched out from the north end of the Trough to the intersection of the North and South Branches of the Potomac River. In 1748, Fairfax authorized James Genn to review the South Branch Potomac River swamps available to be purchased and rent, with parcels running in size from . 

In 1749, the tract on which Valley View stands was obtained from Lord Fairfax by John Collins. The part was Lot Number20 on the South Branch Survey. Collins likewise possessed an expansive tract of land spreading over present-day Hampshire and Hardy districts. His child Thomas Collins is thought to have acquired his dad's landholdings as a "beneficiary at law", since there is no record of a will by John Collins administering of his properties. By 1772, Thomas Collins gained Lot Number20, where he lived with his better half Elizabeth. In 1816, Collins was filling in as a judge when the town of Romney held a Virginia state decision for the Electoral College. One agent from every one of Virginia's 25 provinces ventured out to Romney to make his choice. Collins and region official William Donaldson guaranteed the tradition's race results. 

In 1817, Thomas Collins sold Lot Number20 to James Gregg Parsons. It is obscure whether the Collinses moved from the tract or kept living on it after the deal. Thomas Collins passed on in 1822, and Elizabeth Collins in 1823. 

The Parsons relatives were among the principal English pioneers in the Thirteen Colonies in 1635; around 1740, they settled in Hampshire County. By 1778, Isaac Parsons (1752– 1796), an individual from the Virginia House of Delegates, possessed of Lot Number16 and all of Lot Number17 in the Proprietary. James Gregg Parsons, his oldest child, was conceived in Hampshire County in 1773. In 1795, he wedded Mary Catherine Casey (1773– 1846), whose family possessed the bordering Lot Number 21. After their marriage, they lived in the principle house at Wappocomo, which had been worked by Mary Catherine's dad Nicholas Casey. The couple acquired the house after Nicholas Casey's demise in 1833. 

James Gregg Parsons kicked the bucket on January 25, 1847, leaving the vast majority of his territory to his three children: James (Big Jim) Parsons Jr. (1798– 1858), David C. Parsons (1803– 1860), and Isaac Parsons (1814– 1862). James, his oldest child, acquired Lot Number20 (known as the Collins Tract); his second child David acquired Lot Number13 south of Romney (on which Hickory Grove was later found); and his most youthful child Isaac acquired Lot Number21 (which included Wappocomo). His children likewise acquired the close-by "Jake Sugar Rum Tract, the McGuire Tract, and five town parcels in Romney". As indicated by history specialist William K. Rice, by 1846 Parsons' children and their families were all living on the tracts they would in the long run acquire. Rice established that James Parsons Jr. moved to the Collins Tract, around 1826, and was living there when his dad kicked the bucket. 

James Parsons Jr. was a rancher and cattleman who was conceived in Hampshire County. Parsons family genealogist Virginia Parsons MacCabe composed the accompanying depiction of James Parsons Jr. in her book "Parsons' Family History and Record" (1913): "He was square and respectable in business, and had an expansive friend network; he had the urbanity and the refinement of way which describes the genuine man of honor". Parsons wedded Elizabeth Miller on January 8, 1829. The couple had eleven youngsters, a few of whom went to school. 

In 1855, Parsons started constructing the present-day Valley View house on the Collins Tract. Despite the fact that he composed numerous letters to his sister Mary Gregg Parsons Stump about cultivating, cows, family, wellbeing and network occasions, no letters are known to stay from the season of the house's development. The Parsons family possessed a few slaves who are thought to have helped with development. 

Subsequent to living in his new house for a long time, Big Jim passed on of tuberculosis on October 14, 1858. His widow, Elizabeth, lived in the house until after the Civil War. In 1867 or 1869, she sold the house, the Collins Tract and the rest of Lot Number20 to Charles Harmison (1823– 1896) for $8,500, moving with her residual kids to Missouri (where she kicked the bucket in 1883). The expense of structure the house monetarily stressed the Parsons family; antiquarian Catherine Snider Long recommends that Elizabeth Miller Parsons sold the house because of further, war-related, budgetary worry from which the family couldn't recoup. 

Charles Harmison was conceived in Franklin County, Illinois, to Nathaniel and Lydia Harmison, and wedded Bettie Ann Smith (1827– 1903) on May 4, 1854, in Taylor County, West Virginia. Bettie, the little girl of C.C. also, Martha W. Smith, was raised at Western View (their Fauquier County, Virginia, home). By 1867, Harmison and his family were living in Harrison County. His more established sibling had moved to Romney, where he set up and worked the Virginia House inn. In 1867, Charles Harmison's sibling discovered that the Parsons ranch on the Collins Tract was available to be purchased, and he prompted Charles to get it. Charles' better half, who needed to live closer to Virginia, additionally asked Charles to purchase the property. Charles obtained the ranch and he, his significant other, their seven youngsters, and a youthful African American kid named Snoden moved from Harrison County to Hampshire County in three days. They went on the Northwestern Turnpike in a rescue vehicle Charles had purchased after the war. Elizabeth Harmison named their new house and homestead Valley View, which was affected by the name of her youth home, Western View, and the perspective on the South Branch Potomac River valley from their property. 

Harmison succeeded in Hampshire County, procuring neighboring properties and amplifying his Valley View home. He later gave his procured grounds to his kids to build up their own homes when they wedded. His homestead was additionally changed in 1884, when the B&O Railroad finished its South Branch line between the primary B&O line at Green Spring and Romney Depot. The South Branch line cut up the little valley to the prompt east of the house, which ended up known as Depot Valley. 

Charles Harmison passed on October 31, 1896 in the wake of being tossed from a surrey. His child George Edward Harmison (1863– 1916) acquired Valley View around 1903 and brought his significant other, Carrie Belle Fox (1870– 1953), there after their marriage on October 4, 1905. George pulverized the old log kitchen at Valley View, supplanting it with a contemporary one. 

In June 1909, development started on the Hampshire Southern Railroad between its northern end on the B&O Railroad's Romney Depot goad and the South Branch Potomac River inside the bottomlands of George Harmison's ranch. In October 1909, the main train on the Hampshire Southern line ignored Harmison's bottomlands and crossed the waterway on an incomplete trestle over the South Branch Potomac River. By 1910, the line from the Romney goad end at Valley View to McNeill was in task. Soon thereafter, cargo and traveler administration among Romney and Moorefield started, giving an immediate rail connect among Moorefield and the B&O Railroad principle line at Green Spring. The Hampshire Southern Railroad Company worked this line until 1911, when it was acquired by the Moorefield and Virginia Railroad Company. Moorefield and Virginia exchanged the rail line to the B&O Railroad Company in 1913, when it turned out to be a piece of the B&O's South Branch line. 

In 1911, George Harmison subdivided the Valley View fields on the Yellow Banks disregarding the South Branch Potomac River. The new improvement, known as the Valley View Addition to Romney, was south of the Valley View house and west of Romney Depot. Twenty-one parts were sold at open closeout on September 27, 1911, and a few more were sold secretly. 

Harmison passed on in 1916, and Carrie kept on living at Valley View until her demise on February 8, 1953. Harmison's nephew, Paul Cresap Harmison (1893– 1972, a grandson of Charles Harmison's sibling Jonathan Harmison), and his better half Nancy Parker Harmison (1896– 1981) had moved to Valley View to live with her. After Carrie's passing, Paul and Nancy Parker Harmison acquired the house and ranch. Paul and Nancy's little girl Virginia Helen Harmison was hitched to Robert Esler before the chimney in the home's front room on May 5, 1957. Valley View stayed in the Harmison family until 1963, when it was sold to Philip Newell and his significant other Martha. 

Amid its adjustments in possession, the first Lot Number 20 of the South Branch Survey was more than once divided and sold. By 1976, the first property was partitioned into five ranches and different bundles, including the Valley View Addition. The Valley View habitation lies on a tract. 

Valley View was obtained by Robert Mayhew's dad and a business partner in 1979. Mayhew later purchased the house from his dad, and he and his significant other Kim reestablished the living arrangement and its grounds. In 1991, the Potomac Eagle Scenic Railroad started working on the old B&O South Branch line, which cuts up the bottomlands beneath Valley View. 

After reviews of notable properties in the province, in 2008 the Hampshire County Historic Landmarks Commission and the Hampshire County Commission started an activity to put structures and areas on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP). The district got subsidizing from the State Historic Preservation Office of the West Virginia Division of Culture and History to review and archive the structure's design and history. Because of this activity, Valley View was one of the initial eight noteworthy properties to be considered for position on the register. The other seven were Capon Chapel, Fort Kuykendall, Hickory Grove, Hook Tavern, North River Mills Historic District, Old Pine Church and Springfield Brick House. The house at Valley View was recorded on the NRHP on December 12, 2012. 

The house at Valley View is critical for its Greek Revival engineering. As per structural history specialist Courtney Fint Zimmerman, "Valley View is a trademark case of the Greek Revival style for progressively functional private applications in distant territories". The Valley View house has a few Greek Revival structure qualities, including a symmetrical building plan and heights and "considerable, formal" mass. Zimmerman (who arranged Valley View's enlistment structure for the NRHP) stated, "Valley View's connected subtleties in the Greek Revival style, including the front passageway entablature and porch, are increasingly restricted, yet the varieties that can be seen on Valley View and different domains in the South Branch Valley delineate the adaptability intrinsic in the style". As indicated by Zimmerman, expansive houses like Valley View filled in as the "focuses" of the manors that shaped the "premise of the neighborhood economy and public activity" in Hampshire County. Valley View was added to the NRHP as a locally huge case of Greek Revival engineering. 

Valley View's home comprises of the first 1855 block area and a board-and-secure 1961– 1962 kitchen expansion. The grounds contain a smokehouse, a water well, the establishments of an ice house, and a late spring kitchen. 

The blocks from which the house was fabricated were terminated in the quick region (along the banks of the South Branch Potomac River), and the block dividers were strengthened with hand-created basic iron edges. The nails utilized in its development were created by a neighborhood metalworker, and the wooden ledges and joists were sawn by hand. 

Valley View's home is a two-story block structure with a rectangular engineering plan and outside measurements estimating about . The house's outside block dividers are thick and laid in an American bond. The house is finished with a lofty metal gabled rooftop with standing crease profiles. Two arrangements of twofold inside fireplaces reach out over the precarious roofline on the northwestern and southeastern finishes. 

The front façade of the house faces a slope toward the southwest. It is five coves wide, with the front passageway at the primary floor's inside sound. Wide twofold hung scarf windows are consistently set on the house's front façade, with four nine-more than six twofold draped wooden scarves on the primary story and five six-more than six twofold hung wooden band windows on the second. Every window is encompassed by green-painted wooden shades and white-painted wooden lintels and ledges. 

The front passage is secured by a little Greek Revival colonnade estimating about , finished with a pediment bolstered by wooden Doric segments and drew in segments at the divider. The entryway patio is flanked by unassuming wooden handrails and balusters to its left side and right sides. The front passage is post and lintel (trabeated) development, with a six-sheet transom and two three-sheet sidelight windows around the entryway. Zimmerman recommends that "Huge Jim" Parsons adorned his home's front access to declare his "riches and status" and give "a regarded welcome to guests". 

The back façade of the house faces upper east, over the South Branch Potomac River valley toward Mill Creek Mountain. A two-story (twofold) wooden yard about profound stretches out over the back of the house, bested by a shed rooftop reaching out from the principle gabled rooftop at a shallower pitch. The main story yard underpins are darker wooden turned posts with no handrail or balusters, and the patio's second story has white painted square wood posts and vertical railings. Like the front façade, the back façade is five sounds wide; access to the twofold patio is through an entryway in the focal straight on the two dimensions. The other four coves have nine-more than six twofold hung wooden band windows on the main story and six-more than six twofold hung wooden scarf windows on the second story. The northwestern and southeastern sides of the house have one little square window at storage room level, between each pair of inside fireplaces. 

The inside of the Valley View house has a two-room-profound, focal corridor floor plan. Its wide focal passage contains a staircase from the main floor to the upper room, with a wooden handrail upheld with square balusters and an unassuming wooden turned newel post. The roofs are high. Despite the fact that the house's establishment is low, the stature of the inside dividers and the full-sized upper room influence the house to seem tall all things considered. 

The first house has eight extensive rooms, each with a chimney confined by a wooden geometric trabeated mantelpiece with established components. The four substantial rooms on the principal floor open from either side of the middle passage. They contain basic wide wood trim, including avoiding sheets and door jamb moldings with "unpretentiously differentiated corners". The house's living and lounge areas have wide, wooden dado rails. The vast majority of the wooden enlivening trim is painted white, and the dividers are mortar. The solitary exemption is the room filling in as an office and cave, which has dim recolored wooden trim and inside block auxiliary dividers (uncovered by the evacuation of its mortar amid the 1960s). All rooms have the first wide board wooden floors. The second floor has four rooms, with storerooms on either side of a chimney and straightforward wood evading sheets and door jambs. Parsons relatives painted marks and spray painting in the loft around 1856, which stay unmistakable on the stairwell divider. 

A one-story kitchen expansion, worked in 1961– 1962 and estimating about , stretches out from the northwest side of the first 1855 house. The expansion has a gabled standing crease metal rooftop, and its outside is shrouded in white-painted board-and-secure siding. It has a vinyl straight window on the southwest side, a one-more than one twofold hung vinyl window on the upper east side and an entryway (connecting the mass of the 1855 house) on the southeast side. An encased board-and-secure yard, estimating about , and a shed rooftop stretch out from the front (southwest) of the kitchen expansion. The first cellar under the 1855 house is open through this yard augmentation. A phantom structure plot on the northwest side of the 1855 house demonstrates a prior structure where the present kitchen expansion stands. 

There are a few subordinate structures close to the house at Valley View, including a smokehouse and a water well, and the establishments of an ice house and a late spring kitchen. Despite the fact that the smokehouse, the mid year kitchen and the ice house are accepted to have been worked by the Collinses before Big Jim Parsons manufactured Valley View, the dates of development are questionable. 

The smokehouse, estimating about , is neighboring the kitchen expansion. It is set into a slope, permitting at-grade section to its two dimensions. Worked of square-cut logs with white chinking on a rubble workmanship establishment, the smokehouse is finished with a standing crease metal gabled rooftop. 

South of the smokehouse is the block establishment of an ice house estimating about and bested by present day wooden pergola and yard structures. The block establishment of Valley View's late spring kitchen is north of the smokehouse and finished by a contemporary wooden structure with a gabled rooftop. 

In the back yard of the house is a water very much, encased by a block working about in region and in tallness. In the focal point of the well top is a metal hand siphon. Despite the fact that the well top's blocks are like those utilized in the development of the primary house, the well may date from a prior habitation on the site.