Preity Zinta 

Preity Zinta (articulated ; brought into the world 31 January 1975) is an Indian film on-screen character and business person. She has showed up in Hindi movies of Bollywood, just as Telugu, Punjabi, and English language films. Subsequent to graduating with degrees in English distinctions and criminal brain research, Zinta made her acting introduction in "Dil Se.." in 1998, trailed by a job in "Fighter" around the same time. These exhibitions earned her a Filmfare Award for Best Female Debut, and she was later perceived for her job as a teenaged single parent in "Kya Kehna" (2000). She in this manner set up a profession with an assortment of character types; her film jobs alongside her screen persona have been attributed with adding to an adjustment in the idea of a Hindi film courageous woman, and won her few honors. 

Zinta got the Filmfare Award for Best Actress in 2003 for her execution in the dramatization "Kal Ho Naa Ho". She proceeded to assume the lead female job in two sequential yearly top-netting films in India, the sci-fi film "Koi... Mil Gaya" (2003), which is her greatest business achievement, and the star-crossed sentiment "Veer-Zaara" (2004), which earned her basic praise. She was later noted for her depiction of free, present day Indian ladies in "Salaam Namaste" (2005) and "Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna" (2006), top-netting creations in abroad markets. These achievements have built up her as a main performing artist of Hindi film. Her first global film job was in the Canadian film "Paradise on Earth", for which she was granted the Silver Hugo Award for Best Actress at the 2008 Chicago International Film Festival. 

Notwithstanding acting, Zinta has composed a progression of segments for BBC News Online South Asia, she is a social lobbyist, a TV moderator, and a standard stage entertainer. She is the author of the generation organization PZNZ Media, a co-proprietor of the Indian Premier League cricket group Kings XI Punjab since 2008, and the proprietor of the South-African T20 Global League cricket group Stellenbosch Kings since 2017. These duties brought about quite a while of rest from film work, with the sole exemption of her self-delivered rebound film, "Ishkq in Paris" (2013), which neglected to leave an imprint. Zinta is known in the Indian media for openly her brain, and thus has started the incidental contention. These debates incorporate her being the main observer not to withdraw in court her prior explanations against the Indian mafia amid the 2003 Bharat Shah case, for which she was granted the Godfrey Phillips National Bravery Award. 

Preity Zinta was conceived on 31 January 1975 into a Hindu Rajput family from Rohru in Shimla area, Himachal Pradesh. Her dad, Durganand Zinta, was an officer in the Indian Army. He kicked the bucket in an auto crash when she was 13 years old; the mishap likewise included her mom, Nilprabha, who was seriously harmed and thusly stayed confined to bed for a long time. Zinta considered the lamentable mishap and her dad's demise a huge defining moment in her life, which constrained her to develop quickly. She has two siblings; Deepankar and Manish, a year more seasoned and a year more youthful separately. Deepankar is an appointed officer in the Indian Army, while Manish lives in California. 

Zinta, who depicts herself as having been a boyish girl as a youngster, has underlined her dad's military foundation as having given her an enduring impact on how family life was to be led. He stated the significance of order and dependability to the kids. She learned at the Convent of Jesus and Mary live-in school in Shimla. Despite the fact that she admits to dejection in the life experience school, she noticed that it was repaid by her finding a "... perfect set of companions" there. As an understudy, she built up an adoration for writing, especially crafted by William Shakespeare and verse. As indicated by Zinta, she delighted in schoolwork and got decent evaluations; in her available time she played games, particularly ball. 

After moving on from the life experience school in Sanawar (The Lawrence School) at age 18, Zinta selected at St. Bede's College in Shimla. She moved on from school with an English distinctions degree, and after that began an alumni program in brain science. She earned a postgraduate qualification in criminal brain research, yet later took up demonstrating. Zinta's first TV plug was for "Advantage chocolates", the aftereffect of a possibility meeting with a chief at a companion's birthday party in 1996. The executive induced Zinta to try out for the spot, and she was chosen. A short time later, she showed up in different lists and ads, including one for the cleanser Liril. 

In 1997, Zinta met Shekhar Kapur when she went with a companion to a tryout, and was inquired as to whether she would try out as well. After observing her tryout, Kapur demanded that she become a performing artist. She was initially booked to make her screen debut in Kapur's "Tara Rum Pum" inverse Hrithik Roshan, however the shooting was dropped. Kapur later suggested her for executive Mani Ratnam's "Dil Se..". Zinta frequently reviews that when she joined the film business, her companions prodded her that she would commonly "wear white saris and move in the downpour", in this way persuading her to play distinctive parts. 

Zinta started shooting for Kundan Shah's "Kya Kehna", whose discharge was postponed until 2000. The deferral of another film, "Fighter", implied that her first discharge was "Dil Se.." (1998) inverse Shahrukh Khan and Manisha Koirala. She was presented as Preeti Nair, a white collar class Delhi young lady and Khan's life partner. The film was viewed as an abnormal dispatch for a newcomer, as her job called for just 20 minutes of screen time. Be that as it may, she was in the long run seen for her job, especially for the candid character she played. Her scene with Khan, in which she asked him, "Are you a virgin?", turned out to be outstanding, and her depiction earned her an assignment for the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actress. She assumed her first driving job in the activity show "Trooper" (1998), a business hit of the year. She won the Filmfare Award for Best Female Debut for her execution in both "Dil Se.." and "Trooper". 

Zinta next acted in two Telugu films, "Premante Idera" (1998), inverse Venkatesh; and "Raja Kumarudu" (1999), inverse Mahesh Babu. She pursued with the main job close by Akshay Kumar in "Sangharsh", a spine chiller coordinated by Tanuja Chandra and composed by Mahesh Bhatt. Zinta depicted the character of Reet Oberoi, a CBI officer who becomes hopelessly enamored with a caught executioner played by Kumar. Having been awed with Zinta's work in "Dil Se", Chandra moved toward her for the part after a few driving on-screen characters had denied the offer, which Zinta saw as a chance to extend her range. "Sangharsh" was not a film industry achievement, in spite of the fact that Zinta's execution got ideal remarks by pundits. An article distributed by "The Tribune" upon the film's discharge portrayed her execution as "a stunning demonstration" in a "serious film", recording her vocation way up to this point with the perception, "She wowed the gatherings of people with her appearance in "Dil Se", at that point she destroyed the watchers with her sexiness in "Officer" and now Preity Zinta is good to go to stun everyone with her distinct execution [in "Sangharsh"]." 

Zinta's first job in 2000 was in the dramatization "Kya Kehna", which out of the blue turned into a film industry achievement. The film tended to subjects of single parenthood and adolescent pregnancy, and picked up Zinta more extensive acknowledgment from people in general just as film pundits. Her depiction of Priya Bakshi, a high school single parent who battles social bias, earned her few honor assignments, including her first selection for Best Actress at the Filmfare Awards. Anupama Chopra from "India Today" announced that Zinta had a place with another type of Hindi film performing artists that splits from character generalizations. 

Soon thereafter, Zinta featured in Vidhu Vinod Chopra's show "Mission Kashmir" nearby Sanjay Dutt and Hrithik Roshan. Set in the valley of Kashmir amid the Indo-Pakistani clashes, the film managed the subject of fear mongering and wrongdoing. Zinta's job was that of Sufiya Parvez, a TV columnist and Roshan's youth love. A survey in "The Hindu" said about her execution, "Preity Zinta is her standard cherubic self and loans shading to the generally genuine procedures". It was a financial achievement, turning into the third-most elevated earning film of the year in India. 

In 2001, Zinta earned positive audits for her job in Farhan Akhtar's National Film Award-winning "Dil Chahta Hai". Delineating the contemporary routine existence of Indian well-off youth, it is set in advanced urban Mumbai and spotlights on a noteworthy time of progress in the lives of three youthful companions (Aamir Khan, Saif Ali Khan and Akshaye Khanna). Zinta featured as Aamir Khan's affection intrigue, Shalini. "Dil Chahta Hai" was well known with pundits, some of whom noted it broke new ground by presenting a reasonable depiction of Indian youth. The film was a moderate film industry achievement in India; it performed well in the huge urban areas yet bombed in the country regions, which was credited by pundits to the urban-situated way of life it introduced. Rediff.com composed of Zinta that she "... is lovely and dynamic, faltering between endearingly innocent and confounded". 

Three increasingly 2001 discharges highlighted Zinta, including Abbas-Mustan's sentimental dramatization "Chori Chupke", which was discharged following a one-year delay because of the preliminary of maker Bharat Shah. This film was one of the principal Bollywood movies to address the dubious issue of surrogate labor. Zinta assumed the job of Madhubala, a brilliant hearted prostitute employed as a surrogate mother. At first hesitant to fill the role, she in the end acknowledged it at the executives' influence and, to plan for it, visited a few bars and dance club at Mumbai's red-light territories to think about the dialect and peculiarities of sex-specialists. She got a second Best Supporting Actress assignment at the Filmfare Awards for her execution, of which analyst Sukanya Verma stated, "Preity Zinta, who unmistakably has the meatiest piece of all, makes its best. Her change from the presumptuous and brazen whore to a delicate and warm individual is incredibly convincing." 

In 2002, Zinta teamed up indeed with chief Kundan Shah, as the hero in the family dramatization "Dil Hai Tumhaara", close by Rekha, Mahima Chaudhry and Arjun Rampal. She played Shalu, a received little girl longing for adoration, a job she related to because of its insubordinate nature. Charged as a star vehicle for Zinta, "Dil Hai Tumhaara" did not succeed monetarily, yet her depiction was consistently acclaimed by commentators, with those disparaging of the film denoting her quality as its primary feature. Taran Adarsh from Bollywood Hungama noted, "... Preity Zinta, in a creator upheld role ... steals the show with a sterling act. Her scenes with Rekha (second half) and Alok Nath (pre-peak) are just remarkable. Here's an exhibition that is certain to win honors from the junta and pundits entire heartedly." 

Zinta was the female lead in India's three most elevated earning movies of 2003: "", "Koi... Mil Gaya" and "Kal Ho Naa Ho". "The Hero", co-featuring Sunny Deol and Priyanka Chopra, is an energetic dramatization about a covert agent arrange including fear mongers and an Indian armed force officer. Zinta filled the role of Reshma, a resident who experiences passionate feelings for the officer and turns out to be a piece of this system. The film, including stunts never found in the realistic history of Bollywood, turned into the most costly Hindi film at any point delivered at the time. In spite of being the third most elevated earning film of that year, it neglected to recoup its generation costs in the cinematic world. She next featured in Honey Irani's directorial debut, "Armaan", close by Amitabh Bachchan and Anil Kapoor. This dramatization is set in an emergency clinic and pursues the travails of its work force and its primary, Dr. Akash, who battles strenuously to support the foundation monetarily. Zinta played Akash's schizophrenic spouse Sonia Kapoor, a job composed extraordinarily for her and which she loved in light of the fact that it let her "offer vent to all [her] dissatisfactions". The film got dominatingly positive surveys, and Zinta was especially commended. Khalid Mohamed considered her a "perky scene-stealer, accomplishing her hyper mind-set swings aptly." For her execution, she got assignments for Best Performance in a Negative Role at various honor functions, including Filmfare. 

Rakesh Roshan's sci-fi film "Koi... Mil Gaya", about a formatively debilitated young fellow (played by Hrithik Roshan) interacting with an outsider, pursued. Zinta assumed the job of Nisha, a young lady whom Roshan becomes friends with and later experiences passionate feelings for. She got another Best Actress selection at the Filmfare for the job. The film was a money related and basic achievement and turned into the most prevalent film of the year, just as Zinta's most astounding earning film, with a local aggregate of . It won the Filmfare Award for Best Movie, among others, and proceeded to produce two hero films as spin-offs—"Krrish" and "Krrish 3"— making it the first of the "Krrish" film arrangement, to which Zinta did not continue. 

Zinta's last arrival of 2003 was "Kal Ho Naa Ho", a tragic sentimental dramatization set in New York City. It was coordinated by Nikhil Advani and composed by Karan Johar, co-featuring Jaya Bachchan, Shahrukh Khan and Saif Ali Khan. The film was gotten positively by pundits and turned into India's second-greatest hit of the year after "Koi... Mil Gaya". It additionally did well globally and turned into India's top-netting film of the year abroad, acquiring over around the world. Zinta assumed the job of Naina Catherine Kapur, an uncertain and furious youthful Indian-American lady who goes gaga for a man who has a deadly coronary illness. She won a few honors for her execution, including the Filmfare Award for Best Actress. Composing for "Stardust", pundit Ram Kamal Mukherjee affirmed that the motion picture rested "entirely and exclusively" on Zinta's "shocking execution", further taking note of her for having "skillfully dealt with the shades of the intricate character." Derek Elley of "Assortment" expressed, "Zinta, who's been cutting a developing after the previous three years or something like that, has never been something more, completely moving from juve jobs to an alluring young lady with her hot, guaranteed Naina." 

In 2004 she featured as TV writer Romila Dutta in Farhan Akhtar's war dramatization "Lakshya", close by Hrithik Roshan. The film depended on the chronicled occasions of the 1999 Kargil War; Zinta's character was designed according to TV columnist Barkha Dutt, the main female correspondent who secured the contention. The film was a basic achievement, yet her execution got blended audits; Namrata Joshi of "Standpoint" compared her to "a youngster attempting to complete a TV newsreading drama for her school fest" and Rediff.com finished up, "Zinta has a significant decent job and a decent arrangement of film in the film, and she completes a genuinely respectable activity of it while never being tremendous." Later that year, Yash Chopra cast her inverse Shahrukh Khan as the female lead in the adoration adventure "Veer-Zaara", the top-earning Hindi film of that year both in India and abroad, with incomes of over around the world. The film, which relates the romantic tale of an Indian officer, Veer Pratap Singh, and a Pakistani lady, Zaara Haayat Khan, had a solid worldwide discharge, including a screening at the Berlin Film Festival, and won a few Best Movie grants at real Indian honor capacities. For her depiction of Zaara, a job which expected her to ace the fine subtleties of the Urdu language, Zinta got her fourth Filmfare Best Actress assignment. "Assortment" hailed her as "the most intriguing youthful performing artist of her age," composing that she "is her typical vivacious self as the willful Zaara." "Veer-Zaara" was Zinta's second most noteworthy netting film and third significant accomplishment in two successive years. It denoted the start of her work with Yash Raj Films, one of the biggest creation houses in Bollywood. 

In 2005, Zinta showed up in two movies. Her first discharge was the people parody "Khullam Khulla Pyaar Karen", co-featuring Govinda, a generation that had been postponed since 2002. The film collected negative audits and poor film industry returns. Zinta's job was little, and was not generally welcomed. She next featured inverse Saif Ali Khan in Siddharth Anand's satire show "Salaam Namaste". Delivered by Yash Raj Films, it was the principal Indian component to be recorded completely in Australia and proceeded to turn into the year's most astounding netting Bollywood generation outside of India, acquiring globally. The film recounts to the narrative of a contemporary living together Indian couple and their resulting battle with a startling pregnancy. Zinta played the female hero Ambar Malhotra, a solitary current young lady who leaves India to make her very own life in Melbourne. "Salaam Namaste" got for the most part positive audits, and Zinta's execution earned her selections for Best Actress at various honor functions. Taran Adarsh alluded to her as "fantastic" and contended that she gave "her most practiced execution to date". "The New York Times" noted, "She is team promoter homecoming ruler organization sweetheart pretty, so notwithstanding when her characters are being harsh it's hard not to like her." 

Zinta got further achievement in 2006, featuring in Karan Johar's dramatization "Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna" with a group cast including Amitabh Bachchan, Shahrukh Khan, Abhishek Bachchan, Rani Mukerji and Kirron Kher. The film ended up one of the greatest film industry hits in India, acquiring , and earned over abroad, the greatest Bollywood achievement ever in the abroad market up to that point. It was her fourth abroad top-worker in four continuous years. The film recounts to the account of two miserably hitched couples in New York, and a resulting extramarital undertaking. Zinta assumed the job of Rhea Saran, an eager style magazine editorial manager. She depicted the job as an endeavor to shed her vivacious open picture. "The Indian Express" agreed this was fruitful: "The woman has looked spectacular as well as she has strolled with balance, sat with elegance, grinned with self-restraint and spoken with serenity. Who might have believed that the bubbly young lady could so skilfully shed her well established tag and leave as the don't-upset me girl. In this way, each one of the individuals who are looking for the lively Preity, well, folks you've dialed the wrong number this time." 

Zinta's next arrival of 2006 was Shirish Kunder's sentimental melodic "Jaan-E-Mann", a story set in the United States around two men, played by Salman Khan and Akshay Kumar, who love a similar lady. The film opened to blended surveys from faultfinders and its possible film industry benefit was poor. Zinta assumed the job of Piya, the cynosure of two men. She was for the most part reprimanded for playing a job of insignificant significance, however her execution was commonly generally welcomed. Raja Sen marked her job a "decoration all through," yet further expressed that she "comes distinctively alive in the film's last scene, a minute that makes you mourn why movie producers today don't let the babyfaced performing artist have some good times as opposed to driving her to cry bounteously. She doesn't have a lot to do in "Jaan-E-Mann", however looks suitably alluring." Zinta said that the film was an extraordinary alleviation after the more candidly extreme "Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna", as "Jaan-E-Mann" was "simple, upbeat and substantially more basic". 

In 2007, Zinta depicted a British Pakistani lady, Alvira Khan, in her third undertaking with Yash Raj Films, Shaad Ali's satire "Jhoom Barabar Jhoom", close by Abhishek Bachchan, Bobby Deol and Lara Dutta. The film was a basic and business disappointment in India, and a few commentators panned her execution; "The Times of India" depicted her as "excessively plastic" and Rediff.com finished up, "From intonation to feeling, Preity is plain and straightforward terrible in this film." 

Following the disappointment of two of her business discharges, Zinta started working with craftsmanship movie executives, and turned towards neo-sensible movies, referred to in India as Parallel Cinema. She acted in her first English film, Rituparno Ghosh's "The Last Lear", as a battling film on-screen character inverse Amitabh Bachchan. The film debuted at the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival, and was gotten well. Later surveys in India were favoring, with Rajeev Masand expressing, "Preity Zinta gets past her scenes ably, never permitting her charming as-a-catch picture to detract from the effect she makes here as a tangled, develop lady." Initially contemptuous of craftsmanship films, Zinta in the end talked about her first endeavor into the class, admitting, "I thought with workmanship films that they don't pay you, they don't nourish you, yet I wasn't right, and I'm so cheerful to be here." 

Zinta next featured in Samir Karnik's "Saints" (2008), a street motion picture around two last year film understudies who, as a piece of their task, traverse North India to convey three un-posted letters composed by armed force work force who lost their lives amid the 1999 Kargil war to their families. The story unfurls the adventure of these understudies in three parts and pursues how they meet and are propelled by the groups of the officers. Zinta is highlighted in the primary part as Salman Khan's war widow, Kuljeet Kaur, a lady who turns into the sole provider of the family and without any assistance brings up her child. In anticipation of the job, Zinta went to Anupam Kher's acting school, "Performer Prepares" to become familiar with the lingo and peculiarities of a Punjabi lady. The film was discharged to a blended basic response, however her execution got rave audits; Anand Singh of "Hindustan Times" expressed, "Karnik is simply keen on wringing tears as it was done in the good 'ol days, and not in beginning a discussion. He succeeds—for the most part since Preity Zinta conveys to a job a gravitas and pride that is seen on the essences of common ladies—this might be her transitioning as an on-screen character." 

By April 2008, Zinta had finished shooting for Jahnu Barua's show "Har Pal". Around the same time she assumed the main job of Chand in Deepa Mehta's Canadian film "Paradise on Earth", a Punjabi language otherworldly show dependent on the genuine story of a youthful Indian lady who, after an orchestrated marriage to a non-occupant Indian man from Canada, relocates to Toronto and turns into a casualty of extreme household misuse. Communicating her craving for "another sort of acting test", Zinta portrayed Mehta as one chief she was yearning to work with to satisfy it. To plan for the part, she read and watched a few books and documentaries on abusive behavior at home. As the film was to be shot completely in Punjabi, a language that was thoroughly strange to her, she learnt it in a compressed lesson of fifty days. She was passionate amid the creation of the film: "I never realized a character would influence me so profoundly. I've turned out to be totally pulled back and contemplative... I can't snap out of the character." She in the end called it her most testing task, as it helped her "shed everything that Preity Zinta was about." "Paradise on Earth" was first screened at a few film celebrations and, upon discharge, accumulated vocation best surveys for Zinta. Her execution earned her the Silver Hugo Award for Best Actress at the 2008 Chicago International Film Festival, for "her solid yet unobtrusive execution as a lady attempting to keep her fantasies in spite of ruthless substances." Among different honors, she was recognized with Best Actress assignments at a few honor works in Canada, including the Genie Award by the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television, and the Vancouver Film Critics Circle. 

Following "Paradise on Earth", Zinta took a two-year holiday from movies, later clarifying that she had concentrated on her work with her cricket group. In 2011 she propelled her own creation organization, PZNZ Media. After two years and following various postponements, she featured in her first movie under the flag—the Prem Raj-coordinated lighthearted comedy "Ishkq in Paris", which she likewise co-composed. An Indo-French joint effort, the film considered Zinta to be a half-Indian half-French Parisian lady close by Rhehan Malliek and Isabelle Adjani. Zinta's job expected her to learn French and pursue an exacting eating regimen and wellness routine, for which she employed the administrations of big name coach Tracy Anderson. While the film besieged in the cinema world and got generally negative surveys, Zinta's execution pulled in a blended basic gathering. Sonia Chopra of Sify called her "immensely affable", and included that she is a "decent performing artist, keen maker and ... essayist." Shilpa Jamkhandikar from "Deccan Herald", reproachful of both the film and Zinta's work, finished up a scorching audit by calling it "an unremarkable film, one that should feature one of our most loved driving women, yet rather just demonstrates to us what a sorry excuse for her past she's moved toward becoming." 

Following a five-year holiday, Zinta featured inverse Sunny Deol as a forceful Varanasi-based spouse in Neeraj Pathak's activity parody "Bhaiaji Superhit" (2018). Ajit Duara of "Open" magazine considered the film a "discourteous, chauvinist, and totally stirred up sham" and lamented that the "once vivacious [Zinta] shows up totally impartial in her environment and in her co-performers". 

In 2004, Zinta joined a gathering of South Asian analysts for BBC News Online. She communicated satisfaction at taking an interest in the undertaking, saying, "I am entirely frank and have my own view regarding each matter. So it will be a decent stage for me to air my perspectives." Her first segment, "The changing substance of Bollywood", distributed in January 2004, examined the advancement of Bollywood in the previous decade. The segment wound up one of the site's ten most perused accounts of the day. In her second segment, "Chances stacked against Indian ladies", Zinta examined the eve prodding wonder in India, and censured the individuals who practice it. She expressed, "Rates like these remove a lady's respect, her space and her freedom ... why the state is so vulnerable in securing the ladies. For what reason should ladies feel hazardous in a nation which had a globally loved lady head administrator?" The section grabbed the eye of perusers around the world, and she got a huge number of messages about it. It was extolled especially by ladies for its remain against maltreatment of Indian ladies. Her third section, "The obscurity that all performing artists dread", was a progressively close to home segment and managed her fame, fans, frailty and fears as a performer. Her fourth and last section, titled "Confronting passing in Sri Lanka and Thailand", depicted her two close demise encounters in late 2004. 

Zinta has participated in a few phase shows and world visits since 2001. Her first world visit, a progression of shows called "Fever 2001", was performed over the US close by Anil Kapoor, Aamir Khan, Aishwarya Rai and Gracy Singh. The show confronted early scratch-off because of the 11 September 2001 assaults, and the group arranged to come back to India at the earliest opportunity. In any case, the shows proceeded effectively in Canada. 

In 2002, she took an interest in the show "From India With Love" in the UK, alongside Amitabh Bachchan, Aamir Khan, Shah Rukh Khan and Aishwarya Rai. It occurred at two outside scenes, Manchester's Old Trafford and London's Hyde Park, with over 100,000 spectators. Zinta's biggest world visit was in 2004, when she joined a gathering of stars (Shah Rukh Khan, Rani Mukerji, Saif Ali Khan, Arjun Rampal and Priyanka Chopra) in the "Enticement 2004" visit. Displayed in over 22 countries over the world, it turned into Bollywood's most noticeable global show. In 2006, Zinta was a piece of the "Warmth 2006" world visit, alongside Akshay Kumar, Saif Ali Khan, Sushmita Sen and Celina Jaitley. "The Unforgettable Tour" (2008) saw Zinta performing with the Bachchan family and Ritesh Deshmukh in a 40-day show arranged in 11 urban areas crosswise over North America, Europe and the Caribbean. In December 2012, Zinta came back to the phase with the "Enticement Reloaded" show in Jakarta (joined by Shah Rukh Khan, Rani Mukerji and Bipasha Basu). 

In 2011, Zinta made her TV debut as the host of the show "Guinness World Records – Ab India Todega" on Colors Channel. An Indian form of Guinness Book of World Records, the show debuted on 18 March to a crowd of people estimation of 3.3 rating focuses, which influenced it to involve the seventh position on the diagram of big name driven unscripted TV dramas on Hindi excitement channels. In a four-star audit for "Hindustan Times", commentator Rachana Dubey stated, "Preity is a mob. She's vivacious and knows precisely when she should be not kidding and when she can split jokes." Later that year, Zinta began facilitating the big name based visit show "Very close and Personal with PZ", shot at her very own penthouse in Mumbai and communicate on the recently propelled channel UTV Stars. The principal scene publicized on 3 September. In 2015, Zinta highlighted as an ability judge for the seventh period of the move unscripted TV drama "Nach Baliye". 

Amid her years in the film business, Zinta has been included with various altruistic associations and has especially upheld ladies' causes in India, for example challenging female child murder. She has additionally partaken in AIDS mindfulness drives and battles to tidy up Mumbai. 

In 2005, alongside other Bollywood stars, Zinta performed at the "HELP! Fundraiser Concert" fund-raising for the casualties of the 2004 Indian Ocean tremor. The next year, as a diplomat of the Godfrey Phillips National Bravery Movement, Zinta went to a blood gift camp composed by the Rotary Club of Delhi and the Godfrey Phillips Awards. She loaned her help to the reason for ladies' strengthening and advanced blood gift. She stated, "Giving blood doesn't murder one however proceeds to spare someone's life ... When blood is given it ends up general and may be utilized by anybody in need, regardless of network, rank or area. It ties individuals together." 

In 2007, Zinta visited Hisar, Haryana, where she went through multi day at the military preparing base to support the confidence of the jawan troops. The visit was led for a NDTV appear, "Jai Jawan", on which performers and on-screen characters visit Indian troops. While there, she likewise met youngsters with incapacities at an exceptional school kept up by the military. In August, alongside Mumbai-based craftsman Gurcharan Singh, Zinta painted for the reason for road kids for the non-legislative association "Khushi". In December, she joined the endeavors of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) to control human dealing in India. She talked for the benefit of mindfulness against the training, the requirement for assurance and recovery for those protected from it, and discipline for culprits. 

In 2009, on her 34th birthday celebration, Zinta embraced 34 young ladies from the Mother Miracle halfway house in Rishikesh and assumed the liability of monetarily supporting their training, nourishment and garments. She communicated her fervor at doing as such: "I've embraced 34 young ladies. I'll be taking care of their whole childhood from instruction to sustenance, garments and so on. You've no thought how superb it feels to hear the energized gab of every one of these young ladies together." 

In January 2010, Zinta was delegated the brand envoy of The Loomba Trust, an association that works for the welfare of widows and their youngsters. She stated, having lost her dad at 13, she could identify with the issues looked by bereft ladies. Later in the year, she joined the Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) as their Goodwill Ambassador in India, to advance open mindfulness on HIV anticipation, treatment and backing, with accentuation on ladies and kids, and battle victimization it. Talking about her arrangement, Zinta communicated want to be "the voice for the voiceless" and achieve a "change in the psyches of individuals" through communitarian work. In October 2010, Zinta was granted an Honorary Doctorate of Arts from the University of East London. It was granted to pay tribute to both her social commitment and her helpful work, with the reference portraying her as "a global performing artist, spearheading star of Hindi film and dedicated philanthropic person. Preity has cut a way for ladies to pursue." 

Alongside Ness Wadia, Mohit Burman and others, Zinta obtained proprietorship rights in 2008 for the Mohali-based Twenty20 cricket group of the Indian Premier League (IPL). The gathering paid $76 million to obtain the establishment, and had since named the group Kings XI Punjab. Until 2009, Zinta was the main lady to possess an IPL group, and was the class' most youthful proprietor. She has been included with propelling ticket deals and advancing the group. She stated, "My contribution with the group is complete. I am very energetic about our group and I do trust that I am the group's good karma factor, so I need to be there for everything." In September 2017 Zinta turned into the proprietor of the Stellenbosch Kings establishment of South Africa's T20 Global League. 

Zinta used to visit her local town Shimla when she was not caught up with shooting. In 2006, she moved into her very own home in Mumbai. She doesn't relate to a specific religion. In a meeting with "The Times of India", she remarks, "I have faith in great deeds, in karma, I don't put stock in going to sanctuaries. For me, religion is close to home. It's tied in with having faith ... We have heard and perused that all religions are equivalent. Presently I am progressively trusting in this." She barely gotten away passing twice in late 2004: first after a blast at a Temptation show in Colombo, Sri Lanka; and second amid the Indian Ocean seismic tremor. 

Zinta has been the subject of a few debates. In 2003, as an observer in the Bharat Shah case, she affirmed against the Indian mafia. Bharat Shah, the financer of one of her movies, "Chori Chupke", was captured in 2000 for having associations with Chhota Shakeel, a Mumbai black market supervisor. In contrast to a few of her partners, Zinta rehashed in court her before proclamation that she had gotten blackmail dangers from the mafia amid the shooting of the film. After her declaration, she was given observer assurance and was compelled to avoid the open eye for two months. Thirteen different observers before her, including big names Salman Khan and Shahrukh Khan, were observers for the situation yet later withdrawn their before articulations. Zinta was the main observer who did not end up antagonistic to the indictment; the country reacted decidedly to her activities. Subsequently, she was the main beneficiary of Godfrey's Mind of Steel Award at the yearly Red and White Bravery Awards, given to her for the "gutsy demonstration" of remaining against the Mumbai Underworld. On accepting the honor, she stated, "To be bold isn't to be valiant. It is the point at which you dread and you get over it, at that point you can be called valiant. I am human. It isn't that I dread nothing. Be that as it may, getting over a dread is a ceaseless procedure and I have been fruitful up until this point." Since 2006, Zinta has been the brand diplomat for the Godfrey Phillips Bravery grants. 

Tabloids have frequently connected Zinta impractically with other Bollywood stars, yet she has unequivocally denied any such bits of gossip. In 2000, Zinta started dating model Marc Robinson. They isolated the next year, and as indicated by Zinta stayed on great terms. Asked in "Filmfare" about their separation, she discussed, "affectionate recollections of the occasions we were as one and I'd like to hold it to that". Zinta dated the Bombay Dyeing beneficiary, representative Ness Wadia from February 2005 until May 2009. Their relationship was regularly provided details regarding by the media, with incessant hypothesis around a commitment or a separation. On 13 June 2014, Zinta recorded a protest with the Mumbai police against Ness Wadia charging he had attacked, undermined, and manhandled her at an IPL coordinate at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai on 30 May. Wadia has denied the claims. 

On 29 February 2016, Zinta wedded her long-lasting American accomplice Gene Goodenough at a private service in Los Angeles. Goodenough is Senior Vice-President for Finance at NLine Energy, a US-based hydroelectric power organization. 

Zinta is especially known in the Indian media for her direct nature and for sincerely communicating her straightforward conclusions out in the open, be it about her on-screen or off-screen life or raising a voice against social bad form. While she doesn't trust she is "as extreme as individuals depict [her] to be," she declares having no apprehensions about talking her brain, regardless of whether looked with surmounting resistance, as long as she remains "by what's correct." These highlights were noted amid the Bharat Shah Case, when she affirmed against the black market; following this episode she was frequently called by writers "The main man in Bollywood", a name she was discontent with for its basic enemy of women's activist meanings. Film performer Amitabh Bachchan, portraying her as "honest and agonizingly legit," praised her "drive and guts in a world that can be most remorseless to a solitary young lady." Author and editorialist Shobhaa De, while lauding her for hotel an attack grievance against Ness Wadia in 2014, communicated concern with respect to Zinta's rehashed mission for equity, trusting it could in the long run play against her: "India isn't appallingly kind to solid willed, frank ladies who are named 'inconvenience producers' in the event that they set out to raise their voices, particularly against men. Zinta is such a lady." 

Her trademark dimple has been refered to by the media as her trademark. Toward the start of her profession, she was frequently depicted by the press as having a vivacious identity and a bubbly, friendly persona, a picture she had admitted to loathing. As indicated by film faultfinder Sukanya Verma, Zinta's fiery nature reaches out from her genuine into her appearances in movies and is a vital piece of her system. In an article examining Hindi film performing artists and their style for satire, Verma stated, "What would you be able to state around an on-screen character who chuckles relentless in a tone that would anything say anything is nevertheless demure and propah? She is lighthearted. She is enlivened. She talks relentless. She chuckles constantly. She has a relaxed comical inclination. What's more, a tomboyish streak as well. Preity Zinta is all that and the sky is the limit from there. This significantly adds to her style of acting." 

Chief Tanuja Chandra, while recording "Sangharsh" in 1998, attributed Zinta's screen bid to her absence of acting affectation, remarking, "She doesn't act, she's real to the point that you can't turn away from her". Evaluating "Chori Chupke" for "Hindustan Times", Vinayak Chakravorty noticed that "there is an honorable pizzazz that Preity siphons into each job she does". Farhan Akhtar, who guided her in two motion pictures, trusts she is a performing artist who "can shape herself—the manner in which she talks, works and her non-verbal communication—and adjust to jobs," while Vidhu Vinod Chopra (executive of "Mission Kashmir") acknowledges her for the capacity to "influence the watcher to accept even in the most tangled circumstance." In a survey of "Salaam Namaste", Australian film commentator Jake Wilson watched, "While Preity Zinta isn't the subtlest performer, she's all in all a comedienne – for a Hollywood proportional to her mix of magnificence, nervous feeling and facial vaulting you may need to return to Natalie Wood." American pundit Derek Elley believes her to be "a standout amongst Bollywood's best unadulterated on-screen characters." 

Following her depiction of such characters as those in "Sangharsh", "Kya Kehna", "Chori Chupke", "Salaam Namaste" and "Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna", Zinta picked up a notoriety for assuming jobs that conflict with Indian conventional mores and was frequently perceived for her flexibility. Faultfinders ascribed her jobs in these movies as to setting up another picture for driving on-screen characters in Bollywood. Karan Johar refers to her as "another wave performer" who has the upside of working when "films depict a lady who knows her psyche". In the book "Quite a long time ago in Bollywood", it is expressed that Zinta "opposes man centric requirements through her advanced way of life and the dubious jobs she picks." 

Zinta is a standout amongst the best-known big names in India; at her vocation top she was one of Hindi film's most celebrated and most generously compensated stars and was recognized for having dealt with a profession with no conventional help or family relations in the film business. In 2003, Zinta showed up in the main spot on Rediff's "Top Bollywood Female Stars". She was positioned second for the accompanying three years. She has been highlighted as often as possible on other Rediff records, including "Bollywood's Most Beautiful Actresses", "Bollywood's Best Dressed Women" and "Ladies of Many Faces". Somewhere in the range of 2006 and 2008 Zinta showed up at the Cannes Film Festival. At first she went to the 2006 Film Festival alongside movie producer Karan Johar to speak to the Hindi film industry and advance "Kabhi Alvida Naa Kehna", returning in later years as the brand diplomat of Chopard, the creator of extravagance watches and gems. In September 2006, the UK magazine "Eastern Eye" positioned her among "Asia's Sexiest Women". In 2010, "Time" magazine chose her as one of the possibility for its rundown of the world's 100 most powerful individuals. She was the main Indian performer named for the survey and in the end did not make it to the last rundown, positioned at 144. This was pursued, be that as it may, by a checked time of decrease in her ubiquity when she confined her work in movies, which was additionally diminished with the disaster of her self-created rebound vehicle. 

Among Zinta's film grants are two Filmfare Awards—Best Female Debut for "Dil Se.." and "Officer", and Best Actress for "Kal Ho Naa Ho".