George Andrew Davis Jr. 

George Andrew Davis Jr. (December 1, 1920 – February 10, 1952) was an exceedingly enlivened military pilot and flying expert of the United States Army Air Forces in World War II, and later of the United States Air Force amid the Korean War. Davis rose to the position of major, and was elevated after death to lieutenant colonel and granted the Medal of Honor for his activities in "MiG Alley" amid the last war. He was the main flying pro of the United States to be slaughtered in real life in Korea. 

Conceived in Dublin, Texas, Davis joined the United States Army Air Corps in mid 1942. He was sent to the Pacific Theater after pilot preparing and flew in the New Guinea and Philippine battles, scoring seven triumphs over Japanese airplane. He immediately picked up a notoriety for being a gifted pilot and precise heavy armament specialist whose "adrenaline junkie" flying style diverged from his saved identity. 

Davis did not see activity in Korea until late 1951. Despite this, he made significant progress flying the F-86 Saber warrior fly, rapidly ascending to turn into the war's pro of pros and bringing down fourteen North Korean, Chinese, and Soviet airplane before his demise in February 1952. Amid his last battle mission in northwest Korea, Davis shocked and assaulted twelve Chinese MiG-15 warrior flies going to assault neighborly airplane in "MiG Alley", bringing down two of the MiG-15's before he was shot down and executed. Discussions emerged encompassing the conditions of his passing. 

Davis is the fourth-most noteworthy US scoring expert of the Korean War with a sum of 21 triumphs. He is one of seven US military pilots to turn into a pro in two wars, and one of 31 US pilots to be credited with in excess of 20 triumphs. 

Davis was conceived in Dublin, Texas, on December 1, 1920. He was the seventh of nine youngsters destined to George Davis Sr. also, Pearl Love Davis. In his adolescence, Davis quickly lived in Maple, Texas. Davis went to Morton High School in Morton, Texas. Davis at that point went to Harding College in Searcy, Arkansas. Subsequent to finishing a degree, he came back to Texas. He occupied cultivating for a period with his family before in the end choosing to join the military. 

Companions and associates would later portray Davis as peaceful, quiet, and held just as a characteristic head. When flying, he would progress toward becoming "cool and computing" in battle. He didn't drink liquor or smoke tobacco, in contrast to numerous different pilots, and he had a repressed identity disregarding his "thrill seeker" flying style. 

Davis wedded Doris Lynn Forgason, and was made due by three kids, Mary Margaret Davis (brought into the world 1944) and George Davis III (brought into the world 1952). His significant other was a half year pregnant with their third youngster, Charles Lynn Davis, at the season of his passing in 1952. 

On March 21, 1942, Davis enrolled in the United States Army in Lubbock, Texas, soon after the US section into World War II. On June 3, he was named a flying cadet in the Army Air Corps. He was moved to Kelly Field in San Antonio, Texas for pre-flight preparing, which he finished in August. He was then moved to Jones Field in Bonham, Texas for essential flight preparing. Amid this preparation, he got his initial 60 hours of flight time on board a Fairchild PT-19 mentor flying machine. At that point, he flew for an additional 74 hours amid Basic Flight Training in Waco, Texas and a last stretch of preparing on board the T-6 Texan at Aloe Field in Victoria, Texas. On February 16, 1943, Davis finished his preparation and was dispatched as a second lieutenant in the US Army Reserve, and quickly requested to dynamic obligation with the Army Air Forces. At this point he had gathered 314 hours of flight time. 

Davis' first task was the 312th Bombardment Group based at Bowman Field in Louisville, Kentucky. There, he was met all requirements to fly the P-40 Warhawk military aircraft. He was prepared there until August 1943 when the gathering was requested to the Pacific Theater of Operations. 

Davis was traveled to Port Moresby, New Guinea where he was immediately reassigned to the 342nd Fighter Squadron, 348th Fighter Group of the Fifth United States Air Force. The gathering flew the P-47 Thunderbolt military aircraft. By December, his unit moved to Finschhafen, where it could work over the Solomon Sea against flying corps of the Empire of Japan, and he immediately earned the moniker "Wavy" in view of his straight dark hair. Davis was likewise known among the pilots to be extremely sure of himself. Davis served under the order of Colonel Neel E. Kearby, who himself would later get the Medal of Honor. Huge numbers of different pilots in the unit would move toward becoming experts rapidly in the contention. 

In Davis' first battle involvement, his unit was sent on a watch to Cape Gloucester on December 31, 1943, in help of the New Britain crusade as the Battle of Cape Gloucester started. In any case, the 15 flying machine were redirected to Arawe toward the southwest. There, they were to counterattack Japanese airplane which were focusing on Allied guards amid the Battle of Arawe. On the way, they experienced 11 Japanese D3A Val and A6M Zero airplane assaulting an Allied escort from to . They promptly trapped the Japanese planes, getting them off guard. Davis immediately assaulted a complicated development of the airplane, bringing down a D3A Val as it finished a besieging run. Before the finish of the short fight, eight Japanese flying machine had been shot down and just a single American plane had been harmed. 

The following battle mission went ahead February 3, 1944. Sixteen P-47s were on a mission escorting a trip of B-24 Liberators on a shelling mission over Wewak. When they were west of the objective zone, they were trapped by a trip of Nakajima Ki-43 Oscars and Kawasaki Ki-61 Tony air ship at . As the American air ship hurried to the barrier of the aircraft, Davis figured out how to assault and shoot down a Ki-61 which had been assaulting another P-47. Taking all things together, seven Japanese flying machine were devastated in the assault. The following day, Davis was elevated to first lieutenant. 

For the following a while, Davis' unit attempted watch and escort missions in the Cape Gloucester region and around the islands of Saidor, Manus, and Momote. Through May, these activities were generally uneventful, with the exception of one warrior clear mission from Wewak. Davis flew 69 missions from May to August, including a few plunge shelling assaults on Japanese positions on Hansa Bay. Davis at that point flew another 40 missions from September to November, including six watches between Wakde Island and Hollandia. On November 14, Davis was elevated to the impermanent position of commander. 

Around December 1944, the unit started supporting missions in the Philippines, and was moved to Tacloban Airport on Leyte Island. On December 10, after five uneventful climate testing missions, Davis and the unit were relegated an escort mission. The flying machine were to cover a flotilla of troop transports moving from Baybay to Oromoc Bay. On the way, they were assaulted by four Ki-61 Tony flying machine at . After a brisk arrangement of moves, Davis moved to and utilized the glare of the sun to trap two of the air ship beneath him. He sought after them to the extent Cebu Island. He shut to inside of the pair before crushing the first with his assault rifles, and afterward the second close Negros Island as it endeavored to jump for spread in a cloud. 

The unit attempted eight more watch missions over Mindoro, covering Allied guards. 

On December 20, Davis was in one of twelve Thunderbolts watching Mindoro when eight A6M Zeroes were spotted endeavoring to snare the departure from behind. Davis figured out how to rake the cockpit of one Zero and murder the pilot, winning him his fifth triumph to turn into a flying expert. Following this, be that as it may, Davis' P-47 was struck by automatic rifle discharge from another airplane, harming the propeller and left wing parts. On December 24, set for escort a few B-24s on a besieging mission of the Japanese-held Clark Field at Manila, Davis shot down two progressively Zeroes, some portion of a gathering of Japanese flying machine endeavoring to bug the aircraft. Davis was granted a Silver Star for this activity. 

Between this activity and February 19, 1945, Davis flew another 47 missions, most escorting planes or ships, notwithstanding a couple of ground-assault missions, however observed next to zero aeronautical battle in that time. On February 19, he was pulled back from the front to start affirmation on the P-51 Mustang, logging 45 hours of preparing time on the flying machine through the finish of March. He came back to battle obligation just quickly in April, flying in three battle missions as a copilot on board a B-25 Mitchell aircraft. On May 3, 1945, he was reassigned to Goodfellow Field at San Angelo, Texas, preparing new pilots and filling in as a tasks officer for the base until the finish of the war. 

Amid his World War II administration, Davis flew 266 missions, gathering an aggregate of 705 battle hours and devastating seven Japanese flying machine. For these endeavors, he was granted the Silver Star, two Distinguished Flying Crosses and nine Air Medals. Before the finish of this war, Davis had more than 2,200 hours of flight time. 

After the finish of the war, Davis served in various regulatory positions in the United States. On August 10, 1945, he was appointed to the 556th Air Base Unit at Long Beach, California. On August 24, 1946, he was offered a commission as a first lieutenant in the dynamic obligation Army Air Corps, downgrading him from his impermanent position yet viably enabling him to remain in the military regardless of the deactivation and scaling back of the US military. Half a month later on September 7, Davis was requested to the 554th Air Base Unit in Memphis, Tennessee, where he served on one of the Army Air Corps aerobatic showing groups, the antecedents to the United States Air Force Thunderbirds. 

Davis came back to forefront units on January 6, 1947, when he was moved to the 71st Fighter-Interceptor Squadron, first Fighter Group. He stayed with this development for the vast majority of the year. On September 18, 1947, the United States Air Force was made as a different branch from the US Army. Davis was charged as a commander in the new branch. Amid his time with the 71st Squadron, Davis went to Air Tactical School and Tyndall Air Force Base. He was additionally a flight leader and air auditor while with the unit. 

Upon the flare-up of the Korean War, Davis kept on serving in the 71st Squadron and did not see battle in the underlying period of the war. As it advanced, be that as it may, Davis started preparing on the F-86 Saber (Sabrejet), the most recent fly motor controlled warrior. On February 15, 1951, he was elevated to major and in October 1951 he was appointed to the home office of the fourth Fighter-Interceptor Wing, which was situated in Japan and working airplane all through Korea. All things considered, Davis was sent to the contention as a military pilot. 

Amid a watch on November 4, 1951, Davis was credited with a "plausible" triumph over a Russian-made MiG-15 warrior fly of the Soviet Air Force or Chinese Air Force, giving him his first triumph of the Korean War. On November 10, Davis was given direction of the 334th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron, a unit of the fourth Wing. Davis and his squadron were migrated to Kimpo Airfield to permit them the best access to "MiG Alley" in North Korea, where a significant part of the aerial battle occurred. Of his administration, subordinates regularly applauded the nature of his preparation; Davis invested a lot of energy preparing new and more youthful pilots in strategies amid his direction. Administrators noted he frequently shown others how its done, and Davis was known to be incredibly regarded, even among his adversary expert pilots. He picked up the epithet "One Burst Davis" for his very exact shooting. 

From November 1 to 26, he flew 17 missions in the Sinanju and Uiju regions, most bringing about no battle. On November 27, Davis was driving a development of eight F-86s on a watch close Sinanju, when they spotted and assaulted six MiG-15s. He promptly brought down one of the MiGs, striking its fuselage and driving the pilot to ransom. He sought after a second MiG-15 to Koch'ong-ni and harmed it, constraining its pilot to rescue, also. On the whole, four of the MiG-15s were decimated by Davis' watch. 

For a few more days, Davis drove moderately calm watches, until November 30, Davis' 22nd battle mission in Korea. Around 16:00, Davis' trip of eight F-86s detected a huge gathering of nine Tupolev Tu-2 planes from the Chinese eighth Bomber Division, escorted by 16 Lavochkin La-11 warriors from the Chinese second Fighter Division close Sahol along the Yalu River. The power was on the way to a besieging mission on Taehwado Island in the Pansong archipelago. Davis moved the watch into position for a terminating pass on the planes. He finished four assault keeps running on the development, being persistently assaulted by the La-11 contenders, which were unfit to hit his airplane. Regardless of being isolated from his wingmen, he figured out how to decimate two of the planes and cause the group of a third to salvage. At this point, another gathering of F-86s touched base to proceed with the battle, as Davis' airplane were low on ammo and fuel. As the flight endeavored to pull back, one of Davis' pilots, Raymond O. Barton, called for help. Davis traveled to Barton's guide and discovered Barton's harmed air ship enduring an onslaught from 24 MiG-15s of the Chinese third Fighter Division touching base as fortification. As two MiG-15s arranged a last assault on Barton, Davis swooped through their pass and scored direct hits on one, murdering the Chinese flight pioneer who told the MiG pack. The second severed its assault. Davis at that point escorted Barton's harmed flying machine back to base, arriving with just of fuel left in his tanks. For the day's activities, Davis was granted the Distinguished Service Cross. The Taehwado shelling mission constrained the Chinese Air Force to end all besieging missions for the remainder of the war, while the "cap trap" of bringing down four Chinese air ship in the battle brought about raising Davis' affirmed triumph include in Korea to six, making him the fifth fly pro of the war and the primary expert in the historical backdrop of the US military to turn into a pro in two wars. Now, Davis kept in touch with his family that he expected to be home by Christmas, however then the Air Force expanded his voyage through obligation. 

On December 5, Davis flew his next battle mission, his 23rd of the war. While on a hunt and-pulverize watch over Rinko-do, Davis spotted two MiG-15s, shooting one down and driving the other to pull back. After ten minutes, he recognized another MiG-15 getting ready to assault close Haech'ang and pulverized it too. 

On December 13, another gathering of MiG-15s assaulted Davis amid a morning watch close Yongwon. Davis annihilated one MiG, and as a second MiG endeavored to focus on his wingman, Davis outflanked it and shot it down. Toward the finish of the watch, Davis had amassed 10 triumphs, making him the primary twofold pro of the war. Amid an evening watch instructing twenty-two F-86's, Davis seen fifty MiGs in the Sunchun, South Korea zone heading further south towards the Taechon zone. He astonished and obliterated one MiG, and afterward turned on another in a forceful assault which constrained the MiG pilot to safeguard. After 30 battle missions in Korea, Davis had 12 triumphs. 

After this effective arrangement of watches, Davis was requested to lead just a single watch multi day so as to limit the hazard to him. The request had recently been sent on December 1, however Davis had obviously overlooked it. Both the Air Force and Davis' family had developing worries that Chinese and Soviet pilots would firearm for Davis, given his prosperity and acclaim. By this point, Davis had 12 triumphs, and the second-most noteworthy scoring pros each had 6 triumphs. Davis was averaging one triumph for three missions. 

In January, Davis kept in touch with home, communicating disappointment at the moderate coordinations of substitution air ship parts, asserting this was backing off missions. He likewise started to express hatred for the F-86, feeling now and again it was being outflanked by the MiG and that "something should be done" to give the UN pilots a greater amount of favorable position in battle. He likewise said that he had started to become burnt out on the consistent exposure about him. "They're attempting to make a legend of me and I discover it rather humiliating", he wrote in a letter. At different occasions, Davis demonstrated he liked to remain in battle. 

In late January 1951, the Air Force disclosed to Davis it needed to turn him back to the United States. By this point, Davis held each record for a stream pilot, incorporating most triumphs in a wide range of flying machine, most MiGs wrecked and most triumphs over propeller-driven air ship. Different pilots showed they needed him to remain in Korea, believing him to be a capable and viable pioneer. Be that as it may, the Air Force decided it had no proficient substitution who could direction Davis' squadron. 

On February 10, 1952, Davis flew his 59th and last battle mission of the war in a F-86E Saber (tail number 51-2752). That day, he drove a trip of four F-86s on a watch close to the Yalu River, close to the Manchurian fringe. Davis' gathering was a piece of a bigger UN power of 18 F-86s working in the territory. As Davis' watch achieved the fringe, one of his F-86 pilots revealed he was out of oxygen making Davis request him to come back to base with his wingman. As Davis kept watching with one wingman, Second Lieutenant William W. Littlefield, and cruising at an elevation of , they detected a trip of 12 MiG-15s of the Chinese fourth Fighter Division traveling toward a gathering of US F-84 Thunderjets leading a low-level besieging mission on North Korean correspondence lines. 

The MiGs were beneath Davis and Littlefield and had not seen them. Without dithering, Davis quickly flew behind the MiG-15 arrangement and assaulted them from the back. His unexpected assault crushed one of the MiG-15s, and he immediately swung to the following nearest MiG and demolished it before it could defeat him. At this point, Davis and Littlefield passed a large number of the MiGs and some that were behind them started terminating. Davis at that point moved to focus on a third MiG at the front of the arrangement, however as he was arranging his shot a MiG scored an immediate hit on Davis' fuselage, making his air ship turn wild. Littlefield said later, that he recognized Davis' arrival gear open, demonstrating water powered disappointment, and that he endeavored to safeguard Davis' air ship as it lost height until Davis slammed and kicked the bucket. Littlefield revealed he didn't see Davis salvage of his air ship. Davis was proclaimed lost without a trace and assumed executed. Extraordinary ethereal quests of the zone later uncovered no proof that Davis had endure the accident. Truth be told, seven days after the episode, the Chinese military looked through the district and recouped Davis' body, still in the smashed flying machine. In spite of the Chinese disclosure of Davis' remaining parts, his body was stayed away forever to the United States. 

In four months in Korea, Davis had scored 14 affirmed triumphs, 1 likely triumph and 2 air ship harmed, conveying his profession complete triumph check to 21. Before the finish of the war, he was positioned fourth among pilots, outperformed by Joseph C. McConnell, James Jabara, and Manuel J. Fernandez, after his demise. Quickly following expression of the mission, individual pro Colonel Harrison Thyng, authority of the fourth Wing, suggested Davis for the Medal of Honor. On April 15, 1953, Davis was after death elevated to the position of lieutenant colonel. Davis' cenotaph is situated in the City of Lubbock Cemetery in Lubbock, Texas. Additionally covered at this graveyard is performer Buddy Holly and Medal of Honor beneficiary Herman C. Wallace. In April 1953, Davis' significant other and family gotten his Medal of Honor from Air Force Chief of Staff, General Nathan F. Twining, at Reese Air Force Base in Lubbock. 

Various debates have since developed encompassing the conditions prompting Davis' demise in North Korea. His quality in Korea at the time, the need of his activities, and the character of his aggressor have all been in debate. 

After Davis' passing, US Representative George H. Mahon (D-19) requested an examination concerning why Davis had stayed in Korea after he turned into a contender pro. US military strategy was to pivot pilots to stateside obligation once they progressed toward becoming pros, both with the goal that they could prepare different pilots thus that they would not be executed in real life. Mahon had been mentioning Davis be pivoted back to the US as long as a month prior to his demise. 

Davis' significant other, Doris Davis, communicated outrage toward the Air Force after his passing, guaranteeing that he had needed to come back to the United States after he turned into a pro however was not permitted to. She likewise guaranteed, he was constrained without wanting to into battle obligation in Korea. Her protests incited media consideration of the Far East Air Force and its strategies in regards to the revolution of troops and pilots into and out of obligation in Korea. She turned into a candid pundit of the whole war and freely condemned it, something infrequently done by widows of American troopers amid the war. She had been a vocal adversary of the war since its start, in any case. 

Resulting to Davis' demise, a few students of history have addressed if his activities were important given the circumstance. Barrett Tillman (creator, military flight) battled Davis' Medal of Honor was simply an advertising move expedited by the US military to subdue questions encompassing his demise and draw consideration far from his significant other's vocal restriction to the war. The Medal of Honor reference acknowledged Davis for sparing the F-84 arrangement, however the development of F-86s that Davis was driving really dwarfed the MiG-15s and Davis could without much of a stretch have drawn them into the fight. In any case, individual pilots bore witness to Davis' valiance. Individual pro William T. Whisner stated, "George Davis was the best military pilot I at any point knew. The main thing he didn't have was worry of his own life." 

As the Korean War advanced, different pilots started to portray Davis as "progressively shameless, increasingly forceful, and more ready to go for broke in Korea than he was amid World War II." He turned out to be progressively scornful of the Soviet and Chinese MiG pilots he looked as time continued, prompting different pilots supposing he may have thought little of the aptitudes of his rivals, adding to his demise. 

Davis' demise created contention among China and Russia, in which both Chinese MiG pilot Zhang Jihui and Soviet pilot Mikhail A. Averin () asserted credit for his bringing down. In spite of the fact that Zhang was credited by the Chinese for shooting down Davis' F-86, Russian sources questioned his case 40 years after the fact by raising the likelihood that Averin was the MiG pilot capable. Davis was the most noteworthy positioning American Korean War expert at the time and the main American pro killed in real life amid the war. His demise would have been an enormous purposeful publicity triumph for the country whose pilot was in charge of shooting him down. Davis' passing because of a Chinese pilot would likewise retaliate for the misfortunes incurred by him over Taehwado Island on November 30, 1951. Around 36 MiG-15s from the Chinese fourth Fighter Division were associated with the February 10 commitment in which Davis was slaughtered, and Zhang was among the gathering. As indicated by Zhang's own report after the fight, while the MiGs were on the way to capture Davis' gathering, he and his wingman wound up isolated from the primary component. As Zhang was endeavoring to rejoin his arrangement, he detected a gathering of eight F-86s in the territory among Taechon and Chongye at 07:40. Zhang and his wingman at that point swung down onto the tails of two Sabers and opened flame. Zhang asserted that he shot down the two Sabers, however fortifications before long crushed his MiG while executing his wingman. 

The exposure of Davis' passing before long grabbed Chinese eye. To decide if Davis was murdered by Zhang without weapon camera film, the fourth Fighter Division sent two pursuit groups on February 16 and 18. They recuperated the destruction of a F-86E, alongside Davis' body and his things. His pooch tag is as of now in plain view at the Dandong Korean War Museum. The inquiry group likewise found that the accident site was inside of where Zhang had catapulted from his own flying machine, and Zhang's twelfth Regiment was the main unit that worked close to the region. In light of these discoveries and the declarations from ground troops that had seen the fight, Zhang was credited by the Chinese military for shooting down Davis' F-86. 

Be that as it may, as indicated by the memories of the pilots of the Soviet 64th Aviation Corps, both Zhang and his wingman were likely shot somewhere around Davis, who was thusly astonished and shot somewhere near Averin, who had been scrambling to spare the Chinese MiGs. Lieutenant General Georgeii Lobov (), officer of the 64th Aviation Corps, likewise noted in his journal that Davis was executed by a Soviet pilot. 

Both China and Russia have assumed acknowledgment over Davis' passing, with no definitive proof for either side. Notwithstanding the discussion encompassing Davis' passing, Zhang turned into a commonly recognized name in China, and the triumph was one of only a handful couple of pleased minutes in the Chinese Air Force's poor execution in Korea. The Chinese military later granted Zhang the title Combat Hero, first Class for this activity. 

All through his profession, Davis was credited with 21 affirmed triumphs, 1 plausible triumph and 2 flying machine harmed. This made him one of just 30 US pilots to acquire than 20 affirmed triumphs over their vocations. He had been known to be a very gifted pilot and was particularly exact at redirection shooting, even from long separations against moving targets. Davis was one of 1,297 World War II pros from the United States, with seven affirmed executes amid that war. He later wound up one of 41 Korean War experts from the United States, with 14 affirmed triumphs amid that war. At the season of his demise, he was the top-scoring pro from the US, making him the pro of pros. Before the finish of the war, he was the fourth-most elevated scoring pro. 

Amid the Korean War, Davis' achievements were especially vital. He was the main F-86 pilot to be granted the Medal of Honor, and he was one of not many pilots who had the capacity to score numerous executes on a solitary watch. This was a very uncommon accomplishment, which Davis achieved on four events and which was equaled just by individual ace James Jabara who likewise scored an eminent number of twofold triumphs. In shooting down four Chinese flying machine on November 30, 1951, Davis scored the most kills in a solitary day of any pilot in the war. Davis additionally set aside the most limited effort to turn into a twofold expert; only 17 days in Korea. The following best pilot accomplished the accomplishment in 51 days. 

Davis is one of six US Air Force pilots and seven US pilots by and large who accomplished pro status as both a cylinder engined pilot in World War II and as a fly pilot in a later clash. The others are Francis S. Gabreski, James P. Hagerstrom, William T. Whisner, Vermont Garrison and Harrison Thyng, just as John F. Electrical jolt US Marine Corps. 

Davis' military beautifications and grants include: 

Davis was the third of four individuals from the US Air Force to be granted the Medal of Honor in the Korean War, after Louis J. Sebille, John S. Walmsley Jr. also, before Charles J. Loring Jr. Every one of the four Air Force beneficiaries of the MOH were pilots who were murdered in real life and the main USAF individuals to be granted the Army variant of the award.