Biddenden Maids 

Mary and Eliza Chulkhurst (or Chalkhurst), generally known as the Biddenden Maids, were a couple of conjoined twins as far as anyone knows conceived in Biddenden, Kent, England, in the year 1100. They are said to have been joined at both the shoulder and the hip, and to have lived for a long time. It is guaranteed that on their demise they passed on five plots of land to the town, known as the Bread and Cheese Lands. The pay from these terrains was utilized to pay for a yearly dole of nourishment and drink to the poor each Easter. Since somewhere around 1775, the dole has included Biddenden cakes, hard bread rolls engraved with a picture of two conjoined ladies. 

Despite the fact that the yearly dissemination of sustenance and drink is known to have occurred since no less than 1605, no records exist of the narrative of the sisters preceding 1770. Records of that time say that the names of the sisters were not known, and early illustrations of Biddenden cakes don't give names for the sisters; it isn't until the mid nineteenth century that the names "Mary and Eliza Chulkhurst" were first utilized. 

Edward Hasted, the nearby antiquarian of Kent, has expelled the narrative of the Biddenden Maids as a society fantasy, guaranteeing that the picture on the cake had initially spoken to two poor ladies and that the tale of the conjoined twins was "a profane convention" created to represent it, while persuasive history specialist Robert Chambers acknowledged that the legend could be valid however trusted it far-fetched. All through the vast majority of the nineteenth century little research was done into the causes of the legend. In spite of the questions among students of history, in the nineteenth century the legend turned out to be progressively famous and the town of Biddenden was thronged with raucous guests each Easter. In the late nineteenth century antiquarians researched the causes of the legend. It was recommended that the twins had truly existed yet had been joined at the hip just as opposed to at both the hip and bear, and that they had lived in the sixteenth as opposed to the twelfth century. 

In 1907, the Bread and Cheese Lands were sold for lodging, and the subsequent pay enabled the yearly dole to extend significantly, giving the widows and retired people of Biddenden with cheddar, bread and tea at Easter and with money installments at Christmas. Biddenden cakes keep on being given to the poor of Biddenden every Easter, and are sold as keepsakes to guests. 

As indicated by convention Mary and Eliza Chulkhurst, or Chalkhurst, were destined to moderately affluent guardians in Biddenden, Kent, in the year 1100. The pair were said to be conjoined at both the shoulder and the hip. They grew up conjoined, and are said to have "had visit fights, which here and there ended in blows". At 34 years old, Mary Chulkhurst kicked the bucket all of a sudden. Specialists proposed to isolate the as yet living Eliza from her sister's body however she cannot, saying "as we met up we will likewise go together", and passed on six hours a while later. In their wills, the sisters left five parcels in the Biddenden zone involving around altogether to the neighborhood church, with the salary from these terrains (professed to have been 6 guineas for every annum at the season of their demise) to give a yearly dole of bread, cheddar and brew to the poor each Easter. Henceforward, the terrains were to be known as the Bread and Cheese Lands. 

The churchwardens of Biddenden kept on keeping up the yearly dole from the Bread and Cheese Lands. It is recorded that in 1605, the custom that "on that day [Easter] our parson giveth unto the parishoners bread, cheddar, cakes and jumpers barrels of lager, acquired there and drawn" was suspended because of a visit from Charles Fotherby, the Archdeacon of Canterbury, attributable to past services having caused "much issue by reason of some uncontrollable ones, which at such time we can't control without breaking a sweat". In 1645, minister William Horner asserted that the Bread and Cheese Lands were glebe (land planned for the utilization of the ward cleric), and endeavored to assume responsibility for the grounds. The instance of the Bread and Cheese Lands was brought before the Committee for Plundered Ministers, who in the long run found for the philanthropy in 1649. Horner brought the case under the steady gaze of the Court of the Exchequer in 1656 however again without progress, and the philanthropy proceeded to claim the terrains and to work the yearly Easter dole. Witness explanations from these cases notice that the terrains had been given by two ladies "who became together in their bodies", yet don't give any name for the ladies. 

In 1681 the "turmoil and obscenity" of the yearly dole prompted the risk of intercession by the Archbishop of Canterbury. The dispersion of the dole stopped to be directed inside the congregation; it was moved to the congregation patio. 

By 1770, it is recorded that the yearly dole occurred following the evening Easter administration. The yearly pay from the Bread and Cheese Lands had ascended to 20 guineas (about £ in 2019), and an immense amount of nourishment was disseminated every year. At this point just as the dole of bread, cheddar and lager, hard bread rolls known as "Biddenden cakes", shaped into a picture of the sisters, were tossed to swarms from the congregation rooftop. The Biddenden cakes were level, hard and made of flour and water, and were portrayed as "not using any and all means enticing"; one author in 1860 depicted one as "a bread plaque". 

In spite of the fact that it is realized that the philanthropy had been in activity as right on time as 1656, a mysterious article in "The Gentleman's Magazine" in August 1770 is the most punctual recorded record of the legend of the Biddenden Maids. This record expresses that the twins were joined at the hip just, as opposed to at both the hip and the shoulder, and that they lived to a generally seniority. The article unequivocally expresses that their names were not recorded, and that they were referred to just as the "House keepers of Biddenden". The mysterious creator relates the tale of their inheritance of the grounds to the ward to help the yearly dole, and proceeds to state that regardless of the vestige of the occasions depicted, he has no uncertainty as to their legitimacy. Likewise with all records of the convention before 1790 the creator does not make reference to their supposed birth in 1100, or the name of Chulkhurst; these subtleties originally showed up in a broadside distributed in 1790. "The Antiquarian Repertory" of 1775 says that the sisters had lived "as custom says, two hundred and fifty years back". Illustrations of Biddenden cakes from this period demonstrate that they highlighted a picture of two ladies, conceivably conjoined, however no names, dates or ages. 

Student of history Edward Hasted, in the third volume of "The History and Topographical Survey of the County of Kent" distributed in 1798, rejected the legend of the Biddenden Maids. He guaranteed that the Bread and Cheese Lands were the endowment of two ladies named Preston (in spite of the fact that he somewhere else portrayed the grounds as having been "given by people obscure"). Flurried expressed that the Biddenden cakes had just started to be shaped with the engraving of two ladies over the most recent 50 years (for example since 1748) and that the figures were expected to speak to "two poor widows, as the general objects of a beneficent gift". While he referenced a legend that the figures speak to two conjoined twins who passed on in their 20s and handed down the Bread and Cheese Lands to the ward, he rejected it as "a disgusting custom". 

Scurried's contentions were to a great extent acknowledged by persuasive student of history Robert Chambers, and the story was commonly treated as a society legend. A letter to the "English Medical Journal" in 1869 brought up that surnames were not being used in Kent in the twelfth century, and that in more seasoned styles of English penmanship the 1 and 5 characters could without much of a stretch be befuddled, and recommended a right birthdate of 1500. The Biddenden Maids were every so often referenced in pieces on conjoined twins, especially after Chang and Eng Bunker demonstrated that conjoined twins could live to a propelled age and lead moderately typical lives. "Notes and Queries" magazine brought in 1866 for a nearby examination of Biddenden reports, the editors depicting Hasted's decisions as "exceptionally dark and unsuitable" and addressing why the names "Eliza and Mary Chulkhurst" ought to have been added to the plan of cakes allowed by a family named Preston, however no huge investigation into the convention was completed. 

As the yearly dole became bigger the Easter dissemination turned out to be progressively well known. In 1808 a broadside including a woodcut of the twins and a short history of their supposed story was sold outside the congregation at Easter, the primary recorded notice of the names "Eliza and Mary Chulkhurst", and earth copies of Biddenden cakes were sold as gifts. 

During the 1820s, another record of the Biddenden Maids was distributed, which guaranteed that a headstone set apart with a slanting line close to the minister's seat in Biddenden church was the sisters' entombment place. In 1830 it was noticed that Biddenden was getting to be thronged by guests each Easter, "pulled in from the nearby towns and towns by the use, and the magnificent record of its cause, and the day is spent in discourteous party". The expansive groups were progressively messy, and churchwardens every so often needed to utilize their staffs to keep down the horde. Subsequently, the conveyance of the dole was moved from the congregation to the workhouse, however the groups kept on causing issues. In 1882 Biddenden's minister connected for power to forsake the service; the Archbishop of Canterbury allowed the conveyance of bread, cheddar and Biddenden cakes to proceed, yet annulled the free lager with an end goal to battle the issue of raucous groups. 

In 1900, savant George Clinch explored the Biddenden Maids in detail. Looking at the ensembles of the figures on the Biddenden cake molds, he presumed that the style of dress portrayed dated from the rule of Mary I (1553– 1558), a date generally reliable with the "two hundred and fifty years back" announced in 1775, and inferred that the convention had started in the sixteenth century. He proposed that the "1100" date on Biddenden cakes had initially perused "1500", and clarified the nonappearance of names on prints of eighteenth century Biddenden cakes as an etching blunder. Almost certainly, the cake molds inspected by Clinch were not the first shape, as the structures Clinch analyzed are strikingly unique to the most punctual enduring illustrations of Biddenden cakes, distributed in 1775. Writing in the mid 1930s, William Coles Finch clarifies the disarray over the dates, saying "the antiquated numeral five is so every now and again taken as a one". He mourned the nature of the Biddenden cake at that point being created, contrasted with that of previous years. Coles Finch expressed that the townspeople considered the then-current cake to be unleavened bread. 

In practically all illustrations and Biddenden cake plans, the twins are appeared conjoined at both the hip and the shoulder. Albeit such a combination is hypothetically conceivable, in that twins intertwined at one point may frame an optional combination somewhere else, no instance of a practical twofold combination has ever been recorded. 

Secure trusted that the proof indicated the twins having existed however that they had lived in the sixteenth century, as opposed to the mid twelfth century as by and large guaranteed. They are not, in any case, referenced in any diaries or books from the period. This focuses against their having lived in the sixteenth century; the instance of Lazarus and Joannes Baptista Colloredo (1617 – after 1646) had incited incredible enthusiasm for conjoined twins, and conjoined sisters getting by to adulthood in south-east England would have been broadly noted. 

In 1895, specialist J. W. Ballantyne considered the instance of the Biddenden Maids from a teratological point of view. He proposed that they had in actuality been pygopagus (twins joined at the pelvis). Pygopagus twins are known to put their arms around one another's shoulders when strolling, and Ballantyne proposed this represented their obviously being joined at the shoulders in illustrations. The pygopagus Millie and Christine McCoy had lived in Britain for a brief span before going on to an effective singing vocation in the United States, and it was known from their case that such twins were fit for making due to adulthood. 

Jan Bondeson (1992 and 2006) suggested that, while the names "Eliza and Mary Chulkhurst" are not recorded in any early reports and are probably going to have been a later expansion, the presence of the twins and the asserted multi year of birth can't be expelled. Albeit medieval accounts are temperamental, he noticed various reports in the Chronicon Scotorum, the Annals of the Four Masters and the Annals of Clonmacnoise of a couple of conjoined sisters conceived in or around 1100, albeit every one of the three are records of Irish history and none notice Kent as the area. He inferred that the instance of Christine McCoy, who made due for eight hours following the demise of her polypagus twin Millie, demonstrates that the guaranteed six hours between the passings of the Biddenden Maids is conceivable, and concurred with Ballantyne's recommendation that that the twins were joined at the shoulder is a later error of the figures on the Biddenden cake. He likewise brought up that in spite of the fact that there is no recorded variant of the legend before 1770, there would have been no conceivable thought process in the locals of the eighteenth century to create the story. 

In 1907, the Chulkhurst Charity was amalgamated with other neighborhood philanthropies with comparable purposes, to shape the Biddenden Consolidated Charity, as yet working as an enrolled philanthropy. The Bread and Cheese Lands were sold for lodging, growing the philanthropy essentially to furnish Biddenden beneficiaries and widows with bread, cheddar, and tea at Easter, a money installment at Christmas, and appropriate Biddenden cakes. (Amid the sustenance proportioning of the 1940s and mid 1950s, the cheddar was supplanted by cocoa. Conveyance of cheddar continued in 1951.) A fashioned iron town sign demonstrating the Biddenden Maids was raised on Biddenden park during the 1920s. 

The custom of the dole proceeds to the present, and each Easter Monday tea, cheddar and bread are given to nearby widows and retired people through the windows of Biddenden's previous workhouse. Each one of those qualified for the yearly dole are given a Biddenden cake, and they are sold as keepsakes to guests. The cakes are heated so hard as to be unpalatable, to permit better conservation as trinkets; they are prepared in substantial clumps like clockwork and kept until the stock runs out. Verifiably, the portions utilized were of the obsolete quartern portion measure, however this specific piece of the custom finished when Biddenden's last bread shop shut during the 1990s. 

Notes 

References 

Sources