Banner of Armenia 

The national banner of Armenia, the Armenian Tricolor, comprises of three level groups of equivalent width, red on the top, blue in the center, and orange (likewise portrayed as "shade of apricot") on the base. The Armenian Supreme Soviet embraced the present banner on 24 August 1990. On 15 June 2006, the Law on the National Flag of Armenia, administering its utilization, was passed by the National Assembly of Armenia. 

From the beginning of time, there have been numerous varieties of the Armenian banner. In antiquated occasions, Armenian traditions were spoken to by various emblematic creatures showed on their banners. In the twentieth century, different Soviet banners spoke to the Armenian SSR. 

The implications of the hues are translated from various perspectives. For instance, red represents the blood of the 1.5 million Armenians slaughtered in the Armenian Genocide, blue is for the Armenian unadulterated sky, and orange speaks to the nation's strength. 

The official meaning of the hues, as expressed in the Constitution of the Republic of Armenia, is: 

In 2012, the Armenian National Institute of Standards (SARM) issued particulars about the development and hues on the national banner.: 

The present tricolor banner looks to some extent like the most punctual Armenian 'banners'. In antiquated occasions, armed forces went into fight behind carvings mounted on shafts. The carvings may speak to a mythical serpent, a hawk, a lion or "some puzzling object of the divine beings". With the approach of Christianity, the Armenian realm embraced a wide range of banners speaking to different lines. The Artaxiad Dynasty's banner, for example, comprised of a red fabric showing two falcons looking at one another, isolated by a bloom. 

After Armenia was part between the Persian and the Ottoman Empires, the possibility of an Armenian banner stopped to exist for quite a while. The Armenian Catholic cleric Father Ghevont Alishan made another banner for Armenia in 1885, after the Armenian Students Association of Paris mentioned one for the burial service of the French author Victor Hugo. Alishan's first plan was fundamentally the same as the present Armenian banner: a flat tricolor. Nonetheless, it looked increasingly like a topsy turvy variety of the present banner of Bulgaria. The top band was red, symbolizing the primary Sunday of Easter (called "Red" Sunday), trailed by a green band to speak to the "Green" Sunday of Easter, lastly a self-assertive shading, white, was picked to finish the blend. While in France, Alishan likewise planned a second banner, recognized today as the "Patriot Armenian Flag". It also was a tricolor, yet dissimilar to the past structure, this one was a vertical tricolor like the French banner. Its hues were red, green, and blue, from left to right, speaking to the rainbow that Noah saw subsequent to arriving on Mount Ararat. 

In 1828, Persian Armenia was attached to the Russian Empire after the last Russo-Persian War, and wound up known as Russian Armenia. At the point when the Russian Empire crumbled, Russian Armenia pronounced its autonomy and joined the brief Transcaucasian Democratic Federative Republic, together with Georgia and Azerbaijan. This brought together state barely endured a year and was before long disintegrated. Since the Republic was brief, it didn't utilize any banners or images. In any case, a few history specialists think about an even gold, dark, and red tricolor, like that of the German banner yet organized in an unexpected way, to have been the banner of Transcaucasia. The alliance was broken down on May 26, 1918, when Georgia proclaimed its autonomy as the Democratic Republic of Georgia. Both Armenia and Azerbaijan announced their autonomy two days after the fact, on May 28, 1918, as the First Republic of Armenia and the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic, separately. 

In the wake of picking up freedom, the First Republic of Armenia received the cutting edge Armenian tricolor. Upon Stepan Malkhasyants' appearance in the Armenian National Council, the autonomous Armenian government chose the hues utilized amid the Lusignan time frame: red, blue and yellow. A prior model, which was in the long run rejected, was the rainbow banner. This model can be seen at the Martiros Saryan House Museum in Yerevan, Armenia. They supplanted the yellow with orange "since it blended better with the other two hues, displaying an all the more satisfying piece". The banner of autonomous Armenia at that point had a proportion of 2:3, yet on August 24, 1990, when the Armenian Supreme Soviet received it as the banner of the Republic of Armenia, the proportion was changed to 1:2. 

On November 29, 1920 Bolsheviks built up the Armenian SSR. Another banner was presented and fixed in the Constitution, acknowledged on February 2, 1922 by the First Congress of Soviets of the Armenian SSR. That banner existed just for a month, in light of the fact that on March 12 the Armenian SSR joined with the Georgian SSR and the Azerbaijan SSR under the Transcaucasian SFSR (TSFSR). On December 30, 1922 the Transcaucasian SFSR wound up one of the four Soviet republics that assembled to frame the USSR. The banner of the republic had a mallet and sickle embedded into a star with initials "Зсфср" (ZSFSR) written in Russian sans-serif content. These letters mean "Закавказская Советская Федеративная Социалистическая Республика" ("Zakavkazskaya Sovetskaya Federativnaya Socialisticheskaya Respublika", "Transcaucasian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic"). In 1936, the TSFSR was separated into its three constituent locales, which were named the Georgian SSR, the Armenian SSR, and the Azerbaijan SSR. 

As a republic of the USSR, the Armenian SSR presented its first banner in 1936. Fundamentally the same as the banner of the Soviet Union, it was red and included a yellow mallet and sickle in the corner. Underneath that, there were "H-Kh-S-H" initials written in Armenian serif content. These initials, in the Western Armenian language, mean "Haygagan Khorhurtayin Sodzialistakan Hanrabedutyun", or the "Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic". During the 1940s, the banner was adjusted to utilize the Eastern Armenian language spoken in the Republic. The initials were changed to "H-S-S-R" signifying "Hayastani Sovetakan Sotsialistikakan Respublika" in the Eastern Armenian articulation. In 1952, another banner was presented. The initials were expelled totally and in their place a level blue stripe was included. 

In late May 1988, in the midst of rising patriot pressures from "glasnost" and "perestroika", Armenia's new Communist gathering pioneer permitted the restricted tricolor of the DRA to fly in Yerevan without precedent for more than sixty years. After a year, following a Nagorno-Karabakh-themed mass showing where the tricolor was flown, he encouraged its official acknowledgment. This went ahead August 24, 1990, multi day after the Armenian Supreme Soviet pronounced the republic's power and renamed the nation the Republic of Armenia. By then, a little more than a year prior to Armenia pronounced its formal freedom from the USSR, the tricolor supplanted the 1952 banner. 

The 2006 law on the National Flag of Armenia expresses that the banner must be raised on the accompanying open structures: 

The law requires the bringing of the banner down to the midpoint of the flagpole on the times of grieving or amid grieving functions. A dark lace should be set at the highest point of the banner; the length of the strip ought to be equivalent to the length of the banner. The flying banner must be brought up in its total, clean, and unfaded; additionally, the lower some portion of the banner ought to be at any rate 2.5 m off the ground. 

The day of the National Flag of Armenia is set apart on 15 June consistently. The day is picked for the reason that the Armenian law on the National Flag of Armenia was passed on 15 June 2006. The day of the Armenian tricolor was praised out of the blue on 15 June 2010 in Yerevan. 

The day by day show of the Armenian banner is energized, however lawfully required just on the next days: 

The national banner is additionally referenced in the melody "Mer Hayrenik" (Our Fatherland), the national song of devotion of Armenia. In particular, the second and third stanzas sing about the making of the national banner: 

On June 2, 1992, oneself broadcasted Republic of Artsakh, a "true" autonomous republic in South Caucasus guaranteed by Azerbaijan, embraced a banner got from the banner of Armenia, with just a white example included. A white, five-toothed, ventured cover design was added to the banner, start at the two borderlines of the fabric's correct side and associating at a point equivalent to 33% of the separation from that side. The white example symbolizes the present division of Artsakh from Armenia legitimate and its goal for inevitable association with "the Fatherland". This symbolizes the Armenian legacy, culture and populace of the region and speaks to Artsakh similar to an isolated district of Armenia by the triangular shape and the crisscross slicing through the banner. The example is likewise like the plans utilized on mats. The proportion of the banner's expansiveness to its length is 1:2, same as the Armenian Tricolor. 

Notwithstanding the banner of Artsakh, the Armenian banner hues affected the structure of the Pan-Armenian Games banner. In the focal point of the light blue banner are six interlocking rings, got from the Olympic rings. The 6th, orange-hued ring, interlocks with the blue and red rings, which symbolize Armenia. Over the rings is a fire in the shades of the Armenian banner.