The FP 

The FP is a 2011 American parody movie composed and coordinated by Brandon and Jason Trost. The film centers around two groups, the 248 and the 245, battling for control of Frazier Park (the FP). The packs settle their question by playing "Beat-Beat Revelation", a music computer game like "Move Dance Revolution". Group part JTRO (Jason Trost) trains to vanquish L Dubba E (Lee Valmassy), the pioneer of an adversary pack. The film additionally includes Caitlyn Folley, Art Hsu, Nick Principe and Dov Tiefenbach. 

Jason Trost imagined "The FP" when he was 16, and formed it into a short film featuring himself, Valmassy, Principe, DeBello, Brandon Barrera, Diane Gaeta, Kris Lemche and Torry Haynes in 2007. In the wake of seeing the completed film, Barrera proposed that Trost make a full length adaptation. In the extended creation, Gaeta, Lemche, and Haynes were supplanted with Folley, Hsu, and Bryan Goddard, individually. Chief photography occurred in Frazier Park, California in September 2008. Ron TrostBrandon and Jason Trost's fatherserved as enhancements manager and official maker of the film, and his property was the essential shooting area. 

The full-length variant of "The FP" debuted at South by Southwest on , 2011, and got positive audits. After its screening at the Fantasia Festival on that year, Drafthouse Films obtained the film for dissemination. It had a restricted discharge in 28 American theaters, starting on , 2012, and was discharged on home media on , 2012. The dramatic discharge got blended surveys and neglected to recover its creation spending plan of , earning $40,557 in the United States. A continuation, "", was discharged in September 2018. 

In a tragic future, rival posses the 245 and the 248 battle for control of Frazier Park (the FP) by testing each other in "Beat-Beat Revelation", a move battle computer game. L Dubba E, the pioneer of the 245 group, fights and thrashings BTRO, the pioneer of the 248 pack. BTRO passes on thus. His more youthful sibling JTRO is damaged and leaves the FP. 

After one year, BTRO's closest companion KCDC discovers JTRO functioning as a logger. KCDC persuades JTRO that the FP needs him since L Dubba E has assumed responsibility for the neighborhood liquor industry and is declining to pitch mixed beverages to everybody. The absence of liquor has prompted an expansion in methamphetamine addicts, a decline in vagrants and, therefore, ducks. Reluctantly, JTRO comes back with KCDC; he meets BLT and reunites with Stacy, an old companion. JTRO and Stacy are hindered by L Dubba Enow Stacy's boyfriendwho is lifting her up to go to a gathering. JTRO goes to a similar gathering and Stacy unsteadily plays with him. L Dubba E insults JTRO then hits him with a polished ash, rendering him oblivious. JTRO dreams that BTRO guides him to battle back, pushing him to challenge L Dubba E. L Dubba E decays, saying that JTRO needs adequate "road cred". L Dubba E requests that JTRO rout Triple Decka 1K before he will acknowledge JTRO's test. 

JTRO starts an exhausting preparing routine with BLT to recover his previous dimension of expertise. Before his match with Triple Decka 1K, BLT gives BTRO's boots to JTRO. At the match scene, JTRO is deceived into drinking liquor spoiled with methamphetamine. Regardless of his medication incited visual weakness, JTRO routs Triple Decka 1K before retching and going out. 

KCDC wakes JTRO, having taken him to the 248 central command. After JTRO's recuperation, BLT takes him and KCDC shooting; they choose to take firearms to JTRO's match against L Dubba E. Stacy discloses to JTRO that her association with L Dubba E started when he spiked her beverage with turpentine and assaulted her. She proceeded with the relationship so she could supply her dad with lager to keep him from swinging to drugs. At some point, JTRO hears Stacy's dad striking her and intercedes. After a short battle with him, JTRO influences Stacy to leave. Following their takeoff, L Dubba E arrives and says that he has been undermining Stacy. Stacy chooses to remain with him, which enrages JTRO and makes him end their fellowship. 

Later that day, Stacy, who has been gravely beaten, discovers JTRO and discloses to him that she has finished her association with L Dubba E. She is sorry, and they kiss. In the interim, L Dubba E advises his posse individuals to likewise take firearms to the last match. At the setting, JTRO wears BTRO's outfit and L Dubba E insults him. At the point when the match starts, L Dubba E massacres JTRO in the first round however JTRO drives forward and wins the second and third adjusts. L Dubba E endeavors to execute JTRO, setting off a long gunfight between the 248 and the 245. 

L Dubba E gets away from the occasion and captures Stacy. JTRO and KCDC seek after him while BLT stays at the scene. L Dubba E unexpectedly maneuvers into a service station; JTRO pursues and a battle results. JTRO gains the advantage, beats L Dubba E into accommodation and drives him out the FP. Opportunity to purchase liquor is reestablished and control of the FP is come back to the 248. JTRO and Stacy go to the lake together as ducks fly over them. 

Extra cast individuals incorporate Mike Sandow as Jody, Rachel Robinson as Lacy, Natalie Minx as Macy, Sean Whalen as Stacy's dad, and Clifton Collins, Jr. as CC Jam. Blayne Weaver shows up as the proprietor of a corner store KCDC victimizes, while James Remar portrays the film's prelude. Dash Mihok assumed a little job in the cut of the film appeared South by Southwest, yet his scenes were expelled from the dramatic discharge. A few of the generation group, including maker Christian Agypt, first associate chief Christopher Holmes, ensemble planner Sarah Trost, Valmassy's more youthful sibling Kyle, and a few of the Trosts' companions show up as foundation additional items. Brandon Trost voices a gather call administrator. 

Jason Trost considered "The FP" when he was 16 years of age and normally played "Move Dance Revolution". He saw individuals playing the amusement seriously and thought of treating the ongoing interaction "like some blood sport". Trost made short movies all through secondary school before quickly going to film school. Subsequent to dropping out, he utilized his educational cost cash to support a short film, likewise titled "The FP" (2007). The short film depended on the first full length content, however just the initial ten pages were taped. The element film reproduced a few shots from the short film. Trost said the element film was enlivened by what they envisioned a "Move Dance Revolution" film made by maker Jerry Bruckheimer would resemble. 

The Trost siblings asked maker Brandon Barrera to act in the short film. In the wake of seeing their work, Barrera recommended that the siblings extend the reason into an element film. The movie producers put a commercial in the "Mountain Enterprise", the Mountain Communities of the Tejon Pass' paper, urging network individuals to call on the off chance that they needed to help with areas, cooking, gifts, or by filling in as additional items or group individuals on the film. 

The Trost siblings named "The FP" after Frazier Park, California, where they grew up. Jason Trost said local people began alluding to Frazier Park as "the FP" after "The O.C." started airing. He additionally said the film's story duplicates that of "Rough" "beat for beat" and that there were "close literary theft minutes". All the character names depended on his companions. More than 80 percent of the exchange depended on expressions as often as possible spoken by a few Frazier Park occupants. A significant part of the foulness in the content was taken from discussions caught by outfit originator Sarah Trost at gatherings, and what the Trost siblings thought of on set. Further motivation for the exchange originated from "" and "", the two of which Jason Trost played close by "Move Dance Revolution". 

The settings in "The FP" were composed utilizing the materials that the Trosts' dad had on his property because of the negligible spending plan. Jason Trost said he had seen a few low-spending films that "endeavor to be something they aren't" and did not have any desire to fake the creation esteem. When they are crushed in a move off, characters in the film bite the dust of a "187", which is slang for homicide that started from California Penal Code. The characters' genuine reasons for death are unexplained in the film. The Trost siblings discovered delineating the passings as uncertain more interesting and trusted it would evacuate questions about the film being a satire. 

Jason Trost (JTRO), Lee Valmassy (L Dubba E), Brandon Barrera (BTRO), and James DeBello (Beat Box Busta Bill) repeated their jobs from the first short film, while Diane Gaeta (Stacy), Kris Lemche (KCDC), and Torry Haynes (Sugga Nigga) were supplanted with Caitlyn Folley, Art Hsu, and Bryan Goddard, individually. Goddard was given a role as a "transitional experience" for being an imperative occupant of Frazier Park. Mike Sandow, who depicts Jody, initially had a bigger part in the film however his scenes were as a rule altered out for pacing reasons. 

A large portion of the cast were companions of the Trosts. James Remar, a companion of the Trosts since youth, consented to portray the film's opening. The siblings had met Remar on the arrangement of "", on which their dad Ron functioned as the embellishments manager. Brandon Trost knew Hsu and Clifton Collins, Jr. in the wake of working with them on "" (2009) and welcomed them to join "The FP"s cast. 

Sarah Trost was the ensemble planner for "The FP"; she structured the outfits utilizing styles neighborhood to Frazier Park as her first impact. She was additionally enlivened by the designs of Elvis Presley, and the movies "Twofold Dragon", "Rough", "Distraught Max", "The Warriors", "8 Mile", "Departure from New York", X-Men, just as crafted by John Carpenter. Trost put together the contradicting groups' outfits with respect to American military regalia of the American Civil War period. The 245's outfits depended on the regalia of the Confederate Army, while the 248's outfits depended on those of the Union Army. The banners of the groups were likewise founded on those of the Confederacy and the Union. Trost planned the 245 outfits to look clean and the 248 ensemble to seem lumpy. The vast majority of the ensembles were produced using materials accessible to the group; L Dubba E's outfits were produced using jumpsuits. The boots worn by JTRO and BTRO were snow campaign boots. A large portion of the base garments originated from thrift stores, Sarah Trost's texture stockpiling, and the Trost's youth dress. 

Trost structured the outfits to be unmistakable from each other. JTRO and BTRO wear fundamentally the same as outfits, the main recognizable distinction being a shading reversal. The two outfits had American banner like tokens on the backs of their coats, further upholding the recognizable proof of the 248 with the Union. Toward the finish of the film, JTRO takes BTRO's outfit, which required Trost to rearrange it for the tallness contrast between Jason Trost and Brandon Barrera, who depict JTRO and BTRO, separately. As the film advances, JTRO's shading plan changes from beat up to military green to mirror his "getting to be unified with BLT". KCDC's outfit configuration highlights ducks, referencing a discourse in the film in which he takes note of the absence of ducks in the FP. Stacy and her dad are both dressed to be to some degree transsexual, however it is increasingly unmistakable in her dad's character. Whalen disclosed to Trost he would wear anything as long as his areola was uncovered consistently. Stacy additionally wears an I Love New York shirt, with the words New York shrouded in channel tape and "The FP" composed over it with a marker. CC Jam's ensemble was intended to be as bright as conceivable to copy rave culture. 

Key photography occurred in Frazier Park, California, with a financial plan of $45,000. It started in September 2008 and endured 20 days, a large portion of which were spent on Ron Trost's property. Scenes set in BLT's home were recorded at the Trosts' youth home, while the vibe of his storm cellar was planned utilizing within a delivery holder. Many set pieces were taken either from things Ron had gathered or from other film sets. The Trost siblings split directorial obligations between themselves; Brandon concentrated on visuals and Jason concentrated on the exhibitions and story. Valmassy coordinated a driving scene including himself and Folley when the Trosts were quickly inaccessible. 

A few arranged recording areas were relinquished because of spending limitations. For topical reasons, the film's penultimate battle scene among JTRO and L Dubba E was initially set at Dawn's Liquor Marta key area in the film. The storekeepers declined consent for taping and the area was changed to a since quite a while ago deserted corner store. Bryan Goddard, who depicts Sugga Nigga, gained authorization for the group to film on the property. 

The penultimate move off was taped in three eight-minute long brings and altered down. Brandon Trost would "skim around with the camera" while Valmassy and Jason Trost played out the move off succession. While shooting a tire preparing scene, Brandon solicited Jason to build the sum from twists he was performing. Jason broke his lower leg and depended on his ensemble's snow boots as medicinal boots. 

Chief of photography Brandon Trost shot "The FP" utilizing advanced cinematography with Canon XH-A1 cameras, which he had as of late utilized while taping "Wrench: High Voltage". Utilizing a solitary camera setup, he recorded "The FP" utilizing 35 mm film to bring out the conventional look of movies, for example, "The Warriors" and "Absolute Recall". Trost overlooked camera and lighting mistakes to make the film "feel real". 

Enhanced visualizations craftsman Aaron Juntunen duplicated the visuals from the "Beat-Beat Revelation" move tracks from "Move Dance Revolution" by utilizing PC designs. The tracks were played live, enabling the on-screen characters to move as one. Enhanced visualizations were additionally used to cover the name of Dawn's Liquor Mart, as the real area did not give the creation consent to utilize its name and logo. 

George Holdcroft formed the score for "The FP". He was welcome to a screening of the film by maker Christian Agypt, and inquired as to whether he could form the music for it. Holdcroft, who lived in Chicago at the time, went through 12 hours daily creating the score and messaged his pieces to the Trost siblings. To imitate the sound of a choir for one tune, Holdcroft sang a similar section in excess of multiple times utilizing distinctive voices and songs to accomplish the ideal outcome. For another tune, he sang in falsetto and adjusted the pitch of his voice to make himself seem like a lady. 

Holdcroft had never played "Move Dance Revolution", however he knew about computer game musicspecifically the pieces of Koji Kondo, the score of "Conclusive Fantasy", and the music of early Nintendo recreations. The film's soundtrack comprises of 61 tunes. 

"The FP" debuted on , 2011, at South by Southwest. It was later screened at a few occasions, including the Fantasia Festival, the Lund International Fantastic Film Festival, the Philadelphia Film Festival, and Cinefamily. The Trosts held a free screening of "The FP" in Frazier Park, California as a feature of the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema's Rolling Roadshow. The film started its constrained showy keep running in the United States on , 2012. 

Drafthouse Films procured conveyance rights to "The FP" on , 2011, one day after its debut at the Fantasia Festival. Tim League, the organizer of Drafthouse Films, went to the film's screening at South by Southwest and "experienced passionate feelings for it". It was the second film disseminated by Drafthouse Films, following "Four Lions". "The FP" earned $22,571 in 28 North American venues amid its opening week, averaging $806 per theater. The next week, it was appeared nine theaters and earned $9,314. In the staying five weeks of its run, the film earned $7,979, for a complete gross of $40,557. 

The film was met with positive audits at its celebration screenings. Jordan Hoffman, composing for UGO Networks, gave it a B+, contrasted it with "Dark Dynamite", and composed that it "is overflowing with doltish cleverness and in-your-face stoner mind". Eric Kohn of Indiewire likewise gave the film a B+, called it "noisy, enraged and carelessly entertaining", and referenced the references to "The Warriors", "RoboCop", and "Departure from New York". Scott Weinberg of Twitch Film reverberated Hoffman's correlation with "Dark Dynamite". Weinberg said he "found a considerable amount to appreciate" and adulated the exhibitions of Hsu, Valmassy, and Trost. Jacob Hall of Moviefone gave the film a positive audit, applauding Brandon Trost's cinematography and referenced its similitudes to "Distraught Max 2" and "A Clockwork Orange". He praised the film's commitment to its "completely over the top reason" and called it "the uncommon 'instant clique hit' that really works". Fred Topel of Screen Junkies anticipated that the film "will be the Trosts' distinguishing mark" and commended it for being "precisely the sort of the motion picture [Topel] hope[s] to see at Fantastic Fest, or any film celebration". 

Upon its dramatic discharge, "The FP" got blended surveys from faultfinders. The survey aggregator site Rotten Tomatoes detailed a 48% endorsement rating, with a normal rating of 5.2/10 dependent on 23 audits. On Metacritic, which allocates a standardized rating out of 100 dependent on surveys from commentators, the film has a score of 48 dependent on 11 audits, which is viewed as "blended or normal audits". 

Mick LaSalle of the "San Francisco Chronicle" gave the film a positive audit, calling it "lifeless comical, an indecent parody of each adolescent pack, future-stun tragic bad dream moviecombined with a severe send-up of "8 Mile"". Tom Keogh of "The Seattle Times" gave the film 2½ stars out of 4; he adulated its curiosity and condemned its absence of "through and through chuckles". Marc Savlov of "The Austin Chronicle" gave the film 3 stars out of 5, saying it was "flooded with nonsensicalness" and considering it a "potential religion motion picture showstopper". Angela Watercutter of "Wired" considered it a "moment religion exemplary" and furthermore contrasted it with "8 Mile", "Rough" and "The Karate Kid". Shawn Anthony Levy, composing for "The Oregonian", gave the film a B; he commended its unpredictability and stated, "It's extremely hard not to respect its ardent pledge to its ethos". In a blended audit, Peter Debruge of "Assortment" adulated Brandon Trost's cinematography yet said the film "plays its standard reason with charming sincerity, however runs dainty in a matter of seconds". Matt Hawkins of "Kotaku" considered it a "genuine numskull satire" and said it "addresses gamers without level out offending them". Michael Phillips, composing for the "Chicago Tribune", gave the film 2 stars out of 4, applauding its reason and recording system while censuring its "occasionally amusing execution". 

Alternately, Andy Webster of "The New York Times" stated, "Its clearance room generation esteems and absence of mind suddenly demonstrate a more prominent obligation than an advantage". Robert Abele of the "Los Angeles Times" scrutinized its characters, ensembles, and exchange; he said it "so frantically needs to be obsessively admired ... that it neglects to be really unique or interesting". Scott Tobias of "The A.V. Club" gave the film a C+, referencing the impacts of John Carpenter, "The Warriors", "Frantic Max 2", and "A Clockwork Orange", and censuring Jason Trost's execution. He said the film was "a junky, expendable songbird, made for a midnight crowd to swallow, burp, and disregard the following morning". Scratch Schager of "Inclination Magazine" gave it 1½ stars out of 4, and considered it a "humorless void" and a "wannabe clique hit". Eric Hynes of "The Village Voice" stated, "the film's appeal blurs quick" and , "[t]he issue with paying such hounded tribute to crappy motion pictures is that honesty is best accomplished by delivering a crappy motion picture thus. Mission achieved, for whatever that is value." Ethan Gilsdorf of "The Boston Globe" gave the film 1 star out of 4, saying it was not "mindlessly sufficiently ghastly to be 'so awful it's great'". Christy Lemire of the Associated Press resounded this assessment, giving it 1 star out of 4; she said the film is "out and out badand exhausting, and dull" and that "as satire, it just feels desensitizing". Max Nicholson of IGN said the film "is in no way, shape or form the most noticeably bad thing I've at any point seen", yet that it "ought to have been a three-minute sketch on Funny or Die". 

Picture Entertainment discharged "The FP" on DVD, Blu-beam Disk, video on interest, and advanced download on June 19, 2012. The element was joined by a creation of featurette, interviews with outfit fashioner Sarah Trost and writer George Holdcroft, sound editorial by the Trost siblings, and an uncommon release gatherers' booklet with presentations by Rob Zombie, Brian Taylor, and Mark Neveldine. Four extraordinary releases were made accessible for buy on Drafthouse Films' site, all of which contain Holdcroft's soundtrack and a 720p HD advanced download. Extra things sold incorporate a Blu-beam or DVD duplicate of the film, a notice marked by the Trost siblings, a model of L Dubba E's flame broil, and a tampon in a glass tube marked by the Trost siblings. 

As indicated by Jason Trost, two spin-offs of "The FP" have been arranged, the first would include going to Hong Kong. He said the main spin-off would occur five years after the first and would highlight additionally moving and a "Beat-Beat Revelation" competition. He likewise contrasted the spin-off's plot with that of "Departure from L.A." Trost additionally prodded the likelihood of a fourth film to come when he was more seasoned, contrasting it with "Rough Balboa". In August 2013, Trost said that both he and the film's speculators had not gotten any cash from "The FP", and "presumably never will". He further expressed that it was trying "to make sense of an approach to get individuals to subsidize a spin-off of a motion picture that recovered zero dollars". 

Trost began an Indiegogo raising money crusade looking for $100,000 in February 2016, uncovering the title to be "Beats of Rage: The FP Part II". The crusade got over $19,000 in gifts by its end, with the sum raised beneath the gathering pledges objective to complete 33% of the film. In July 2017, Trost began another Indiegogo battle to complete the film, presently titled "Beats of Rage: The FP 2". The initial thirty minutes of the film had just been shot at the season of the posting, and the gathering pledges objective was set at $20,000, which was outperformed with over $34,000 gave. In April 2018, an outline and notice were discharged for the film, presently basically titled "Beats of Rage". The film pursues the occasions of "The FP", and highlights Trost, Hsu, Barrera, and Principe repeating their jobs from the primary film, close by new cast individuals Mike O'Gorman, Tallay Wickham, and Bru Miller. "Beats of Rage" will again include JTRO and KCDC endeavoring to spare the world from a liquor withdrawal by contending in the main "Beat-Beat Revelation" competition against AK-47, the pioneer of The Wastes. Trost likewise said that the film will make a big appearance at "a noteworthy U.S. kind celebration" in October 2018. The film debuted at Fantastic Fest on September 22, 2018, again retitled "".