Last Fantasy XI 

Last Fantasy XI, otherwise called Final Fantasy XI Online, is an enormously multiplayer online pretending amusement (MMORPG), created and distributed by Square (later Square Enix) as a component of the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. Structured and delivered by Hiromichi Tanaka, it was discharged in Japan on May 16, 2002, for PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Windows-based PCs in November of that year. The amusement was the first MMORPG to offer cross-stage play between PlayStation 2 and PC. It was likewise the Xbox 360's first MMORPG. All renditions of the diversion require a month to month membership to play. 

The story is set in the dreamland of Vana'diel, where player-made symbols can both contend and participate in an assortment of destinations to build up an arrangement of employments, aptitudes, and gain in-amusement thing rewards. Players can embrace a variety of journeys and advancement through the in-diversion order and through the real plot of the amusement. Since its introduction in 2002, five extension packs have been discharged alongside six extra situations. Every extension pack and extra conveys another significant storyline to the "Last Fantasy XI" world, alongside various zones, journeys, occasions and thing rewards. 

In 2015, Square Enix discharged the last primary situation for "Definite Fantasy XI" titled "Songs of Vana'diel". "Last Fantasy XI" turned into the last dynamic server on the PlayStation 2 online administration. The servers for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox 360 renditions were at last closed down on March 31, 2016. A portable customer for the diversion is being worked on by Square Enix in a joint effort with Korean engineer Nexon. A spinoff portable amusement, "Last Fantasy Grandmasters" was discharged on September 30, 2015. 

"Last Fantasy XI" is a greatly multiplayer online pretending amusement (MMORPG), and contrasts from past titles in the arrangement in a few different ways. Not at all like the predefined fundamental characters of past "Definite Fantasy" titles, players can alter their characters in constrained ways, including choosing from one of five races and picking their sexual orientation, facial style, hair shading, body size, occupation, and country loyalty. Additionally veering from past diversions in the arrangement, the amusement happens in a completely three-dimensional scene with adversaries unreservedly wandering in it, enabling fights to happen continuously instead of the irregular experiences utilized in past recreations - a pattern proceeded in each numbered "Last Fantasy" title since. 

There are presently 16 open amusement universes accessible for play, down from 32 at the diversion's stature, with roughly 15,000 to 20,000 players in each. A private Test Server was opened to qualified players to help in input of updates being developed for the amusement in mid-2011. The servers are named after brought beasts from past "Conclusive Fantasy" titles, for example, Ifrit and Diabolos. Players can move between servers, however Square-Enix charges a "world exchange" expense to do as such. There are no district explicit or framework explicit servers, and not at all like most web based recreations, players of various dialects play in a similar world and can communicate through programmed language interpretation from a library of deciphered expressions. The amusement servers are controlled by Square-Enix as a component of their PlayOnline arrange. 

Players have the alternative of utilizing any mix of a console, mouse, and controller to play "Last Fantasy XI". While as a matter of course, a player utilizing a PlayStation 2 or a Xbox 360 utilizations a virtual/in-diversion console alternative, the player can utilize an outer console that is USB good for correspondence inside the amusement. The heads-up presentation in "Definite Fantasy XI" comprises of a log window, menus, and a few diversion data components. The log window at the base of the screen shows framework messages, fight messages, and content contribution by different players. Players may channel what shows up in the log window. "Menus" enable the player to get to various directions, status windows, and arrangement choices. The "activity order menu" seems simply over the log window and gives the player a few alternatives to cooperate with the diversion world. A few menu choices are accessible using console alternate ways, also. 

Story related interactivity in "Conclusive Fantasy XI" comprises of two noteworthy segments: missions, through which the principle storyline of the amusement is told, and journeys, which don't propel the fundamental storyline, yet round out the diversion's dreamland. Finishing missions enables a player to progress in rank, which awards access to new territories, a few benefits, and different storylines. At initial, a player may just total missions for his home country, however they can change devotions later on, enabling access to other countries' storylines. Journeys might be attempted for their different prizes, or to obtain "notoriety," which enables a character to turn out to be notable and regarded by NPCs; a higher popularity rating will open up new communications and missions with NPCs. At discharge, more than one hundred journeys were accessible to play and every development pack has included its own arrangement of missions and journeys. Players get in-amusement cash known as gil by finishing missions, journeys and vanquishing Beastmen, however not at all like past "Conclusive Fantasy" recreations, these beasts drop just little sums. Gil would then be able to be traded among players for products through the Auction House, or be utilized to buy things and prizes from NPCs. 

In contrast to some MMORPGs, there is almost no attention on player versus player (PvP) battle, rather the diversion rotates around player versus condition (PvE). There are various PvE exercises and occasions for players to share in, including instanced exercises and shared spaces exercises. Some instanced occasions incorporate Dynamis, Salvage, Assault and Nyzul Isle, which include anyplace somewhere in the range of 6 and 64 players. These fight grounds give players a progression of targets to survive or finish and adversaries to vanquish, by and large inside a specific time span. Famous shared spaces exercises incorporate chasing Notorious Monsters, devils that seldom show up and drop valuable plunder. 

The best way to assault different players in PvP is to enter one of two challenge exercises known as "Strife". The main type of rivalry, called Ballista, includes players contending to score focuses by tossing petras into a stronghold like structure known as a Rook. The second structure is known as "Brenner", and highlights a catch the banner sort framework. 

Now and again exceptional occasional celebrations and occasions are held. They last just for a set timeframe and offer an assortment of fun or valuable prizes. Numerous occasions have changed after some time, including new highlights and wiping out old ones. These occasions are outfitted towards any dimension, regularly limiting players to level 1, with the goal that veterans and beginner players alike can participate in together. Occasions celebrated are regularly specifically dependent on genuine counterparts, for instance: Valentione's Day instead of Valentine's Day, the Egg Hunt Egg-stravaganza instead of Easter, and the Starlight Celebration instead of Christmas. 

Fights in "Conclusive Fantasy XI" happen on the planet in which players move around, a first in the arrangement, where fight had recently occurred in a different screen by means of arbitrary experiences. The shock of the irregular experience framework is accomplished through forceful beasts, who will assault players dependent on various factors, for example, sight and sound. This configuration would proceed in future "Last Fantasy" amusements. Beasts inside the diversion work under an arrangement of "guarantee" and "ill will". A beast is asserted the minute a player plays out any hostile activity upon it, regardless of whether physical, enchanted or capacity related. With certain special cases, when a beast is guaranteed it must be assaulted by players in the gathering or coalition of the player that asserted it. A beast will concentrate on whoever has developed the most animosity. Players have a few methods available to them, including spells, capacities and things, to develop ill will or shed it further bolstering their good fortune in fight - a factor that highlights vigorously in gathering, or "gathering" play. 

To vanquish all the more dominant beasts and addition experience focuses productively, players can join a gathering. A normal gathering has space for six individuals. Like in numerous different diversions, a very much adjusted gathering will comprise of a few models to be specific a healer, a tank (the gathering part with high barrier that will be the principle focus of the beast), and the harm vendor. The ill will framework becomes possibly the most important factor intensely in gatherings, as players endeavor to keep the beasts consideration off delicate occupations and on the tanks. A very much adjusted group cooperating is the best way to vanquish a large number of the amusement's adversaries. 

A gathering can venture into a coalition, with up to three gatherings joined, with an aggregate of 18 players. Collusions are important to finish increasingly troublesome difficulties: including missions, journeys, country or domain driven occasions, and vanquishing infamous beasts. A lot of end-amusement play comprises of partnership powers defeating these larger amount difficulties and can even enable a few collusions to go into explicit examples possessed by a gathering of players (for example Dynamis occurrences passage is constrained by an hourglass thing). 

"Last Fantasy XI"s manifestation of Limit Breaks are "Weapon Skills". Physical harm given and got fills a Tactical Points (TP) bar, to a limit of 3000. Any sum over 1000 can be spent by being directed into a weapon ability. These aptitudes fluctuate in actuality relying upon occupation class, what weapon is prepared, how full the TP bar is, and how capable the player is with the weapon. On the off chance that celebrating with different players, one may utilize these weapon aptitudes in progression so as to make a "Skillchain". A skillchain makes extra harm after a progression of weapon abilities are utilized. Expanding on this much further, enchantment utilized on a skillchain at the perfect time will get a lift to its harm; this is known as an "Enchantment Burst". So as to make the most ideal skillchains and enchantment blasts, players must cooperate, concentrating on one another's activities and timing. 

"Last Fantasy XI" utilizes the idea of changing Jobs along these lines to "Definite Fantasy III", and at present has twenty-two Jobs as of the most recent development pack in 2013. There are six "standard Jobs" accessible to browse toward the beginning of the amusement. After one standard Job has achieved Level 30, the "additional Jobs" are available after finishing certain missions. Players can change their occupations whenever from inside their home or by talking with a Nomad Moogle. In June 2010, the long-standing dimension point of confinement of 75 was gradually expanded to the more elevated amount top of 99, completing in the December 2011 form update. 

Occupations have a mix of novel "work attributes", "work capacities", and enchantment spells, giving them a particular job inside gathering play because of their subject matter. Occupation qualities are inactive capacities that are dependably as a result, while work capacities must be initiated by the player so as to become effective. They last a constrained time and have a "cooldown" period before they can be utilized once more. Enchantment spells are accessible to specific occupations, and notwithstanding a cooldown period, they frequently devour MP or some type of thing so as to be thrown, while in the meantime requiring the client to stop. Also, each activity has an uncommon one-hour capacity that plays out a phenomenal capacity. 

The one of a kind arrangement of "Definite Fantasy XI"s work framework is the "Bolster Job". This framework enables a player to increase their character with capacities, characteristics, and spells from another picked activity, at a large portion of the dimension of their present place of employment. For example, a Level 20 Warrior setting Ninja as their help occupation would enable them to utilize all Ninja capacities, attributes, and spells up to that of a dimension 10 Ninja, while still fundamentally being a Level 20 Warrior. The help work framework considers work consolidates at no other time found in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. Be that as it may, there are a few special cases to the framework. One-hour capacities and different capacities considered mark to a specific employment, (for example, Call Wyvern for Dragoons) are limited to being utilized just on the principle work. 

Notwithstanding finishing journeys and missions, players can partake in a few side-minigames and different exercises. One such minigame is angling, where players can gauge their quality against the fish they endeavor to get. Another is clamming, where players gather whatever number fish or ocean animals as could be expected under the circumstances without going over their pail's size farthest point. Cultivating enables players to bring plants up in their habitation, or "Mog House" as it is known in the amusement. The raising and rearing of Chocobos was a since quite a while ago mentioned action empowered in the late spring 2006 update. Chocobo dashing started in March 2007, which took into account the hustling of player-raised Chocobos against non-player characters (NPCs). Winning racers can acquire "Chocobucks", which can be utilized to purchase, for instance, things that help Chocobo rearing. 

An imperative piece of the diversion is the gathering of things, particularly uncommon ones, which enable players to make amazing weapons, reinforcement and nourishment. There are numerous approaches to acquire things, for example, collecting, unearthing, logging, mining, crushing beasts, and burrowing by utilizing Chocobos. Square Enix endeavored to build the open door for players to discover uncommon things so as to even out the amusement and stop the act of "gil selling", or trading genuine cash for in-diversion things. The thing closeout framework was closed down incidentally once because of certain players abusing the framework. Things can be made by expending natural precious stones (gotten by battling beasts) with different fixings in a procedure called "union". Formula results can shift broadly dependent on the player's ability, the nature of the player's gear worn, and the fixings utilized. There is huge theory (however nothing clearly archived yet) about the moon stage, heading the player is confronting, in-amusement day (each day of the week is allocated a component), and even time of day the amalgamation is performed to either increment or decrease the consequences of the formula. 

"Last Fantasy XI" has a to a great extent player-based economy, with an overwhelming dependence up for sale houses in every one of the significant urban communities of Vana'diel. There are sure monetary controls set up mostly as charges for putting things available to be purchased. Transportation, sales management firm, thing stockpiling, and charges don't go to players; these gil sinks adequately expel cash from the economy to anticipate expansion. The city of Jeuno used to demand an expense on bazaar buys inside the city, yet it was evacuated in a fix in the December 2008 variant update. 

Square Enix has expressed that the exchange of things for genuine money is authoritatively an infringement of the Terms of Service for "Definite Fantasy XI". In mid 2006, Square Enix found that a gathering of players had figured out how to create diversion cash and trade it for genuine money, which, thus, drove up costs for all things over the amusement. Accordingly, 700 records were for all time restricted and 300 billion gil was expelled from course. In July 2006, Square Enix restricted or suspended more than 8,000 different records for comparable control and business. Since 2006, Square Enix has normally restricted records observed to be infringing upon the terms, some of them utilizing outsider apparatuses, viably expelling billions of gil from the in-diversion economy. 

The setting of "Definite Fantasy XI" is the universe of Vana'diel, a rich world with assorted atmospheres, extending from northern ice sheets and southern deserts, to ethereal domains and sky landmasses. Vana'diel is isolated into various locales, which are subdivided into territories known as "zones". These zones are accessible for investigation and comprise of open air zones, cells, urban areas, and towns. Players can investigate a bit of Vana'diel, including the Middle Lands, Near East, and with the arrival of "Searchers of Adoulin", the close west. Six city states exist in the accessible grounds, The Republic of Bastok, The Kingdom of San d'Oria, The Federation of Windurst, The Grand Duchy of Jeuno, The Empire of Aht Urhgan and the Sacred City of Adoulin. While most zones are available by strolling, different methods of transportation, running from the exemplary "Last Fantasy" Chocobo and carriers to exceptional spells, encourage development over the amusement world. 

Old legend expresses that Vana'diel was made as a play area for the Gods and their kids, themselves' identity generated from a colossal and conscious Crystal. In the end wishing to be unified with the Gods, the kids built a pathway to heaven. They were destroyed down for their impoliteness, in any case, and their urban communities cast to the base of the ocean. In the wake of seeing the pulverization of her kids and loaded up with pity, the Goddess Altana sobbed five tears that offered life to the five Enlightened Races of Vana'diel. The God of Twilight, Promathia, denounced her shortcoming, in any case, and the existence that emerged from it. Promathia reviled the five races with unceasing clash among themselves by delivering their darkest qualities: the aloofness of the Humes, the presumption of the Elvaan, the fierceness of the Galka, the weakness of the Tarutaru, and the jealousy of the Mithra. He made the Beastmen, instructing them to everlastingly battle the general population of Vana'diel and consume their brains, so these youngsters could never have sufficient energy to bunch together and build a pathway like the ones preceding them. The creation legend's conscious Crystal, Gods, Children, and the realities behind them highlight as significant plot focuses in a few "Last Fantasy XI" extension packs, while the Beastmen are a portion of the amusement's primary rivals. 

The occasions of the amusement are set 20 years after the Crystal War, a staggering war where the Middle Land countries of Bastok, San d'Oria and Windurst battled and crushed the Shadow Lord and his military of Beastmen. Players manage the fallout of this contention in the first story, and may go back so as to help in the war exertion with the extension pack "Wings of the Goddess". A few parallel universes are accessible, for example, Dynamis and Abyssea, in which the beastmen won the Crystal War and vanquished the land. 

"Last Fantasy XI" highlights five playable races known as the "Edified Races": 

Notwithstanding the playable races, there are two other non-playable Enlightened Races, known as the Zilart and the Kuluu. These antiquated races were thought wiped out, and are the focal point of the initial two-amusement extensions. There is additionally a huge supporting cast of NPCs engaged with journeys, missions and the amusement's storylines. The diversion includes a few ordinary "Last Fantasy" savages, including Goblins, Sahagins and Tonberries. A few of these races are known as Beastmen, a refinement made between monsters who have higher than normal insight, displaying mindfulness, feelings, culture, and religion. The intricate relationship, biased perspectives, and reasons of contention between the Enlightened Races and Beastmen is a plot point all through the diversion. 

"Last Fantasy XI" is spoken to in the "Dissidia" amusement arrangement by Shantotto, a female Tarutaru Black Mage from the Windurst storyline, voiced by popular voice performer Megumi Hayashibara in the Japanese adaptation and Candi Milo in English form. The amusement's prequel includes Prishe, a female Elvaan from Tavnazia, who is the fundamental character in the "Chains of Promathia" development pack. 

The storyline is fundamentally finished with missions the overseeing countries that exist in the base diversion just as every extension that the player is subsidiary with. Country or overseeing body association is moderately basic, some of the time requiring essential journeys being finished and have a few phases of movement to accomplish higher acknowledgment and reward all through every story. A few missions are even required to be finished to additionally advance into the beginning of the extra storylines of every development or explicit territories. 

Players start the amusement as occupants of one of the three primary nations: San d'Oria, Bastok, and Windurst, and must help band the countries together against the restored Shadow Lord. 

The extension "Ascent of the Zilart" uncovers that the Crystal War and the restoration of the Shadow Lord had been engineered by the Zilart rulers Eald'Narche and Kam'lanaut, who endure the annihilation of their race. The two Zilarts plan to move toward becoming Gods by opening the way to heaven, and the player is accused of obstructing their arrangements. 

"Chains of Promathia" rotates around an Elvaan young lady named Prishe and the dead Twilight God Promathia, who had initially reviled the Zilart race, and the endeavors of different groups to either total or stop his restoration. The wyrmking Bahamut is associated with these occasions, and means to decimate Vana'diel to keep Promathia from retaining the life of the world. 

"Fortunes of Aht Urhgan" concerns the Empire of Aht Urhgan which opens up to the countries of midlands following quite a while of willful confinement. As another and ground-breaking country, it is of worry to the country of the player, who is sent as a delegate. The player at that point ends up entangled in the interests of the Empress' court and the developing apprehensions of war and obscurity coming to Aht Urhgan. 

"Wings of the Goddess" basically happens in the time of the Crystal War, 20 years in the past from the principle "Last Fantasy XI" setting. The player finds and crosses secretive time entries close by the Hume/Elvaan blend Lilisette, and are directed to help the Regal Feline Cait Sith lessen the enduring of the time. In any case, Lilisette and her accomplice experience Lilith, an other timetable rendition of herself who wishes to prop the war up to keep up her time while invalidating Lilisette's. 

"Searchers of Adoulin" concerns the western landmass archipelago of Adoulin, and the Sacred City of Adoulin. The city was a point of convergence for colonization 200 years before the present amusement, however when colonization endeavors bombed in the fundamental landmass of Ulbuka, the country fell in populace and moved to exchange as a core interest. Presently colonization has started by and by, and players are allowed to investigate the district. 

"Compositions of Vana'diel" concerns the finish of the "Last Fantasy XI" storyline with the danger presented by the Cloud of Darkness and an other course of events rendition of the player. 

The plan to create "Last Fantasy XI" as an internet amusement was brought about by Hironobu Sakaguchi while setting up Square Pictures base camp in Hawaii. Inspired by western MMORPGs that he found there, for example, "EverQuest", Sakaguchi persuaded Square to start the advancement of their own MMORPG and recommended that it be founded on the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. The group in charge of "Chrono Cross" was allocated to the improvement of "Conclusive Fantasy XI" after the English confinement of the previous title. Advancement started in November 1999. The amusement was the main created under Square's new rationality to produce for "all stages and media". Hiromichi Tanaka, the maker of the diversion, has expressed "Last Fantasy XI" is intensely affected by "Definite Fantasy III", particularly in its fight and enchantment frameworks. As per Tanaka, Square put in "Definite Fantasy XI" what they couldn't put in the primary "Last Fantasy" titles because of specialized impediments, in this way making "Last Fantasy XI" the "most [representative] "Last Fantasy" of the considerable number of scenes". The amusement was created and kept running on the Nvidia GeForce 4 Ti GPU, which the President of Square Yoichi Wada depicted as the most dominant designs processor accessible at the time. The diversion cost a few billion yen (~$17– 25 million) to make alongside the PlayOnline Network Service and was expected to wind up beneficial over a five-year timespan. By making a brought together diversion world rather than various ones balkanized by language, improvement costs were cut 66%. Since repeating beasts of the arrangement are known by various names in the Japanese and English forms of different portions, it was chosen for "Definite Fantasy XI" to utilize both Japanese and English names for various assortments of similar beasts. 

It was initially reported that there would be a synchronous discharge on the PlayStation 2 and Microsoft Windows just as simultaneous Japanese and American discharge, yet this was later changed. There was additionally exchange of a Xbox discharge, yet it was relinquished primarily in view of its little 8 GB hard drive. Initially reported in January 2000 at the Yokohama Millennium Conference, there was a lot of negative press. There were questions raised about naming the diversion the eleventh in the arrangement, since it was uncertain whether the amusement would have an organized story, which it wound up having, and the title of "Definite Fantasy Online" was proposed. Following an August 2001 beta test in Japan, an open Japanese beta test was done in December 2001. 

Following its PC discharge, "Last Fantasy XI" was recorded as a standout amongst IGN's most foreseen PlayStation 2 rounds of 2004. 

Sony propelled a multimillion-dollar advertisement crusade to advance "Last Fantasy XI" alongside the PlayStation 2 hard drive add-on which the diversion required. Having been discharged on the PlayStation 2 just as the PC, it turned into the main cross-stage MMORPG ever made. On June 14, 2002, the diversion server was down for four hours for upkeep to the database servers, bug fixes on the content interface, and another fix for the amusement customer. This is believed to be the primary fix at any point discharged for a comfort amusement. Other early issues included objections by American players that accomplished Japanese players had officially finished every one of the journeys. Square Enix reacted by adding new servers so as to have diversion universes with less master players. 

"Last Fantasy XI" is one of the primary cross-support computer games, and has kept on refreshing its product to enable the diversion to keep running on new consoles. On 8 March 2007, a fix was discharged to empower ongoing interaction in French and German. Square Enix noticed that Nintendo's utilization of "companion codes" was the essential reason "Last Fantasy XI" was not conveyed to the Wii. In December 2006, the PlayStation 2 renditions of PlayOnline and "Last Fantasy XI" had the capacity to introduce and keep running on the PlayStation 3. The "Vana'diel Collection 2008" circles for the PlayStation 2 had establishment issues on the PlayStation 3, making them be unusable at first since they weren't on Sony's rundown of HDD good titles in the firmware the PlayStation 3 had at the time. This issue was fixed on December 18, 2007 when Sony discharged firmware update 2.10 for the PlayStation 3. This permitted all retrogressive perfect models—20GB model #CECHB01, 60GB model #CECHA01 and 80GB model #CECHE01—to play FFXI. In the wake of working with Microsoft to determine "Last Fantasy XI"s contradiction issues with Windows Vista, Square Enix discharged a downloadable form of the PlayOnline customer which is good with the working framework, albeit little bugs have showed up. 

On September 1, 2010, Akihiko Matsui turned into the chief of "Conclusive Fantasy XI". Just three months after the fact, on December 10, 2010, Matsui left the "Last Fantasy XI" group to fill in as "Lead Combat System Designer" on Square Enix's new MMO, "Last Fantasy XIV". His substitution as chief of "Conclusive Fantasy XI" is Mizuki Ito. On July 13, 2011, data from a Famitsu meet with previous "Last Fantasy XI" maker Hiromichi Tanaka uncovered that Square Enix is investigating the likelihood of porting "Last Fantasy XI" to Sony PlayStation Vita. On June 24, 2012, toward the finish of VanaFest 2012, a celebration in Yokohama, Japan to commend 2012's tenth commemoration of the Japanese dispatch of "Definite Fantasy XI", Hiromichi Tanaka reported that, because of wellbeing reasons, he was venturing down as maker of the diversion and leaving Square-Enix. Akihiko Matsui has been chosen to supplant him. 

In 2006, somewhere in the range of 200,000 and 300,000 dynamic players signed in every day, with 500,000 all out dynamic players and around 150,000 online at any one time. In April 2009, Square Enix declared that the absolute number of dynamic characters surpassed 2 million out of the blue. In June 2012, Square Enix president Yoichi Wada declared that "Last Fantasy XI" had turned into the most productive title in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. 

The music of "Definite Fantasy XI" was scored by Naoshi Mizuta, Kumi Tanioka, and Nobuo Uematsu. Author Yasunori Mitsuda was additionally approached to contribute, yet at the time he was unfit to do as such, as he was scoring the music for "Xenosaga". The amusement's five development packs since were scored by Mizuta alone, after Tanioka left to seek after different tasks and Uematsu left Square Enix. The opening of the diversion highlights choral music with verses in Esperanto. As per Uematsu, the decision of language was intended to symbolize the engineers' expectation that their internet diversion could add to culturally diverse correspondence and participation. He likewise noticed the expanded trouble of scoring a diversion for which there was no direct plotline, a noteworthy change from the past "Definite Fantasy" amusements. It was the primary diversion in the arrangement for which he made while he was never again a Square Enix representative. New music has been utilized for extraordinary occasions, for example, an occasion score titled "Jeuno - Starlight Celebration-" which can be heard in the city of Jeuno each mid-to-late December since 2004. 

The amusement's music has been discharged in CD structure a few times and has been highlighted in "Definite Fantasy" shows. A portion of the diversion's music has been discharged on iTunes, for example, the vocal "Inaccessible Worlds", which was discharged on the Japanese iTunes store on September 13, 2005, having been placed in the amusement in a July 2005 fix. A gathering CD box was discharged on March 28, 2007, titled "Last Fantasy XI Original Soundtrack Premium Box", which incorporated the four unique soundtracks from "Definite Fantasy XI" and its three extension sets, just as the beforehand unreleased tracks from the diversion and the unreleased "Last Fantasy XI Piano Collections". Dear Friends - Music from Final Fantasy-, a 2004– 2005 show arrangement, included "Ronfaure" from "Conclusive Fantasy XI". A ten-track collection of music roused by "Conclusive Fantasy XI" entitled "Music from the Other Side of Vana'diel" was discharged by The Star Onions on August 24, 2005. 

"Last Fantasy XI" has increments discharged at regular intervals. Development packs include new story, employments, zones, journeys, and substance to the amusement, while additional items are littler in scale, including a littler choice of the previously mentioned things. The majority of the developments and additional items have been discharged on PlayStation 2, Microsoft Windows, and Xbox 360, except for "Searchers of Adoulin", which did not see a PlayStation 2 discharge outside Japan. 

"Last Fantasy XI" got positive surveys from commentators. Totaling audit sites GameRankings and Metacritic gave the PlayStation 2 variant 85% dependent on 57 surveys and 85/100 dependent on 49 surveys, the PC form 82% dependent on 44 surveys and 85/100 dependent on 25 audits the Xbox 360 rendition 69% dependent on 32 audits and 66/100 dependent on 25 surveys. "Famitsu" appraised the amusement 38 out of 40. "PC and Video Games Magazine" noticed that it was a standout amongst the most inviting MMORPGs in spite of the unwieldy starting enrollment and setup. IGN considered it a well done yet predictable amusement and furthermore noticed that North American players were compelled to play with effectively significantly more experienced Japanese players who had officially finished the diversion's different missions. GameSpot censured it at discharge for having an unusual control framework, an extensive establishment, and having no player versus player (PvP) viewpoints. Different components accepting analysis incorporate the EXP pound, which includes consistent fights to get to various pieces of the diversion, and packed campgrounds. The developments have been generally decidedly gotten, with recognition for the measure of substance included, yet expanding signs that the designs of the diversion are getting to be obsolete. IGN survey of the Xbox 360 discharge was comparable, taking note of that it was a lot of diversion content, yet had an extended setup procedure and components of the amusement plan that require a huge time venture. It has likewise been noticed that this amusement is the first to move an uncontrollably unique way while staying in the fundamental numbering line, rather than the Tactics and Crystal Chronicles recreations which turned into their very own side arrangement. 

The client base for the PlayStation 2 rendition was truncated at first as a result of restricted offers of the PlayStation 2's hard drive and system connectors that were required for the diversion. The Japanese arrival of "Ascent of the Zilart" was the main selling amusement when it appeared in 2003 with 90,000 duplicates sold in the principal week. The "Fortunes of Aht Urhgan", discharged three years after the fact, sold more than 103,000 duplicates for the PlayStation 2 in Japan amid 2006. In the United States, "Last Fantasy XI"s PC form sold 340,000 duplicates ($15.5 million) by August 2006, after its discharge in October 2003. It was the nation's 51st top of the line PC diversion between January 2000 and August 2006. The "Last Fantasy XI All-in-One Pack" was number 36 and "Wings of the Goddess" was number 40 on the main 50 smash hit Xbox 360 recreations in Japan as of December 2007. For the April– September 2004 monetary period, Square Enix saw internet gaming, especially "Last Fantasy XI", deals increment by 101 percent and working benefit increment by 230.9 percent. Incomes held relentless from membership benefits in the late spring of 2006; in the fall, in any case, Square recognized that online membership incomes were "unsuitable", regardless of the unfaltering execution of Final Fantasy XI. In December 2003, Square Enix president Yoichi Wada reported that there were more than 200,000 supporters of "Definite Fantasy XI", enabling the organization to earn back the original investment and begin making a benefit. There were somewhere in the range of 200,000 and 300,000 dynamic players every day in 2006. As of August 14, 2006 the Xbox 360 variant was the 6th most played amusement on Xbox Live. In June 2012, Square Enix president Yoichi Wada reported that "Last Fantasy XI" had turned into the most gainful title in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. While numerous MMOs have changed to some type of allowed to-play demonstrate, the base month to month membership value point for "Conclusive Fantasy XI" has continued as before since its introduction in 2002. 

"Last Fantasy XI" was granted the excellent prize from the Japan's Consumer Entertainment Software Association (CESA) for 2002– 2003 alongside "Taiko no Tatsujin". It has likewise gotten GameSpy's 2003 PC MMORPG Game of the Year Award and IGN's Game of the Month for March 2004, refering to the amusement's tremendous customization and its effective cross-stage and cross-language diversion world. "Last Fantasy XI" was referenced in the web based amusement "Minna no Golf Online" as a "Last Fantasy XI"- themed anteroom. At 2009's Electronic Entertainment Expo, Square Enix uncovered "Last Fantasy XIV Online", which was Square Enix's next MMORPG. 

The diversion has generated a few composed adjustments and related stock. Beginning in 2003, a progression of "Definite Fantasy XI" books was composed by Miyabi Hasegawa and discharged in Japanese, German, and French. Moreover, in 2004, "Experience Log", a webcomic by Scott Ramsoomair, was charged by Square Enix beginning in 2007. "Last Fantasy XI" PlayOnline Visa and MasterCard charge cards were accessible in Japan, with highlights including no yearly expenses as long as cardholders remain PlayOnline endorsers and different prizes. There have additionally been publications with restricted version telephone cards and keychains discharged, likewise only in Japan. A few T-shirts have been made accessible for request in North America, and different squishy toys and gashapon dolls have additionally been made accessible to request of various races from the arrangement. A Vana'diel check which showed the in-amusement time was additionally advertised, just as CDs of the diversion's music.