Old Pine Church 

Old Pine Church, additionally generally known as Mill Church, Nicholas Church, and Pine Church, is a mid-nineteenth century church situated close to Purgitsville, West Virginia, United States. It is among the most punctual surviving log houses of worship in Hampshire County, alongside Capon Chapel and Mount Bethel Church. 

The congregation was built in 1838 to fill in as a nondenominational "association church". The same number of the Mill Creek valley's soonest pilgrims were of German drop, Old Pine Church may likewise have been worked as a gathering place for Schwarzenau Brethren followers, known as "Dunkers" or "Dunkards". The congregation is accepted to have likewise been a gathering place for German Methodist pioneers. By 1870, the congregation was essentially utilized by the Brethren group, and in 1878, the congregation's assembly split into White Pine Church of the Brethren and Old Pine Church gatherings. The two assemblages kept on utilizing the congregation until 1907. 

Old Pine Church apparently housed a school in the mid twentieth century while as yet filling in as an inside for love. In 1968, inhabitants of the Purgitsville people group raised the fundamental assets to play out a rebuilding of the congregation. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places on December 12, 2012, because of its "huge settlement-time rustic religious design in the Potomac Highlands." 

The congregation is a huge, one-story, gablefront log building sheathed in darker painted wooden German siding. The first cut log pillars are unmistakable underneath the congregation, with some bark staying on the logs. The congregation's inside roof estimates around in stature and is clad in squeezed metal boards. A few of its seats date from 1857. In the congregation's bordering burial ground, the most punctual surviving headstone dates from 1834, and a few plain interment locales may exist from as right on time as 1759. As indicated by design history specialist Sandra Scaffidi, "Old Pine Church and graveyard is an incredible case of one of the territory's initial provincial church edifices." 

Old Pine Church and its burial ground are situated along the steeply inclined Old Pine Church Road (West Virginia Secondary Route 220/15), roughly south of the unincorporated network of Purgitsville. The congregation and graveyard are arranged on a feign toward the west of United States Route 220, at a height of . The property is encompassed by old-development woods. 

The congregation is in a rustic territory of southwestern Hampshire County inside the Mill Creek valley. Patterson Creek Mountain, a forested tight anticlinal mountain edge, ascends toward the west of Mill Creek valley, and the forested western moving lower regions of the anticlinal Mill Creek Mountain ascend to the valley's east. The Trough on the South Branch Potomac River is situated crosswise over Mill Creek Mountain, roughly toward the east of the congregation. 

Old Pine Church's territory tract was initially part of the Northern Neck Proprietary, a land concede that the ousted Charles II granted to seven of his supporters in 1649 amid the English Interregnum. Following the Restoration in 1660, Charles II at last climbed to the English position of authority. Charles II recharged the Northern Neck Proprietary give in 1662, modified it in 1669, and again restored the first allow favoring unique grantee Thomas Colepeper, second Baron Colepeper and Henry Bennet, first Earl of Arlington in 1672. In 1681, Bennet sold his offer to Lord Colepeper, and Lord Colepeper got another sanction for the whole land allow from James II in 1688. Following the passings of Lord Colepeper, his better half Margaret, and his little girl Katherine, the Northern Neck Proprietary go to Katherine's child Thomas Fairfax, sixth Lord Fairfax of Cameron in 1719. 

The congregation is in the Mill Creek valley. As strains with Native Americans were starting to ease, Lord Fairfax looked to tempt white pioneers to the meagerly settled terrains of his Northern Neck Proprietary. The valley was one of the initial segments of present-day Hampshire County to be settled by whites, starting in the mid-eighteenth century. Pilgrims were drawn by the valley's richness. As the valley's populace developed, the unincorporated network of Purgitsville created along Mill Creek as an exchanging post town; it was named for Henry Purgitt (or Purgate), who procured in the Mill Creek valley on January 7, 1785, and got a further land move of in 1794. Purgitsville kept on creating over the span of the nineteenth century, amid which time it developed to incorporate a little store, a mail station, and a metalworker shop. 

The dates of the most punctual church can't be checked, however a congregation building may have been built at the site of Old Pine Church as ahead of schedule as around 1814, and perhaps as right on time as 1792. 

On September 24, 1838, William Pomkrotz and his significant other, Milly, deeded a tract of land to a gathering of trustees, accused of developing "a congregation or house for open love for the utilization and accommodation of Ministers and others of the Christians [sic] Denominations Whatsoever". While the deed referenced a current gathering house on the site, there is no surviving proof of an earlier structure. As per design student of history Sandra Scaffidi, no specific Christian division got sole responsibility for building, which recommends that the congregation was planned to fill in as a nondenominational "association church". The congregation's soonest inhabitant serve was allegedly Nicholas Leatherman, whose spouse, Elizabeth High, was the girl of George High, one of the congregation's unique trustees. 

Barely any records of the congregation's history exist, potentially on the grounds that no single section or association took proprietorship. A few Christian groups held gatherings at Old Pine Church, including the Schwarzenau Brethren (or German Baptist Brethren), which started holding administrations at the congregation in the late nineteenth century. The same number of the Mill Creek valley's pilgrims were of German plunge, the Old Pine Church structure may likewise have been worked as a gathering place for Brethren disciples, known as "Dunkers" or "Dunkards". It is trusted that Old Pine Church was additionally utilized by German Methodists. The Brethren are a Christian section of Anabaptist inception that rehearsed absolution by triune inundation and practiced harmlessness. Triune inundation comprises of dunking another adherent into water multiple times, once for every one of the elements of the Holy Trinity. Brethren disciples accepted just in the New Testament, and proclaimed no different beliefs. The inside of Old Pine Church, which comprises of a solitary normal space for all admirers, additionally shows the structure's association with the Brethren and the section's convictions in regards to subjection. As per the minutes from the 1782 gathering of the Brethren in Franklin County, Virginia, "It has been collectively viewed as that it can't be allowed in any capacity by the congregation that a part should buy Negroes or keep them as Slaves." While numerous occupants in Hampshire County preceding the American Civil War were slaveholders, it is felt that Brethren followers in the district did not possess slaves or rely on slave work. 

The Brethren section had been available in the South Branch Potomac River valley from as ahead of schedule as the 1750s despite the fact that records of early Brethren assemblies are not surviving, conceivably on the grounds that they were served by nomad pastors. As ahead of schedule as 1785, two siblings with the surname of Powers drove a Brethren assemblage in the territory. In Dr. Emmert F. Bittinger's verifiable research on the Brethren Church in Hampshire County in his "Allegheny Passage" (1990), it is noticed that the Church of the Brethren division perceived Old Pine Church as having a place with the bigger Beaver Run assemblage, which was focused roughly south of Old Pine Church. The Beaver Run assembly was the primary association of the Brethren in Hampshire County. Old Pine Church and its forerunner structures were most likely used by individuals from the Beaver Run assembly on the grounds that the separation between the northern area of the valley and the congregation on Beaver Run was too extraordinary to even think about traversing effectively. Along these lines, Old Pine Church started as a mission of the Beaver Run gathering. As a result of its area in the region of the Hardy County limit line, the locale served by the congregation spread over the two districts. 

By 1870, Old Pine Church was fundamentally utilized by the Brethren category. Around 1870, the Nicholas assembly of Brethren was revering at the congregation and was driven by Dr. Leatherman. As per the Beaver Run Church Book, enrollment at Old Pine Church was 78 out of 1879 and numbered 100 of every 1881. The Beaver Run assembly altered its locale's limits in 1879, which may have brought about a division of the gathering at Old Pine Church into two groups: White Pine Church of the Brethren and Old Pine Church. The two chapels kept on revering at Old Pine Church at various occasions. White Pine Church of the Brethren venerated at the congregation from the 1870s until the development of their own congregation working in 1907. By 1897, Old Pine Church stayed under aggregate proprietorship by a few Christian sections despite the fact that the Brethren were the congregation's biggest investors. White Pine Church of the Brethren stayed recorded in the Brethren Conference Minutes as "Pine Church" until 1912, when individuals from the congregation appealed to the Brethren Conference to change their name from "Pine" to "White Pine". 

Old Pine Church supposedly housed a school in the mid twentieth century while as yet filling in as a middle for love. A little one-room expansion to the congregation was developed toward the north façade of the structure, which filled in as the boarding space for the teacher. The Old Pine Church likewise kept on being utilized for memorial service administrations and reunions. 

In 1968, inhabitants of the Purgitsville people group raised the important assets to renovate Old Pine Church: the congregation's unique windows were fixed and the unpainted weatherboards painted; another rooftop was introduced and the first wood floor supplanted. The boarding room option was likely evacuated (nothing of it currently remains) and the squeezed metal roof may have been included. 

Starting at 2012, Old Pine Church is as yet utilized for network social affairs, burial service administrations, recovery gatherings, and a yearly community gathering. Customary faith gatherings have not occurred in the congregation since the center of the twentieth century. The congregation's neighboring graveyard likewise keeps on being utilized for internments. All through its reality, Old Pine Church has been known by different names, including "Factory Church", "Nicholas Church", and essentially "Pine Church". 

In 2008, the Hampshire County Historic Landmarks Commission and the Hampshire County Commission set out upon an activity to put structures and regions on the National Register of Historic Places following a progression of overviews of memorable properties all through the district. The region got subsidizing for the looking over and documentation of Hampshire County design and history from the State Historic Preservation Office of the West Virginia Division of Culture and History. Old Pine Church was one of the initial eight memorable properties to be considered for situation on the register because of the province's drive. The other seven properties were: Capon Chapel, Fort Kuykendall, Hickory Grove, Hook Tavern, North River Mills Historic District, Springfield Brick House, and Valley View. As indicated by Hampshire County Commission's consistence officer, Charles Baker, spots of love were not commonly chosen for consideration in the register; Old Pine Church and Capon Chapel were special cases in light of the fact that both "began as meeting houses". Old Pine Church was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on December 12, 2012, due to its "huge settlement-time provincial religious engineering in the Potomac Highlands". 

Old Pine Church is a substantial, one-story, gablefront log building. Its symmetrical front façade faces west and includes a fundamental passage comprising of a twofold arrangement of four-framed entryways. The primary passageway is come to by two solid strides, on either side of which is an advanced metal handrail. Over the passageway is a little wooden sign painted white perusing "Old Pine Church" in dark lettering. On either side of the entryways are two nine-more than six twofold hung scarf wooden windows. 

Set symmetrically in the north and south sides of the congregation are two nine-more than six twofold hung band wooden windows. Between the two windows on the congregation's north rise is an outside solid square fireplace. The format of the east-bound back height of the congregation is likewise symmetrical, and highlights three nine-more than six twofold hung band wooden windows, with the middle window put above and between the other two windows. The congregation's windows have been fixed utilizing materials predictable with unique development. 

At the base of every one of the congregation's four corners is a vast whole stone wharf. Fieldstones range the congregation's edge establishments, which were added sometime in the future to dishearten interruption by creatures. The first slashed log pillars, as yet holding bark, can be seen under the congregation. The congregation is secured with darker painted wooden German siding and is delegated by a cutting edge standing-crease metal rooftop. 

Building student of history Sandra Scaffidi states that the straightforward structure and development of Old Pine Church are demonstrative of the early pioneers' entrance to materials and are a case of the log development procedures utilized in the religious engineering of Hampshire County's most punctual pilgrims. She includes that Old Pine Church is illustrative of a "basic plan and structure basic to the early clerical structures" and a "great case of one of the zone's initial provincial church buildings". 

The congregation's inside shows an open building plan. A plain wooden edge platform remains against the back divider, underneath the center window. The congregation's floor comprises of pine sheets introduced amid the congregation's 1968 reclamation. 

The congregation's roof, estimating around in stature, is clad in squeezed metal boards. A little opening takes into account access to the congregation's storage room. The unadorned window wells measure around . The inside dividers are shrouded in plasterboard, which stays incomplete. 

The congregation's little wood-consuming stove initially involved the focal point of the haven however was moved to the congregation's north divider in later years. It keeps on filling in as the congregation's sole wellspring of warmth. 

A few of the congregation's seats date from 1857 and stay being used. The seats, very straightforward in structure, have a "moderate appearance". Every seat comprises of a long wooden board that fills in as the seat, with a slender rail bolstered by three axles as the backrest. The seats are upheld by three curved backings joined to the seat by a mortise and join joint and fortified with nails. The more up to date seats display indistinguishable structure components yet are built with present day nails and timber. In spite of the fact that the vast majority of the seats are masterminded against the congregation's west rise with a middle passageway, two are along the north height and four are along the south rise. The podium is arranged at the east height. There is an upstanding piano in the northeastern corner of the congregation. 

Old Pine Church is encompassed on three sides by a graveyard containing roughly 200 interments, the most established segment of which is situated to the prompt east and south of the congregation building. The most punctual outstanding headstone dates from 1834, yet a few plain interment locales in the encompassing burial ground may date from as ahead of schedule as 1759. The congregation's sign along U.S. Highway 220 mistakenly records the date of the burial ground's most seasoned interment locales as 1792. 

The burial ground's gravestones are situated both toward the east and toward the west. The lion's share are basic in configuration, recorded with birth and demise dates, and comprise of a mix of adjusted, curved stones, rectangular stones, and pyramidal-formed pillars that seem, by all accounts, to be cut from limestone. In the burial ground's southern segment are a few little rectangular stones that likely fill in as footstones. Starting around 1950, the headstones raised in the burial ground turned out to be increasingly mind boggling with cleaned rock surfaces lying on unpleasant cut stone establishments. 

Old Pine Church's burial ground is encompassed by a few develop trees, with a vast oak tree overhanging the southwestern zone of the graveyard. Outside of the National Register of Historic Places limit toward the northwest of Old Pine Church lies a second package of land obtained around 1950 for extra entombments. The burial ground is encased by a chicken wire fence upheld by wooden posts, with an expansive entryway toward the north of the congregation which permits hardware access into the graveyard.