Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge 

The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge (), in the past known as South Branch Bridge or Romney Bridge, is a noteworthy Whipple bracket connect in Capon Lake, West Virginia. It is situated off Carpers Pike (West Virginia Route 259) and crosses the Cacapon River. The scaffold in the past conveyed Capon Springs Road (County Route 16) over the waterway, interfacing Capon Springs and Capon Lake. 

The scaffold's Whipple bracket innovation was created by structural designer Squire Whipple in 1847. J. W. Murphy further adjusted Whipple's bracket structure in 1859 by planning the primary support connect with stuck eyebar associations. The structure of the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge fuses Murphy's later adjustments with twofold crossing points and level harmonies, and is in this way considered a Whipple– Murphy bracket connect. The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge is West Virginia's most seasoned outstanding case of a Whipple support extension and its most seasoned surviving metal bracket connect. 

The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge was initially built in 1874 as a component of the South Branch Bridge (or on the other hand, the Romney Bridge), a bigger two-length Whipple bracket connect passing on the Northwestern Turnpike (U.S. Highway 50) over the South Branch Potomac River close Romney. The bigger Whipple bracket connect supplanted a 1838 wooden secured connect that was crushed amid the American Civil War. In 1874, T. B. White and Sons were accused of the development of a Whipple bracket connect over the South Branch; that connect served voyagers along the Northwestern Turnpike for a long time until another scaffold was built in 1937. 

Destroyed in 1937, the scaffold was migrated to Capon Lake in southeastern Hampshire County to convey Capon Springs Road (County Route 16) between West Virginia Route 259 and Capon Springs. The scaffold was devoted on August 20, 1938. In 1991, another scaffold was finished toward the south, and the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge was saved set up by the West Virginia Division of Highways, because of its irregularity, age, and designing hugeness. The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on December 15, 2011. 

The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge is situated in a dominatingly country rural and forested territory of southeastern Hampshire County inside the Cacapon River valley. Cook Mountain, a forested thin anticlinal mountain edge, ascends to the prompt west, and the western moving lower regions of the anticlinal Great North Mountain ascend to the extension's east. The juncture of Capon Springs Run with the Cacapon River lies simply north (downstream) of the extension. George Washington National Forest is situated to the scaffold's southeast, covering the forested territory south of Capon Springs Road. 

The extension is situated along Carpers Pike (West Virginia Route 259) in the unincorporated network of Capon Lake, southwest of Yellow Spring and upper east of the town of Wardensville. The noteworthy Capon Springs Resort and the unincorporated network of Capon Springs are found east of Capon Lake on Capon Springs Road (West Virginia Secondary Route 16). The extension is found promptly north (downstream) of the crossing point of Carpers Pike with Capon Springs Road, which is conveyed over the Cacapon River by means of the momentum Capon Lake Bridge, a Girder connect worked in 1991 to trade the Whipple bracket connect for passing on vehicle traffic. The property containing the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge is not exactly in size. 

The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge is an early case of the utilization of metal bracket connect load-bearing superstructure innovation, which characterized roadway connect configuration well into the twentieth century. Due to "its unprecedented inventive plan and age", the scaffold is one of West Virginia's most truly critical extensions. It is the most seasoned outstanding case of a Whipple bracket connect in West Virginia, and the most established surviving metal support connect in the state. The metal bracket innovation of the scaffold shows particular advancements created by the unmistakable structural architects and extension creators Squire Whipple and J. W. Murphy; the advancements are apparent in the scaffold's twofold convergence diagonals and counter-diagonals with stick associations. 

Around in width and long, the scaffold is worked on a fortified solid projection and wharf. Its bracket structure displays a twofold convergence arrangement, built of 14 inlets, each estimating around wide and in tallness, with the diagonals reaching out crosswise over two narrows each. The scaffold is created of fashioned iron sectioned with pins. Traversing the full length of the extension is a wooden person on foot walkway that comprises of a perception deck and wooden seating close to the scaffold's midspan. 

The extension's Whipple support innovation was created in 1847 by structural specialist Squire Whipple, who got a patent from the U.S. Patent Office that year. Whipple was one of the principal basic specialists to utilize logical and numerical strategies dissecting the powers and worries in surrounded structures to plan the scaffold, and his weighty 1847 book, "A Work on Bridge Building", impacted extension designing. Whipple's support connect configuration joined twofold crossing point diagonals into the standard Pratt bracket, in this way enabling the diagonals to stretch out crosswise over two support straights. Designer J. W. Murphy further altered Whipple's support plan in 1859 when he structured the main bracket connect with stuck eyebar associations, which used sticks rather than trunnions. Murphy's plan expelled the requirement for bolted associations and took into consideration simpler and increasingly across the board development of support spans. In 1863, Murphy structured the principal stick associated support connect with both created iron strain and pressure segments and cast iron joint squares and platforms. Murphy's support configuration comprised of twofold crossing point counter-diagonals, and alongside the eyebar and stick associations, allowed longer iron extension ranges. 

The innovative structure propels made by Whipple and Murphy, notwithstanding further advances in steel and iron creation, made fashioned iron bracket connects a noteworthy industry in the United States. The Capon Lake connect was a Whipple– Murphy bracket connect, since it consolidated Murphy's later adjustments with twofold crossing points and level harmonies. At the season of the scaffold's unique creation in 1874, metal support spans were requested from inventories by province courts and different elements in charge of transportation development and upkeep. These substances gave the ideal width, length, and different particulars, and the bracket materials were dispatched to the building site and amassed by nearby development groups. Metal support spans were all the more financially possible, could traverse longer separations, and were less complex to build than stone scaffolds, and they were more solid than wooden extensions. They were likewise promoted as separable and transportable structures that could be disassembled and reassembled. The innovation utilized in the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge reformed transport all through West Virginia. While the Whipple bracket connect had melted away in notoriety by the 1890s, the scaffolds were usually dismantled and re-raised for use on optional streets, just like the case with the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge in 1938. 

The development organization that manufactured the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge, T. B. White and Sons, was built up in 1868. Its organizer Timothy B. White had been a woodworker and contractual worker in New Brighton, Pennsylvania since the 1840s. White additionally worked production lines for iron vehicles and woolen plant hardware until 1859, when he started to focus exclusively on scaffold development. White's extension organization worked from a plant on the Beaver River in New Brighton until the production line was decimated by flame in 1878. After the fire, the organization moved over the stream to Beaver Falls and rebuilt as the Penn Bridge and Machine Works. Notwithstanding iron bracket connects, the organization created a scope of basic and design segments and kept on extending; it utilized more than 500 specialists by 1908. Penn Bridge and Machine Works battled off buy by the American Bridge Company and kept on working autonomously, dissimilar to comparative little extension organizations established in the nineteenth century. The most productive of its sort in the Pittsburgh district, the organization was in charge of the development of extensions all through the United States. 

The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge was initially developed in 1874 as a major aspect of the South Branch Bridge (or the Romney Bridge), a bigger two-length Whipple bracket connect passing on the Northwestern Turnpike (U.S. Highway 50) over the South Branch Potomac River west of Romney. The 1874 Whipple support connect over the South Branch supplanted a 1838 wooden secured connect that had been contracted by the Virginia General Assembly amid the development of the Northwestern Turnpike. Prior to the development of the canvassed scaffold in 1838, an open ship passed on traffic over the waterway. Isaac Parsons (1752– 1796) worked a ship there following its foundation by a demonstration of the Virginia General Assembly in October 1786. The 1838 shrouded connect stayed being used until it was crushed by withdrawing Confederate powers amid the American Civil War. Over the span of the war, Romney allegedly changed hands multiple times among Confederate and Union powers, and the intersection of the South Branch Potomac River filled in as a vital indicate due its situation along the Northwestern Turnpike, a vital east– west course. 

Following the finish of the war, almost all extensions along the Northwestern Turnpike had been crushed, including the South Branch Bridge. So as to reestablish nearby organizations and industry, Hampshire County residents assembled a conference and steps were taken at the neighborhood level to continue with the development of new scaffolds. Nearby residents and the "South Branch Intelligencer" paper of Romney crusaded for the quick substitution of the scaffold in light of "constant hazard, peril and burdens emerging from need of the South Branch Bridge at Col. Gibson's (devastated amid the war)...". Hampshire County started issuing bonds for the development of another scaffold over the South Branch in 1868, and by 1874, development of the Whipple support connect had initiated. T. B. White and Sons were accused of the extension's development. 

The "South Branch Intelligencer" distributed occasional updates on the advancement of the South Branch Bridge's development. As per the paper, the extension was planned to be finished by July 1875. Throughout development, John Ridenour lost a finger while taking a shot at the extension. The new South Branch Bridge was finished well in front of plan for October 1874. The October 12, 1874, version of the "South Branch Intelligencer" portrayed the new scaffold as a "total, attractive and solid structure", and further described that "the temporary workers, Messrs. White and Sons, New Brighton, Pennsylvania 'Penn Bridge and Machine Works,' have given us, all in all sentiment, a top notch, solid work, and merit our best recognitions... We are sure that our own will understand an exceptionally attractive pay and completely vindicate the insight of the County Court in casting a ballot its development." 

Following its development in 1874, the Whipple bracket connect over the South Branch Potomac River served Romney and explorers along the Northwestern Turnpike for a long time. In 1935, the West Virginia State Road Commission started sorting out an undertaking to supplant the Whipple support extension, and development of the new scaffold had started by 1936. In November of that year, a vehicle slammed into the south side of the eastern Whipple support length, which thumped the range totally off its eastern projection. The vehicle dove into the South Branch Potomac River, trailed by the bargained support length, which crumbled over the vehicle. Uninformed of the range's breakdown, a vehicle going from the west drove off the finish of the west range at the scaffold's middle wharf, and fell onto the crumbled range. As per the "Hampshire Review", the main genuine damage supported was a broken wooden leg. Following the breakdown of the eastern Whipple bracket length, a transitory wooden range was hurriedly built between the western support length and the eastern projection, with the goal that traffic was continuous until the new scaffold was finished and opened on June 21, 1937. The 1937 extension was utilized until 2010 when it was supplanted by the present South Branch Bridge. 

Since Whipple support spans were effectively dismantled and re-raised, the staying western range of the Whipple bracket over the South Branch was disassembled in 1937 and moved to Capon Lake in southeastern Hampshire County to pass on Capon Springs Road (West Virginia Secondary Route 16) between West Virginia Route 259 and Capon Springs. As per Branson Himelwright, a Capon Springs occupant who had been a development specialist engaged with the re-erection of the Whipple support length at Capon Lake, the main two different ways to cross the Cacapon River to achieve Capon Springs were to cross a swinging footbridge or passage the waterway. Amid the extension's development, another wharf and projections were built to convey the Whipple support range and an associated Pratt bracket that had been rescued from an obscure scaffold. Himelwright and Jacob "Greenery" Rudolph, who had additionally taken part in the scaffold's development, expressed in meetings that both the site unearthing and solid work for the dock and projections were finished by hand. 

The recently raised Capon Lake Bridge was committed on August 20, 1938, with a function including melodic exhibitions by the Romney High School and Capon Springs Resort groups. Previous West Virginia Governor and Capon Springs local Herman G. Kump, West Virginia State Road Commission Secretary Cy Hammill, and various other state authorities were in participation at the devotion. 

In 1991, the new steel stringer Capon Lake Bridge was developed toward the southwest of the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge, after which the Whipple support connect was shut to vehicle traffic. Because of its irregularity, age, and building importance, West Virginia Division of Highways District 5 chose to save the Whipple support connect. Amid the extension's rebuilding, the Pratt bracket range was expelled because of noteworthy weakening, and the roadway deck was likewise evacuated. A wooden passerby walkway and perception deck were built over the full range of the rest of the support connect. 

The Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on December 15, 2011, for its "building noteworthiness as a magnificent case of a Whipple/Murphy Truss connect." Since its posting, the extension has been kept up as a noteworthy site for people on foot by the West Virginia Division of Highways District 5. In 2012, the West Virginia Division of Highways, in relationship with the West Virginia Archives and the history branch of the West Virginia Division of Culture and History, introduced a chronicled marker at the northwestern section to the scaffold as a feature of the West Virginia Highway Historical Marker Program. The marker peruses: