Zimbabwe ladies' national field hockey group at the 1980 Summer Olympics 

The 1980 Zimbabwe ladies' national field hockey group won the gold decoration in ladies' field hockey at that year's Summer Olympics in Moscow, the capital of the Soviet Union. The squad of 16 ladies, all from Zimbabwe's white minority, was amassed not exactly a month prior to the Olympics started to help fill the holes the American-drove Olympic blacklist made in the ladies' hockey rivalry. Zimbabwe's resulting triumph in the round-robin competition with three successes and two draws was viewed as an immense miracle, especially thinking about the group's absence of planning and experience; it has been called a "compelling pixie story". Succeeded during an era of incredible political change in Zimbabwe, the gold award was the nation's first Olympic decoration of any shading. 

The 1980 Olympics were first to highlight ladies' hockey, and the first to incorporate Zimbabwe under that name—banned from the last three Olympics for political reasons, the nation had last contended as Rhodesia in 1964. The ladies' hockey matches, held somewhere in the range of 25 and 31 July, were altogether played on fake turf, which none of the Zimbabwean colleagues had ever observed; they had likewise never played together until that month. In the wake of beating Poland and the USSR and drawing with Czechoslovakia and India, the Zimbabweans won the challenge on the last day with a 4– 1 triumph over Austria. Named the "Brilliant Girls" by the media of Zimbabwe, they were met by rooting for groups their arrival home, and were quickly national superstars. Zimbabwe did not win another Olympic award until 2004. 

The 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow, the capital of the Soviet Union, were the first to incorporate a challenge in ladies' field hockey. Pre-competition top picks included Australia, the Netherlands and West Germany, yet the American-drove Western blacklist of the Moscow Olympics prompted these groups and others pulling back, leaving just the Soviets in the ladies' hockey occasion. The Soviet and worldwide Olympic specialists filled the holes by welcoming groups from nations that had not qualified. Among the countries welcomed was Zimbabwe, which had turned into a globally perceived nation in April 1980 after seven years of common war. Moscow denoted the southern African country's arrival to the Olympics following 16 years; as Rhodesia it had been avoided from the 1968, 1972 and 1976 Games for political reasons following the generally white government's revelation of freedom from Britain in 1965. The Zimbabwe Olympic Committee got the welcome to send people's hockey squads to Moscow on 14 June 1980, 35 days before the Olympics were because of begin. They were shocked absolutely—they had not readied hockey groups for the Games—however all things considered consented to send a ladies' squad. No ladies' hockey group speaking to the nation had ever played abroad previously. 

A squad of 16 individuals, worked around the center of the previous Rhodesia group, was quickly gathered by Liz Dreyer, the leader of the national ladies' hockey affiliation, who turned into the group's supervisor. Each player and authority was white. Ann Grant, the group's 25-year-old sweeper, was selected chief. Anthea Stewart, who had played for South Africa multiple times before resigning in 1974, both instructed the squad and played herself. Liz Chase, the main other colleague with worldwide experience (having additionally spoken to South Africa) was made bad habit chief. At 35 years of age, Stewart was the group's most seasoned player, while Arlene Boxall, the 18-year-old hold goalkeeper, was the most youthful. The squad included twin sisters in Sandy Chick and Sonia Robertson. 

Totally beginner, the group for the most part included players with callings irrelevant to don—Grant, for instance, was an accountant, while Boxall was a tasks agent in the Air Force of Zimbabwe. A few had brandishing relatives, most conspicuously Grant, whose sibling was the worldwide cricketer Duncan Fletcher. Audrey Palmer, a prepared hockey authority and arbitrator who had played for Rhodesia from 1953 to 1961, went with the group as a surgeon, coach and general director. The squad left on 7 July, heading out first to the Zambian capital Lusaka and afterward to Luanda in Angola, from where they traveled to Moscow on an air ship generally utilized for freighting meat. "The stench was horrendous", Grant later said. "There were no seats, so we as a whole sat on the floor, lashed in and set off into the obscure. We didn't have the correct shoes to play on the fake hockey surface." 

The occasion was sorted out as a round-robin competition in which every one of the six groups would play each other once somewhere in the range of 25 and 31 July. Two were granted for a success and one for a draw; the group with the most focuses toward the end would be the victor. Different contenders were Austria, Czechoslovakia, India, Poland and the USSR; aside from the Soviets, these groups were contending because of the blacklist, having neglected to qualify at first. The majority of the matches were played at Dynamo Minor Arena in Moscow. Zimbabwe arrived two weeks before the hockey competition was because of begin, and heated up with various matches against neighborhood groups. The players' absence of arrangement and newness to counterfeit turf—"none of us had ever observed it previously", Chick reviewed—were counterbalanced by what a few individuals from the squad have portrayed as an exceptionally solid solidarity. They viewed themselves as genuine longshots and did not hope to win an award. 

Zimbabwe played in the main ladies' Olympic hockey coordinate, confronting Poland on 25 July. Pat McKillop scored the main objective to put Zimbabwe ahead before Pat Davies, Linda Watson and Chase each additional one more to round off a 4– 0 triumph. On 27 July, Zimbabwe and Czechoslovakia drew 2– 2; McKillop and Chase scored. The following day, the Zimbabweans beat the Soviets 2– 0, McKillop scoring the two objectives. A 1– 1 draw with India on 30 July placed Zimbabwe in the lead position before the last round of matches on the 31st. Zimbabwe needed to beat Austria to make sure of winning the gold. 

Stewart pronounced the group's first-decision white-and-blue outfit "fortunate" on the premise that both Zimbabwe's triumphs had been won wearing it (rather than the two draws sporting green), and communicated happiness that they would again be donning white and blue in the choosing match. As indicated by Glen Byrom, covering the occasion for the "Messenger" paper, the Zimbabweans seemed apprehensive amid the opening phases of the amusement, and were blessed not to go behind following 15 minutes, when Austria botched a reasonable opportunity. Chick opened the scoring following 28 minutes, getting the ball from a corner before neatly stroking it into the net. Austria's Brigitte Kindler balanced two minutes after the fact from a punishment stroke, flicking the ball past Zimbabwean goalkeeper Sarah English into the upper left corner of the objective. With the score 1– 1 at half time, Brenda Phillips supplanted Christine Prinsloo at right-half. 

Encouraged on by a little yet boisterous gathering of individual Zimbabwean Olympians, the Zimbabweans improved after the break and, as indicated by Byrom, "ke[pt] the Austrian objective under attack" during the time half. With 50 of the match's 70 minutes gone, McKillop intensely stroked a short corner that diverted off a contradicting player's stick and flew high into the net to give Zimbabwe the lead. Presently showing up remarkably certain, Byrom announced, the Zimbabweans "just overran Austria with an astonishing presentation of quick, assaulting hockey", compelling eight short corners and four long corners amid the second time frame to Austria's one long corner. Gillian Cowley made it 3– 1 on an hour, following up to score after Sandy Chick's free hit was blocked. McKillop gathered together the success four minutes after the fact, gathering a through go from Chase and crushing the ball home. Byrom revealed "unbelievable scenes of over the top delight" at the last bell—"the Zimbabweans, tears spilling from their eyes, moved about the field embracing and kissing one another". At long last they raised Grant onto their shoulders and carted her away the field. 

A couple of hours after the fact, the Zimbabwean players came back to the field wearing their blue skirts and blue Zimbabwe Olympic jackets for the decorations service. After the third-put Soviets and second-set Czechoslovakians had gotten their awards, Grant drove the collaborate to the platform to get the primary ever Olympic gold decoration for ladies' hockey. It was their nation's first Olympic decoration of any shading. Each of the 16 players got awards; they at that point drove the Czechoslovakian and Soviet groups on a mobile lap of respect around the field. 

Zimbabwe completed the competition undefeated, having scored the most objectives and surrendered the least of any group. The six objectives from Pat McKillop, a housewife from Bulawayo, made her the challenge's joint top scorer with the USSR's Natella Krasnikova. Pursue, regardless of nursing knee damage, played in every one of the five matches and scored three objectives. The majority of the Zimbabwean squad individuals played no less than one match with the exception of Boxall, who never fell off the seat, yet at the same time got a gold award. 

The successful hockey players were promptly named the "Brilliant Girls" by Zimbabwean columnists. They were welcomed by immense groups on their arrival to Zimbabwe and quickly wound up national big names. Leader Robert Mugabe invited them home at an official capacity. Every individual from the group was guaranteed a bull by the Prime Minister's better half Sally, in any case got a polystyrene bundle of meat rather at a function facilitated by Mrs Mugabe. A large number of the players emigrated over the next years, for the most part to South Africa. Their triumph keeps on being praised in Zimbabwe today. The nation did not win another Olympic award until Kirsty Coventry won three swimming decorations in Athens in 2004. Robert Mugabe speedily connected the "brilliant young lady" epithet to her on her arrival home. 

The Zimbabwean hockey group's triumph at the 1980 Olympics was generally viewed as an extraordinary miracle. Sports students of history have considered it a "fantasy" and an "overwhelming pixie story". While the Zimbabweans were excited by their improbable status as the main ever Olympic gold medallists in ladies' hockey, a few, including Robert Sullivan of "Sports Illustrated", felt that the Zimbabwean triumph exemplified how the Western blacklist had settled for the status quo and, as they would like to think, "demolished" the 1980 Olympics. While recognizing this to a degree, Cathy Harris stated in her 2008 review in the group, distributed in "The Sunday Times", that the triumph still had the right to be perceived as an incredible accomplishment. "They uninhibitedly recognize that they won the gold decoration without going up against the best on the planet", she finishes up, "yet, in the same way as other competitors in Moscow in 1980, they caught their opportunity."