Joehana 

Akhmad Bassah (likewise Bassakh; ; fl. 1923– 30), best known by the nom de plume Joehana (; Perfected Spelling: Yuhana), was a creator from the Dutch East Indies who wrote in Sundanese. He worked for a period on the railroad before turning into a creator by 1923, and had a solid enthusiasm for social welfare; this intrigue impacted his books. He was likewise a profitable interpreter, screenwriter, and journalist, and worked an organization which offered composing administrations. Sources differ when Joehana passed on; some offer 1930, while others give 1942– 45. 

Amid the seven years in which he was dynamic, Joehana composed various stories and articles, just as a few books. The long stretches of production are commonly hazy, as reprints included neither the time of first distribution nor the printing number. Elaborately, Joehana has been named a pragmatist attributable to his utilization of the names of real areas and items in his works, just as the prevalently vernacular Sundanese in his books. Be that as it may, impacts from customary showy structures, for example, and writing, for example, are apparent. Joehana's works spread a wide scope of topics, in spite of the fact that by and large they are arranged towards social analysis and advance modernization. 

Despite the fact that Joehana's works were distributed autonomously, they were well known in the Bandung territory where they were sold. Nearby organizations may have offered assets for item arrangement, and Joehana's works were adjusted to the stage and film. Nonetheless, they got minimal scholarly consideration until the 1960s, and basic accord from that point forward has been negative. Two of his works have been republished since the 1960s, and stage preparations of his novel "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut" proceeded into the 1980s. 

It is unsure when Akhmad Bassah was conceived, however he is thought to have been brought up in Bandung, western Java, where he moved on from a Meer Uitgebreid Lager Onderwijs. Bassah invested energy taking a shot at the state-worked railroad, clearly ascending to a genuinely high position, however was discharged for arranging a strike of the Union of Train and Tramway Personnel. Despite the fact that he left the organization, Bassah stayed dynamic in social developments. He was a functioning individual from the Sarekat Rakyat (People's Union), an association with socialist leanings, and helped that amass in its central goal of social administration. 

Through contemporary reports obviously by 1923 Bassah had started to make a name as an author, and that he had additionally turned out to be dynamic in the theater and as a columnist. Bassah marked his works "Joehana", taken from the name of his supportive girl; he is best recollected by that nom de plume. In spite of the fact that he was hitched to a teacher named Atikah, they had no natural youngsters. 

All through his composition vocation, Joehana composed autonomously, unattached to any distributing house. At the time, Balai Pustaka, a distributer worked by the Dutch provincial government, was pulling in various Sundanese-language journalists. His biographers Tini Kartini et al. propose that Joehana rejected his counterparts' methodology, working autonomously as opposed to again work for the administration which had terminated him and would surely edit his works. This, they compose, is appeared through the subjects normal in the narratives: where his peers concentrated on idealist writing and excitement, Joehana concentrated on social analysis. Nonetheless, Ajip Rosidi, a researcher of Sundanese writing, recommends that Joehana's refusal to utilize formal Sundanese implied that Balai Pustaka would not acknowledge his works. 

In 1928, Joehana opened the Romans Bureau, which was publicized as offering an assortment of administrations, including the composition and printing of ads, interpretations (from or into English, Dutch, Malay, and Sundanese), and the readiness of story ideas for different authors. Joehana may have likewise opened a composition course, albeit evidently the vast majority of his pay was gotten from the sovereignties of his productions. These productions, especially his books, were commonly roused by the kinds of works that were prominent at the season of composing. One of his understudies, Abdullah Syafi'i Sukandi, reviewed that "Nangis Wibisana" ("The Tears of Wibisana") had been composed when the "dangding" (a conventional melodious structure) "Tjeurik Oma" ("Oma's Cry") was prevalent, though "Goenoeng Gelenjoe" ("The Smiling Mountain") had been composed amid a time of expanded enthusiasm for entertaining accounts. 

Joehana kicked the bucket in the wake of helping set up together a phase exhibition dependent on his novel "Kalepatan Poetra Dosana Iboe Ramaa" ("The Sins of the Son are the Sins of the Mother and Father") in Tasikmalaya. His body is covered in Bandung. Sources differ with respect to the time of his demise. Atikah dates it to 1930, a year which Rosidi underpins. In the interim, the distributer Kiwari, which reissued "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut" in 1963, refers to the creator as having passed on amid the Japanese control of the Dutch East Indies (1942– 45); this gauge has likewise been accounted for by scholarly faultfinder Jakob Soemardjo, who gives Joehana's assessed age at time of his demise as 35. 

Joehana's œuvre comprises of fourteen books, just as various publications and articles in the paper "Soerapati". In their 1979 audit of the creator, Kartini et al. had the capacity to discover just six surviving titles. It is hard to decide the first year of distribution for these works, for despite the fact that Joehana's books commonly incorporated a time of production, the printing number was not recorded. In that capacity, sources list fills in as having been distributed in various years; for example, "Tjarios Agan Permas" is differently dated 1923, 1926, and 1928. 

The accompanying rundown depends on the one incorporated by Kartini et al. in their 1979 examination. It does exclude any of Joehana's work as a writer, nor does it incorporate works he distributed through his Romans Bureau. 

Joehana seems to have been acquainted with the customary literary works of Maritime Southeast Asia, drawing on the "Ramayana" for "Nangis Wibisana". "Wayang" characters, for example, the jokester Cepot are alluded to in his compositions, and he draws on conventional Sundanese narrating procedures, for example, the "pantun" type of verse basic in "wayang golek" exhibitions. Nonetheless, there are noteworthy movements. His works leave from the customary types of writing, for example, "wawacan", rather grasping the novel, an European abstract structure. Not at all like the formal language utilized in customary writing, Joehana wrote in regular Sundanese. The syntax and structure indicates proof of impact from different dialects, and the vocabulary is similarly not simply Sundanese; some Dutch (the language of the frontier government) is blended in. 

The Sundanese creator M. A. Salmoen orders Joehana as a pragmatist. Rosidi composes that a feeling of authenticity was advanced in Joehana's compositions using references to existing (and regularly mainstream) brands of items, including stogies, salted fish, and rolls (however, as Joehana composed for people in contemporary Bandung who were relied upon to know these items, they are not given any in-content clarification). Joehana utilized genuine Bandung areas in his books, and nearby figures conspicuous in the news, (for example, the pickpocket Salim) are referenced in passing. There is likewise the likelihood that the utilization of such names are a type of item position, in which Joehana was paid to incorporate the names of the items in his books; this installment might not have been immediate, yet as products or administrations, or a gift to Sarekat Rakyat. 

Joehana showed a comical inclination that was generally welcomed by his counterparts: for example, the frog chaser Karnadi of "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut" depicts his outings to the rice fields to get frogs as "heading off to the workplace" and the stay with which he murders the frogs as his "pencil", though the Dutchman Van der Zwak of "Tjarios Agan Permas" utilizes the most well mannered register of Sundanese while addressing his puppy. A portion of these jokes have stayed prominent; Rosidi records one, about how to communicate in Dutch, as having made due into the 1980s. 

The prevailing subject in Joehana's work is social analysis, especially with respect to financial conditions. In "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut", he censured the individuals who looked for material riches over every single other thing through the Eulis Awang and her family, who are so delighted by their voracity that they don't understand that the man requesting Eulis Awang's turn in marriage isn't who he professes to be. In "Tjarios Eulis Atjih", the primary characters Arsad and Eulis Atjih, while both representing voracity and its inescapable repercussions, further demonstrate that riches isn't everlasting: both lose their riches and societal positions, at that point must win a living. In the novel, Johanna approaches the rich to help and shield poor people, not loathe them. That both rich and poor ought to get equivalent treatment is underscored in "Tjarios Agan Permas": 

Another generally regarded gathering which Joehana reprimands is the hajjis, those Muslims who have been on the Hajj journey to Mecca. The hajjis in Joehana's accounts are commonly covetous and lascivious, with no enthusiasm for the benefit of humankind. In "Tjarios Agan Permas", for example, Hajji Serbanna shows his false reverence by cursing usury as "haraam" (corrupt) while charging high financing costs for a credit, and will not finish the required supplications since he is looking out for a visitor bearing vast endowments. The hajji is depicted as wearing such a great amount of make-up that, in the conclusion of Kartini et al., maybe he is purposely dressing as a jokester. 

Despite the fact that Joehana rejects constrained marriage—a typical practice among the Sundanese in the mid twentieth century—and advances the possibility of marriage for affection, he likewise cautions against the threats of excessively free communications among people. Through "Kalepatan Poetra Dosana Iboe Rama" he censures constrained marriage by delineating the marriage of a young lady to a well off man who is mature enough to be her dad; this eventually leaves the lady an untouchable, procuring the "wrongdoings" of her folks. Both "Moegiri" and "Neng Jaja", then, managed young ladies who were excessively free in their collaborations with men, and in this way confronted a pitiful destiny: separation, misuse, and unfaithfulness. 

Joehana's works were financially fruitful, and frequently adjusted to the stage. His "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut", for example, was adjusted into an assortment of structures, including as a Malay-language "lenong", and a phase exhibition of "Tjarios Eulis Atjih" is recorded in Ciamis. Three movies have been adjusted from books by Joehana, two from "Tjarios Eulis Atjih" and one from "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut". The first, "Eulis Atjih", was coordinated and created by G. Krugers and discharged in 1927 to famous achievement. The second, by and large alluded to as "Karnadi Anemer Bangkong", was adjusted from "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut" by Krugers and discharged in the mid 1930s; it is known to have been a business disappointment, supposedly raising discussion for portraying a Muslim man eating frog meat. The third adjustment of a Joehana tale, likewise titled "Eulis Atjih", was finished by Rd Ariffien in 1954. Stage exhibitions of "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut" proceeded as late as 1980, however at that point the work was considered by the overall population as a feature of old stories. 

Minimal scholastic talk on Joehana was distributed until the 1960s; as per Kartini et al., this is owing to Joehana's utilization of non-formal Sundanese. This recharging started with the republication of two of his works: "Rasiah nu Goreng Patut" in 1963 as an independent book by Kiwari, and "Moegiri" as a sequential start with the 15 October 1965 release of "Sunda" magazine. Rosidi, that magazine's editorial manager, included discourse of Joehana in his 1966 book "Kesusastraan Sunda Dewasa Ini" ("Contemporary Sundanese Literature"). Some more talk, by creators, for example, Yus Rusyana and Rusman Sutiamarga, was distributed in magazines, for example, "Wangsit" or incorporated into college addresses. Until 1979 Joehana's works had not been educated in Sundanese-language courses in schools. 

Current basic gathering of Joehana's yield has by and large been negative. Sumardjo composes that his most noteworthy shortcoming was an absence of top to bottom investigation of characters' minds, just as an inclination to incorporate a hazy social foundation. Kartini et al. note Joehana's efficiency, however discover an absence of characterisation in his works. They find that, now and again, his endeavor to pass on a social message is dominant to the point that the works appear to be purposeful publicity. Rosidi gives an increasingly positive perspective on Joehana's composition, taking note of that, despite the fact that the utilization of non-formal Sundanese was antagonistic during the 1920s, it in any case implied the language in Joehana's works was progressively unique and "alive" than in works distributed by Balai Pustaka.