Two-penny piece (United States) 

The two-penny piece was delivered by the Mint of the United States for dissemination from 1864 to 1872 and for authorities in 1873. Structured by James B. Longacre, there were diminishing mintages every year, as other minor coins, for example, the nickel demonstrated increasingly mainstream. It was abrogated by the Mint Act of 1873. 

The monetary strife of the American Civil War caused official coins, even the non-silver Indian Head penny, to disappear from course, stored by people in general. One methods for filling this hole was private token issues, frequently made of bronze. The penny around then was struck of a copper-nickel amalgam, a similar distance across as the later Lincoln penny, however fairly thicker. The piece was troublesome for the Philadelphia Mint to strike, and Mint authorities, just as the yearly Assay Commission, prescribed the coin's substitution. In spite of resistance from those wishing to keep the metal nickel in the coinage, driven by Pennsylvania Congressman Thaddeus Stevens, Congress passed the Coinage Act of 1864, approving bronze pennies and two-penny pieces. 

Albeit at first famous without other government coinage, the two-penny piece's place available for use was usurped by other non-valuable metal coins which Congress along these lines approved, the three-penny piece and the nickel. It was nullified in 1873; extensive amounts were reclaimed by the administration and softened. All things considered, two-penny pieces stay economical by the benchmarks of nineteenth century American coinage. 

A two-penny piece had been proposed in 1806 by Connecticut Senator Uriah Tracy, alongside a twenty-penny piece or "twofold dime". Mirroring the then-pervasive view that coins ought to contain their incentive in metal, Tracy's bill gave that the two-penny piece be made of billon, or corrupted silver. The bill was contradicted by Mint Director Robert Patterson, as it is hard to refine the silver from dissolved down pieces. Despite the fact that Tracy's enactment passed the Senate twice, in 1806 and 1807, it bombed in the House of Representatives. Patterson sent a metal catch with two of the billon planchets that would have been utilized for the coin to Tracy, appearing hard it is counteract forging. The Mint considered a two-penny piece in 1836, and tests were led by Second Engraver Christian Gobrecht and Melter and Refiner Franklin Peale. The piece was to be again of billon, and arrangement for the coin was incorporated into early drafts of the Mint Act of 1837, however the proposition was dropped when Peale had the capacity to demonstrate that the coin could be effectively duplicated. 

Until 1857, the penny coin was a substantial copper piece, containing about its presumptive worth in metal. These coins were disliked, and in 1857, in the wake of accepting congressional endorsement, the Mint started issuing the Flying Eagle penny, of the breadth of the later Lincoln penny, yet to some degree thicker and made of copper-nickel compound. These pieces promptly flowed, and despite the fact that the structure did not strike well and was supplanted by the Indian Head penny in 1859, the coins were generally utilized until all government coinage disappeared from course in a significant part of the United States in 1861 and 1862, amid the financial unrest of the American Civil War. This happened on the grounds that numerous Northerners expected that if the war went ineffectively, paper cash and government bonds may wind up useless. The hole was filled by, in addition to other things, private token issues, some of the time in copper-nickel approximating the span of the penny, however frequently more slender pieces dressed in bronze. 

This reality did not escape government authorities, and when, in 1863, they endeavored to reestablish coins to dissemination, the utilization of bronze coins, which would not contain their presumptive estimations in metal, was considered. In his yearly report submitted October 1, 1863, Mint Director James Pollock noticed that "while individuals anticipate a full an incentive in their gold and silver coins, they simply need the mediocre [base metal] cash for comfort in making accurate installments". He saw that the private penny tokens had here and there contained as meager as a fifth of a penny in metal, yet had still flowed. He recommended that the copper-nickel penny be supplanted with a bronze bit of a similar size. Pollock additionally needed to kill nickel as a coinage metal; its hard combinations obliterated passes on and hardware. On December 8, Pollock kept in touch with Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Pursue, proposing a bronze penny and two-penny piece, and encasing design coins of the two-penny piece that he had arranged. As per numismatist Neil Carothers, a two-penny piece was in all likelihood proposed so as to get however much dollar esteem in little change into course in as short a period as could be expected, as the Mint could strike a two-penny piece as effectively as a penny. 

On March 2, 1864, Pollock composed earnestly to Chase, cautioning him that the Mint was coming up short on nickel and that interest for pennies was at a record-breaking high. He likewise educated the Secretary that the United States Assay Commission, made out of residents and authorities who had met the earlier month to test the country's silver and gold coinage, had suggested the utilization of French bronze (95% copper with the rest of and zinc) as a coinage metal for the penny and another two-penny piece. After three days, Chase sent Pollock's December letter and draft enactment for bronze one-and two-penny pieces to Maine Senator William P. Fessenden, executive of the Senate Finance Committee. Fessenden made no quick move, and on March 16, Pollock composed again to Chase, cautioning that the Mint was going to come up short on nickel, quite a bit of which was imported. Pursue sent his letter to Fessenden. Enactment was at last presented by New Hampshire Senator Daniel Clark on March 22; Pollock's letters were perused and obviously impacted procedures as the Senate passed the bill without discussion. 

The household supply of nickel was around then created by a mine at Gap, Pennsylvania, possessed by industrialist Joseph Wharton. On March 19, Pollock wrote to Chase that they had no more nickel, nor was any accessible from abroad; "we are hence quiet down to the home supply; from crafted by Mr. Wharton". Contradicted to the expulsion of nickel from the penny, Wharton distributed a flyer in April 1864 proposing coinage of one-, two-, three-, five-, and ten-penny bits of an amalgam of one section nickel to three of copper, multiplying the level of nickel utilized in the penny. In spite of Wharton's endeavors, on April 20, a select board of trustees of the House of Representatives supported the bill. It was restricted by Pennsylvania's Thaddeus Stevens, who spoke to the mining zone from which Wharton extricated his nickel. Wharton had burned through $200,000 to build up his mine and mineral refinement hardware, Stevens related, and it was out of line to deny him of the real utilization of his metal. "Will we pulverize this property in light of the fact that by begetting with another metal more cash might be spared to the legislature?" Besides, he contended, the copper-nickel compound for the penny had been endorsed by Congress, and the new metal, which he named "metal", would indicate rust. He was disproved by Iowa Congressman John A. Kasson, executive of the House Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures, who expressed that the bronze amalgam did not take after metal, and he couldn't bolster the suggestion that the administration will undoubtedly buy from a provider since he has burned through cash fully expecting deals. 

The enactment passed the House, and the Coinage Act of 1864 was marked by President Abraham Lincoln on April 22, 1864. The enactment made base metal coins legitimate delicate out of the blue: the two pennies and two-penny pieces were satisfactory in amounts of up to ten. The legislature would not, be that as it may, recover them in mass. The demonstration likewise prohibited the private one-and two-penny tokens, and soon thereafter Congress annulled every single such issue. The enactment did not consider the recovery of the old copper-nickel pennies; it had been drafted by Pollock, who was trusting that the seignorage salary from issuing the new coins would help fund Mint tasks, and he didn't need it decreased by the review of the old pieces. Wharton and his interests were assuaged by the section of a bill for a three-penny piece in 1865 and a five-penny piece in 1866, both of his proposed amalgam, out of which the "nickel", as the last coin has come to be known, is as yet struck. 

In late 1861, the Reverend Mark R. Watkinson of Ridleyville, Pennsylvania, had written to Chase, suggesting that some reference to God be set on the coinage in that season of war, and on November 20 of that year, Chase wrote to Mint Director Pollock, "You will make a gadget be set up immediately with a saying communicating in the least tersest terms conceivable this national acknowledgment." Several mottoes were considered by Pollock, including "God Our Trust" and "God and Our Country". A portion of the examples he sent Chase in December 1863 utilized "God Our Trust", and he composed of the structure, "the gadgets are delightful and proper, and the saying on each such, as all who dread God and love their nation, will endorse." He likewise sent example coins portraying George Washington; Chase reacted to the letter, "I support your mottoes, just recommending that on that with the Washington front the maxim should start with the word OUR, in order to peruse OUR GOD AND OUR COUNTRY. Also, on that with the shield, it ought to be changed in order to peruse: IN GOD WE TRUST." Pollock had been propelled by "The Star Spangled Banner", a later stanza of which incorporates the line, "And this be our maxim, 'In God Is Our Trust' ". Pursue may have been affected in his choice by the adage of his place of graduation, Brown University, "In Deo Speramus" (In God We Hope). 

As the mottoes to be set on coinage were endorsed by the 1837 demonstration, an authoritative change was required. The demonstration which made the two-penny piece approved the Mint Director, with the Secretary of the Treasury's endorsement, to recommend the plans and mottoes to be utilized. Longacre's two-penny piece was the primary coin recorded with "In God We Trust". The saying was promoted by the new coin; on March 3, 1865 Congress passed enactment requesting its utilization on all coins sufficiently extensive to allow it. Since 1938, "In God We Trust" has been utilized on every American coin. 

The front-side structure is a Longacre rendition of the Great Seal of the United States. His structure centers around the shield, or crest, as a guarded weapon, implying quality and self-assurance through solidarity. The upper piece of the shield, or "boss", symbolizes Congress, while the 13 vertical stripes, or "paleways", speak to the states; thus the whole crest symbolizes the quality of the government through the solidarity of the states. The crossed bolts speak to nonaggression, however infer status against assault. The shrub branches, taken from Greek custom, symbolize triumph. In heraldic etching, vertical lines speak to red, clear zones white and level lines blue, along these lines the shield is hued red, white and blue and is intended to inspire the American banner. The switch contains the division "2 CENTS" inside a to some degree lavish wheat wreath. The remainder of the coin is loaded up with the name of the nation. 

Craftsmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule esteemed the two-penny piece "the most Gothic and the most expressive of the Civil War" of every single American coin. "The shield, bolts, and wreath of the front need just flanking gun to be the quintessential articulation of Civil War heraldry." Vermeule proposed that the coin seems calligraphic, instead of sculptural, and credited this to Longacre's initial vocation as a plate etcher. 

A couple of thousand of the principal flow strikes, just as a bunch of evidence coins, originated from a model bite the dust with littler letters in the witticism than all other 1864 pieces. Despite the fact that examples of the two-penny piece, being of base metal, were not put aside to test by the yearly Assay Commission, Congress ordered that interior checks be done at the Mint as to their arrangement and weight. 

The two-penny piece was at initial a triumph, circling unreservedly once enough of them were issued to be perceived by people in general. It at first coursed due to the wartime coin lack, which was mitigated by the new penny and two-penny piece. In spite of the fact that Pollock detailed accumulating of pennies in his June 1864 report, he didn't from that point notice such exercises. Silver coins still did not flow in a significant part of the country, and the new coins (joined by the three-and five-penny bits of copper-nickel, first struck in 1865 and 1866 individually) addressed the requirement for little change. In October 1864, he detailed that the interest for the two coins had been exceptional and that each exertion was being made to build creation; in his report the following June, he called the two-penny piece "a most helpful and prominent coin". The Act of March 3, 1865, that accommodated the three-penny nickel piece, diminished the legitimate delicate point of confinement of the bronze coins to four pennies, while making the recently approved coin worthy up to sixty pennies. 

After the substantial mintage of just shy of twenty million in the primary year, as indicated by numismatist Q. David Bowers, "eagerness and open acknowledgment wound down". After the war, bank interest for the section dropped, while interest for the new five-penny nickel expanded; mintages of the two-penny piece were littler consistently. Lange notes, "it was apparent before the finish of the 1860s that its coinage was never again essential". As indicated by Carothers, "the coinage of a 2 cent piece was superfluous. While it was prominent at first as a result of the incredible open interest for metallic little change, it was an unnecessary section, and its dissemination disappeared quickly after the 5 cent nickel coin was presented." 

Starting in 1867, the new Mint Director, Henry Linderman, (Pollock had surrendered) started to advocate for Congress to approve reclamation of surplus copper and bronze coinage. Despite the fact that the nickel could be reclaimed in parcels (consent conceded in its approving demonstration), there was no arrangement for the administration to repurchase the littler coins, and with all the more being issued consistently, there were such a large number of little esteem coins. Treasury authorities demanded the legislature couldn't acknowledge the pieces past their lawful delicate points of confinement, regardless of whether what was being done was trading them for other cash. Under Linderman, the Mint, with no lawful specialist, acquired $360,000 in bronze coins utilizing three-penny pieces and nickels. All things considered, a large number of two-penny pieces collected in the hands of paper and travel organizations, postmasters, and other people who took little installments from the general population, and there were protests to Congress. With the approach of the Grant organization, Pollock came back to office and restricted the recovery recommendations. In spite of the fact that he incorporated Pollock's suppositions as a component of his yearly report, Treasury Secretary George S. Boutwell requested that Congress pass a reclamation demonstration, and it did as such on March 3, 1871, taking into consideration the recovery of minor coinage in bunches of at the very least $20. It likewise enabled the Treasury Secretary to stop the coinage of any piece recovered in expansive numbers. Compliant with the new law, the Mint in 1871 and 1872 recovered more than 37,000,000 little coins, including two-penny pieces. 

In the after war years, Congress and the Treasury thought about a correction of the coinage laws, as the demonstration of 1837 was regarded obsolete. Maintenance of the two-penny piece was never genuinely considered in the discussions over what turned into the Mint Act of 1873; the main inquiry concerning the minor coinage was whether to make the penny from bronze or copper-nickel, and how vast to make the three-penny nickel. With those pieces staying unaltered, the bill passed on February 12, 1873, putting a conclusion to the two-penny piece arrangement. 

With the two-penny piece liable to be canceled, just 65,000 were struck for dissemination in 1872; it is hazy why they were struck by any means. On January 18, 1873, Philadelphia Mint Chief Coiner Archibald Loudon Snowden griped that the "3" in the date, as struck by the Mint, too intently looked like a "8", particularly on the littler estimated sections. Accordingly, Pollock requested the new boss etcher, William Barber (Longacre had kicked the bucket in 1869), to re-imprint the date, opening the arms of the "3" more extensive on generally divisions. The two-penny piece was struck just in evidence condition in 1873, and because of its February cancelation, there ought not have been time or purpose behind Barber to re-etch the coin. By and by, it exists in "Shut 3" and "Open 3" assortments. Breen proposed that the "Open 3" assortment was really struck sometime in the not too distant future, most likely surreptitiously; it was not known to exist until found by a numismatist during the 1950s. Numismatist Paul Green credited the two assortments to the two sorts of confirmation sets that the Mint sold at the time that would have contained the two-penny piece. The "nickel set" contained just the low-esteem coins without valuable metal, while another contained likewise the silver coins; he recommended that one assortment was struck for each. 

Vast amounts of two-penny pieces were pulled back during the 1870s and after. Roughly 17,000,000 of the approximately 45,600,000 two-penny pieces issued had been repurchased by the Treasury starting at 1909. Pulled back pieces were dissolved and recoined into one-penny pieces. A bill for a two-penny piece bearing the picture of as of late expired previous president Theodore Roosevelt passed the Senate in 1920 and was emphatically prescribed by a House advisory group yet never instituted. Numismatist S. W. Freeman noted in 1954 that couple of alive could recollect utilizing a two-penny piece, yet for the individuals who did, it was regularly connected with spending it at a sweet store. He reviewed that two pennies would purchase an amount of desserts, as a dime did in Freeman's day, and, he dreaded, it would take a quarter to do later on. Full lawful delicate status was conceded the two-penny piece by the Coinage Act of 1965, long after the coin had gone from dissemination, as it made all coins and money of the United States useful for all open and private obligations unbounded. By the by, numismatist Jack White called attention to in a 1971 segment that because of its short life expectancy, the piece "scarcely got its two pennies in". 

R.S. Yeoman's 2018 release of "A Guide Book of United States Coins" records the 1864 extensive adage and the 1865 as the most affordable two-penny pieces, in great (G-4) condition at $15, however every issue by year through 1871 records for $40 or less in that condition. The explanation behind the generally level costs, even in top evaluations, is an absence of authorities who look for the whole arrangement (it is most prevalently gathered with a solitary example as a feature of a "type set" of the different issues of American coins). In spite of the high mintage, it is the 1864 date that has one of the more exceedingly esteemed assortments, the "little proverb". Yeoman records the 1864 little proverb in Proof condition, at $20,000 and in Very Fine (VF-20) it is $600. 

Each of the two-penny pieces were stamped at the Philadelphia Mint, and bore no mint imprint. Verification mintages are evaluated. 

Notes 

References 

List of sources 

Different sources