Propensities (Stay High) 

"Propensities (Stay High)" is a tune recorded by Swedish artist Tove Lo from her presentation expanded play (EP), "Truth Serum", and her introduction studio collection, "Ruler of the Clouds" (2014). It was composed by Lo with Ludvig Söderberg and Jakob Jerlström, while it was delivered by the last two under the generation name The Struts. At first, the vocalist self-discharged the melody under the title "Propensities" on 15 March 2013 as her second autonomously discharged single. After Lo was marked to Universal Music, the track was re-discharged on 6 December 2013 under the title of "Propensities (Stay High)" as both the second single from "Truth Serum" and the lead single from "Ruler of the Clouds". Musically, it is a pop and electropop melody which includes an insignificant and perky electronic instrumentation. Its verses dig into the vocalist's endeavors to overlook her past sweetheart through substance misuse, drinking and other decadent practices. Subsequently, a few faultfinders and Lo herself noticed a differentiation between the tune's generation and its melodious substance. 

"Propensities (Stay High)" was generally welcomed by most pundits, who complimented its verses and creation. The track turned into a sleeper hit; it entered the music graphs in 2014, one year after its unique discharge. The chronicle topped at number three on the "Bulletin" Hot 100 in the United States and turned into the most astounding outlining tune by a Swedish craftsman on that graph since "The Sign" by Ace of Base crested at number one out of 1994. It was ensured five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and sold over 2.6 million duplicates in the nation. Also, the track beat the diagrams in Poland and Romania, and topped inside the best ten in Austria, Canada, France and Switzerland, among others. 

Two music recordings were shot for the tune, both coordinated by Motellet Film. The primary adaptation, discharged on 15 March 2013, highlighted the vocalist at a casual get-together while getting alcoholic with her visitors. It achieved a large portion of a-million perspectives on YouTube before it was made private one year after its discharge. The second form was shot at a Swedish club more than three days and delineates Lo in a night of celebrating with her companions. The artist played out the single at celebrations, for example, South by Southwest and the Hangout Music Festival, and included it on the set rundown of her visits, the Queen of the Clouds Tour (2015) and the Lady Wood Tour (2017). The single was granted the Song of the Year grant at the Grammis of 2015 in Sweden. A remix by record generation couple Hippie Sabotage, titled "Remain High", was discharged as the third single from "Truth Serum" and achieved the main ten in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and different nations in Europe. The tune has been secured by craftsmen, for example, Vin Diesel, whose execution was a tribute to his late companion Paul Walker, and Kelly Clarkson, who played out the track on her Piece by Piece Tour (2015). 

"Propensities (Stay High)" was composed by Tove Lo close by Ludvig Söderberg and Jakob Jerlström, while delivered by Söderberg and Jerlström under the creation name The Struts. At first, Lo marked a distributing manage Warner/Chappell Music in 2011, and co-composed melodies for Icona Pop and Girls Aloud. She later discharged her introduction single, "Love Ballad", in October 2012, which drew the consideration from some music online journals. This urged her to begin a vocation as a free artist so she could record her most close to home tunes. 

As indicated by Lo, "Propensities (Stay High)" is the tune from "Truth Serum" (2014) that implies the most to her due to its legitimate verses and broadened composing process. At first, the stanzas of the tune were a piece of a lyric composed by Lo when she was experiencing a troublesome time in a relationship. Afterward, Lo's sweetheart turned out to be a piece of a Buddhist development yet she would not join, which drove the relationship to an end. From that point forward, she began utilizing medications and drinking so as to overlook him. Months after the relationship finished, she was remaining at a companion's loft in New York City, amid 2012's Hurricane Sandy. At the point when the condo lost power and warmth, Lo proceeded to remain at her companion's studio in Midtown, New York City, where she composed the tune. 

On 11 December 2012, she reported through her Facebook account that she didn't get the chance to complete a portion of the ventures she was taking a shot at in New York and that she was working together in the studio with The Struts in Sweden. The artist chose to utilize the vocals she recorded for the demo on the tune since her vocal execution "was truly originating from the heart". The Struts co-composed, created and customized the track, and moreover played the keys. Filip Runesson played the strings, with Lars Norgren blending the melody and Björn Engelmann acing it. In a meeting with "Upset de Main" magazine, Lo said that: "[While composing the melody, I was thinking about] my method for overcoming a hard time in 'the best' conceivable way. It's a major help to simply think 'screw everything' for some time. We as a whole must be so immaculate, and positively nobody can satisfy it." She later admitted to "The Huffington Post" that she recouped from the separation subsequent to composing the tune. 

On 15 March 2013, the artist discharged the track, under the title "Propensities". It was her second autonomously discharged single, after "Adoration Ballad" (2012). The tune drew the consideration of music web journals, which picked up Lo a web based after. Welsh vocalist Marina and the Diamonds and New Zealand craftsman Lorde applauded the tune through their Twitter accounts. Hence, the chronicle was re-discharged under the title "Propensities (Stay High)" on 6 December 2013 through Universal Music as the second single from Lo's presentation EP "Truth Serum", just as the lead single from her introduction studio collection "Ruler of the Clouds" (2014). It was made accessible for advanced utilization in the United States on 14 January 2014. On 17 June 2014, it was sent to US contemporary hit radio. About the tune's re-discharge, the vocalist clarified in a meeting with "The Untitled Magazine" that, after the consideration the track picked up from music websites, she marked a record manage Universal Music. At that point, the mark agents chose to re-discharge it with legitimate advancement as they trust despite everything it had business potential. 

"Propensities (Stay High)" is a pop and electropop melody. In a meeting with AP Entertainment, the artist expressed that the tune's verses depict her conduct amid the time she composed it, when she was crushed and endeavoring to defeat a previous relationship. She additionally commented that the primary subject of "Propensities (Stay High)" is the enduring she encountered in spite of her endeavors to numb the agony. Resounding this idea, Lo further admitted that: "I can't lie. What I'm singing about is my life. It's reality. I've had minutes where [drug-taking] has been a greater part than it ought to be. It's difficult to admit to, and I could channel it or discover another allegory for it – yet it doesn't feel ideal to me." 

As indicated by the craftsman, the melodies on "Reality Serum" EP talk about her most serious fizzled relationship. Following the account of the EP, Lo showed that the track discusses the part when the relationship is finished and she is endeavoring to move on in "not the most beneficial way". The chronicle was likewise incorporated into "The Pain" segment of Lo's introduction studio collection, "Ruler of the Clouds", an idea collection that portrays the example of the artist's connections. 

As indicated by the advanced sheet music distributed at Musicnotes.com by Alfred Publishing, the melody is made in the key out of B major and set in like manner time signature, with it having a move pop rhythm of 110 beats for each moment. Lo's vocals range from the low note of B to the high note of C. The melody has an insignificant and perky electronic instrumentation which comprises of drums, bass, reinforcement vocals and Lo's voice. The tune begins with the words "gracious goodness", which rehash after each sentence of the refrains. The tune contains a sum of 18 4-note millennial challenges, a vocal tune rehashing on the fifth and third notes in a noteworthy scale. A few commentators noticed a complexity between the track's verses and generation. Carrie Battan of Pitchfork expressed that the melody "differentiates a monster snare and ensemble with smart sections loaded up with unobtrusively particular, regularly unusual symbolism: of [Lo] having her supper in the bath, getting plastered munchies, tempting fathers on play areas". Chris Jordan of "Asbury Park Press" portrayed "Propensities (Stay High)" as a "synth-based pop melody with a broad tune", however noticed that the expressive substance of the track was like that of Rock 'n' Roll music. The vocalist herself expressed that: "You can feel the verses and the dull and pitiful yet on the off chance that you consolidate it with, conveys a little to the dim cleverness too. I like the thing of moving along and after that tuning in to what I'm really saying." 

The tune's verses dig into Lo's libertine endeavors to overlook her previous sweetheart. As per Markos Papadatos of Digital Journal, the storyteller portrays her endeavors to defeat a fizzled relationship through voraciously consuming food and liquor, as showed in the verses about having the munchies, eating Twinkies, and hurling amid the primary stanza. In the melody, she sings about medication misuse: "You're gone and I gotta remain high/All the time, to keep you off my psyche". As per Adam R. Holz of "Connected", in the extension, Lo approaches the topic of "knowing—at some dimension—exactly how vacant and self-destroying her decisions truly are", as she discusses expecting to take somebody home so as to mitigate her misery. The vocalist admitted to iHeart Radio that the melody's extension is her most loved piece of the track since "that just says everything [that the] tune is about for me". Be that as it may, "Announcement" Jeremy D. Larson considered the melody's message false on the grounds that "remaining high does not keep anybody off your psyche". 

"Propensities (Stay High)" was generally welcomed by generally faultfinders. Harley Brown of "Announcement" composed that the track is "a standout amongst the most effectively recognizable pop melodies [she has] heard in ongoing memory: everybody's gotten high, perhaps eaten an excessive number of Twinkies, and lamented life choices, however not every person makes an extremely eminent tune about it". Pitchfork's Carrie Battam expressed that the track's snare and generation make the verses "sound smoothly dismal rather than unfortunate". In her audit of "Ruler of the Clouds", Battam called it "a major, sticky melody, however not all that enormous that it shocks your faculties or numbs you into happiness". Ewald Arndt of FDRMX said that "Propensities (Stay High)" is "so amusing to tune in to" in spite of its pitiful subjects. AllMusic's Heather Phares called it "the "Ruler of the Clouds'" champion track, while Sam Lansky of Idolator expressed that it "has a tad bit of the surface of Kesha's no-screws given gathering young lady pop however with the languorous misery of Robyn" and that "It'll stall out in your mind, which is correct where it has the right to be." Nick Murray named it as "Truth Serum"s best track, and contrasted it and the music of American rapper Kendrick Lamar. 

Bradley Stern of MuuMuse called it "the more youthful, progressively Swedish-sounding sister" to Sia's "Light fixture" (2014), while Markos Papadatos of Digital Journal thought of it as a "song of devotion of female strengthening". Alex Kritselis of "Clamor" opined that "Propensities (Stay High)" was a sensational tune, however further expressed that the "pity, uneasiness and fear" in the vocalist's voice were true. Michael Cragg of "The Guardian" considered it the emerge track from "Truth Serum" and regarded it as "splendidly straight to the point". Neil McCormick of "The Daily Telegraph" thought of it as a clear tune about debauchery with a "phenomenal" chorale. Be that as it may, a few faultfinders gave the tune blended surveys. Jason Lipshutz of "Board" said that "Propensities (Stay High)" was one of the more fragile tracks of "Ruler of the Clouds", while Jillian Mapes of a similar magazine expressed that it was "excessively same-y in the midst of craftsmen like Lorde and Banks". 

The staff of "The Line of Best Fit" positioned "Propensities (Stay High)" at number 6 on their rundown of the 50 Best Tracks of 2013 and composed that it was "effectively a standout amongst the most imperative pop tunes of the year". "Moving Stone" positioned the chronicle at number 23 on their rundown of the 50 Best tunes of 2014 and contrasted the melody's creation with that of Lorde's music and the verses to those of Kesha's tunes. Chris Jordan of "Asbury Park Press" considered it as a standout amongst the best singles of that year and expressed that "it was reviving to hear the intemperance portrayed" in the melody. Reverberating this idea, Chris DeVille of Stereogum positioned the track at number 26 on his rundown of Top 50 Pop Songs of 2014 and admitted that: "For a melody that determines quite a bit of its allure from being crazy and over-the-top, 'Propensities' is a work of outrageous balance and exactness from a pop musician with a blindingly splendid future." "Amusement Weekly" 's Miles Raymer chose the line "I have my supper in my bath/Then I go to sex clubs/Watching freaky individuals gettin' it on" on his rundown of the best verses of 2014 and composed that it was "a standout amongst the most intriguing pictures to leave a pop artist's mouth this year". 

"Propensities (Stay High)" got the honor for Song of the Year at the Swedish Grammis Awards of 2015. At the ASCAP Pop Music Awards, it was perceived by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) as a standout amongst the most performed melodies of 2014. The single was additionally granted with a Pop Award at the 2015 BMI London Awards. At the 2015 iHeartRadio Music Awards, "Propensities (Stay High)" got a designation for the Best Lyrics grant, yet lost to "Clear Space" (2014) by Taylor Swift. It was additionally selected for Top Streaming Song (Audio) at the 2015 "Announcement" Music Awards. 

In the United States, "Propensities (Stay High)" turned into a sleeper hit. It showed up on the "Board" outlines when it appeared at number 34 on the Rock Airplay and at number 36 on the Alternative Songs. It in the long run appeared at number 66 on the "Board" Hot 100 for the issue dated 14 June 2014. On 15 October 2014, the tune turned out to be a piece of an all-female top five on the Hot 100 when it climbed from number six to number four on the diagram. In its twenty-second week on the graph, the track crested at number three, and held that position the next week. In doing as such, it turned into the most elevated graphing tune by a Swedish follow up on the "Announcement" Hot 100 since "The Sign" by Ace of Base crested at number one of every 1994. "Propensities (Stay High)" bested the Radio Songs graph on the issue dated 22 November 2014, turning into the 6th tune by an introduction craftsman to achieve the highest point of the outline in 2014. On the Pop Songs outline, it appeared at number 40. "Propensities (Stay High)" beat the graph on the issue dated 15 November 2014, turning into the seventh melody by an introduction craftsman to achieve the main spot in 2014. It stayed on the highest point of it the next week. On the Rock Songs diagram, "Propensities (Stay High)" appeared at number nine on the issue dated 14 June 2014. In its twelfth week, it moved to number one, turning into the third melody by a lady or female-drove act to top the diagram, after Lorde's "Royals" (2013) and Paramore's "Ain't It Fun" (2014). The chronicle bested the outline for six back to back weeks. As of January 2016, it had sold 2.6 million duplicates in the United States and was confirmed five-times Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). In Canada, "Propensities (Stay High)" appeared at number 86 on the Canadian Hot 100 for the issue dated 5 July 2014. It in the end crested at number three, and was guaranteed twofold platinum by Music Canada, which indicates 160,000 downloads. It was the second-most-spilled melody of the second 50% of 2014 in the nation, with 1.3 million streams in that period. In Mexico, the melody crested at number ten on the Mexico Airplay graph and went through about four months on it. The single discovered more accomplishment on the Mexico Inglés Airplay diagram, where it achieved number three and went through thirty-two weeks. 

"Propensities (Stay High)" diagrammed in different European nations. It went through multi week on the Euro Digital Songs, where it topped at number 19. In Germany, the tune appeared at number 79 on the Top 100 Singles outline on 30 May 2014. It in the end crested at number 14 and went through 53 weeks on the outline. It was ensured triple-gold by the Bundesverband Musikindustrie (BVMI), meaning 450,000 deals in the nation. In France, the melody crested at number two on the Top Singles Téléchargés graph for the issue dated 6 September 2014. As per Pure Charts, the tune sold more than 88,600 duplicates amid 2014 in France, turning into the thirteenth smash hit tune of that year in that nation. It spent an aggregate of 75 non-back to back a long time on the graph somewhere in the range of 2014 and 2016. It additionally achieved number two on the airplay graph and beat the spilling diagram of the nation. In Hungary, the chronicle crested at number nine on the business diagram and at number eight on the gushing outline, both distributed by the Association of Hungarian Record Companies (MAHASZ). In Poland, the tune appeared at number 11 on the Polish Airplay Chart for the issue dated 1 November 2014. It in the end bested the graph for four successive weeks. In Denmark, the tune appeared and topped at number ten on the Track Top 40 diagram. It further achieved number six on the Airplay Top 20 graph, and got a Platinum confirmation concurred by IFPI Denmark, meaning 2,600,000 streams in the nation. "Propensities (Stay High)" crested at number three in both Austria and Switzerland, and was guaranteed Gold in the two nations by the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI). In Romania, the tune beat the International Airplay Songs Chart on the issue dated 15 December 2014. It achieved the main ten on the computerized outline of Czech Republic, Luxembourg, Portugal and Slovakia. In Spain, it crested at number 13 on both the deals and airplay singles outlines distributed by the Productores de Música de España (PROMUSICAE). 

On 1 February 2013, Motellet Film reported on their Twitter account that they were shooting a music video for Tove Lo. On 27 February, they reported that they had completed it and posted a photograph of Lo on the set. The pair coordinated the video, with the artist co-guiding it and composing its content. Swedish site PSL debuted it on 15 March 2013, while the vocalist posted it on her YouTube channel two days after the fact. 

The video starts with the vocalist reviewing recollections from a headache, including pictures of bourbon, a shoe in a crystal fixture, and her creation out with a man streak on the screen, especially getting a container of bourbon and drinking it with him. In the accompanying scene, Lo is seen at a casual get-together with four other ladies and the servers, where they drink champagne among a variety of cakes and cupcakes. As the video flashes white, it demonstrates a look at the other ladies' dreams. At that point, Lo winds up alcoholic, takes her shirt off, spreads cake all over, pours champagne on herself and begins to hit the dance floor with her visitors and the servers. In the accompanying scene, she makes out with the man she was drinking with. The visual finishes with the vocalist being at home while heaving into a sink. Scenes blended through the principle plot depict Lo in a dim room, with mascara trickling from her eyes while doing exercises, for example, blowing bubble gum, eating dissolving dessert, and smoking a cigarette. 

In spite of the video's plot, Lo needed to delineate the symbolism in an "imaginative" viewpoint, clarifying that "the dull connotation is key for the entire video". Starting at 14 March 2014, it got about 530,000 perspectives on YouTube. In any case, it was made private that equivalent month, getting to be inaccessible to see. 

The second music video for "Propensities (Stay High)" was additionally coordinated by Motellet Film. It was recorded at a Swedish club in the range of three days, where the vocalist invested energy with three companions who were approached to "have a couple of beverages and make out" with her. Therefore, the executives taped a lot of characteristic film on the grounds that there was not a particular "course". As to actuality that two of her companions were ladies, Lo communicated: "There are young ladies in there—one of them is my closest companion. That ought to be OK, that shouldn't be a thing." In the video, the artist needed to "demonstrate this sort of night where things can gain out of power" and the watchers to "go gradually into this passionate strife" spoke to in the verses of the melody. She clarified: "I need individuals to realize what I'm feeling. I need it to truly mirror the tune. So I needed to make a video that I'm not ready to watch, which is somewhat what it is." 

Lo found the shooting troublesome and debilitating in light of the fact that she needed to stroll around with a 22-pound camera lashed around her abdomen for the three days of the recording. She additionally expressed that it was "depleting" to speak to the torment she felt when she composed the track. At a certain point amid the taping, Lo was smashed and tired, so she chose to go into the restroom slow down; concerning this, the vocalist admitted that: "I was squandered and tired and it was an extreme chronicle and I actually just went into the washroom and sat there without anyone else. There weren't any individuals around at that point and I was simply actually alone in that slow down. I just sat there and thought of whatever was going on amid that time. The tears just came." She additionally admitted that she scarcely recollected half of the chronicle. On 19 February 2014, she posted a mystery of the video on her Facebook account. On 17 March 2014, the music video was discharged by means of Lo's VEVO channel on YouTube, and was made accessible for utilization on the iTunes Store the following day. 

The video starts with Lo awakening at a companion's home following a night of celebrating. At that point, she returns home, where she recuperates from her headache and plans for one more night of celebrating while at the same time attempting on various outfits. She meets with her companions and goes to a club, where she gets alcoholic and begins to make out with them. In this way, she goes to the washroom slow down alone and begins to cry. From that point onward, she returns home and crumples into her bed. Scenes blended through the principle plot of the visual presentation Lo gazing at the camera while lip matching up the verses of the tune. Miles Raymer of "Amusement Weekly" considered it a "cunning" video that "grandstands Lo's guilefully entangled gathering young lady picture as she reproduces a portion of the lewdness in her verses, just as a portion of its delayed consequences". Caitlin White of Noisey said that the "new video for 'Propensities' demonstrates the darker side of adapting to a lost love" and that it "might help you to remember Janis Joplin a bit". Sonya Mann of "Clamor" thought of it as "sort of exhausting". The clasp was the fifth most-prevalent video on VH1 amid 2014. Moreover, it won the honor for Best Alternative/Rock video at the 2014 VEVO Hot This Year Awards. 

The vocalist performed "Propensities (Stay High)" close by "Affection Ballad", "Out of Mind" and "Not Made For This World" at Swedish radio station P3 on 10 April 2013. On 7 May, Lo sang the tune in a live session for PSL in Sweden. Rich Thane of The Line of Best Fit said that, in spite of the "smoky room and poor light", the execution was "magnificently emotive". On 27 February 2014, Lo played out the track at the Norwegian celebration . The next month, she sang the tune close by "Not on Drugs" and different tunes from "Truth Serum" at the South by Southwest celebration. On 25 March, the artist held a show at the Tavastia Club in Helsinki, Finland and played out the track among other material from "Truth Serum". Lo likewise sang "Propensities (Stay High)" close by different tunes from "Truth Serum" and "Keep running On Love" for her first show in the United Kingdom at Notting Hill Arts Club on 2 April 2014. Resounding this idea, Michael Cragg of "The Guardian" evaluated the show with four stars out of five and considered it as "a punchy UK debut". Lo played out a similar set rundown at her Hoxton Square Bar and Kitchen appear on 6 May 2014. On 8 May, the artist sang the track amid The Great Escape Festival in the United Kingdom. 

On 18 June, Lo showed up on US TV when she performed "Propensities (Stay High)" on "Late Night with Seth Meyers". On 1 July, Lo sang it in a live session for The Line of Best Fit. In that equivalent month, Lo sang the melody close by "Not on Drugs" on KROQ-FM radio station. On 26 July, the vocalist played out the track on the Sommarkrysset TV program in Gröna Lund, Stockholm. The next month, Lo showed up on the "Conan" television show where she sang the tune, also. On 23 September 2014, Lo performed "Propensities (Stay High)" while shoeless on "Jimmy Kimmel Live!" to advance the arrival of "Ruler of the Clouds". On 17 May 2015, the artist played out the single at the Hangout Music Festival. The craftsman additionally sang it amid Lollapalooza Chile in April 2017, and after two months on her Glastonbury Festival set. Lo performed "Propensities (Stay High)" amid the reprise of her visits, the Queen of the Clouds Tour (2015) and the Lady Wood Tour (2017). 

! colspan="3"| Streaming 

A remix of "Propensities (Stay High)" by record generation couple Hippie Sabotage, on the other hand titled "Remain High", was discharged on 25 February 2014 as the third single from "Truth Serum". The remix crested at number 13 on the Swedish Singles Chart and achieved the main ten of the graphs in Australia, New Zealand, Norway, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. A few columnists ascribed its business accomplishment to British vocalist Ellie Goulding, who shared the track through her Instagram account. "Remain High" got a designation for Song of the Year at the P3 Guld 2015 honors in Sweden, however lost to "Knäpper Mina Fingrar (Remix)" by Linda Pira. 

At first, an abbreviated form of the remix was included on "Remain High", a two-minutes short movie coordinated by Aris Jerome and featuring model Chanelle Elise, posted on Jerome's Vimeo and YouTube accounts on 11 April 2013. On 18 September 2013, Hippie Sabotage posted the remix's legitimate form on their SoundCloud account and discharged it as a free advanced download. In any case, it was later expelled. 

The artist and the couple never met; Lo first tuned in to "Remain High" when a companion of hers demonstrated her a surf video with the remix on it. She in the end discovered Hippie Sabotage's Twitter account and requested that they send her the track by means of email. From that point onward, both the couple and the artist consented to highlight it on "Truth Serum". Lo expressed that "Remain High" wasn't wanted to be discharged as a solitary until radio software engineers in the United Kingdom began to highlight it on their playlists. It was at long last discharged on 25 February 2014 as a computerized download through Universal Music and Island. On 24 March 2014, it was sent to British BBC Radio 1. 

"Remain High" has been portrayed as an option EDM track. Its instrumentation comprises of a "delicate" bass beat, and Lo's "mutilated" vocals. Tyler Almodovar of Raver Rafting noticed that the track "is generally straightforward, with the majority of the center coordinated at the ethereal vocals" given by Lo. For the remix, Hippie Sabotage expanded the speed and the pitch of the first track, and revised Lo's vocals. Computerized Spy's Amy Davidson said that the verses talk about a "debauched commitment to a night 'where the fun ain't got no closure'". Miles Raymer of "Excitement Weekly" composed that the remix shared "a comparable topic of overcoming enthusiastic battles with abundant measures of concoction help" with the first form, in spite of the fact that believing that the last was "all the more gruffly fair". In a meeting with PopBytes, Lo told that "I simply love the wonderful way [Hippie Sabotage have] made a legitimate move remix of the melody, however regardless it has that obscurity to it. It's simply the manner in which that they utilized every one of the parts. They completed a virtuoso occupation on it." 

"Remain High" got for the most part positive audits. Anita Moran of "The New Zealand Herald" composed on her audit of "Truth Serum" that it was the EP's best track. In a positive audit, Tyler Almodovar of Raver Rafting expressed that: "'Stay High' doesn't have any quick form ups or unstable drops, and it needn't bother with them, its effective minutes are sufficiently fruitful all alone." Furthermore, Almodovar incorporated the track on his rundown of 10 Songs to Ease You Into EDM and said that the "delicate bass and excellent verses make it a suitable prologue to the class". Furthermore, Lewis Corner of Digital Spy positioned it at number 14 on his rundown of the best singles of 2014, and Reed Fischer of "Moving Stone" depicted it as a "pity versus intoxication pull of-war". Neil McCormick of "The Daily Telegraph" considered it a "radical remix" that diminished the first melody to a "druggy wisp". Be that as it may, "Remain High" likewise gotten blended surveys. Amy Davidson of Digital Spy said that the first melody was the "most fulfilling". Miles Raymer of "Amusement Weekly" composed that the first track was seemingly superior to the remix and communicated that the last "comes up short on the explicitness" of the previous. Kitty Empire of "The Guardian" censured the artist's adjusted vocals, saying that the remix "circles Lo's vocal into a chipmunky tragedy ". 

"Remain High" outlined in Australia, New Zealand and some European nations. In March 2014, British artist Ellie Goulding shared the remix through her Instagram account. From that point onward, it entered the best 100 singles outline on the iTunes Store in the United Kingdom. Mike Wass of Idolator ascribed the track's "amazing" accomplishment to Goulding's post and called attention to that it was "a fantastic accomplishment for a desolate, alt-EDM remix that has been gliding around online throughout the previous a half year". "Remain High" in the long run appeared at number 59 on the UK Singles Chart for the issue dated 16 March 2014. In its 6th week on the graph, it crested at number six. It was guaranteed Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), which means 600,000 units sold in the nation. In Scotland, it entered the Scottish Singles Chart at number 65 on that week it appeared on the UK Singles Chart. On 4 May 2014, it crested at number eight. In Ireland, the remix appeared at number 92 on the Top 100 Singles graph. It achieved a pinnacle of number 49 on 5 June 2014, and spent an aggregate of 29 weeks on the outline. Moreover, the single opened at number 16 on the Euro Digital Songs on 26 April 2014. The next week, it achieved its pinnacle position at number 12. In Sweden, "Remain High" appeared at number 49 on the Singles Top 100 outline for the issue dated 2 May 2014, and continued achieving position 13, with it spending a sum of 70 weeks on the graph somewhere in the range of 2014 and 2015. It was guaranteed triple-Platinum by the Swedish Recording Industry Association (GLF), indicating 120,000 deals in that region, and further turned into the eleventh smash hit track of 2014 in the nation. It was likewise the fourth most-played tune by Swedish radio station P3 in 2014. In Norway, "Remain High" appeared at number 15 on the Topp 40 Singles graph. In its fourth week, it achieved number seven and guaranteed that situation for five non-continuous weeks. It spent a sum of 27 weeks on the outline and turned into the seventh most noteworthy selling single of 2014 in Norway. "Remain High" entered the Finnish Airplay Chart at number 91 on the nineteenth seven day stretch of 2014, turning into Lo's second section on the diagram after "Out of Mind" (2013), which topped at number 39 of every 2013. It in the long run achieved the number 25 in its fifth week on the graph. "Remain High" topped at number three in both the Flanders and Wallonia areas of Belgium, and was affirmed Gold by the Belgian Entertainment Association (BEA), for surpassing offers of 15,000 duplicates in the nation. In Netherlands, "Remain High" bested the Dutch Top 40 outline for three back to back weeks and topped at number two on the Single Top 100 graph. As indicated by the NVPI, it was the seventh top rated single of 2014 in that region. 

In Australia, "Remain High" entered the ARIA Singles Chart at number 65 on the issue dated 12 May 2014. It topped at number three, and was confirmed twofold platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA), meaning offers of 140,000 in the locale. In New Zealand, it appeared at number 40 on the New Zealand Singles Chart on 21 April 2014, and dropped off the outline the next week. Be that as it may, it returned the outline at number 26 on 5 May 2014. The track in the long run achieved number three and spent a sum of 29 weeks on the diagram, being in the end ensured Platinum by the Recorded Music NZ (RMNZ) for 15,000 duplicates sold in the nation. 

In a meeting with French site Pure Charts, the artist expressed that she just plays out the first form of "Propensities (Stay High)" since she thinks of it as "progressively appropriate" for live exhibitions than the remix variant. 

The music video for "Remain High" was coordinated by Motellet Film. The pair utilized a similar film of the second music video for "Propensities (Stay High)" and connected moderate movement in every one of the scenes. Pedro Kurtz of Brazilian site A Gambiarra expressed that the impact was utilized to cause a "feeling of inebriation" which was "consummately connected and adjusted" to the scenes. Likewise, Michael Cragg of "The Guardian" said that "the woozy remix superbly suits the for all time disoriented, liquor fuelled feel of the moderate movement video". "The Guardian's" site debuted the video on 4 April 2014, while the vocalist discharged it on her Vevo channel on YouTube that day. On 11 April 2014, it was discharged on the iTunes Store. As of February 2019, it has gotten more than 670 million perspectives on Vevo, turning into Lo's most seen video on the stage. 

! colspan="3"| Streaming 

On 14 October 2014, band Against the Current posted their spread adaptation of "Propensities (Stay High)" on YouTube and discharged it on the iTunes Store. After five days, Alex Goot additionally debuted a spread variant with Madilyn Bailey through a similar stage. Diane Cho of VH1 gave the spread a positive audit, in which she expressed that Goot and Bailey voices "supplement each other splendidly". In that equivalent month, Camilla Daum secured the tune on the fourth period of "The Voice of Germany". In November 2014, post-bad-to-the-bone band Our Last Night posted their front of the track on their YouTube channel. Diane Cho of VH1 composed that the band "gives 'Propensities' that stone 'n move edge that works actually well for this tune". Canadian musical gang Theory of a Deadman discharged an acoustic spread form in April 2015, which was later included on their record "Blessed messenger Acoustic EP" (2015). In May 2015, Kygo played out a piano form with vocals by Parson James on BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge. In that equivalent month, performer Vin Diesel posted a spread form of the tune on his Facebook page as a tribute to his late companion Paul Walker; out of sight of the execution pictures were anticipated of Diesel with Walker. Kelly Clarkson secured the melody as a major aspect of her "Fan Requests" amid her Piece by Piece Tour on 26 July 2015. "Diversion Tonight" 's John Boone positioned it at number one on his rundown of Kelly Clarkson's 11 Best Tour Covers, further including that the artist sounded "astonishing" and that he "adored" to hear her "darker and edgier side". "Propensities (Stay High)" has been secured twice on "", the first run through by Madeleine Leaper amid the in 2014, and by Amandine on the demonstrate's the following year. 

In January 2014, American DJ pair The Chainsmokers remixed "Propensities (Stay High)" and discharged it as a free computerized download. Idolator's Sam Lansky felt that the makers changed "the melodic unique into something glitchy, skittish and dull". On 17 June, a radio alter just as an all-encompassing form of their remix were dispersed on the iTunes Store. On 17 June, a remix form by Swedish DJ Oliver Nelson was discharged on the iTunes Store, and was later included on the re-issue of "Truth Serum". On 9 December 2014, a remix form by American DJ couple FIXYN was made accessible for utilization through a similar stage. 

Advanced download 

Advanced download – Deluxe single 

Advanced download – Hippie Sabotage remix 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Ruler of the Clouds". 

Areas 

Work force