Edward Fenwick Boyd 

Edward Fenwick Boyd (30 August 1810 – 31 August 1889) was an English industrialist who turned into the fourth President of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers (NEIMME). He held a main job in the Mining Institute from its introduction in 1852 as Treasurer and an individual from the gathering before turning into the fourth president in 1869. As president, Boyd regulated the establishment of the Nicholas Wood Memorial Hall (the Mining Institute's central station in Newcastle upon Tyne) and the Newcastle College of Physical Science. 

Edward Fenwick Boyd was conceived on 30 August 1810 at Moor House, Leamside Durham. He was the third child of William, a financier and accomplice in the Newcastle Old Bank, and Esther (née Locke) Boyd. His most punctual experience of training was with Henry Atkinson at the High Bridge, before going to Witton-le-Wear Grammar School in 1821 for the consequent five years. It was here he discovered an energy and ability for workmanship. After leaving school he 'served his time', initially, at Cocken White House Pit before moving to Bowes' House Pit where he met Thomas Crawford, supervisor of Lord Durham's broad collieries. It was trusted that Boyd's association with Crawford furnished him with his underlying comprehension of the business. Between October 1830 and May 1831, Boyd went to Edinburgh University anyway he kept up an association with the mining business at Towneley Main Colliery. Upon his arrival from University, he went with Mr Matthias Dunn, a mine Inspector, on appearances to different collieries in Scotland including Prestongrange, Kilmarnock, Middleton and Dalmellington in Ayrshire. Through this association and work with Mr Dunn, Boyd got his first arrangement as under watcher and surveyor at Hetton-le-Hole Colliery in 1832. After five years, Boyd moved to Urpeth and ended up occupant watcher of Urpeth Colliery. What's more, 1837 likewise observed Boyd's arrangement as mineral operator to the Dean and Chapter of Durham, after the retirement of Mr T. Fenwick, just as the chance of getting to be director of Wylam Colliery in the interest of the Blackett family. 

As his expert life was starting to kick begin, likewise was his own life. In 1841 he wedded Ann, girl of George Anderson, and before long started a family. Somewhere in the range of 1846 and 1852 the couple proceeded to have four youngsters; Juliana, George, Robert and Hugh and in 1856 Boyd purchased the property at Moor House and manufactured himself and his family a house. He surrendered his situation as director of the Urpeth Colliery and seemed to be 'proposing to take life fairly more effectively'. Anyway the fall of the Northumberland and Durham District Bank amid the budgetary emergency of 1857 implied this was never again conceivable. The bank immersed his legacy from his dad just as his private investment funds abandoning him with a youthful family needing instruction with negligible assets to do as such henceforth he was compelled to start remaking his fortunes a new. He proceeded with his past endeavors and took on numerous new offices making this a great time the busiest to date. In 1858 he ended up Chief Mining Engineer of the Consett Iron Company and until 1872 he straightforwardly superintended the working of their different collieries. 

Calamities, for example, the blast at St Hilda's Colliery in 1839 realized a mindfulness among diggers and men working inside this network of the requirement for a general public with fixed standards and points inside the mining network in the expectation of forestalling such debacles. Thus, the South Shields Committee prescribed the presentation of the necessary enrollment of mine arrangements, an arrangement of government reviews, the restricting of the work of ladies and kids subterranean and the requirement for superior logical instruction of the Mining Engineers. Notwithstanding, it was not until 1850 that enactment was passed expecting collieries to name investigators. Mine arrangements were relied upon to be kept and delivered and every single deadly mishap were to now be accounted for to the Home Office. Like the fiasco at St Hilda's, a blast at Seaton Colliery on 9 June 1852 went about as an impetus for the establishing of the NEIMME. Driving figures, for example, Nicholas Wood, T.E. Forster, Sir George Elliot, first Baronet and Edward Sinclair (which were all present at the examination of the Seaton blast) joined forty four coal proprietors and in this manner established 'The North of England Society for the Prevention of Accidents and for different Purposes Connected with Mining'. At a second gathering the general public changed its name to the more pointed 'The North of England Institute of Mining Engineers' and it was not until 1870 when it opened its ways to Engineers that its title was adjusted again to 'The North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers'. The points of the general public at last were to scan for the reasons for mining mishaps exemplified at Seaton and St. Hilda's, improve the ventilation of mines and to for the most part improve the wellbeing and states of mines. Boyd assumed a critical job in the establishment of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers and his dependability prompted his arrangement as Treasurer from the introduction of the NEIMME until 1869. Notwithstanding this job, Boyd worked intently close by the principal President, Nicholas Wood, in his endeavors towards making a tutoring framework for Mining Engineers just as tasks, for example, 'On a "wash" or "float" through a part of the coal-field of Durham' which they introduced to the individuals from the Mining Institute in December 1863. His commitment and dedicated ethic brought about his decision as the fourth President of the NEIMME in 1869 after that of George Elliot. Amid his time in office he worked too much on the opening of the Nicholas Wood Memorial Hall, which was to turn into the home of the Mining Institute, and sought after crafted by Nicholas Wood in the establishment of the College of Physical College. 

The establishment of the College of Physical Science in 1871, the fore-sprinter of Newcastle University, is viewed as a standout amongst Boyd's most huge accomplishments amid his administration. Tutoring was an interesting issue among the main individuals since the establishing of the NEIMME and the arrangement of a school was wanted by Nicholas Wood himself. It was accepted by numerous that tutoring was fundamental for men in this field as no other part of building required such broadened preparing and practice as that of a Mining Engineer. With mines being sunk further, mining was becoming progressively increasingly troublesome and hazardous hence the training and professionalization of this job was regarded to be increasingly basic. Nicholas Wood drew up a layout for a conceivable course enduring three years, proposing for it to be simply down to earth and modern in character. It was trusted that the school would be autonomous, anyway because of costs this was not doable, henceforth it was chosen that the College of Mining and Engineering was to be situated at Durham regarding Durham University. The University would give and pay two educators; one of science and normal logic and the other of connected mechanics, in light of the fact that their administration would be valuable to the two organizations. The College itself was required to give three additional; teachers of Chemistry, Geology and Mine Working and Surveying and plan-drawing and Practical Engineering. With such imperatives, the Miners were required to fund-raise for both the structure and the pay rates of the rest of the teachers. This endeavor was frustrating and eventually prompted the brief deserting of the task. After the demise of Nicholas Wood, the ensuing two presidents, T.E. Forster and George Elliot, attempted to restore the task and it was not until the arrangement of Edward Fenwick Boyd that the venture was revived. He supported the significance of training and contended that laborers should have been very much coordinated. It was trusted that chiefs would give consolation and heading, realize timeliness, independence, submission and training. He got another activity and effectively built up an association with the Dean of Durham University. Boyd had been engaged with the early talks in regards to the arrangement of a College however he trusted these were fruitless and inefficient because of various reasons, the most critical being the differences in regards to the area of the College and the issues encompassing financing. Luckily, Boyd's administration fell amid a time of thriving exchange the locale in which there was a solid interest for young fellows of capacity and vitality to deal with the enterprises of the region. With a development in thriving and an interest for preparing in such businesses, Boyd was persuaded that the network would be all the more inevitable, financially and socially, with supporting the establishment of the school. Boyd trusted instruction would 'hoist the general tone of the network, and conduce to the respect and success of the country, and empower it to build up the immense mechanical points of interest which it has'. With the arrangement of the new Dean at Durham University, William Lake (Dean of Durham), Boyd, with assistance from Lowthian Bell, again endeavored to lay a case for the College to be situated in Newcastle upon Tyne. A council was at long last selected on 9 November 1869 by the Mining Institute to meet with the Principals of Durham University. Numerous private exchanges occurred between Lake, Boyd and Lowthian Bell and a fundamental understanding was come to. An open gathering held in Newcastle on 25 March 1871 went about as the background for the recommendations from the Committee. Lake recommended that the University of Durham were to give £1000 per annum for a long time towards the costs of building up a College at Newcastle, gave that a comparable entirety to the like term could be ensured from different sources. The offer was acknowledged and progressed by the guarantee that guide would be made changeless if a total to guarantee the continuation of the help could be acquired. As recently expressed, with the more prosperous nature of society, it was chosen by the board of trustees to engage the general population for £30,000 with the longing that the College ought to be opened at its most punctual chance, October 1871. In its first year of encouraging the College had eight showing staff, one hundred and seventy three understudies and offered guidance in four subjects; Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Geology, all of which extended in the resulting years. Despite the fact that it offered a wide assortment of subjects, the College upon its opening did not offer Mining Engineering as an individual subject as it trusted it couldn't be instructed in the study hall however that down to earth experience was as imperative as a decent broad and logical training. Various powerful figures remarked on the significance of the training of a Mining Engineer and the upsides of Physical Science upon the opening of the College. The Dean of Durham remarked on these focal points in a discourse to the Institute with respect to the initiation of the Newcastle College of Physical Science communicating that the instructing of Physical Science trains to watch and ask, abbreviate the hole among thoughts and undeniable realities about nature and it likewise has an immediate bearing on the business life. An understudy of such a control is prepared to those tenets of acceptance, of investigation and of check and it gives a huge learning of the huge universe of material truth which nature can uncover. In like manner, Professor John Young of the University of Glasgow remarked on the training of a Mining Engineer as 'one whom is credited adequate learning of the conditions under which minerals happen in the earth and render him a solid counsel, know the characteristics of mineral to settle on the value of any that perhaps found, adequate mechanical abilities to lead every one of the tasks associated with the extraction of the mineral from the earth. They ought to be a Geologist and a Mineralogist just as a Civil Engineer' thus, the expansion of Mining Engineering to the prospectus. 

Close by the opening of the College of Physical Science, Boyd's administration was likewise perceived for his contribution in the opening of the Nicholas Wood Memorial Hall. The lobby was raised in 1870, by open membership, as a remembrance to Nicholas Wood, the primary President of the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers, after his demise in December 1865. It was opened in July 1872 by the then President of the Mining Institute, Edward Fenwick Boyd, The Very Rev. the Dean of the Durham, the Mayor of Newcastle and various individuals from the town board. 

It was raised basically for the convenience of the individuals from the coal exchange just as mining and Mechanical Engineers of the North of England and it has been the home of the Mining Institute from that point forward. It was planned and worked in the stature of the Gothic recovery by engineer A.M. Dunn and it contains an expansive marble statue of a situated Nicholas Wood, made by Mr Wyon, neglecting the library. Today it keeps on being of instructive significance. It houses various records, exchanges, maps and books originating from its starting points in 1852. The expansion of the address theater in 1902 extended this instructive component and is utilized to have speakers and addresses dependent on various components identified with the mining business running from 'Vagrant Miners' to 'Colliers Viewers, Engineers and the Making of the Modern World'. 

The completion of Boyd's administration in 1872 did not see the finish of him as an individual from the Institution; he proceeded as an individual from the board until 1882. In 1875, he united with his child Robert Fenwick Boyd to deliver a paper on "The Coal-Measures and Oil Produce of the United States of America".<ref>Boyd, E.F. Comments on the coal measures and oil produce of the United States of America, gathered amid a visit to that nation in the harvest time of 1875.''Transactions - North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers'' '''25''', 1875– 76, 145-175</> This endeavor took them to the United States of America to accumulate data on the causes and creation of the mineral oil. This paper was the remainder of Edward Fenwick Boyd's work to be perused and debated before the individuals from the Mining Institute before turning his concentration and a mind-blowing rest to filling in as a judge for the region. He committed the remainder of his time and wellbeing to the law and to district business. Be that as it may, as his physical wellbeing crumbled in 1883 he was compelled to resign back to Moor House finishing all movement in both the court and the Institute and he was put under the consideration of his little girl until his demise on 31 August 1889. 

Notwithstanding the distributed work of Edward Fenwick Boyd, his time as President of the Institute saw the opening of the College of Physical Science and the Nicholas Wood Memorial Hall; the two of which were exceptionally powerful and noteworthy activities. His association in ventures, for example, these exhibits his devotion and enthusiasm for the North of England Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers.