Dominik Hašek 

Dominik Hašek (, ; conceived January 29, 1965) is a Czech previous ice hockey goaltender. In his 16-season National Hockey League (NHL) profession, he played for the Chicago Blackhawks, Buffalo Sabers, Detroit Red Wings and the Ottawa Senators. Amid his years in Buffalo, he ended up one of the association's best goaltenders, procuring him the moniker "The Dominator". His solid play has been credited with building up European goaltenders in a group recently overwhelmed by North Americans. He is a two-time Stanley Cup champion, both with the Red Wings. 

Hašek was one of the association's best goaltenders of the 1990s and mid 2000s. From 1993 to 2001, he won six Vezina Trophies, the most under the honor's present arrangement of voting in favor of the best individual goalie. In 1998 he won his second sequential Hart Memorial Trophy, turning into the primary goaltender to win the honor on numerous occasions. Amid the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, he drove the Czech national ice hockey group to its sole Olympic gold decoration. The accomplishment made him a well known figure in his nation of origin and incited hockey legend Wayne Gretzky to call him "the best player in the amusement". While with the Red Wings in 2002, Hašek turned into the principal European-prepared beginning goaltender to win the Stanley Cup. All the while, he set a record for shutouts in a postseason year. 

Hašek was viewed as an unconventional goaltender, with a particular style that marked him a "flopper". He was best known for his fixation, foot speed, adaptability, and flighty recoveries, for example, covering the puck with his blocker as opposed to his trapper. Hašek holds the most astounding profession spare level ever (0.9223) and is seventh in objectives against normal (first in the cutting edge time) (2.202), and the third-most noteworthy single-season spare rate (0.9366 in 1998– 99). The record was broken by Tim Thomas in the 2010– 11 season and again in the 2011– 12 season by Brian Elliott, who presently holds the record at .940. Hašek is the main goalie to confront the most shots per an hour and have the most noteworthy spare rate in one season. He did it twice while with the Sabers (1996 and 1998). 

At the season of his retirement, he was the most seasoned dynamic goalie in the NHL at 43, and the second-most established dynamic player in the association after Red Wings colleague Chris Chelios, who was 46. Hašek declared his retirement on June 9, 2008, yet on April 21, 2009, he reported a rebound to proficient hockey and marked an agreement with HC Pardubice of the Czech Extraliga. On June 7, 2010, he marked with Spartak Moscow of the KHL and played the last period of his vocation with this group. Hašek reported his retirement on October 9, 2012. Hašek was accepted into the Hockey Hall of Fame on November 17, 2014. He is likewise an individual from the Czech Ice Hockey Hall of Fame and the IIHF Hall of Fame. His number was resigned by the Sabers and HC Pardubice. 

Hašek began playing hockey at six years old in his local Czechoslovakia. As he clarifies: 

In 1980, Hašek joined the top hockey class in the nation, the Czechoslovak Extraliga, with the place where he grew up group, HC Pardubice. He turned into the most youthful hockey player in history to play at the expert dimension at age 16. He won two alliance titles in 1987 and 1989. The following year, he was drafted by the Czech armed force to play for Dukla Jihlava. In the wake of making his imprint and in the long run playing for the Czechoslovakian National group, Hašek entered the NHL draft and was drafted by the Chicago Blackhawks in 1983. At the time, NHL groups were careful about drafting players from behind the Iron Curtain who were frequently reluctant to play in the NHL or banned from doing as such by their nations. Thusly, Hašek was picked in the tenth round (199th by and large) and was the seventeenth goalie chosen. Hašek did not realize he had been drafted until a while later. 

Until 1990, Hašek played in his local Czechoslovakia for HC Pardubice and HC Jihlava. He won the Golden Hockey Stick, given to the most significant player in the Extraliga, in 1987, 1989 and 1990. He was named the Extraliga's Goaltender of the Year for four back to back a very long time from 1986 through 1990. His American profession started with the Indianapolis Ice of the International Hockey League (IHL), where he played pieces of two seasons. His NHL debut with the Blackhawks at long last came in the 1990– 91 season, seven years after the 1983 NHL Entry Draft. 

In Chicago, Hašek invested energy as the reinforcement to Ed Belfour, and played just 25 diversions more than two seasons with the Blackhawks, part time between the Blackhawks and the Indianapolis Ice of the IHL. On November 6, 1990, wearing the number 34 (31 was worn by reinforcement goaltender Jacques Cloutier that year), Hašek made his first NHL begin in a 1– 1 tie against the Hartford Whalers. 

His first triumph went ahead March 8, 1991, by a score of 5– 3 over the Buffalo Sabers, and on January 9, 1992, he recorded his first shutout in a 2– 0 success against the Toronto Maple Leafs. Amid this time with the Blackhawks, his goaltending mentor was Vladislav Tretiak, who was chosen in the 1983 draft however was banned from playing in the NHL by the Soviet government. Hašek showed up in amusement 4 of the 1992 Stanley Cup Finals against the Pittsburgh Penguins, after Belfour permitted two objectives on four shots in the opening 6:33, and had 21 spares. Despite the fact that the Penguins won to secure the Stanley Cup, Hašek's execution pulled in the consideration of the Sabers, who had considered exchanging for him before that season. 

After the Stanley Cup finals appearance, Chicago chose to remain with Belfour and Jimmy Waite. Hašek was exchanged to the Buffalo Sabers for goalie Stephane Beauregard and future contemplations, which later emerged into a draft pick used to acquire Éric Dazé. In Buffalo, wearing number 39, he was at first the reinforcement goaltender, playing behind Grant Fuhr. At the point when Fuhr was harmed halfway through the 1993– 94 season, Hašek was raised to starter and before long formed into a top-level goaltender. In 1994, he won his first Vezina Trophy, was sprinter up for the Hart Memorial Trophy and shared the William M. Jennings Trophy with Fuhr. Hašek played 58 diversions with a group best 1.95 objectives against normal (GAA), seven shutouts, and a .930 spare rate. He pursued this accomplishment by again winning the Vezina Trophy and again setting as a Hart finalist in 1995. 

Hašek's accomplishment in the 1996– 97 season was dominated by a contention with then-head mentor Ted Nolan. The contention made a strained, coterie like climate in the Sabers' clubhouse. 

In amusement three of the first round arrangement against the Ottawa Senators, Hašek evacuated himself in the second time frame and was supplanted by Steve Shields. Hašek endured a mellow sprain of his privilege MCL, and the group specialist articulated him everyday. Be that as it may, the media and a few partners guessed Hašek was utilizing his damage to abandon the group. One such individual was "Bison News" editorialist Jim Kelley, who composed a segment which definite Hašek's damage and his contention with Nolan, and scrutinized the goaltender's psychological strength. At the point when Kelley drew nearer Hašek for a meeting after a misfortune in diversion five of the best-of-seven arrangement, Hašek assaulted the writer and got a three-amusement suspension and a $10,000 (US) fine because of the episode. With Steve Shields in objective, the Sabers battled back against the Senators and took the arrangement in seven recreations. In any case, Hašek did not play in the five-diversion misfortune in the accompanying arrangement against the Philadelphia Flyers. 

In spite of the fact that General Manager John Muckler was named "Official of the Year", he was terminated for his steady quarreling with Nolan. Hašek, who favored Muckler, expressed in a meeting amid the 1997 NHL Awards Ceremony that the group would profit by supplanting Nolan. 

In spite of winning the Jack Adams Award as top mentor and being well known with the Sabers fanbase, Nolan was just offered a one-year contract expansion by substitution GM Darcy Regier. He dismissed this under the grounds that it was excessively short, and chose to go separate ways with the establishment. This steamed numerous fans, who accused Nolan's takeoff for Hašek's supposed endeavor to free him. 

For the initial a month and a half of the following season he was booed so energetically that field laborers would play tapes of a group cheering to help balance it out. 

As the season advanced, the booing of Hašek stopped, as he posted an alliance record seven shutouts in December and kept on playing at a first class level. He won the Vezina Trophy once more, just as the Lester B. Pearson Award and the Hart Trophy for class MVP. He wound up one of only a handful couple of goaltenders in NHL history to win the Hart, close by Jacques Plante, Carey Price, Chuck Rayner, Al Rollins, José Théodore and Roy Worters. 

Hašek played a lifelong high 72 diversions in the 1997– 98 season, and set a group record with 13 shutouts. Six of these shutouts came in December, which tied the untouched NHL record for most in one month. He again won the Lester B. Pearson Award, the Hart Trophy, and the Vezina Trophy, turning into the principal goalie in NHL history to win the Hart twice. He gave the $10,000 prize cash in the wake of winning the Pearson Award in 1998 to the "Assortment Club of Buffalo". In the off-season he marked a three-year, $26 million arrangement, verifying the most noteworthy goaltender pay contract around then. 

In 1999, Hašek found the middle value of a profession best 1.87 GAA and .937 spare rate, catching him his third back to back Vezina, and fifth by and large. He was likewise a finalist for the Hart and Pearson trophies. In spite of the fact that the Sabers did not have an excellent ordinary season and completed with the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference, they crushed the Ottawa Senators, Boston Bruins and Toronto Maple Leafs in the playoffs in transit to a best-of-seven Stanley Cup Final against the Presidents' Trophy-winning Dallas Stars. The Sabers inevitably lost the arrangement four amusements to two, with the conclusive 6th diversion being one of the longest Stanley Cup playoff recreations in NHL history. Hašek and Ed Belfour made 50 and 53 spares, separately, in an unexpected passing triple-additional time duel that possibly finished when Brett Hull scored a questionable Cup-winning objective with his foot in the objective wrinkle. 

The objective was not surveyed promptly, so authorities did not see Hull's foot in the wrinkle until some other time. After video audits demonstrated Hull's position, the objective was still maintained, leaving the Sabers incensed. Hašek remarked, "Perhaps [the video objective judge] was in the restroom. Perhaps he was resting. Perhaps he doesn't know the standard." The accompanying season, NHL magistrate Gary Bettman reported that video replays would never again be utilized to pass judgment if players are in the wrinkle or not, and that it would be an informed decision by the administering group. After the season finished, Hašek mulled over retirement in light of a mix of wounds and a longing to turn out to be progressively engaged with his family life. The declaration staggered a significant number of his colleagues, especially Michael Peca and Jason Woolley. 

In the 1999– 2000 season, Hašek was hampered by annoying crotch damage. He missed forty recreations and neglected to win a noteworthy NHL grant without precedent for quite a long while. Despite the fact that he recuperated in time for the playoffs, the Sabers were disposed of in the first round in five diversions by the Flyers. In 2000– 01—his last season with Buffalo—Hašek set a cutting edge period record by gathering his 6th Vezina Trophy. He likewise won his second William M. Jennings Trophy. The Sabers played Philadelphia in the first round of the playoffs once more, where Hašek defeated his 1998 Olympic back-up Roman Čechmánek. In the securing 6th amusement, Hašek recorded a shutout against the Flyers. In the second round, the Sabers played a seven-amusement arrangement against Mario Lemieux's Penguins, which finished with the Penguins winning the last diversion in extra time. 

Prior to the beginning of the following season, Hašek was exchanged to the Detroit Red Wings trying to bring down the Sabers' finance and to send Hašek to an increasingly aggressive group. He was managed for Vyacheslav Kozlov, a first round determination in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft and future contemplations, which in the end turned into the draft pick of Jim Slater. Amid his first season with Detroit, Hašek posted a lifelong high 41 wins with only 15 misfortunes, helping the Red Wings win the President's Trophy with the association's best record. In the playoffs, he drove the Wings past the Vancouver Canucks, the St. Louis Blues, the Colorado Avalanche and inevitably the Carolina Hurricanes in the finals to win the Stanley Cup. Amid the meeting finals against Colorado, he turned into the main goalie to be granted a help on an additional time diversion winning objective in the post-season in the wake of passing the puck to Wings commander Steve Yzerman, who at that point helped Fredrik Olausson in scoring the last objective of the third round of that arrangement. He additionally set a record for most shutouts in a post-season with six, broken the year after by Martin Brodeur with seven. 

That late spring, Hašek formally reported his retirement so he could invest energy with his family and different interests. 

Notwithstanding, after Detroit's initially round misfortune to the Mighty Ducks of Anaheim in the accompanying season, he communicated his longing to play once more. This made a troublesome circumstance for the Red Wings, who had two years left on Curtis Joseph's three-year $24 million contract, which had a no-exchange condition. Detroit was additionally under strain realizing that the adversary Avalanche would search for a goalie to supplant Patrick Roy after his retirement. With Manny Legace likewise on the Wings' program, Detroit currently had three potential beginning goalies. 

In the 2003– 04 season Hašek harmed his crotch subsequent to playing only 14 recreations. On January 9, he and the group concurred he should rest his damage for two to about a month. Hašek secretly told general supervisor Ken Holland that he would not acknowledge any compensation while he was harmed. On February 10, he declared that he was not going to keep on playing that season, astonishing the Red Wings the executives. He inevitably uncovered that he declined about $3 million of his $6 million pay. In April 2004, he experienced crotch medical procedure in Prague, and came back to the place where he grew up of Pardubice to recover. 

After his agreement with the Red Wings lapsed, Hašek declared his aim to play for a Stanley Cup contender, and explicitly named the Ottawa Senators as a probability. On July 6, 2004, subsequent to exchanging Patrick Lalime to the St. Louis Blues, the Senators marked Hašek to a one-year bargain. 

Amid the 2004– 05 NHL lockout, Hašek visited with the Primus Worldstars. Like the visit Wayne Gretzky and IMG framed amid the 1994– 95 NHL lockout, the Primus Worldstars Tour ran December 7– 23, playing in seven unique nations (Riga, Latvia; Moscow and St Petersburg, Russia; Bratislava, Slovakia; Bern, Switzerland; Karlstad, Jönköping and Linköping, Sweden; Oslo, Norway; Katowice, Poland) in ten booked diversions. The visit went up against top pick groups or club groups of every nation. 

Hašek played progressively well for the Senators up until the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin. Amid the season, he achieved 300 vocation wins, and his GAA and spare rate were the second-best in the class. Upon takeoff to Turin, Hašek's gear was coincidentally abandoned in Ottawa. This caused Hašek to miss various practices with the Czech national group. At the Winter Olympics, he harmed his correct adductor muscle while making a spare in the primary passing match against Germany, driving him out the diversion after just 9 minutes and 25 seconds. 

Hašek's damage made him miss the remainder of the ordinary season and post-season, in spite of a few bits of gossip that he would return in time for the playoffs. He said that if he somehow happened to be re-marked, he would play for a base compensation of $500,000 with rewards. 

After the Senators were wiped out in the second round, they picked not to re-sign Hašek. 

On July 31, 2006, at 41 years old, Hašek joined the Red Wings for the second time. He marked a one-year $750,000 US 

contract, with special rewards if the group prevailing in the playoffs. He posted 38 wins and a 2.05 GAA while driving the Red Wings to 

the main seed in the Western Conference. He additionally broke his very own record by going 181 minutes and 17 seconds without permitting an objective. 

Halfway through the ordinary season, the group declared that to maintain a strategic distance from damage and save Hašek for the playoffs, he would not play on back to back evenings. He played his first sequential evenings of the period on April 21 and 22 against the Calgary Flames in amusements 5 and 6 of the Western Conference Quarterfinals. Hašek won the two recreations, securing the arrangement for Detroit. In the following round against the San Jose Sharks, the Red Wings were out and about and down two amusements to one, however Hašek held the Sharks to three objectives in the following three recreations. His 28-spare shutout in amusement six was his thirteenth in postseason play and sent the Red Wings toward the Western Conference finals against the Anaheim Ducks. Nonetheless, Hašek and the Red Wings lost in six amusements to the Ducks, who inevitably vanquished the Ottawa Senators for the Stanley Cup. 

Hašek thought about retirement in the 2007 offseason, yet on July 5, 2007, he marked a one-year contract with Detroit worth $2 million with up to $2 million in rewards, 

supposedly turning down $5 million for compensation top space for the remainder of the Red Wings' program. 

Amid the 2007– 08 season, Hašek was supplanted by reinforcement Chris Osgood, who had initially been deferred by the Red Wings to clear path for Hašek before the 2001– 02 season. At the point when Hašek recouped and got again into his walk, Detroit substituted goaltenders pair as opposed to assigning either as the reinforcement. Detroit head mentor Mike Babcock declared that Hašek was to begin in the 2008 playoffs. Through the initial two amusements against the Nashville Predators, the Red Wings were triumphant, however after a dull act in the following two, Osgood was in objective for the rest of the playoffs. Regardless of communicating frustration at losing his beginning position, Hašek kept up his demonstrable skill by and by and kept on supporting his partners, with Darren McCarty refering to a cozy connection among Hašek and Osgood. In the end the Red Wings beat the Penguins in six recreations for the Stanley Cup. 

On June 9, 2008, Hašek reported his retirement from the NHL, just five days in the wake of winning his second Stanley Cup with the Red Wings, saying he came up short on the inspiration for one more year in the NHL. With Osgood, the two were granted the William M. Jennings Trophy for least objectives against in a group in the season. 

In April 2009, Hašek indeed left retirement and marked a one-year contract with HC Moeller Pardubice, the club where he began his long vocation. In the 2009– 10 season he drove his group to win the Czech association title. Hašek had three shutouts in the playoffs, one in the finals, while his Pardubice lost only one amusement in the playoffs before asserting 12 back to back successes. For the 2010– 11 hockey season, Hašek marked a one-year contract with HC Spartak Moscow. 

On May 15, 2012, Czech site hokej.cz announced that Hašek had examined playing for Piráti Chomutov after their advancement to the Czech Extraliga. On May 25, 2012, Czech game site Deniksport detailed that Hašek was thinking about an arrival to the NHL, potentially with the Red Wings or Tampa Bay Lightning. Nonetheless, the beginning of the 2012– 13 NHL season was deferred because of the 2012– 13 NHL lockout and Hašek reported his retirement on October 9, 2012. 

The Sabers resigned Hašek's #39 shirt preceding a January 13, 2015 diversion against the Red Wings, making Hašek's number the seventh to be resigned in Sabers history. In a function hung on January 27, 2017, amid the All-Star Weekend in Los Angeles, Hašek was named one of the '100 Greatest NHL Players' ever. 

Hašek's most critical global execution came in the 1998 Winter Olympics, where he drove the Czech national group to the gold decoration. He permitted six objectives altogether, with just two of them coming in the award round. Against Team Canada in the elimination rounds, Hašek halted Theoren Fleury, Ray Bourque, Joe Nieuwendyk, Eric Lindros and Brendan Shanahan in a sensational shootout win. He at that point shut out the Russian group 1– 0 in the last diversion, halting 20 shots. He was later declared as the best goaltender in the Olympics. After he won the gold, he was cited as saying: 

His play made him a standout amongst the most famous figures in the Czech Republic, to such an extent that inhabitants recited "Hašek to the château!" in the roads, alluding to the Prague Castle, the seat of the President of the Czech Republic. In light of this, Hašek called the president Václav Havel and facetiously disclosed to him that his activity was not in risk. 

He additionally enlivened a musical show (titled "Nagano") about the Czech group's gold award triumph, 

what's more, in 2003, Petr Pravec and Lenka Šarounová named a space rock (8217 Dominikhašek) in his respect. 

In the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy, Hašek played for only nine minutes and twenty-five seconds, until he harmed his correct adductor muscle. 

Regardless of his nonattendance, the Czechs figured out how to acquire the bronze award with reinforcement goaltender Tomáš Vokoun, which Hašek got too. 

Hašek had an irregular goaltending style. 

He was phenomenally adaptable and was tongue in cheek depicted in a MasterCard business as having "a Slinky for a spine". 

So as to cover the base of the net, where most objectives are scored, Hašek dropped down on pretty much every shot. His "tumbling" style was gotten from him thrashing in the wrinkle, utilizing all aspects of his body, including his head, to stop the puck. Hašek every so often dropped his stick and secured the puck with his stick hand, while most goaltenders would utilize the glove hand. 

In light of the hypothesis he got from his style, Hašek clarified: 

Hašek's one of a kind style pulled in fans to amusements. 

Due to his adaptability, Hašek could make troublesome recoveries that different goalies proved unable—a contradicting mentor once alluded to them as "marvel spares". These kinds of recoveries incorporate toe-stops and a move known as the "Hašek roll". Hašek was additionally known for his exacting routine of molding. Amid the off-season among May and September 2006, he lost a lot of weight to build his adaptability. Hašek was one of the last goaltenders to wear a protective cap and-confine combo as opposed to a contemporary half breed goalie veil. The latter was his previous colleague Chris Osgood, who left the NHL three years after Hašek. 

Hašek and his previous spouse Alena have a child named Michael (brought into the world 1990) and a little girl named Dominika (brought into the world 1994). He isolates quite a bit of his available time playing squash and inline hockey, where he plays guard. When he was more youthful, Hašek played aggressive football as a midfielder, and was a lesser tennis hero in Eastern Bohemia. 

His sibling Martin is additionally a focused competitor and played for the Czech Republic football crew AC Sparta Prague before resigning and in the long run choosing to mentor. Cousin Ivan Hašek likewise played proficient football. Diversion savvy, Hašek claims that he has been a devotee of expert wrestling since his Buffalo days, and says that he generally pursues his most loved wrestlers, Stone Cold Steve Austin and Don "The Rock" Muraco. 

As a result of his formal training, Hašek emerges among Czech sportsmen. He earned a college qualification in the wake of contemplating history and the Czech language in the Faculty of Education at the University of Hradec Králové, which qualified him to be an educator, and drove him to train secondary school classes. Hašek likewise had a brand of sportswear named "Dominator Clothing", which was propelled not long after the Nagano Olympics in 1998. It additionally had two areas in Michigan for a brief span. In any case, deals were short, and the Dominator brand was constrained bankrupt in 2008. 

In May 2001, Hašek established the "Dominik Hašek Youth Hockey League"/"Hašek's Heroes", and gave over $1 million to help underprivileged kids in Buffalo play hockey. 

He sorted out a philanthropy hockey match-up in Prague in 1998, and gave the benefits to clinics in the Czech Republic. 

Hašek was known to acknowledge diversion to keep cooperative efforts up, and frequently jokes about his similarity to Cosmo Kramer of "Seinfeld". In the late 1990s, he was highlighted in a MasterCard business that applauded his adaptability. On November 26, 2006, Mark Parisi's comic board "off the imprint" included a comic about Hašek's adolescence. 

In November 2012 Hašek reported separation following 23 years of marriage. 

All through his long profession, Hašek was spoken to by specialist Ritch Winter. 

Amid an inline hockey match-up on May 18, 2003, Hašek was blamed for ambushing another player. He was playing as a safeguard for Bonfire Střída when he crosschecked Martin Šíla. The investigator for the situation, Lenka Strnadová, decided two months after the fact that there was no proof that Hašek proposed substantially hurt and prescribed the case be treated as a wrongdoing, culpable just by fine ($95 USD most extreme), as opposed to a lawful offense where correctional facility time would have been conceivable. Hašek's legal advisor Pavel Jelínek declared in an explanation that media reports about the occurrence were misrepresented, with Šíla not having continued any recorded wounds. In October 2003, the nation's top investigator overruled Strnadová, saying her decision was unlawful in light of the fact that the case had not been appropriately examined. The Pardubice indictment at that point explored the case once more, and achieved a similar choice as Strnadová. 

Hašek earned his 300th National Hockey League win on October 15, 2005, in a 5– 1 home triumph with the Ottawa Senators over the Boston Bruins. He ceased 34 of 35 shots and was holding a shutout until Bruins forward Pat Leahy stuck a free puck under him three minutes into the third time frame. He turned into the twenty-second goaltender to achieve the achievement. He is the most established goaltender in NHL history to post a 30-win season, and in 1997, he turned into the second goaltender to win the Lester B. Pearson Award for most exceptional player in the group (Mike Liut won the Lester B. Pearson Trophy as the alliance's MVP as dictated by his friends in 1981). He is additionally the main goaltender to win the Hart Trophy twice for most profitable player, and was just a single Vezina Trophy far from tying Jacques Plante's record of seven. 

In nine seasons with the Buffalo Sabers, Hašek gained more than 25 establishment records, including most unequaled amusements played, wins, shutouts and least objectives against normal. He likewise holds the Sabers' record for most shutouts in a solitary season with 13 in 1997– 98, and least objectives against normal in a solitary season with an aggregate of 1.87 in 1998– 99. Amid the Detroit Red Wings' title keep running in 2002, Hašek set establishment records for most amusements played, minutes played, wins and shutouts in a playoff year. He holds a few prominent NHL records: 

A standout amongst the most amazing single-amusement exhibitions by any player in NHL history went ahead April 27, 1994. Hašek made 70 spares in a four additional time shutout. The restricting goalie was Martin Brodeur, at that point a tenderfoot, who made 49 spares before being beaten by Dave Hannan and the Sabers beat New Jersey 1– 0, which helped the Sabers to tie the arrangement 3– 3 in the first round of the Stanley Cup playoffs. Hašek's 70 spares set a record, which still stands, for the most spares in an amusement without permitting an objective. 

Source: 

Source: 

Sources: