Kareena Kapoor 

Kareena Kapoor (; brought into the world 21 September 1980), likewise known by her wedded name Kareena Kapoor Khan, is an Indian on-screen character who shows up in Hindi movies. She is the little girl of on-screen characters Randhir Kapoor and Babita, and the more youthful sister of performer Karisma Kapoor. Noted for playing an assortment of characters in a scope of film classifications—from rom-coms to wrongdoing shows—Kapoor is the beneficiary of a few honors, including six Filmfare Awards, and is a standout amongst Bollywood's most mainstream and most generously compensated performing artists. 

Subsequent to making her acting introduction in the 2000 war film "Exile", Kapoor built up herself in Hindi film with jobs in the chronicled show "Aśoka", and the blockbuster drama "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." (both 2001). This underlying achievement was trailed by a progression of business disappointments and tedious jobs, which gathered her negative surveys. The year 2004 denoted a defining moment for Kapoor when she played against sort in the job of a sex specialist in the dramatization "Chameli". She in this way earned wide basic acknowledgment for her depiction of an uproar unfortunate casualty in the 2004 show "Dev" and a character dependent on William Shakespeare's champion Desdemona in the 2006 wrongdoing film "Omkara". Kapoor proceeded to get Filmfare Awards for Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress for her exhibitions in the 2007 rom-com "Punch We Met" and the 2010 dramatization "We Are Family", separately. Her most noteworthy netting discharges accompanied the shows "3 Idiots" (2009) and "Bajrangi Bhaijaan" (2015), and she kept on illustration acclaim for her exhibitions in the 2009 spine chiller "Kurbaan", the 2012 dramatization "Courageous woman", the 2012 thrill ride "", and the 2016 wrongdoing film "Udta Punjab". 

Hitched to on-screen character Saif Ali Khan, with whom she has a child, Kapoor's off-screen life is the subject of far reaching inclusion in India. She has a notoriety for being candid and decisive, and is perceived for her commitments to the film business through her design style and film jobs. Notwithstanding film acting, Kapoor partakes in stage appears, has a radio show and has contributed as a co-author to three books: a personal journal and two sustenance guides. She has begun her very own line of attire and beautifying agents for ladies, and has worked with UNICEF since 2014 to advocate the instruction of young ladies and increment quality based training in India. 

Conceived on 21 September 1980 in Bombay (presently Mumbai), Kapoor (regularly casually alluded to as 'Bebo') is the more youthful girl of Randhir Kapoor and Babita ("née" Shivdasani); her senior sister Karisma is likewise an on-screen character. She is the fatherly granddaughter of performing artist and producer Raj Kapoor, maternal granddaughter of performer Hari Shivdasani, and niece of on-screen character Rishi Kapoor. As indicated by Kapoor, the name "Kareena" was gotten from the book "Anna Karenina", which her mom read while she was pregnant with her. She is of Punjabi plunge on her dad's side, and on her mom's side she is of Sindhi and British drop. As a youngster, Kapoor normally drilled Hinduism with her family, but on the other hand was presented to Christianity from her mom. 

Portraying herself as an "extremely underhanded [and] spoilt tyke", Kapoor's presentation to films since early on fueled her enthusiasm for acting; she was especially roused by crafted by on-screen characters Nargis and Meena Kumari. In spite of her family foundation, her dad opposed ladies entering films since he trusted it clashed with the customary maternal obligations and duty of ladies in the family. This prompted a contention between her folks, and they isolated. She was then raised by her mom, who maintained a few sources of income to help her little girls until Karisma appeared as an on-screen character in 1991. In the wake of living independently for quite a long while, her folks accommodated in October 2007. Kapoor commented "My dad is likewise an imperative factor in my life [...] [Al]though we didn't see him frequently in our underlying years, we are a family now." 

Kapoor went to Jamnabai Narsee School in Mumbai, trailed by Welham Girls' School in Dehradun. She went to the organization basically to fulfill her mom, however later confessed to preferring the experience. As indicated by Kapoor, she wasn't slanted towards scholastics however gotten decent evaluations in the entirety of her classes with the exception of arithmetic. In the wake of moving on from Welham she contemplated trade for a long time at Mithibai College in Vile Parle (Mumbai). Kapoor then enrolled for a three-month summer course in microcomputers at Harvard Summer School in the United States. She later built up an enthusiasm for law, and enlisted at the Government Law College, Mumbai; amid this period, she built up a dependable energy for perusing. Nonetheless, in the wake of finishing her first year, Kapoor chose to seek after her enthusiasm to turn into a performing artist. She started preparing at an acting establishment in Mumbai tutored by Kishore Namit Kapoor, an individual from the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII). 

While preparing at the foundation, Kapoor was given a role as the female lead in Rakesh Roshan's "Kaho Naa... Pyaar Hai" (2000) inverse his child, Hrithik Roshan. A few days into the recording, in any case, she surrendered the venture; Kapoor later clarified that she had profited by not doing the movie since more conspicuousness was given to the chief's child. She appeared soon thereafter nearby Abhishek Bachchan in J. P. Dutta's war show "Outcast". Set amid the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971, the film focuses on a man who illicitly transports regular folks forward and backward over the outskirt. Kapoor depicted Naaz, a Bangladeshi young lady who experiences passionate feelings for Bachchan's character while unlawfully moving to Pakistan with her family. Her execution was acclaimed by faultfinders; Taran Adarsh of Bollywood Hungama portrayed her as "a characteristic entertainer" and noticed "the simplicity with which she acts out the most troublesome of scenes", while "India Today" announced that Kapoor had a place with another type of Hindi film performers that splits from character generalizations. On the experience of acting in her first film, Kapoor portrayed it as "tough ... [but] additionally an incredible learning background". "Evacuee" was a moderate film industry achievement in India and Kapoor's execution earned her the Filmfare Award for Best Female Debut. 

For her second discharge, Kapoor was combined inverse Tusshar Kapoor in Satish Kaushik's film industry hit "Mujhe Kucch Kehna Hai" (2001). A survey in "The Hindu" noticed that dependent on her initial two movies, she was "unquestionably the on-screen character to keep an eye out for". She next featured nearby Jackie Shroff and Hrithik Roshan in Subhash Ghai's failure "Yaadein", trailed by Abbas-Mustan's decently effective spine chiller "Ajnabee", co-featuring Akshay Kumar, Bobby Deol and Bipasha Basu. Soon thereafter, she showed up in Santosh Sivan's period epic "Aśoka", a halfway fictionalized record of the life of the Indian head of a similar name. Highlighted inverse Shah Rukh Khan, Kapoor wound up tested playing the perplexing identity of her character Kaurwaki (a Kalingan princess) with whom Ashoka experiences passionate feelings. "Aśoka" was screened at the Venice and 2001 Toronto International Film Festivals, and got commonly positive surveys globally yet neglected to do well in India, which was ascribed by commentators to the way Ashoka was depicted. Jeff Vice of "The Deseret News" depicted Kapoor as "arresting" and lauded her screen nearness. Rediff.com, be that as it may, was progressively basic inferring that her essence in the film was essentially utilized for stylish purposes. At the 47th Filmfare Awards, "Aśoka" was named for five honors including a Best Actress selection for Kapoor. 

A key point in Kapoor's profession came when she was given by Karan Johar a role as Pooja ("Poo", a pleasant, shallow young lady) in the 2001 acting "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." nearby an outfit cast. Shooting the huge spending creation was another experience for Kapoor, and she reviews it affectionately: "[I]t was incredible fun doing [the film and] we had a ton of fun. [W]orking with the unit and the six uber star set was a blessing from heaven." "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." was a massively well known discharge, completing as India's second most elevated netting film of the year and Kapoor's most elevated earning film to that point. It likewise wound up one of the greatest Bollywood achievement ever in the abroad market, procuring over around the world. Taran Adarsh depicted Kapoor as "one of the principle features of the film", and she got her second Filmfare designation for the job—her first for Best Supporting Actress—just as selections at the International Indian Academy (IIFA) and Screen Awards. 

Film industry India detailed that the achievement of "Mujhe Kucch Kehna Hai" and "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." built up Kapoor as a main performing artist of Hindi film, and Rediff.com distributed that with "Aśoka" she had turned into the most generously compensated Indian performer to that point winning per film. Amid 2002 and 2003, Kapoor kept on working in various ventures yet encountered a misfortune. Every one of the six movies in which she featured—"Mujhse Dosti Karoge!", "Jeena Sirf Merre Liye", "", "Khushi", "Primary Prem Ki Diwani Hoon", and the four-hour war epic "LOC Kargil"— were basically and monetarily ineffective. Faultfinders portrayed her exhibitions in these movies as "varieties of a similar character" she played in "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham...", and communicated worry that she was getting to be pigeonholed. 

By 2004, Kapoor was enthused about expanding her range as an on-screen character and subsequently chose to depict all the more testing jobs. Under the bearing of Sudhir Mishra, Kapoor assumed the job of a brilliant hearted prostitute in "Chameli", a film relating the tale of a youthful whore who meets with a bereft speculation financier (played by Rahul Bose). At the point when Kapoor was at first offered the film she declined it, clarifying that she would be awkward in the job. She yielded when Mishra moved toward her for the second time, and in anticipation of the job, visited a few of Mumbai's shady areas of town during the evening to contemplate the quirks of sex specialists and the manner in which they dressed. "Chameli" was generally welcomed by commentators and the film denoted a critical defining moment in her vocation, winning Kapoor an uncommon jury acknowledgment at the 49th Filmfare Awards. Indiatimes lauded her "natural splendor" and expressed that she had surpassed all desires. Rediff.com, be that as it may, discovered her depiction unconvincing and unnecessarily cliché, portraying her as "sounding more like an adolescent playacting than a reckless, solidified streetwalker" and contrasting her peculiarities with a cartoon. 

Kapoor next co-featured in Mani Ratnam's bilingual undertaking "Yuva" close by Ajay Devgn, Abhishek Bachchan, Vivek Oberoi, Rani Mukerji and Esha Deol. The film, comprising of three parts, recounts to the tale of six people connected by an auto collision. Kapoor is highlighted in the third section as Oberoi's adoration intrigue (Meera, a clever young lady). In a "Seasons of India" survey film faultfinder Subhash K. Jha portrayed her job as "fey and inadequate", yet further expressed that "she turns these character characteristics to her very own favorable position to make a young lady who is on the double perplexing and all-there". She at that point showed up nearby Amitabh Bachchan and Fardeen Khan in Govind Nihalani's widely praised film "Dev", which spun around the 2002 Hindu-Muslim mobs in the Indian province of Gujarat. Kapoor's job was that of a Muslim injured individual named Aaliya, displayed after Zaheera Sheik (a key observer in Vadodara's Best Bakery case). It earned her a Filmfare Critics Award for Best Actress and designations for Best Actress at different honor services. Taran Adarsh portrayed her as "top notch" and specifically noticed her scene with Bachchan's character. 

Quickly a short time later, Kapoor was thrown out of the blue as a miscreant in the spine chiller "Fida". Set against the background of the Mumbai black market, the film pursues the account of an online heist in which her character, Neha Mehra, ends up included. In spite of the fact that the film was ineffective in the cinema world, Kapoor got positive surveys for her execution, and a few pundits noticed a particular movement from her prior jobs. Her ensuing discharges that year included Abbas-Mustan's spine chiller "Aitraaz" and Priyadarshan's parody "Hulchul", the two of which were effective at the Indian film industry. Following the achievement of her last two discharges, she was given a role as the hero of the 2005 dramatization "Bewafaa". The element got generally negative surveys, and Kapoor's depiction of Anjali Sahai (an unfaithful lady) was not generally welcomed. Nikhat Kazmi of Indiatimes trusted that to turn into a genuine on-screen character Kapoor was typifying a maturer, increasingly tainted character past her years in "Bewafaa". That equivalent year, she featured in the sentimental dramatizations "Kyon Ki" and "", the two of which failed to meet expectations in the cinema world; nonetheless, Kapoor's execution in "Kyon Ki" was commonly generally welcomed by faultfinders (with the BBC depicting her as "an unadulterated regular"). 

In 2006, Kapoor showed up in three movies. She initially featured in the spine chiller "36 China Town", trailed by the satire "Chup Ke"; both were respectably fruitful. She next depicted the character of Desdemona in "Omkara"— the Hindi adjustment of William Shakespeare's "Othello". The movie (coordinated by Vishal Bhardwaj) is a catastrophe of sexual envy set against the setting of the political framework in Uttar Pradesh. Depicting Bhardwaj as a "world-class chief [with] an interesting style", Kapoor was cast in the undertaking after the executive had seen her execution in "Yuva", and was in this way required to go to content perusing sessions alongside the whole cast. The component debuted at the 2006 Cannes Film Festival and was screened at the Cairo International Film Festival. "Omkara" was gotten decidedly by faultfinders, and Kapoor's depiction earned her a fourth Filmfare Award and first Screen Award. In a 2010 review of the "Best 80 Iconic Performances" of Hindi film, "Filmfare" composed that she was "splendid" and adulated her capacity to "effortless[ly]" pass on the different feelings her character experienced. Kapoor thought of her as job in "Omkara" as "another benchmark" in her profession, and contrasted her depiction of Dolly and her own advancing development as a lady. 

Following "Omkara", Kapoor enjoyed a short reprieve from acting, as she felt that "nothing [was] sufficiently moving for me to state yes". In a meeting with "The Times of India" Kapoor remarked, "In my underlying years in the business, I drove myself to complete a ton of work since I was ravenous. I did a few movies—which I currently lament—only for the cash. Today, I need to do particular movies." Later that year, she showed up quickly in one of the year's greatest hits, the Farhan Akhtar activity spine chiller "Wear" (a redo of the 1978 film of a similar name). 

Kapoor came back to film as the female hero Geet Dhillon, a vivacious Sikh young lady with a pizzazz, in the rom-com "Hit We Met" (2007). Chief Imtiaz Ali was not an outstanding figure before its creation, with just a single element credit to his name, however Kapoor consented to the film in the wake of being inspired with his "marvelous" content. Highlighted inverse Shahid Kapoor, the film relates the tale of two individuals with differentiating identities who meet on a train and inevitably experience passionate feelings for. The film was gotten positively by commentators and ended up effective in the cinema world with gross profit of . Kapoor won a few honors for her execution, including her second Screen Award and the Filmfare Award for Best Actress. Jaspreet Pandohar of the BBC remarked that the job required a blend of naivety and immediacy, and was inspired with Kapoor's exertion. The pundit Rajeev Masand marked her the film's "greatest quality, as she brings alive her character with those keen lines, yet with the sort of sincerity performers only occasionally put resources into their work." While shooting for "Poke We Met", Kapoor and Shahid finished their four-year relationship. At the point when asked by "Mumbai Mirror", she expressed "I hold him in most extreme respect, and I trust one day we could be great companions. He is an incredible person." 

The next year, Kapoor co-featured in Vijay Krishna Acharya's activity spine chiller "Tashan", where she met her future spouse in performing artist Saif Ali Khan. Despite the fact that a survey (led by Bollywood Hungama) named it the most foreseen arrival of the year, the film failed to meet expectations in the cinematic world earning in India. In the wake of giving her voice to the character of Laila, the adoration enthusiasm of a road hound named Romeo, in the Yash Raj Films and Walt Disney Pictures energized film "Roadside Romeo", Kapoor played a hesitant spouse who trusted her significant other was unfaithful in Rohit Shetty's satire "Golmaal Returns". A continuation of the 2006 film "", the film had an undecided gathering from faultfinders, and Kapoor got blended audits. "The Indian Express" trusted the screenplay was subordinate, closing: "There is nothing especially new about a suspicious spouse monitoring her significant other, and there is nothing especially new in the way Kareena plays it." "Golmaal Returns" was a money related accomplishment with worldwide incomes of . 

In 2009, Kapoor was given a role as Simrita Rai (a specialist who moonlights as a model) in Sabbir Khan's skirmish of-the-genders satire "Kambakkht Ishq", inverse Akshay Kumar. Set in Los Angeles, it was the main Indian film to be shot at Universal Studios and included appearance appearances by Hollywood on-screen characters. The film was inadequately gotten by faultfinders yet turned into a financial achievement, procuring over around the world; an audit in "Times of India" portrayed Kapoor's execution as "a total let-down" and "unconvincing". The movies flop "Primary Aurr Mrs Khanna" came straightaway, after which she played the main woman in the sensational spine chiller "Kurbaan", close by Saif Ali Khan and Vivek Oberoi. The movie (which denoted the directorial introduction of Rensil D'Silva) included Kapoor as Avantika Ahuja, a lady who is restricted to house capture subsequent to finding that her better half is a fear based oppressor. Depicting the film as "a sincerely depleting knowledge", Kapoor clarified that it was hard to separate from her character. The film was fundamentally applauded, and Kapoor got her fourth Filmfare Best Actress selection. Gaurav Malani of "The Economic Times" remarked that after quite a while the on-screen character was given "a job of substance that conveys her performing potential to the fore", while Subhash K. Jha depicted it as her "most reliably pitched execution to date" played "with awe inspiring affectability" and "credib[ility]". 

Kapoor's second Filmfare selection that year desired Rajkumar Hirani's National Film Award-winning "3 Idiots", a film approximately dependent on the novel "Five Point Someone" by Chetan Bhagat. Co-featuring nearby Aamir Khan, R. Madhavan and Sharman Joshi, Kapoor played Pia (a medicinal understudy and Khan's adoration intrigue). A few performing artists were considered for the job, however Kapoor was in the long run cast under the suggestion of Khan. The film got basic praise and rose as the most astounding netting Bollywood film ever up to that point, earning in India. It additionally did well globally, procuring over , the second greatest Bollywood achievement ever in the abroad market. "The Deccan Herald" opined that Kapoor "brings a bit of daylight and female beauty to a generally manly story. She is so spunky and unconstrained you wish there was space for a greater amount of her." "3 Idiots" got a few Best Movie acknowledgments at significant Indian honor capacities, and Kapoor was granted the IIFA Award for Best Actress, among others. 

In 2010, Kapoor showed up in the lighthearted comedy "Milenge", a generation deferred since 2005. The component collected negative audits and poor film industry returns. Kapoor's job was little, and not generally welcomed. She next featured nearby Kajol and Arjun Rampal in "We Are Family", an official adjustment of the Hollywood tragedy "Stepmom" (1998) from chief Siddharth Malhotra. Kapoor assumed the job of the vocation arranged Shreya Arora (a character initially played by Julia Roberts) and ceased from watching the film again so she could convey her own translation to it. Priyanka Roy of "The Telegraph" condemned the film for being "shallow and superfluously exaggerated", however applauded Kapoor for "breath[ing] life and a newly discovered development into what is to a great extent a uni-dimensional character". "We Are Family" developed a moderate achievement and Kapoor was granted the Best Supporting Actress at the 56th Filmfare Awards. Toward the year's end, she rejoined with executive Rohit Shetty for "Golmaal 3", a continuation of "Golmaal Returns". Like its antecedent, the film got blended surveys however rose as the best section in the "Golmaal" arrangement, procuring more than locally. For her depiction of the boyish girl Daboo, Kapoor got Best Actress selections at different honor services including Filmfare. 

Kapoor had further accomplishment in 2011 as the adoration enthusiasm of Salman Khan's character in the sentimental show "Protector", a revamp of the 2010 Malayalam film of a similar name. The film was not generally welcomed by pundits, however turned into a budgetary achievement, with a household aggregate of — India's most elevated procuring film of the year. An audit in "Mint" expelled Kapoor's job as the "conciliatory, decorative [and] compliant female"; "Late morning" alluded to her as "brilliant", contending that she "really figures out how to bring her exaggeration of a job alive". She next showed up in Anubhav Sinha's sci-fi film "Ra.One" with Shah Rukh Khan and Arjun Rampal. Made on a financial plan of — India's most costly film at the time—the film pursues the account of a London-based videogame architect making a wretched character who escapes into this present reality. Regardless of negative media inclusion of the's film industry execution, "Ra.One" ended up one of the greatest workers of the year with an overall aggregate of over , and Kapoor's fourth significant business accomplishment in three continuous years. 

Kapoor pursued her accomplishment in "Guardian" and "Ra.One" with a job in Shakun Batra's directorial debut "Ek Main Aur Ekk Tu" (2012) inverse Imran Khan. Set in Las Vegas, the lighthearted comedy pursues the narrative of two outsiders who get hitched one night subsequent to getting alcoholic. She played Riana Braganza, a cheerful young lady, and was especially attracted to the characteristics of her character: "Riana comprehends what she is doing. Despite the fact that she doesn't have a house or a vocation, she is a constructive individual [...] fundamentally the same as the manner in which I am." The film got positive surveys and was a monetary achievement, netting a sum of in India and abroad. "The Hollywood Reporter" discovered her "endearingly characteristic"; Sukanya Verma of Rediff.com declared that "subsequent to doing decorative jobs in movies like "Guardian" and "Ra.One", it is decent to see the spunky on-screen character in her component again since "Hit We Met"." She next showed up in "Operator Vinod", a secret activities spine chiller coordinated by Sriram Raghavan. Kapoor was eager about the task, yet it met with a lukewarm reaction and she was portrayed as miscast. At the point when inquired as to why she had played the job, Kapoor depicted it as a chance to endeavor something she had never done. 

For her next component, Kapoor was given a role as the hero of Madhur Bhandarkar's "Courageous woman", a dramatization spinning around the Bollywood film industry. Initially the main decision for the job, Kapoor was reluctant to take on the venture when Bhandarkar moved toward her with the film's underlying idea. With doubts about the analysis her character may summon, she was supplanted by Aishwarya Rai. Days after generation started, Rai left the film (because of her pregnancy) and Bhandarkar re-drew closer Kapoor with the film. At the point when the executive strengthened his confidence in her, she consented to do the film subsequent to having perused the finished content. Kapoor (who depicted her character of Mahi Arora—a blurring star—as "bipolar and schizophrenic") shunned taking on some other ventures, since she discovered "Courageous woman" "exceptionally forceful and tiring". Analysts observed the film to be "dully tedious", however noticed that it was watchable essentially because of Kapoor's execution. Rajeev Masand portrayed it as "a delectably camp exhibition," played "with most extreme genuineness". Bollywood Hungama opined that it was her best work to date and reasoned that "[t]hough her character is conflicting [...] Kareena outfits the courageous woman's character with an uncommon weakness and an extraordinary internal life." At the yearly Stardust Awards, Kapoor accumulated the Editor's Choice for Best Actress, and got extra selections at Filmfare, IIFA, Producers Guild, Screen and Stardust. 

On 16 October 2012, Kapoor wedded on-screen character Saif Ali Khan in a private function in Bandra, Mumbai, and a gathering was later held at The Taj Mahal Palace Hotel and the Lutyens Bungalow Zone in Mumbai and New Delhi individually. Kapoor expressed that in spite of adding Khan to her name she would keep rehearsing Hinduism after her marriage. Toward the year's end, she co-featured nearby Aamir Khan and Rani Mukerji as the "tantalizingly tempting whore" Rosie, in Reema Kagti's wrongdoing riddle "". Set against the setting of Mumbai's shady areas of town, it pursues the travails of its work force and foremost, Inspector Surjan Singh Shekhawat (Khan) who is doled out the obligation of settling a secretive fender bender. Pratim D. Gupta of "The Telegraph" observed Kapoor to be a champion among the gathering, including that "she brings a concealed blend of oomph and feeling that turns into the [film's] focal point". With worldwide incomes of , the film developed as a film industry hit, and earned Kapoor Best Actress designations at the Screen, Stardust and Zee Cine grant services. 

In 2013, Kapoor teamed up with Ajay Devgn for the fourth time (close by Amitabh Bachchan, Arjun Rampal, Manoj Bajpayee and Amrita Rao) in Prakash Jha's "Satyagraha", a troupe socio-political dramatization inexactly propelled by social dissident Anna Hazare's battle against debasement in 2011. The film got little recognition from pundits and failed to meet expectations in the cinematic world gaining locally. An audit in the "Day by day News and Analysis" noticed that Kapoor's job as correspondent Yasmin Ahmed might have been "constrained to mouthing a couple of 'essential' discoursed and being available in urgent scenes like any driving woman". Following an appearance in the ineffectively gotten rom-com "Gori Tere Pyaar Mein" (2013), Kapoor diminished her outstanding task at hand for the following two years to concentrate on her marriage and family. She took on littler parts where she played the adoration enthusiasm of Ajay Devgn and Salman Khan in the dramatizations "Singham Returns" (2014) and "Bajrangi Bhaijaan" (2015) individually. "Singham Returns" filled in as a continuation of the 2011 film "Singham" and Kapoor's job was composed explicitly for her by Rohit Shetty—the third time the pair worked together. Surveys for the film were commonly blended with Kapoor being condemned for playing a job of insignificant significance, yet the film was a money related accomplishment with an income of over . Kabir Khan's "Bajrangi Bhaijaan" developed as India's most astounding winning film of the year netting an aggregate of , and earned the National Film Award for Best Popular Film Providing Wholesome Entertainment at the 63rd National Film Awards. 

In 2016, Kapoor took on a featuring job inverse Arjun Kapoor in "Ki and Ka", a lighthearted comedy about sexual orientation generalizations from the author executive R. Balki. She was given a role as the driven and vocation situated Kia Bansal, and was especially attracted to the task for its significance and novel idea. Commentators were partitioned as they would see it of the film, yet it rose a money related achievement earning over around the world. Meena Iyer of "The Times of India" referenced Kapoor as "astounding" and Sukanya Verma believed the on-screen character to be the film's prime resource noticing her straightforwardness at "easily transition[ing] among delicate and unstable to uncover a lady agreeable in her own skin, unashamed in regards to living on her terms and never missing an event to mince words." 

Kapoor next assumed the job of Dr. Preet Sahni in Abhishek Chaubey's widely praised "Udta Punjab" (2016), a wrongdoing dramatization that reports the substance misuse endemic in the Indian territory of Punjab. Co-featuring close by Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt and Diljit Dosanjh, Kapoor was at first hesitant to do the film because of the length of her job, yet concurred subsequent to having perused the finished content and halfway deferred her expenses to star in it. "Udta Punjab" produced contention when the Central Board of Film Certification considered that the film spoke to Punjab in a negative light and requested broad oversight before its showy discharge. The Bombay High Court later cleared the film for presentation with one scene cut. Rediff.com expressed that in spite of being "the story's most customary character," the film "significantly depends on [her] for warmth and temperance" and Mehul S. Thakkar of "The Deccan Chronicle" composed that she was fruitful in "deliver[ing] a solid and hard hitting execution." For her execution, Kapoor got a selection for Best Supporting Actress at the Filmfare and Zee Cine grant functions. 

On 20 December 2016, Kapoor brought forth her child, Taimur Ali Khan Pataudi, at Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai. 

Following a two-year nonattendance from the screen, Kapoor featured in Shashanka Ghosh's "Veere Di Wedding" (2018), a female amigo film co-featuring Sonam Kapoor, Swara Bhaskar and Shikha Talsania. At first drew nearer for the venture in 2016, the creators revamped Kapoor's job to suit her pregnancy, however because of the absence of maternity protection in India, recording was pushed back to after she conceived an offspring. Anna M. M. Vetticad adulated the film for depicting ladies with "office, blemishes, mankind and, most importantly, a comical inclination", and observed Kapoor's "conveniently limited execution". With an overall gross of over , "Veere Di Wedding" developed as one of the most astounding earning Hindi movies highlighting a female hero. 

As of August 2018, Kapoor will rejoin with Akshay Kumar and Diljit Dosanjh in "Uplifting news", a parody dramatization about a couple attempting to get pregnant. She will likewise depict Mughal princess Jahanara Begum in Karan Johar's directorial adventure, "Takht", a chronicled show highlighting a troupe cast, including Ranveer Singh, Vicky Kaushal, Alia Bhatt, and Anil Kapoor. 

Nearby her acting work, Kapoor has set up a profession as a planner. Amid her five-year relationship with the retail chain Globus, Kapoor turned into the main Indian performing artist to dispatch her very own line of garments for ladies; she portrayed the coordinated effort as being "unique" and "intelligent of my own feeling of style". Her gathering made its introduction a while later in stores crosswise over India, and was generally welcomed. Following the finish of her agreement with Globus, she communicated a craving to work with a structure house to discharge her garments line universally, however later clarified that those plans were on hold. In August 2018, Kapoor worked together with Lakmé Cosmetics to dispatch her very own line of beauty care products. 

In 2009, Kapoor worked with nutritionist Rujuta Diwekar on "Don't Lose Your Mind, Lose Your Weight", a book which concentrated on the standards of good dieting propensities. Distributed by Random House Publications, the book was generally welcomed by faultfinders, and sold 10,000 duplicates inside its initial twenty days. A subsequent titled, "Ladies and The Weight Loss Tamasha", was discharged two years after the fact. It tended to the weight reduction concerns and dietary patterns of ladies in different pieces of their life, and included Kapoor in a voice-over for the book recording. In February 2013, Kapoor discharged her personal journal: "The Style Diary of a Bollywood Diva". Co-composed close by Rochelle Pinto, it turned into the principal book to be propelled under the Shobhaa De engraving of Penguin Books—a lot of arrangement that included superstar journals, aides and memoirs. In a survey distributed by "Mint", Shefalee Vasudev reprimanded the composition style as "excessively blustery" yet further expressed that it is "a very much delivered book, repeating chirpy little post-it notes and diet outlines, punctuated with Bebo's staggering pictures from her private collections to mold magazine covers." Later that year, she worked together with Diwekar for the third time on "The Indian Food Wisdom and The Art of Eating Right", a narrative film about nourishment. 

Amid her years in the film business, Kapoor has been effectively engaged with advancing youngsters' training and the security of ladies. In June 2010, she partook in the universal crusade 1GOAL Education for All, and was named represetative for the Shakti Campaign—a task propelled by NDTV to battle savagery against ladies—in remembrance of the 100th commemoration of International Women's Day. After two years, Kapoor propelled Channel V's enemy of assault versatile application 'VithU'; she expressed that with an expanding measure of viciousness against ladies in India, "[i]t [was] vital for performers to go to bat for issues since they can connect with many individuals." 

In January 2014, Kapoor started working with UNICEF to advocate the instruction of young ladies and increment quality based training in India. Talking about her affiliation, she communicated trust in making places "where youngsters feel protected and safe, and where intuitive and inventive apparatuses are utilized to guarantee that kids are glad and picking up." During the main year, Kapoor visited schools in the conditions of Rajasthan and Maharashtra where she collaborated with understudies and partook in raising support occasions facilitated by the Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya association in the Jalna locale. Alongside UNICEF India's Goodwill Ambassador (Sharmila Tagore), Kapoor facilitated a philanthropy supper to help bring issues to light for the advancement of underprivileged children, and propelled the 'Kid Friendly School and Systems' (CFSS) bundle. She later gave a comparable measure of the assets raised amid a joint activity by UNICEF and Groupon for a higher-quality learning condition in Indian schools. 

The next year, she granted 31 understudies and 5 educators for their commitment towards the field of instruction in Chhattisgarh at the finishing up service of Child Rights Protection week. Likewise that year, Kapoor gave a voice-over to the narrative film "Young lady Rising: Woh Padhegi, Woh Udegi" [She will learn, she will fly] for the association of a similar name, and created a narrative on ladies' strengthening. In June 2016, she talked at an occasion composed by UNICEF in Lucknow to advance menstrual cleanliness the executives. Following the introduction of her child, Kapoor composed an article distributed in "The Times of India" titled "How about we spare our infants", examining baby mortality, and propelled the "Each Child Alive" crusade to advance reasonable and quality medicinal services for moms and their infant. In May 2018, she was welcomed as a keynote speaker for a Mother's Day occasion in New Delhi sorted out by UNICEF. 

Moreover, Kapoor has shown up to help other magnanimous associations. She performed at a pledge drive for the World Youth Peace Summit in November 2003, and took an interest in a show to fund-raise for casualties of the 2004 Indian Ocean quake and tidal wave. She visited Indian "jawans" (troops) in Rajasthan, for an uncommon Holi weekend scene of NDTV's unscripted TV drama "Jai Jawaan". In 2010, Kapoor embraced the town of Chanderi in Madhya Pradesh as a major aspect of NDTV's Greenathon Campaign, to furnish the town with a customary supply of power. After four years, she partook in a battle to bring issues to light on appetite and lack of healthy sustenance on the planet and made gifts to the Kashmir flood alleviation. In September 2016, Kapoor went to the debut of Global Citizen India—a joint activity by the music celebration of a similar name and The Global Education and Leadership Foundation. The next year, Kapoor turned into the brand diplomat for Swasth Immunized India, a crusade launced by the Network18 Group and Serum Institute of India to advance vaccination for kids. 

Kapoor has partaken in a few phase shows and world visits since 2002. Her first visit (Heartthrobs: Live in Concert (2002) with Hrithik Roshan, Karisma Kapoor, Arjun Rampal and Aftab Shivdasani) was effective in the United States and Canada. Toward the finish of that year, she performed with a few other Bollywood stars at Kings Park Stadium in Durban, South Africa in the show Now or Never. 

After four years, Kapoor came back to the phase with six other Bollywood superstars in the effective Rockstars Concert world visit. The show was initially booked to begin in April 2006, however was delayed because of the capture of Salman Khan. It later started the next month and was organized in 19 urban areas over the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada. In 2008, Kapoor performed in Shah Rukh Khan's Temptation Reloaded 2008, a progression of shows in various nations. The show (which additionally highlighted Arjun Rampal, Katrina Kaif, Ganesh Hegde, Javed Ali and Anusha Dandekar) appeared at the Ahoy Rotterdam setting in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. A while later she again joined Khan, Rampal and Kaif to perform for a crowd of people of 15,000 at Dubai's Festival City Arena. In 2018, Kapoor teamed up with Ishq FM to have a radio show "What Women Want". 

Known for her apathetic association with the media, Kapoor has picked up a notoriety for talking about her private existence without any reservations. As a youngster she consistently gone to grant functions and occasions with her family, and would likewise go with Karisma on-set amid shooting. In a meeting with "Filmfare", she clarified that experiencing childhood in a film family helped her build up a feeling of demonstrable skill and commitment towards her specialty. Kapoor's private life has been the subject of media consideration in India, with successive press inclusion of her weight and association with performing artist Saif Ali Khan. The couple—named "Saifeena" by the stimulation media—has been one of the nation's most-detailed VIP stories since 2007, and Kapoor brought forth their child Taimur on 20 December 2016. 

While a section of the press has depicted Kapoor as neighborly and amazingly near her family, others have censured her for being self-important and vain—a picture she picked up in the wake of her shallow character, Poo, in "Kabhi Khushi Kabhie Gham..." (2001). She along these lines included in movies depicting comparative characters, and this further settled her now and again screen personae. Before the arrival of "Chameli" (2004) (in which she played a sex laborer), Kapoor expressed that "there is a sure picture that individuals distinguish you with [and] [i]t dependably tails you whichever job you play. I am endeavoring to transgress this picture and become more screen-accommodating than picture amicable." "Chameli" helped Kapoor reexamine her on-screen persona, and she later clarified that her trustworthiness and transparency was regularly seen by the media as presumption. 

Kapoor is additionally known for her decisive and touchy nature, and her straightforward perspectives and autonomy have been singled out for making significant commitments to her profession; they "add to her whiz air". In an early meeting, she admitted to being a "thoughtful person, yet [...] amazingly genuine and obtuse", thinking: "All out confidence and complete faith in myself is my frame of mind towards life, films and for all intents and purposes everything else. I am tied in with doing what I feel is correct. It is difficult to bind me as I can be a heap of inconsistencies." Journalist Subhash K Jha clarified that while this methodology has in some cases been at the expense of expert chances, it "makes her such a most loved among the age that has confidence in self respect being the most noteworthy type of innovativeness [...] She lives for the minute and packs all her power into it, not saving a solitary idea for what is gone and what is sticking around the bend." Meanwhile, Anu Ahuja proposed that Kapoor's aura is a demonstration; she is "cold and inaccessible so nobody will act clever with her". 

Today, Kapoor is considered as a standout amongst the most well known Bollywood superstars in India. Her look and exhibitions have built up her as a style symbol for young ladies. In a 2009 survey directed by the paper "Every day News and Analysis" Kapoor was casted a ballot a standout amongst India's most well known symbols; with her accomplice Saif Ali Khan, she was recorded among the top superstar endorsers for brands and items around the world. She turned into the main Indian performing artist to be highlighted on CNNGo's rundown of "Who Mattered Most in India", and was later chosen by "Verve" for its rundown of the nation's most influential ladies from 2008– 2013 and in 2016. In June 2010, Kapoor was named "India's Most Beautiful Woman" by the Indian release of "Individuals" magazine; "Eastern Eye" and "Indian Maxim" named her as "Asia's Sexiest Woman" and "India's Hottest Woman" in 2011 and 2012 separately. The next year, she was chosen by "India Today" for its rundown of the nation's most persuasive ladies. From 2012– 18, Kapoor has highlighted on "Forbes India"s "Big name 100," a rundown dependent on the pay and ubiquity of India's big names, cresting at the seventh position in 2012 with an expected yearly procuring of . 

As per media reports, Kapoor depends on her senses and suddenness as a performer. She is known to submit intensely to every job, and ceases from practicing for an undertaking. Remarking on this, executive Rajkumar Hirani said "I ordinarily have a propensity for directing practices for my performers, however she demanded not having them as it would influence her suddenness. She truly shocked me with two or three enthusiastic scenes which we canned in only one take." Karan Johar portrayed Kapoor as a "characteristic", clarifying that "she has no specialty, sentence structure or procedure appended to her acting [...] It is an incredible feeling of film that can prop her up." According to Rensil D'Silva (who guided her in "Kurbaan"), "Kareena [..] is instinctual and has passionate insight. She retains the circumstance and performs as needs be. Talking about the scene, truth be told, hurts her." 

While talking about her vocation features in a 2010 article, Rediff.com noted: "[E]ven however a great deal of her featuring jobs have been forgettable, [a] take a gander at her filmography now, notwithstanding, would demonstrate a progressively astute choice of jobs [...] playing to her qualities." Her depiction of a progression of shallow characters toward the beginning of her profession were scrutinized; film student of history Gyan Prakash clarified that these jobs "tended to infantilise her, bundling her as daddy's daughter, all air pocket and no bubble". Pundits noted "Chameli" (2004) as her transitioning, asserting that "another performer in her was found". Following her depiction of an assortment of character types in "Chameli", "Dev" (2004), "Omkara" (2006) and "Hit We Met" (2007), Kapoor was noted for her flexibility. In 2010, "Filmfare Magazine" included two of her exhibitions—from "Omkara" and "Punch We Met"— in its rundown of "80 Iconic Performances". "India Today" named her "the most flexible female lead in the business", taking note of that she "play[s] her jobs with trademark spunk". 

Manjula Sen of "The Telegraph" composed that in spite of the fact that she has "the most exceedingly awful achievement proportion among her peers", it doesn't influence her attractiveness. Sen further clarified that Kapoor's quality lies in her being adaptable; she is "easily genuine in her exhibitions. It is a sincerity that overflow in her own lead." Writing for CNN-News18, Rituparna Chatterjee talked about her change to date: "[A]fter 40 movies and 10 years of fending off challenge from probably the most flexible on-screen characters of her age, Kareena has developed into a bankable performer rehashing herself without hardly lifting a finger." In 2004, Kapoor set third on Rediff's rundown of "Top Bollywood Female Stars". She was later positioned seventh and fifth in 2005 and 2006, separately, and came back to third place in 2007. In January 2011, Kapoor put fourth on Rediff's rundown of "Top 10 Actresses of 2000– 2010". 

Kapoor has gotten six Filmfare Awards out of ten assignments. For her job in "Exile", Kapoor was granted the Best Female Debut in 2000. She earned an uncommon jury acknowledgment for "Chameli" (2003), and two Critics Award for Best Actress for "Dev" (2004) and "Omkara" (2006). Kapoor later got the Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress for "Hit We Met" (2007) and "We Are Family" (2010) individually.