Sonic: After the Sequel 

Sonic: After the Sequel is a 2013 stage computer game made by Brazilian understudy Felipe Daneluz (LakeFeperd). It is an informal amusement dependent on the "Sonic the Hedgehog" arrangement and set between the official diversions "Sonic the Hedgehog 2" and "Sonic the Hedgehog 3". Daneluz's second "Sonic" amusement, it pursues "Sonic: Before the Sequel", which set between the first "Sonic the Hedgehog" and "Sonic the Hedgehog 2". Like its forerunner, "After the Sequel" stars Sonic the Hedgehog and his sidekick Tails in a journey to recover the Chaos Emeralds from Doctor Eggman. 

"After the Sequel" was motivated by "Sonic Heroes" and different recreations both inside and outside the "Sonic" arrangement, and it was created with Sonic Worlds, a motor situated in Multimedia Fusion 2 that diminishes the measure of PC programming associated with amusement creation. It was discharged as a free download for Microsoft Windows PCs on June 15, 2013. The diversion was very generally welcomed by computer game columnists, who praised its protection of retro "Sonic" ongoing interaction and its varied, 1990s-style soundtrack. The set of three of "Before the Sequel", "After the Sequel", and their successor "Sonic Chrono Adventure" performed abnormally well for fangames, having been downloaded multiple times by March 2014. 

"After the Sequel" is a 2D platformer in the style of the "Sonic" recreations for the Sega Genesis. All things considered, it gives the player a chance to control either the blue hedgehog Sonic or his orange fox companion Tails. The two characters can move left and appropriate with the bolt keys and hop with the "Z" key; Tails can likewise travel to achieve regions Sonic can't. The amusement happens in seven dimensions, known as zones, each separated into three acts pursued by a supervisor battle with Doctor Eggman. These zones are intended for quick paced ongoing interaction, highlighting common "Sonic" impediments, for example, unlimited pits and vertical circles. The zones depend on different topics, including frequented houses, urban areas, magma caves, winter amusement stops, and sugar preparing plants. 

The player gathers rings in zones and manager battles as a type of wellbeing: after being hit by a foe or unsafe impediment, the player's rings will dissipate and can be remembered. Being hit while conveying no rings, being smashed by a snag, or falling into an endless pit makes the player lose an actual existence; coming up short on lives results in an amusement over screen, after which the player must restart the zone from act one. Then again, gathering 100 rings gets the player an additional life, and finishing a demonstration with 50 takes the player to an exceptional stage, where they can gather rings for additional lives. The amusement additionally includes catalysts all through its zones, which are initiated with the "X" key: these incorporate commonplace "Sonic" catalysts, for example, shields and additional lives, just as new ones. The "Shaft" control up for Sonic and the "Mirror" control up for Tails are acquired from and credited to Nintendo's "Kirby" arrangement. 

Toward the finish of "Sonic the Hedgehog 2", Sonic and Tails fly over the sea in Tails' biplane, the Tornado, in the wake of overcoming Doctor Eggman. Starting here, "After the Sequel" portrays Sonic and Tails seeing a forested island and choosing to make an arrival and investigate. In the wake of finishing the main zone, Sonic finds a robot taking after Tails—a snare sprung by Eggman. The robot entraps Sonic in a forcefield while Eggman takes Sonic's Chaos Emeralds. Sonic escapes and sets out with Tails to recuperate the Emeralds. 

The two travel through more zones and battle Eggman toward the finish of every one. They pursue Eggman to a woodland, where he drives a monstrous logging task. Together with Mighty the Armadillo, they pulverize his hardware and stop the activity. They proceed through the timberland and discover apparitions that unnerve Tails. Crushing one of Eggman's robots lets Sonic see its interior design, including a screen that demonstrates Eggman's arrangements to make a realm and drop a drifting island into the ocean. 

In Parhelion Peak, the diversion's snow zone, Sonic and Tails see a quill glide down from the sky. They board another of Eggman's aircrafts and complete another zone, whereupon they discover another plume. They follow the quills to Eggman's feathered creature like robot, which is guarding the Emeralds. Sonic recovers the Emeralds and utilizations them to turn out to be Super Sonic. He battles the robot as the amusement's last supervisor. After its thrashing, Sonic and Tails fly on board the Tornado again—the segue into the occasions of "Sonic the Hedgehog 3". 

"After the Sequel" was made by Felipe Daneluz (referred to on the Internet as "LakeFeperd"), an understudy from São Paulo, Brazil. Not at all like numerous long-term "Sonic" fans, Daneluz stayed steady of the arrangement through its "dim age" in the mid to late 2000s and delighted in recreations, for example, "Sonic Riders". Due to his proceeded with energy toward later "Sonic" amusements, Daneluz chose to make a retro-styled "Sonic" diversion. Not being knowledgeable in PC programming, Daneluz took to the open-source, visual amusement motor Sonic Worlds, which is custom fitted to make "Sonic" zones inside the program Multimedia Fusion 2. Resolved to make his amusement emerge in spite of his restricted specialized capability, Daneluz chose to set his first diversion in the time between "Sonic the Hedgehog" and "Sonic 2", calling it "Sonic: Before the Sequel". He set the development, entitled "Sonic: After the Sequel", between "Sonic 2" and "Sonic 3, "and a third portion, "Sonic Chrono Adventure," between "Sonic 3" and "Sonic CD". 

"After the Sequel"s zones were roused to a great extent by those of "Sonic Heroes". One dimension called RedHot Ride Zone, be that as it may, depended essentially on a dimension of a similar name in "". Thoughts for different zones originated from "Sonic Riders" and a "Sonic"- style melody called "Battle Night Zone" by electronic craftsman MaxieDaMan. Daneluz envisioned Sonic being high on sugar in the Sugar Splash Zone. Daneluz started making each dimension by drawing out thoughts on paper, at that point exchanging them to Adobe Photoshop before taking a shot at the foes and level structure. Not at all like the distributers of numerous different amusements on which fangames have been based, especially Nintendo, "Sonic" arrangement distributer Sega has not sent a restraining request or other sign of dissatisfaction to Daneluz. He has guessed that the organization does not have any desire to disturb its fanbase. 

The music arrangement and recording were dealt with by underground performers Falk Au Yeong, Funk Fiction, Andy Tunstall, James Landino, DJ Max-E, Mr. Lange, and Li Xiao'an. Daneluz had not made arrangements to join unique music until Falk moved toward him mentioning coordinated effort on the amusement. Funk Fiction has asserted that the music traverses in excess of twenty classes and was impacted by shake, jazz, disco, and excursion bounce and the soundtracks of amusement establishments like "Sonic", "Jackass Kong", and "Kirby". Because of the dimensions in "After the Sequel" by and large taking more time to finish than those in "Before the Sequel", the music tracks are longer, assessed by Falk as running from one moment and 45 seconds to three minutes. 

In August 2017, Daneluz re-discharged the amusement as "Sonic: After the Sequel DX". This variant highlights improved material science, the expansion of the drop dash from "Sonic Mania", and another last manager. 

"After the Sequel" has gotten positive inclusion for its rejuvenation of retro "Sonic" ongoing interaction. Tony Ponce of Destructoid condensed it as "a remarkable fun little pearl that keeps the Genesis-time Sonic soul alive". He differentiated the retro, fan-made "After the Sequel" with Sega's endeavors to make excellent 3D titles, bemoaning that, fifteen years after the arrival of "Sonic Adventure", Sega was "just "now" beginning to get the hang of the third measurement." John Polson from IndieGames.com called the amusement "incredible" and "dazzling", while Kotaku's András Neltz expressed that "it looks astonishing" and exhorted perusers not to give the diversion's status as a fan a chance to work dismiss them from it. Nintendo Life author Damien McFerran likewise called the diversion "noteworthy". The UK gaming staff for Red Bull's site expressed that, in spite of Sega's persistent arrivals of "Sonic" diversions, "few have very recovered the rush of bursting through a 2D maze at lightspeed in the manner in which that fan made "Sonic After The Sequel" has." A second Red Bull article, by writer Ben Sillis, shouted that "you need to play" it. 

The amusement's music has been especially generally welcomed. Ponce called it "the best music ever" and "basically indefinable", opining that it raised an effectively top notch item "to god level". Ponce composed an article devoted to the diversion's music two days after the fact, illuminating that it meets or outperforms the nature of some other "Sonic" amusement's soundtrack. The more saved Polson guaranteed that the music "unquestionably shakes" and is more clear than that of Genesis amusements. Thus, the Red Bull staff called the music "totally shocking", comparing it to gaming soundtracks of the mid 1990s. For McFerran, the soundtrack was "similarly as imperative" as the remainder of the diversion. 

The diversion is accessible as a free download for Windows PCs. As of March 2014, the set of three had been downloaded multiple times—a surprisingly high number for fangames—when contrasted with the 640,000 duplicates of the official amusement "Sonic Lost World" (likewise discharged in 2013) sold on the Wii U by a similar time.