Harta Berdarah 

Harta Berdarah (; Indonesian for "Grisly Treasure") is a 1940 activity film from the Dutch East Indies (presently Indonesia). Coordinated by the as of late contracted Rd Ariffien and R Hu for Union Films, the film was composed by Saeroen and endeavored to draw instructed Native gatherings of people. The film, which stars Zonder and Soelastri, recounts a young fellow who persuades a niggardly hadji to be increasingly beneficent and, all the while, begins to look all starry eyed at the man's girl. 

Discharged amid Eid al-Fitr, "Harta Berdarah" was promoted as a "brilliant Indonesian activity hit" and utilized Zonder's "silat" abilities and Soelastri's acclaim as "keroncong" vocalist to draw groups of onlookers. Audits for the work were sure, with commendation concentrated on its acting and story. Despite the fact that "Harta Berdarah" was screened as late as 1944, similarly as with most contemporary preparations it is currently likely lost. 

In the town of Soekasari, Mardjan (Oedjang) is compellingly expelling individuals who are unfit to settle their regulatory expenses to his manager, the proprietor Hadji Doerachman (Moesa). Doerachman, however mindful of this, is reluctant to stop him, even after his little girl, Atikah (Soelastri), attempts to persuade him. 

Mardjan and his men remove Asmadi, his better half Tjitjih (RS Fatimah), and Asmadi's debilitated mother. At the point when Asmadi opposes, Mardjan beats and keeps him. In the mean time, a young fellow named Rachmat (Zonder) is visiting his auntie in Soekasari. Learning of Mardjan's dealings, Rachmat discovers him at Doerachman's home and demands that Mardjan stop. Whenever Mardjan and his men endeavor to battle, Rachmat overwhelms them and arranges Asmadi's discharge. Thereafter, Rachmat returns to his auntie's home. Asmadi comes back to his, just to discover that his mom had kicked the bucket soon after the ousting; he swears retribution. 

At some point, Rachmat hears shouting and discovers Atikah, who has blacked out subsequent to seeing a snake. After she recaptures cognizance, Atikah expresses gratitude toward him for safeguarding her. In spite of the fact that Rachmat is disturbed that he has helped her subsequent to learning the character of Atikah's dad, as Rachmat and Atikah devote their opportunity to social work, they start to begin to look all starry eyed at. Doerachman, be that as it may, dislikes their relationship, and won't support their work; thus, Atikah takes her perished mother's adornments and some cash to pay for town advancement. Afterward, when Rachmat and Atikah are sitting together and singing sentimental tunes, Mardjan catches them. Rushing back to Doerachman's home, Mardjan persuades his manager that Rachmat plans just to take Doerachman's riches, and to let Mardjan wed Atikah. As Doerachman gets ready to leave, Mardjan has the ignorant hadji put his seal on a letter. 

In anticipation of her marriage to Mardjan, Atikah is separated at home. Learning of this assurance to be wedded, Rachmat goes to Doerachman and, subsequent to battling Mardjan and his men, takes the hadji to the town where he and Atikah had started advancement programs. As they had all worked in Doerachman's name, the townspeople don't fear him, yet regard him. This, and the degree of the advancements, makes Doerachman understand that storing his riches for himself does not make him as upbeat as utilizing it for philanthropy. The two, joined by Asmadi, hustle back to Doerachman's home, just to discover Mardjan and his men sitting relaxedly on the entryway patio. 

After he is confronted by Doerachman, Mardjan uncovers that the letter which Doerachman marked was really an announcement conceding Mardjan the majority of the hadji's riches. Irate at Mardjan's conduct, Asmadi assaults him while Rachmat limits the others. After a protracted blade battle, Mardjan's foot is gotten in the railroad tracks, and he is before long murdered by a passing train. Doerachman, satisfied with the arrival of his riches, devastates the letter and gives Rachmat consent to wed Atikah. 

Association Films was set up in 1940 by ethnic Chinese agents Ang Hock Liem and Tjoa Ma Tjoen. After the achievement of its first creation, "Kedok Ketawa" ("The Laughing Mask"), the chief Jo A Djan left for Populair's Film. Association enlisted new ability, including R Hu, Rd Ariffien, and Saeroen. Every one of the three were instrumental in the creation of "Harta Berdarah"; Hu and Ariffien filled in as co-executives, both in their introductions, and Saeroen – who had composed the business victories "Terang Boelan" ("Full Moon"; 1937) and "Fatima" (1938) for other companies – composed the story. Ariffien attributed their hirings to Union's enthusiasm for pulling in instructed Native gatherings of people. 

"Harta Berdarah" featured Soelastri and Zonder, and included Moesa, Oedjang, Oesman, Haroen, and Abdullah. A large number of these performers, including Soelastri and Fatimah, had jobs in "Kedok Ketawa", and Moesa, however as of late marked, had recently represented another organization. Zonder, who made his film debut in "Harta Berdarah", was knowledgeable in the customary military craft of "silat", while Soelastri was otherwise called a "keroncong" vocalist under the stage name Miss Ning; both utilized these aptitudes for the film, which was scored by Hugo Dumas' melodic troupe Lief Java. Cinematography for the generation was taken care of by KH Tjit. 

"Harta Berdarah" was discharged in late October 1940, to agree with the Eid al-Fitr occasion. The film, once in a while promoted under the Dutch title "Bloedgeld", was charged as a "great Indonesian activity hit". A novelisation, distributed by the Yogyakarta-based Kolff-Buning, was later discharged; it incorporates a few generation stills. 

Gathering was sure. An unknown audit in "De Indische Courant" reasoned that the film was straightforward yet all around delivered, with solid exchange and funniness. Another audit, in the "Soerabaijasch Handelsblad", was moreover constructive; it found the film not at all like prior local preparations, in which "a gathering of hardened individuals moved woodenly and removed incoherent sounds", getting to be something which could be delighted in by anybody, "Indonesian or European alike". 

After "Harta Berdarah", Union delivered a further five movies; everything except one were coordinated by Hu or Ariffien. Saeroen composed three of them, leaving for Star Film following "Wanita dan Satria" (1941). The greater part of the cast stayed with Union for a few creations; the organization's consequent generation, "Bajar dengan Djiwa" (1941), for example, again featured Zonder and Soelastri. Association Films was eventually disintegrated following the Japanese control of the Dutch East Indies in March 1942. 

"Harta Berdarah" was screened as late as July 1944. The film is likely lost. Motion pictures in the Indies were recorded on profoundly combustible nitrate film, and after a shoot wrecked quite a bit of Produksi Film Negara's stockroom in 1952, old movies shot on nitrate were purposely pulverized. In that capacity, American visual anthropologist Karl G. Heider proposes that every single Indonesian film from before 1950 are lost. In any case, JB Kristanto's "Katalog Film Indonesia" ("Indonesian Film Catalog") records a few as having made due at Sinematek Indonesia's chronicles, and the film student of history Misbach Yusa Biran composes that some Japanese purposeful publicity movies can be found at the Netherlands Government Information Service.