SMS Körös 

SMS "Körös () was the name ship of the "Körös"- class stream screens worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy. Finished in 1892, the ship was a piece of the Danube Flotilla, and battled different Allied powers from Belgrade down the Danube to the Black Sea amid World War I. After brief administration with the Hungarian People's Republic toward the finish of the war, she was exchanged to the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia), and renamed Morava". She stayed in administration all through the interwar period, in spite of the fact that spending confinements implied she was not generally in full commission. 

Amid the World War II German-drove Axis attack of Yugoslavia in April 1941, "Morava" was the lead of the second Mine Barrage Division, and worked on the River Tisza. She fended off assaults by the "Luftwaffe", and shot down one foe air ship, however was compelled to pull back to Belgrade. Because of high stream levels and low extensions, exploring screens was troublesome, and she was abandoned by her group on 11 April. A portion of her group attempted to escape crosscountry towards the southern Adriatic coast, however most surrendered on 14 April. The rest of their way to the Bay of Kotor, which was caught by the Italian XVII Corps on 17 April. She was later raised by the Navy of the Independent State of Croatia, an Axis manikin state, and proceeded in administration as Bosna until June 1944, when she struck a mine and sank. 

The name ship of the "Körös"- class stream screens was worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy by H. Schönichen. She was set down at Budapest on 30 March 1890. "Körös" and her sister deliver multiplied the measure of Austria-Hungary's Danube Flotilla. The two screens each had a general length of , a light emission and an ordinary draft of . Her removal was , and her team comprised of 77 officers and enrolled men. The ship was controlled utilizing steam created by two Yarrow boilers driving two triple-development steam motors, and conveyed of coal. Her motors were evaluated at and she was intended to achieve a top speed of . 

"Körös" was furnished with two single firearm turrets of/L35 fore and behind, two superfiring/L42 hostile to airplane weapons ensured by weapon shields on the superstructure fore and toward the back, and two automatic rifles. Her primary firearms shot a shield puncturing, high dangerous, shrapnel or discontinuity shell to a most extreme scope of at a height of 20°. They could discourage to −6° and raise to +25°. Her covering comprised of a belt and bulkheads thick, deck protective layer thick, and conning tower and weapon turret defensive layer thick. The protective layer was delivered by the Witkowitz steel works, in Moravia. She was propelled on 5 February 1892 and appointed on 21 April of that year. Her sister dispatch "Szamos" was finished in 1893, and was indistinguishable with the exception of covering on her conning tower. 

Toward the beginning of World War I, "Körös" was based at Zemun, only upstream from Belgrade on the Danube. Her administrator was "Linienschiffsleutnant" (LSL) Josef Meusburger, and she was joined by another three screens and three watch water crafts. Austria-Hungary announced war on Serbia on 28 July 1914, and that night the flotilla discharged the main shots of the war against fortresses at the Zemun– Belgrade railroad connect over the stream Sava and on the Topčider Hill, despite the fact that "Körös" was not at first included. The Serbs were outgunned by the screens, and by August started to get help from the Russians. This help incorporated the supply and emplacement of maritime weapons and the foundation of waterway hindrances and mines. 

The Austro-Hungarian base at Zemun was quickly emptied because of a Serbian counterattack in September. On 28 September, Körös, alongside the screen , a watch vessel and a minesweeper, got through the minefields on the Sava close Belgrade and drove upstream to join the battling close Šabac. In November, French mounted guns support landed in Belgrade, imperiling the screen's safe haven. The stalemate proceeded until December 1914 when the Serbs quickly cleared Belgrade notwithstanding an Austro-Hungarian strike, despite the fact that "Körös" did not bolster this activity. After under about fourteen days, the Austro-Hungarians needed to pull back from Belgrade, and it was before long recovered by the Serbs with Russian and French help. "Körös" proceeded in real life against Serbia and her partners at Belgrade until December, when the base of the Danube Flotilla was pulled back north to Petrovaradin for the winter. 

In January 1915, British big guns touched base in Belgrade, further reinforcing its resistances. On 22 April 1915, a British picket pontoon that had been brought overland by rail from Salonika was utilized to assault the Danube Flotilla port at Zemun, terminating two torpedoes without progress. Bulgaria joined the Central Powers in September 1915, and the Serbian Army before long confronted a staggering Austro-Hungarian, German and Bulgarian ground attack. On 7 October, the Austro-Hungarian third Army assaulted Belgrade, and "Körös", alongside most of the flotilla, was vigorously occupied with help of the intersections close to the Belgrade Fortress and Ada Ciganlija island. Amid the last waterway intersection and backing of the subsequent bridgehead, the ship gave close help, amid which her stack was hit and harmed. The next day, "Körös" helped SMS "Enns" when the last endured an immediate shot and started to take on water. 

Following the catch of Belgrade, the flotilla cruised downstream to Orșova close to the Hungarian– Romanian outskirt and trusted that the lower Danube will be cleared for mines. It at that point escorted a progression of weapons caravans down the Danube to Lom, from where they were exchanged to the Bulgarian railroad framework for shipment to the Ottoman Empire. 

In November 1915, "Körös" and different screens were gathered at Ruschuk, Bulgaria. The situation of Romania was questionable; the Central Powers knew that the Romanians were consulting to enter the war on the contradicting side of the Entente. To secure the Danube's outskirt among Romania and Bulgaria, the flotilla built up a shielded base in the Belene Canal. At the point when the Romanians entered the war on 27 August 1916, the screens were again at Rustschuk, and were promptly assaulted by three extemporized torpedo vessels working out of the Romanian waterway port of Giurgiu. The torpedoes that were terminated missed the screens however hit a lighter stacked with fuel. The Second Monitor Division, comprising of "Körös" and three different screens, was entrusted with shelling Giurgiu. This assault set flame to oil stockpiling tanks just as the railroad station and magazines, and sank a few Romanian lighters. While the assault was in progress, the First Monitor Division escorted supply transports back to the Belene mooring. The "Körös" and her colleagues at that point wrecked two Romanian watch water crafts and an extemporized minelayer on their way back to Belene. This was trailed by raids of the screens both east and west of Belene, amid which both Turnu Măgurele and Zimnicea were shelled. 

In April 1918, "Körös", alongside three different screens, two watch vessels and a pull, were framed into "Flottenabteilung Wulff" (Fleet Division Wulff) under the order of "Flottenkapitän" (Fleet Captain) Olav Wulff. "Flottenabteilung Wulff" was sent through the mouth of the Danube and over the Black Sea to Odessa, where it went through a while supporting the Austro-Hungarian troops authorizing the harmony concurrence with Russia. It came back to the Danube toward the finish of August, and was tied down at Brăila on 12 September. On 16 October, "Körös" and the remainder of the First Monitor Division cruised from Brăila to Belene. For a little while the Danube Flotilla was occupied with securing Austro-Hungarian troops withdrawing towards Budapest, battling French and unpredictable Serbian powers as they pulled back; the flotilla touched base in Belene on 6 November. 

After the Armistice of Villa Giusti marked by the Austro-Hungarians on 3 November 1918, "Körös" was worked by the naval force of the Hungarian People's Republic between 6 November and 13 December. She was then manned by mariners of the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (KSCS, later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia) in 1918– 19. Under the terms of the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye closed in September 1919, "Körös" was exchanged to the KSCS alongside a scope of different vessels, including three other stream screens, yet was authoritatively given over to the KSCS Navy and renamed "Morava" in 1920. Her sister dispatch "Szamos" was disassembled and utilized as a barge. In 1925– 26, "Morava" was refitted, however by the next year just two of the four stream screens of the KSCS Navy were being held in full commission whenever. In 1932, the British maritime attaché detailed that Yugoslav boats were taking part in little gunnery preparing, and few activities or moves, because of decreased spending plans. 

On 6 April 1941, when the World War II German-drove Axis attack of Yugoslavia started, "Morava" was put together at Stara Kanjiža with respect to the Tisza waterway, as the lead of the second Mine Barrage Division. This power was in charge of the Hungarian fringe, and went under the operational control of the seventh Infantry Division "Potiska". The rest of the second Mine Barrage Division comprised of the waterway pull "R-XXI", the stream transport "Senta", and a couple prepared traditions speedboats, put together further south with respect to the Tisza at Senta. On 7 April, "Morava" pulled back to Senta, where she was assaulted by German air ship. As per her administrator, "Poručnik bojnog broda" Božidar Aranđelović, her group shot down one German flying machine and caught a "Luftwaffe" "Oberstleutnant". On 10 April, "Morava" was requested to pull back to accommodate with the retreat of the second Army Group of the Royal Yugoslav Army from Bačka and Baranja. On the night of 11 April, "Morava" moored at the conversion of the Danube and Sava close Belgrade, alongside her individual screens "Vardar" and "Sava", and Aranđelović took direction of the flotilla. The three chiefs gave, and chose to abandon their vessels because of the high water levels in the streams and low scaffolds, which implied inadequate leeway for the screens to explore openly. The groups of the screens were transshipped to two tugboats, yet when one of the tugboats was going under a railroad connect, annihilation charges on the scaffold detonated rashly and the extension fell onto the tugboat. Of the 110 officers and men on board the vessel, 95 were executed. 

After the leaving of the screens, around 450 officers and men from the "Morava" and different other riverine vessels assembled at Obrenovac, and equipped just with individual weapons and some assault rifles took from the left vessels, began towards the Bay of Kotor in the southern Adriatic in two gatherings. The bigger of the two gatherings just made it to the extent Sarajevo on 14 April before they surrendered. The littler gathering advanced toward the Bay of Kotor, and was caught by the Italian XVII Corps on 17 April. 

"Morava" was later raised and fixed by the naval force of an Axis manikin express, the Independent State of Croatia, in which she filled in as "Bosna". She served close by her individual screen "Sava", which had likewise been raised and fixed, yet held her name. Alongside six caught speedboats and ten assistant vessels, they made up the riverine police power of the Croatian state. "Bosna" was a piece of the second Patrol Group of the River Flotilla Command, headquartered at Zemun. She struck a mine close Bosanski Novi on the River Una and sank in June 1944. The next year she was raised and separated.