Yugoslav screen Vardar 

The Yugoslav screen "Vardar was a "Sava"- class stream screen worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy as SMS "Bosna, however was renamed SMS "Temes (II)" before she went into administration. Amid World War I she was the leader of the Danube Flotilla, and battled the Serbian Army, the Romanian Navy and Army, and the French Army. She returned to the name "Bosna" in May 1917, after the first SMS "Temes" was raised and came back to support. After brief administration with the Hungarian People's Republic toward the finish of the war, she was exchanged to the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia), and renamed "Vardar". She stayed in administration all through the interwar period, in spite of the fact that spending confinements implied she was not generally in full commission. 

Amid the German-drove Axis attack of Yugoslavia in April 1941, she was the lead of the first Monitor Division, and alongside her individual screen , she laid mines in the Danube close to the Romanian outskirt amid the initial couple of days of the intrusion. The two screens fended off a few assaults by the "Luftwaffe", however were compelled to pull back to Belgrade. Because of high stream levels and low extensions, the screens' route was troublesome, and they were abandoned by their teams on 11 April. A portion of her group may have been executed when a destroyed extension crumbled onto a tugboat after they deserted ship. A number endeavored to escape crosscountry towards the southern Adriatic coast, however most were obliged to surrender to the Germans at Sarajevo on 14 April. The rest of their way to the Bay of Kotor, where they were caught by the Italian XVII Corps on 17 April. 

"Vardar" was a "Sava"- class waterway screen worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy by Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino, and was set down as "Bosna" at Linz in 1914, as a feature of the Austro-Hungarian 1914– 15 Naval Program. She was named after the stream Bosna, however was renamed "Temes (II)" amid development, after the sinking of the first SMS "Temes" by a mine on the Sava River on 23 October 1914. Alongside her sister dispatch , she had a general length of , a light emission and an ordinary draft of . Her relocation was , and her group comprised of 91 officers and enrolled men. The ship was controlled utilizing steam created by two Yarrow boilers driving two triple-extension steam motors, and the ship conveyed of fuel oil. Its motors were evaluated at and she was intended to achieve a top speed of . 

Her primary combat hardware was a twin weapon turret of L/45 firearms forward of the conning tower and a twin turret of L/10 howitzers toward the back of the conning tower. She likewise mounted twin L/26 hostile to air ship firearms, two L/44 weapons, and seven assault rifles. The most extreme scope of her Škoda L/45 weapons was , and her howitzers could shoot their shells a limit of . Her protection comprised of belt and bulkheads thick, deck reinforcement thick, and her conning tower, firearm turrets and domes were thick. "Temes" was finished on 9 July 1915. 

"Temes" was dispatched into the Danube Flotilla in 1915, and was in real life against the Serbian Army at Belgrade toward the beginning of October, when the Serbs emptied the city even with an Austro-Hungarian attack. Amid the last stream intersection and fortification of the subsequent bridgehead, "Temes" if close help. Amid this assignment, she endeavored to draw fire far from the fight harmed screen "Enns" however in the wake of getting an immediate hit in the team quarters toward the back, she needed to move out of range. She was run aground to put out flames and stop spills, before being towed out of the fight territory by a furnished steamer, and taken to Budapest for fixes. 

In November 1915, different screens were amassed at Rustschuk, Bulgaria. The geopolitical position of Romania was questionable, with the Central Powers staying alert that the Romanians were consulting to enter the war in favor of the Entente. To ensure the Danubian fringe among Romania and Bulgaria, the flotilla set up a shielded base in the Belene Canal. At the point when the Romanians entered the war on 27 August 1916, the screens were again at Rustschuk, having been joined by "Temes" after her fixes were finished. The screens were quickly assaulted by three extemporized torpedo vessels working out of the Romanian stream port of Giurgiu. The torpedoes that were terminated missed the screens, however hit a lighter stacked with fuel. The first Monitor Division, including "Temes", was entrusted with escorting supply dispatches back to the Belene safe haven. This was trailed by invasions of the Division both east and west of Belene, amid which both Turnu Măgurele and Zimnicea were shelled. On 9 May 1917, she was renamed SMS "Bosna" as the first SMS "Temes" was because of come back to support after a total reconstruct. 

In April 1918, "Bosna", alongside three different screens, two watch vessels and a pull were framed into "Flottenabteilung Wulff" (Fleet Division Wulff) under the order of "Flottenkapitän" (Fleet Captain) Olav Wulff. "Flottenabteilung Wulff" was sent through the mouth of the Danube and over the Black Sea to Odessa, where it went through a while supporting the Austro-Hungarian troops implementing the harmony concurrence with Russia. It came back to the Danube toward the finish of August, and was secured at Brăila on 12 September. On 16 October, "Bosna" and the remainder of the first Monitor Division cruised from Brăila to Belene. The Danube Flotilla at that point secured Austro-Hungarian troops pulling back towards Budapest, battling French and unpredictable Serbian powers as they pulled back, and touched base on 6 November. 

After the Armistice of Villa Giusti marked by the Austro-Hungarians on 3 November 1918, "Bosna" was worked by the naval force of the Hungarian People's Republic between 6 November and 13 December. She was then maintained by mariners of the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (KSCS, later the Kingdom of Yugoslavia) in 1918– 19. Under the terms of the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye finished up in September 1919, "Bosna" was exchanged to the KSCS alongside a scope of different vessels, including three other waterway screens, however was formally given over to the KSCS Navy and renamed "Vardar" in 1920. In 1925– 26, "Vardar" was refitted, however by the next year just two of the four stream screens of the KSCS Navy were being held in full commission whenever. In 1932, the British maritime attaché announced that Yugoslav boats were taking part in little gunnery preparing, and few activities or moves, because of diminished spending plans. 

On 6 April 1941, the German-drove Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia started, and "Vardar" was based at Dubovac, as the lead of the first Monitor Division, in charge of the Romanian fringe on the Danube, under the operational control of the third Infantry Division "Dunavska". She was instructed by "Poručnik bojnog broda" Milivoj Kockar. On that day, "Vardar" and her individual screen "Sava" warded off a few assaults by individual "Luftwaffe" air ship on their base. Throughout the following three days, the two screens laid mines in the Danube close to the Romanian outskirt. 

On 11 April, the two screens were compelled to pull back from Dubovac towards Belgrade, amid which they went under rehashed assaults by Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" plunge planes. "Vardar" and her individual screen were whole, and tied down at the conjunction of the Danube and Sava close Belgrade about 20:00, where they were joined by the screen . The three chiefs presented, and chose to abandon their vessels because of the high water levels in the waterways and low scaffolds, which implied there was inadequate leeway for the screens to explore unreservedly. The teams of the screens were transshipped to two tugboats, yet when one of the tugboats was going under a railroad connect, charges on the extension incidentally detonated and the scaffold fell onto the tugboat. Of the 110 officers and men on board the vessel, 95 were murdered. 

After the abandoning of the screens, around 450 officers and men from the "Vardar" and different other riverine vessels accumulated at Obrenovac. Outfitted just with individual weapons and some assault rifles took from the left vessels, they began towards the Bay of Kotor in the southern Adriatic in two gatherings. The littler of the two gatherings achieved its target, however the bigger gathering just made it to the extent Sarajevo by 14 April when they were obliged to surrender by German troops moving toward the city. The Bay of Kotor was caught by the Italian XVII Corps on 17 April.