Paul Palaiologos Tagaris 

Paul Palaiologos Tagaris (, – after 1394) was a Byzantine Greek priest and impostor. A scion of the Tagaris family, Paul likewise guaranteed a to some degree questionable association with the Palaiologos administration that managed the Byzantine Empire at the time. He fled his marriage as an adolescent and turned into a priest, however soon his false practices involved him in outrage. Escaping Constantinople, he voyaged broadly, from Palestine to Persia and Georgia and in the end, through Ukraine and Hungary to Italy, Latin Greece, Cyprus and France. 

Amid his long and wild profession, Paul was selected an Orthodox cleric, sold appointments to religious workplaces, claimed to be the Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem, changed from Greek Orthodoxy to Roman Catholicism and back once more, upheld both the See of Rome and the Avignon enemies of popes in the Western Schism, and figured out how to be named Latin Patriarch of Constantinople. At last, his double dealings exposed, he came back to Constantinople, where he atoned and admitted his transgressions before a synod in 1394. 

The principle source on Paul's life is the archive of his admission before the man centric synod in Constantinople, which is undated, yet included among reports of the years 1394– 1395. It was distributed in current occasions by Franz Ritter von Miklosich and Joseph Muller (eds.), "Acta et Diplomata Græca medii ævi sacra et profana", Vol. II, "Acta Patriarchatus Constantinopolitanæ", Vienna 1860. The admission is supplemented by a record of his visit to Paris in 1390, composed by a priest of the Abbey of Saint-Denis and incorporated into the unknown "Chronique du religieux de Saint-Denys, contenant le règne de Charles VI de 1380 à 1422". 

Paul Tagaris was evidently a scion of the Tagaris family, a genealogy which initially shows up in the mid fourteenth century. His dad is anonymous, yet is portrayed by Paul as a valiant and celebrated fighter, so he is conceivably recognizable either with the "megas stratopedarches" Manuel Tagaris, or with the last's child, George Tagaris. Paul Tagaris professed to be identified with the decision magnificent tradition of the Palaiologoi and received the surname for himself. Manuel Tagaris was without a doubt hitched to Theodora Asanina Palaiologina, girl of Ivan Asen III of Bulgaria, and niece of Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos, yet regardless of whether Paul was Manuel's child, Theodora was, as indicated by the Byzantinist Donald Nicol, "more likely than not the mother of Paul". 

As indicated by Nicol, Tagaris was presumably conceived during the 1320s, while other present day sources like the "Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium" and the "Prosopographisches Lexikon der Palaiologenzeit" put it later, around the year 1340. His folks orchestrated his marriage at 14 years old or 15, yet soon he deserted his significant other and left Constantinople to turn into a priest in Palestine. Sooner or later he came back to Constantinople, where he rapidly wound up involved in embarrassment: he asserted that a symbol in his ownership had supernatural properties, and made cash out of naïve adherents. This issue scandalized his family, however Patriarch Kallistos I declined to make a move against him. It was not until the patriarch went on a visit to Serbia in July 1363 that his "locum tenens", the hieromonk Dorotheos, reallocated the symbol and constrained Paul to come back to Palestine. 

In Palestine, Paul had the capacity to verify his appointment as an elder by the Patriarch of Jerusalem Lazaros, who took him under his assurance (ca. 1364). Not long after, Lazaros left for Constantinople, and his "locum tenens" Damianos brought charges against Paul, who was compelled to surrender Jerusalem for Antioch. In Antioch, Paul by and by figured out how to become a close acquaintence with a persuasive figure, the recently chose (1368) Patriarch Michael, who appointed him a cleric, however in the long run made him man centric exarch and director of the Patriarchate's issues. It was not some time before Paul started mishandling his position: he sacked serving religious administrators and put their sees available to be purchased, taking steps to report the individuals who griped to the Turkish specialists. Before long he asserted the title of Patriarch of Jerusalem for himself and started to appoint diocesans, even in regions subject to the Patriarchate of Constantinople. In 1370, he went to Iconium and after that to Persia and Georgia, where, as indicated by his very own memory, he mediated a question among three adversary inquirers of the royal position, finding for the most elevated bidder. No such question is recorded in Georgian sources right now. 

Now, again as per his very own record, he felt regret and thought about coming back to Constantinople, where he would give the fortune he had amassed to poor people, however he was hindered by the Bishop of Tire and Sidon, who discovered him and conveyed an idea by the Patriarch of Antioch to name him religious administrator of Taurezion (a unidentified area, recommended as being either in the Taurus Mountains or in the Tauric landmass, for example the Crimea). Paul acknowledged, and was evidently blessed by the Bishop of Tire and Sidon (). In the meantime, the Patriarch of Constantinople Philotheos I Kokkinos found out about his dealings in the east, and at Trebizond Paul was met by an emissary from the Patriarch who requested his quick come back to Constantinople to stand preliminary. 

Hesitant to confront the Patriarch's fierceness, Paul yet again chose to escape, and attempt his karma in Rome. As Nicol brings up, such a move would be exceedingly surprising for an Orthodox cleric, yet might be clarified by his family's connections with professional Catholic circles in the Byzantine capital: George Tagaris, his putative sibling or father, was among the individuals who bolstered the Union of the Churches and had gotten letters of consolation from Pope Innocent VI. To abstain from going close Constantinople, Paul was compelled to make an expansive bypass. He took a ship, most likely from Trebizond, to the Crimea, where he introduced the neighborhood legislative head of the Golden Horde with gems from the fortune he had amassed. In return, he got an escort through the Horde lands (present day Ukraine) to the Kingdom of Hungary, and thereupon to Rome. There he verified a group of people with Pope Urban VI, professing to be the Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem. Paul introduced himself to the Pope as a contrite, offered an admission, and grasped the Catholic confidence. Inspired by Paul's unassuming manner, the Pope named him (in late 1379 or mid 1380) to the main post of Latin Patriarch of Constantinople, which had been empty since September 1378, when its officeholder, Giacomo da Itri, had announced his faithfulness to the Avignon hostile to pope Clement VII. Urban likewise named Paul missional legate for all nations "east of Durazzo". 

After his arrangement as a "second Pope", as he called it, Paul surrendered his basic ascetic propensity and received sublime vestments to suit his new position, wore gaudy gems, and, as per the recorder of Saint-Denis, went about on horseback encompassed by a brilliantly equipped escort. A possible case of Paul's impressive vestments and accessories right now is a lavishly weaved special stepped area material, highlighting a Byzantine twofold headed bird with a monogram on its bosom and the legend "Paul, Patriarch of Constantinople and New Rome" in Greek, presently in the gathering of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. 

Since Constantinople had been recuperated by the Byzantines in 1261, the seat of the Latin Patriarch of Constantinople had been since 1314 at Negroponte, which still stayed in Latin hands. Not long after his speculation, Paul ceased in Ancona on his approach to Greece. He stayed in the city for half a month, fêted by local people, and gave them indicated relics: on 4 March 1380 the head of James the Just, pursued on 17 April by the foot of Saint Anne and a nail from the True Cross. As Nicol remarks, "one might be enticed to scrutinize the genuineness, and still more the provenance, of his gift". The records of allow, safeguarded in the house of God of Ancona, are marked by Paul and a certain "Alexios Palaiologos the Despot", purportedly a child of the Byzantine head yet as a general rule, as per Nicol, most likely "another illusion of Paul's ripe creative ability". 

From 1380 until 1384, Paul stayed at his see in Negroponte. A relative of his, George Tagaris—most likely an unexpected individual in comparison to Manuel Tagaris' child—was brought in to help with the organization of the male centric spaces. His residency was pained, as the nearby Orthodox pastorate engaged the Venetian specialists for insurance against his exactions, while the Latin Archbishop of Athens, Antonio Ballester, grumbled of the Patriarch's impedance in his see. Besides, his rent of a portion of the Church arrives in 1383 to a Venetian from Crete, Giacomo Grimani, demonstrated a wellspring of extended legitimate inconvenience since Grimani, in the expressions of the French medievalist Raymond-Joseph Loenertz, "uncovered himself as much a fraud as the Patriarch". In 1384, Paul was by and by decried as an impostor to the Pope, potentially by Ballester, who was named vicar-general of the Patriarchate around the same time, and who had held a similar office amid the 1378– 1379 opportunity. Paul had evidently left his bishopric before his revilement, and continued his wanderings. In 1385, he was in Cyprus, where he delegated James of Lusignan as King of Cyprus in return for 30,000 gold coins, and kept allowing clerical arrangements on the island as though he were still patriarch. 

In 1388 he came back to Rome, conceivably trusting that the allegations against him had been overlooked in the in the mean time. He was captured, attempted and detained, yet was discharged after Urban VI's demise in October 1389 and the general absolution allowed by the new pope, Boniface IX. Leaving Rome, Paul went to the court of Amadeus VII of Savoy. There he introduced himself as a far off in respect to the Count—a case likely depending on his questionable connects to the Palaiologoi, who thus were remotely connected to the House of Savoy through Empress Anna of Savoy, Amadeus VII's incredible auntie—and as a casualty of ecclesiastical mistreatment by virtue of his help for the Avignon papacy. Paul's cases of family relationship were questionable, yet Amadeus was moved by the situation of a kindred Avignon supporter, and acknowledged him as the real Latin Patriarch of Constantinople. He furnished Paul with cash and an escort of twelve steeds and twelve workers, and sent him on to the ecclesiastical court of Avignon. 

Paul got a glorious welcome at Avignon, where he was fêted by Clement VII and his cardinals. Merciful, moved by his visitor's stories of enduring because of the Roman popes, stacked him with blessings and respects and sent him north to Paris. There, King Charles VI of France in like manner arranged a triumphal welcome for his distinguished visitor. Paul was an extraordinary and mainstream locate in the French capital, and was sumptuously facilitated and engaged. He clearly made the most of his long visit there, "safe in a spot where his past was obscure and his duplicity was probably not going to be found", as per Nicol. For further security, he conveyed just by means of a mediator in his utilize. On his visit to the Abbey of Saint-Denis, he asserted that there were a few relics of the convent's supporter holy person—usually mistook for the Athenian holy person Dionysius the Areopagite at the time—to be found back in Greece, and guaranteed to enable the priests to convey them to France. His proposition was energetically taken up, and two priests got consent and assets from the ruler to go with Paul back to Greece. At the point when the gathering touched base in the port in Italy from which they would cruise for Greece, in any case, Paul renumerated the chief of the ship to imagine that awful climate would defer their flight. Around the same time, he and his hirelings set sail with their whole things, deserting the two priests. It was just in Rome, where the priests went looking for answers for Paul's conduct, that they took in the genuine character of their voyaging sidekick. From them the writer of the convent later gotten his data. 

As per Nicol, the accomplishment of the "cultivated delinquent" Paul was without parallel: "Nobody at any point made such a gainful business out of evolving sides, first in the split between the Greek and Latin Churches, and afterward in the faction between the pope in Rome and the pope in Avignon. It is no mean accomplishment to touch base in Rome as Orthodox patriarch of Jerusalem and afterward to be gotten in Avignon as Catholic patriarch of Constantinople." 

Presently, however, having unsalvageably crushed his notoriety and ties with both ecclesiastical courts, Paul was left with no choice other than to come back to Constantinople. In 1394, he was back in the Byzantine capital, where he showed up before Patriarch Antony IV, before whom he admitted his transgressions, repudiated his change to Catholicism, and argued for benevolence. As Nicol states, "Just on one point did he challenge that he had been illegitimately blamed; for, in spite of bits of gossip and stories created against him, he had never enjoyed sex, marvel mongering, or the act of enchantment". The Patriarch passed Paul's case on to the full male centric synod, before which Paul was obliged to rehash his admission twice, and after that again before a get together of the general population. The records of these sessions, kept by the male centric recorder Perdikes, are the primary source on Paul's life. The last bit of the composition, containing the decision, is missing, yet both the synod and the general population had suggested an absolution, so all things considered, he was pardoned. His consequent life is obscure.