Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman 

Timothy Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman (March 18, 1845 – February 27, 1863) was an American Union Army fighter of Native Hawaiian plunge. Considered one of the "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War", he was among a gathering of more than one hundred recorded Native Hawaiian and Hawaii-conceived warriors who battled in the American Civil War while the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi was as yet an autonomous country. 

Brought up in Hilo, Hawaiʻi, he was the oldest child of Kinoʻoleoliliha, a Hawaiian high chiefess, and Benjamin Pitman, an American pioneer pilgrim from Massachusetts. Through his dad's business achievement in the whaling and sugar and espresso manor enterprises and his mom's familial associations with the Hawaiian imperial family, the Pitmans were very prosperous and possessed grounds on the island of Hawaiʻi and in Honolulu. He and his more established sister Mary were taught in the mission schools in Hilo close by other offspring of blended Hawaiian plunge. After the passing of his mom in 1855, his dad remarried to the widow of a teacher, hence associating the family to the American evangelist network in Hawaiʻi. Be that as it may, following the passings of his first spouse and later his second wife, his dad chose to leave the islands and came back to Massachusetts with his family in 1861. The more youthful Pitman proceeded with his training in the government funded schools of Roxbury, where the Pitman family lived for a timeframe. 

Leaving school without his family's learning, he settled on the choice to battle in the Civil War in August 1862. In spite of his blended race lineage, Pitman stayed away from the racial isolation forced on other Native Hawaiian enlisted people of the time and enrolled in the 22nd Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, a white regiment. He filled in as a private in the Union Army battling in the Battle of Antietam and the Maryland Campaign. In his organization, Private Robert G. Carter got to know the part-Hawaiian fighter and wrote in later existence of their regular involvement in the 22nd Massachusetts. Arranged decades a short time later from old letters, Carter's record depicted the subtleties encompassing his last destiny in the war. On the walk to Fredericksburg, Pitman was isolated from his regiment and caught by Confederate guerrilla powers. He was compelled to walk to Richmond and detained in the Confederate Libby Prison, where he contracted "lung fever" from the unforgiving states of his detainment and passed on February 27, 1863, a couple of months after his discharge on parole in a detainee trade. Present day students of history consider Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman to be the main known Hawaiian or Pacific Islander to bite the dust as a wartime captive in the Civil War. 

For a timeframe after the finish of the war, the heritage and commitments of Pitman and other reported Hawaiian members in the American Civil War were to a great extent overlooked aside from in the private circles of relatives and students of history. Be that as it may, there has been a recovery of enthusiasm for late years in the Hawaiian people group. In 2010, these "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War" were remembered with a bronze plaque raised along the dedication pathway at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu. 

Timothy Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman was conceived March 18, 1845, in Hilo, Hawaiʻi, the primary child and second offspring of Benjamin Pitman and Kinoʻoleoliliha. Initially a local of Salem, Massachusetts, Pitman's dad was an early pioneer, representative and sugar and espresso manor proprietor on the island of Hawaiʻi, who benefitted significantly from the kingdom's blasting whaling industry in the mid 1800s. On his dad's side, he was an incredible grandson of Joshua Pitman (1755– 1822), an English-American craftsman on the ship "Franklin" under Captain Allen Hallett amid the American Revolutionary War. On his mom's side, Pitman was a relative of Kameʻeiamoku, one of the imperial twins (with Kamanawa) who instructed Kamehameha I in his success concerning the Hawaiian Islands, and furthermore of the early American or English ocean skipper Harold Cox, who loaned his name to George "Cox" Kahekili Keʻeaumoku II, the Governor of Maui. Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman imparted his Hawaiian name to his maternal granddad Hoʻolulu who, alongside his sibling Hoapili, covered the bones of King Kamehameha I in a mystery concealing spot after his demise. In the Hawaiian language, the name "Hoʻolulu" signifies "to lie in the protected waters". His kin were Mary Pitman Ailau (1838– 1905), Benjamin Franklin Keolaokalani Pitman (1852– 1918) and stepsister Maria Kinoʻole Pitman Morey (1858– 1892). 

On account of his dad's achievement in business and his mom's plunge from Hawaiian eminence, the Pitman family was considered very prosperous and were host to the illustrious family when they visited Hilo. Other than being one of the main dealers around the local area, his dad likewise served the administration as region officer of Hilo. Henry's mom, Kinoʻole, had acquired power over a great part of the terrains in Hilo and Ōlaʻa from her very own dad, and King Kamehameha III had conceded her utilization of the "ahupuaʻa" of Hilo after her marriage. Amid Henry's initial youth, the family lived in the chateau that Benjamin Pitman had worked in 1840, in a territory known as Niopola, one of the favored hotel spots of old Hawaiian eminence. The home additionally wound up known as the Spencer House after Pitman sold it to his colleague Captain Thomas Spencer. The property later turned into the site of the Hilo Hotel, worked in 1888 and torn down in 1956. During the 1850s the family moved to the capital of Honolulu where Benjamin Pitman took up banking and constructed a lovely two-story house that he named Waialeale ("undulating water") at the edge of Alakea and Beretania Streets. 

While in Hawaiʻi, Pitman and his more established sister Mary went to Mrs. Wetmore's youngsters' school in Hilo. The school was situated at the Wetmores' habitation on Church Street. Instructed by Lucy Sheldon Taylor Wetmore, the spouse of American preacher specialist and government doctor Charles Hinckley Wetmore, who had come to Hawaii in 1848 with the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions (ABCFM), the two senior Pitman youngsters got their training in English instead of Hawaiian. This was strange since Hawaiian was the official language of the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi, and every single other school in Hilo were led in the Hawaiian language. Mrs. Wetmore trained the kids perusing, composing, spelling, number juggling and singing, while likewise strengthening the educational modules with a solid adherence to the standards of the Protestant confidence. Like the Pitman kin, a significant number of their cohorts were additionally of half-Hawaiian ("hapa-kanaka") plunge with a greater part of them being Chinese-Hawaiians ("hapa-pake"). 

After the passing of his mom Kinoʻole in 1855, Pitman's dad remarried to Maria Louisa Walsworth Kinney, the widow of American preacher Rev. Henry Kinney. The Kinneys were a piece of the Twelfth Company of teachers from the ABCFM to land in 1848. The marriage adjusted the Pitman youngsters to the American teacher network. They were classified "cousins" by the offspring of the ministers and considered piece of the all-encompassing preacher group of Hawaiʻi. This first stepmother kicked the bucket in 1858 in the wake of bringing forth their dad's fourth tyke, a little girl named Maria Kinoʻole (1858– 1892). The Pitman family came back to Massachusetts in 1861 after his dad remarried to his third spouse Martha Ball, giving his four kids another stepmother. Letters by British explorer Sophia Cracroft, niece of Lady Jane Franklin, demonstrated that the Pitman family left for San Francisco, on June 25, 1861, on board the ship "Comet" with Cracroft and Lady Franklin and that the senior Pitman "now has a third spouse with an infant [Charles Brook Pitman]." According to a 1887 account composed by Robert G. Carter, a private who might later serve in a similar organization as Pitman, he was disregarded after his mom's demise by his dad and stepmother, who "oppressed [him] to disregard and treatment, that with his touchy nature he couldn't bear". He proceeded with his instruction in the government funded schools of Roxbury, where the Pitman family lived for a timeframe. He have continued the family in leaving Hawaii. The 1860 United States Census enlisted Pitman under his educator Solomon Adams as living and probably being instructed in Newton, likewise in the Boston region. 

Developing into puberty, he was said to firmly take after his Hawaiian mother. His selection card amid the war noted he had a dull composition, hazel hued eyes, dark hair and stood five feet eight inches. Robert G. Carter gave a concise depiction of his appearance in wartime letters previously distributed in 1897: 

[A] tall, thin kid, straight as a bolt. His face was an ideal oval, his hair was as dark as a raven's wing, and his eyes were substantial and of that exceptional delicate, dissolving darkness, which energizes feel sorry for when one is in trouble. His skin was a reasonable, dull olive, verging on the swarthy, and this, with his high cheek bones, would have driven us to assume that his nationality was not quite the same as our own, had we not realized that his name was plain Henry P. There was a quality of good rearing and refinement about him, that, with his little hands and feet, would have set us to considering, had it not been that in our childhood and strongly excited natures, we gave no idea to our friends' close to home appearance. We can think back now and see the modest, held nature of the kid, the dim, despairing eyes, the pitiful grin, the touchy jerking of the lips. 

After the flare-up of the American Civil War, the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi under King Kamehameha IV announced its impartiality on August 26, 1861. However, numerous Native Hawaiians and Hawaiian-conceived Americans (for the most part relatives of the American ministers), both abroad and in the islands, volunteered and enrolled in the military regiments of different states in the Union and the Confederacy. Singular Native Hawaiians had been serving in the United States Navy and Army since the War of 1812, and much more served amid the Civil War. Numerous Hawaiians felt for the Union as a result of Hawaiʻi's connections to New England through its preachers and the whaling business, and the ideological restriction of numerous to the establishment of subjugation. 

On August 14, 1862, Pitman left school without his family's information and volunteered to serve in the Union Army and battle in the Civil War. He evidently never educated his family ahead of time about the decision to join the war, in light of the fact that the updates on his enrollment was accounted for back in Hawaiʻi's American preacher network as "Henry Pitman has fled from home and gone [to war]." Carter portrayed Pitman's reason for enrolling: "amidst the fuss of war, when the very air vibrated with fervor, the wild excitement of the groups, and the moving sound of the drum, his Indian nature ascended inside him. His determination was made." 

Pitman was a "hapa-haole", of part Hawaiian and part Caucasian plunge. His dad was white and his local conceived mother was likewise part Caucasian from her very own mom, who was the little girl of Captain Cox and a Hawaiian chiefess. In spite of his blended race family line, Pitman stayed away from the racial isolation forced on other Native Hawaiian volunteers in this period. Most Native Hawaiians who partook in the war were doled out to shaded regiments, however Pitman's reasonable skin shading implied he had the capacity to serve in a white unit, showing that unit task may have been affected by how dull Hawaiians showed up. Students of history Bob Dye, James L. Haley and others guaranteed Pitman was put in the hued regiments in view of his blended race, yet regiment records show generally. 

Pitman filled in as a private in the 22nd Regiment Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry, Company H. This regiment was additionally named the "Henry Wilson's Regiment" after Colonel and U.S. Congressperson Henry Wilson, who directed the unit in 1861. Colonel William S. Tilton was the regimental administrator amid Pitman's concise term of administration. The regiment was a piece of the V Corps of the Army of the Potomac under the senior direction of Major General George B. McClellan. Amid this period, the regiment battled in the Second Battle of Bull Run and was associated with the Maryland Campaign battling in the Battle of Antietam, the bloodiest single-day fight in American history, and the Battle of Shepherdstown. His regiment was on the walk to the Battle of Fredericksburg when Pitman was caught by Confederate troops. 

The most itemized record of Pitman's last destiny in the war originated from Robert G. Carter. In November 1862, Pitman was caught close Warrenton Junction on the walk toward Fredericksburg, Virginia, amid the weeks before the Battle of Fredericksburg. He had fallen behind the gathering since his feet had rankled and swollen because of the snugness of "a couple of dainty, high-behaved and tight soled boots" he had bought. One of his confidants briefly remained behind to think about him yet later chose to proceed onward with the remainder of the camp because of a paranoid fear of disciplinary results of dropping out without power. He was asked to proceed onward, yet absent much achievement. Pitman's final words to his friend were, "I will be in camp by night, great by." His individual warriors never observed him again and thought of him as absent. Not long after he was left, a band of Confederate guerrillas under Colonel John S. Mosby caught the tired and unprotected trooper without a battle. The engraving on his headstone varies marginally from Carter's record, expressing he was caught by J. E. B. Stuart's mounted force. 

After Pitman's catch, he was walked to Richmond in a powerless physical state. He was detained in the Confederate Libby Prison and Belle Isle, which were famously unforgiving penitentiaries. Pitman's letters home portrayed his place of detainment as the "Pen" where "the foul meat [was] tossed to them as though they were hounds". The state of his detainment including the deficiency of nourishment, absence of sanitation, congestion and his physical shortcoming made him powerless to destructive maladies present in the Confederate penitentiaries. Carter depicted how the jails "destroyed the courageous soul". Amid a detainee trade, Pitman was discharged by the Confederate Army at City Point, Virginia, on December 12, 1862, and after that sent to Camp Parole, Annapolis. Experiencing inconveniences because of the states of his detainment, he contracted "lung fever", which was maybe pneumonia. Carter composed later how his companion had "linger[ed] weakly half a month, similar to the glimmering of a lapsing fire, at that point discreetly pass[ed] away to an interminable life". Pitman kicked the bucket at Camp Parole on February 27, 1863, only weeks shy of his eighteenth birthday celebration. As indicated by students of history Anita Manning and Justin Vance, Pitman "has the lamentable refinement of being the main known Hawaiian or Pacific Islander to kick the bucket as a captive in the Civil War". 

Thinking of him as missing, Pitman's regiment did not find his last destiny until updates on his memorial service at Roxbury was gotten in the spring of the next year. His remaining parts were come back to his family in Massachusetts after his passing in Camp Parole. Benjamin Pitman, his dad, had him covered in a family plot in Mount Auburn Cemetery. On one side of the Pitman family grave marker was set the engraving: 

Timothy Henry PitmanBorn at Hilo, HawaiiMar. 18, 1845Died at Camp ParoleAnnapolis, MD, Feb'y 27, 1863Aged 17 years 11 mos. 9 days"A individual from Co. H, 22nd RegimentMass. Vols., was with his Regiment in thebattles of South Mountain, Antietam and Sharpsburg. Was taken prisoner by Stuart'scavalry on the walk to Fredricksburg;Imprisoned in Libby Prison, paroled andsent to Camp Parole, Annapolis, and kicked the bucket incamp of pneumonia." 

After his demise, the memory of Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman was respected by loved ones back in Massachusetts and Hawaiʻi. Amid an arrival to Hawaiʻi in 1917, his more youthful sibling Benjamin Keolaokalani Pitman and his better half Almira Hollander Pitman found a grandson of a nephew was named Kealiʻi I Kaua I Pakoma (signifying "Boss that battled the Potomac") out of appreciation for his perished more seasoned sibling. Essentially, Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman Beckley, the second child of his Hawaiian first cousin George Charles Moʻoheau Beckley, a grandson of Captain George Charles Beckley, was additionally named after him. Soon after his demise, Pitman was lauded back in Hawaiʻi by Martha Ann Chamberlain, Corresponding Secretary of the Hawaiian Mission Children's Society: 

Our cousin, Henry Pitman, the first of Hawaii's children to fall in the war, kicked the bucket at Annapolis Parole Camp, Feb. 27, of lung fever, filling in as a fighter in the Union armed force. His remaining parts were stored in Mt. Reddish-brown Cemetery, close Boston, Mass. He kicked the bucket in a noble motivation. Give his memory a chance to be preserved among our band. 

After the war, the military administration of Hawaiians, including Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman, were to a great extent overlooked, vanishing from the aggregate recollections of the American Civil War and the historical backdrop of Hawaiʻi. Nonetheless, as of late, Hawaiian inhabitants and students of history and relatives of Hawaiian soldiers in the contention have demanded the need to recollect "our young men from Hawaii". Restored enthusiasm for the accounts of these people and this specific time of Hawaiian-American history have propelled endeavors to save the recollections of the Hawaiians who served in the war. On August 26, 2010, on the commemoration of the marking of the Hawaiian Neutrality Proclamation, a bronze plaque was raised along the remembrance pathway at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu perceiving these "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War", the more than one hundred recorded Hawaiians who served amid the American Civil War for both the Union and the Confederacy. Pitman's incredible grandniece Diane Kinoʻole o Liliha Pitman Spieler went to the function. Pitman Spieler expressed, "I'm pleased with a young fellow of his age – he was very young – who served in the Civil War for his family." 

In 2013, Todd Ocvirk, Nanette Napoleon, Justin Vance, Anita Manning and others started the way toward making a recorded narrative film about the individual encounters and accounts of Hawaii-conceived warriors and mariners of the Civil War, including Pitman, Samuel C. Armstrong, Nathaniel Bright Emerson, James Wood Bush, J. R. Kealoha and numerous other anonymous warriors of both the Union and the Confederacy. In 2014, Maui-based writer Wayne Moniz composed a fictionalized story dependent on the lives and Civil War administration of Hawaiian officers like Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman in his book "Pukoko: A Hawaiian in the American Civil War". In 2015, the sesquicentennial of the finish of the war, the National Park Service discharged a production titled "Asians and Pacific Islanders and the Civil War" about the administration of the vast number of warriors of Asian and Pacific Islander plummet who battled amid the war. The historical backdrop of Hawaiʻi's inclusion and the life stories of Pitman, Bush, Kealoha and others were co-composed by history specialists Anita Manning and Justin Vance.