Distrustful Android 

"Distrustful Android" is a melody by the English elective musical crew Radiohead, discharged as the lead single from their third studio collection "alright Computer" (1997) on 26 May 1997. The hazily silly verses were composed principally by artist Thom Yorke following an undesirable involvement in a Los Angeles bar. The tune is more than six minutes in length and contains four unmistakable areas. "Neurotic Android" takes its name from Marvin the Paranoid Android of Douglas Adams' "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" arrangement. 

Discharged as the lead single from "alright Computer", "Suspicious Android" diagrammed at number three on the UK Singles Chart. It was generally welcomed by music commentators. The track has showed up routinely on arrangements of the best melodies ever, including "Moving Stone"s 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. Its vivified music video, coordinated by Magnus Carlsson, was put on overwhelming turn on MTV, in spite of the fact that the system blue-penciled bits containing bareness in the US. At the 1998 Brit Awards, the tune was assigned for Best British Single. Since its discharge, the track has been secured by various craftsmen working in an assortment of melodic classes. The tune was incorporated into the 2008 "" accumulation. 

Radiohead intertwined parts from three distinct melodies, each composed by an alternate individual from the band. The plan to consolidate the pieces into a solitary track was propelled to some extent by the through-made structure out of The Beatles' "Joy Is a Warm Gun". 

Colin Greenwood conceded that the band, in endeavoring to make the dissimilar components cooperate, "felt like untrustworthy students who were doing this ... underhanded thing, 'cause no one completes a six-and-a-half-minute melody with every one of these changes. It's silly". The melody was at first proposed to be diverting, and took its title from Marvin the Paranoid Android in Douglas Adams' "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" arrangement of books. Yorke said the title "was picked as a joke. It resembled, 'Goodness, I'm so discouraged.' And I recently thought, that is extraordinary. That is the manner by which individuals would "like" me to be. What's more, that was the finish of expounding on anything individual in the melody. The remainder of the melody isn't close to home in any way." In an early meeting, Colin Greenwood depicted it "only a joke, a giggle, getting squandered together over two or three nighttimes and assembling some extraordinary pieces". The band utilized Queen's "Bohemian Rhapsody" and crafted by Pixies as reference focuses while composing; yet Ed O'Brien denies they stated "a 'Bohemian Rhapsody' for the nineties", and Jonny Greenwood thinks of it as excessively tense and easy to equal Queen's tune. 

"Distrustful Android" was recorded in performer Jane Seymour's fifteenth century chateau close to the town of St Catherine, close Bath, Somerset. The first alter was over 14 minutes long and incorporated a long organ interval performed by Jonny Greenwood. Radiohead played this all-encompassing variant amid a visit with Alanis Morissette in September 1996. "When we began playing it live, it was totally clever," reviewed O'Brien. "There was a rave down area and a Hammond organ outro, and we'd piss ourselves while we played. We'd draw out the glockenspiel and it would be outrageously entertaining." Before the melody's initially live execution, Yorke told groups of onlookers that "[i]f you can have intercourse to this one, no doubt about it." He likewise mockingly alluded to the form of the tune played amid the visit as "a Pink Floyd spread". 

Motivated by the altering of The Beatles' "Enchanted Mystery Tour" (depicted by Colin Greenwood as "ruthless"), Radiohead abbreviated the melody to a last six and a half minutes, a procedure that prompted Jonny Greenwood's organ area being supplanted by a significantly shorter guitar become dim. Be that as it may, it took the band 18 months to figure out how to play the last form in live execution. 

"Distrustful Android" is a tune portrayed as elective shake, workmanship shake and dynamic shake. It has four unmistakable areas, each played in standard tuning, and a period signature, albeit a few three-bar portions in the second segment are played in timing. 

The opening fragment is played in the key of G minor with a rhythm of 84 beats for each moment (BPM), and starts with a mid-rhythm acoustic guitar sponsored by shaken percussion before layered with electric guitar and Yorke's vocals. The tune of the opening vocal lines traverses an octave and a third. 

The second segment is written in the key of A minor and starts around two minutes into the melody. In spite of the fact that the second segment holds the beat of the primary, it contrasts musically. Consummation the second segment is a mutilated guitar solo played by Jonny Greenwood, which keeps going from 2:43 to 3:33. 

The third area was composed by Jonny Greenwood, and lessens the rhythm to 63 BPM. The harmonies structure a circled harmony movement looking like a Baroque passacaglia, with the tonality split between C minor and D minor. This area utilizes multi-followed, choral vocal course of action and as per Dai Griffiths, a "harmony succession [that ordinarily] would sound shabby, rather like something by the band Portishead". 

The fourth and last segment, which starts at 5:35, is a concise instrumental repeat of the second development that fills in as a coda. Following a second solo, a short guitar riff is presented, which Jonny Greenwood says "was something I had coasting around for some time and the melody required a specific consume. It happened to be the correct key and the correct speed and it fit right in." The tune closes, as does the second area, with a short chromatically slipping guitar theme. 

"Neurotic Android" is classified by three unmistakable temperaments written in what Yorke alluded to as three distinct perspectives. The tune's verses tie in with various topics normal in "alright Computer", including craziness, viciousness, trademarks, and political protest to private enterprise. Yorke's verses depended on a disagreeable involvement with a Los Angeles bar amid which he was encompassed by outsiders high on cocaine. Specifically, Yorke was terrified by a lady who ended up fierce after somebody spilled a beverage on her. Yorke described the lady as "brutal", and said "There was a look in this present lady's eyes that I'd never observed anywhere. ... Couldn't rest that night as a result of it." The lady enlivened the line "kicking screeching Gucci minimal piggy" in the melody's second segment. Yorke, alluding to the line "With your sentiments, which are of no outcome by any stretch of the imagination", said that "Once more, that is only a joke. It's really the other way around – it's really "my" conclusion that is of no outcome by any stretch of the imagination." 

While Colin Greenwood said the melody was "not really the radio-accommodating, leap forward, buzz canister unit shifter [radio stations] have been expecting," Capitol bolstered the band's decision for the tune as a lead single. Radiohead debuted "Neurotic Android" on the BBC Radio 1 program "The Evening Session" in April 1997, about a month prior to its discharge as a solitary. "Tune Maker" uncovered that a Radio 1 maker needed to "have somewhat of a rests" after first hearing the tune. It was discharged as a solitary on 26 May 1997, picked by the band to get ready audience members for the melodic heading of its parent collection. Notwithstanding an underlying absence of radio play, "Neurotic Android" graphed at number three on the UK Singles Chart, giving Radiohead their most elevated singles diagram position. As the tune's prevalence developed, Radio 1 played it up to 12 times each day. Yorke portrayed the melody's appearance on Radio 1 as one of his proudest snapshots of the "alright Computer" period. The track additionally gone through about fourteen days on Australia's ARIA Singles Chart, where it outlined at number 29. 

"Neurotic Android" got approval from music pundits. "NME" picked it as its "Single of the Week", and columnist Simon Williams depicted how the tune "[s]prawls out like a stout man on a little couch, highlighting all way of crypto-flamenco shufflings, medieval wailings, irately torqued guitars and absolutely over-yearning thoughts. Has a standout amongst the most strange 'hatchet' performances in the world." The style of the melody was contrasted with that of Queen by "Moving Stone"s Mark Kemp, while different pundits, including David Browne of "Excitement Weekly", Jon Lusk of the BBC and Simon Williams of "NME" expounded on its similitude to Queen's "Bohemian Rhapsody". Williams portrayed the melody as being "similar to 'Bohemian Rhapsody' being played in reverse by a bundle of Vietnam vets high on Kings Cross-quality split". Kemp lauded the tune's blend of acoustic and electronic instrumentation, which he accepted were merged to deliver "complex beat changes, contacts of discord, antiquated choral music and a King Crimson-like melodic structure". In the interim Browne composed of "divine call-and-reaction vocal entries, powerfully shifted segments, and Thom Yorke's high-voiced bleat". "The A.V. Club" called the melody exceptional and an "astounding epic single". 

A few commentators noticed the record's desire. "Inclination Magazine" depicted the tune's verses as a "multipart against elitist song of devotion whose aspiration is definitely not monstrous", and Andy Gill wrote in "The Independent" that "Neurotic Android" could be the most driven single since Jimmy Webb's "MacArthur Park". Craig McLean of "The Sydney Morning Herald" portrayed "Jumpy Android" as "a titanic guitar musical drama in three developments and 6 [and a half] minutes". PopMatters' Evan Sawdey called the melody "alright Computer"s "clearing, multi-layered focal point", Peter and Jonathan Buckley wrote in "The Rough Guide to Rock" that it was the collection's "amazing high point". Allmusic's Stephen Thomas Erlewine called "Distrustful Android" "complex, multi-segmented ... tight, melodic, and solid", and said it showed Radiohead at their generally audacious. Browne conceded that, somewhat as a result of "Distrustful Android", "alright Computer" was fundamentally more broad than "The Bends". "Moving Stone" put the tune at number 256 on its 500 Greatest Songs of All Time rundown, and "Pitchfork Media" incorporated the melody at number 4 on their "Main 200 Tracks of the 90s". 

Commenting on the band's objectives for the "Distrustful Android" music video, Yorke said that, "When it came time to make the video for that melody, we had loads of individuals saying, 'Definitely, incredible, we can have another video like "Road Spirit", all touchy and dark and dim.' Well, no. We had some good times doing this melody, so the video should make you giggle. That is to say, it ought to be wiped out, as well." Magnus Carlsson, Swedish maker of the energized arrangement "Robin", was appointed by the band to make the video. Radiohead were aficionados of the show, and associated with the Robin character; Jonny Greenwood portrayed him as "warm" and "helpless", while Yorke conceded that he discovered Robin "a remarkable defenseless character, but at the same time he's savagely pessimistic and very extreme and would dependably get up once more." At first Carlsson tried to take a shot at a video for "No Surprises" and was dubious about how to approach "Distrustful Android". In the end he conceived a situation to the band's preferring after he secured himself his office for more than 12 hours to gaze out of the window, while tuning in to the melody on rehash while writing down visual thoughts. As Carlsson did not approach the verses at the time, the idea for the video depended completely on the melody's sound. As indicated by Yorke, the band "intentionally didn't send Magnus the verses" since they "didn't need [the video] to be excessively strict." 

Like "Robin", the "Distrustful Android" video is attracted a shortsighted style that accentuates striking hues and clear, solid lines. It highlights Robin and his companion Benjamin wandering into the world, running into hopeless EU delegates, harassing bar supporters, a whore, two kissing leathermen, a medication fiend, unhinged businesspeople, mermaids and a blessed messenger who plays table tennis with Robin. The band shows up in appearance at a bar, where they are appeared while watching a man with a head leaving his hip twirling on their table. In any case, in this appearance just the variants of Yorke and Jonny Greenwood take after themselves; O'Brien said "On the off chance that you solidify outline it on the video, the person with the five strands of hair slicked back, that is Colin. It looks not at all like him." Colin Greenwood said "there was no chance that we could show up in it to perform in it since that would be so Spinal Tap" and that having activitys that did not take after the band individuals enabled the video to be "wound and brilliant which is the manner by which the melody is at any rate". Yorke was at last satisfied with the video, saying that it "is extremely about the brutality around [Robin], which is actually similar to the tune. Not a similar explicit viciousness as in the verses, yet everything going on around him is profoundly disturbing and fierce, however he's simply drinking himself into blankness. He's there, however he's not there. That is the reason it works. What's more, that is the reason it does my head in each time I see it." 

While the single did not get noteworthy radio play in the US, MTV put its video on high turn. The adaptation regularly appeared altered to expel the mermaids' exposed bosoms. Greenwood stated, "we would've comprehended on the off chance that they had an issue with some person hacking his arms and legs off, however I mean, a lady's bosoms! Furthermore, mermaids also! It's messed up." MTV Europe played the video whole for about fourteen days on the grounds that the channel's legitimate edit was sick and unfit to work; after that time the channel ran the cut form of the video. A later US rendition of the video saw the mermaids wear swimming outfits, while the whole form was later arranged alongside other Radiohead recordings on the DVD and home video discharge "7 Television Commercials" and . 

Evan Sawdey of PopMatters portrayed the video as "strange yet-fitting", and "Song Maker" said it spoke to a staggering "psycho-animation". Adrian Glover of "Carnival" called the activity mind blowing and the video "truly cool". MTV VP of music Lewis Largent told "Turn" "You can watch 'Suspicious Android' a hundred times and not make sense of everything." 

Stanley Donwood worked with Yorke to plan the fine art for the greater part of the "Suspicious Android" discharges, albeit both the pictures and configuration were at last credited to "moronic PCs". The spread outline going with the single portrays a hand-drawn vault that contains the expression "God adores his kids, no doubt!", the last line of the melody, composed above on the highest plane. Pictures from the "alright Computer" work of art return, including a pig and two human figures shaking hands. Author Tim Footman recommended that these pictures are obtained from Pink Floyd, separately relating to the Pink Floyd pigs and "Wish You Were Here" spread. The front of the CD2 single is tinted uniquely in contrast to the CD1 single. The UK vinyl discharge did exclude the arch work of art found on the CD singles, however highlight pictures taken from the "alright Computer" discharge over the top standard region, alongside the expression "against devils". 

The two renditions of the single have diverse messages on the turn around. Both the CD1 and Japanese discharges state: 

Composed on the back of the CD2 single is: 

Each arrival of "Suspicious Android" included at least one B-sides. "Polyethylene (Parts 1 and 2)", included on the CD1, 7-inch vinyl, and Japanese arrivals of the single, were a multi-segment piece designed much like "Distrustful Android" itself. The initial segment of the melody comprises of Yorke's vocals over acoustic guitar; the second part contains mutilated guitar and organ and utilizations complex time signature changes. "Pearly*", highlighted on the CD1 and Japanese arrivals of the single, was depicted by Yorke as a "filthy tune for individuals who use sex for messy things". "A Reminder", which shows up on the CD2 discharge, highlights fluffed guitar, pounding drums, and electric piano. As indicated by Yorke, this tune was roused by "this thought of somebody composing a tune, sending it to somebody, and saying: 'In the event that I ever lose it, you simply get the telephone and play this tune back to remind me.'" "Melatonin", additionally on the CD2 discharge, is a synthesizer-based melody with verses like that of a children's song, yet with a propensity of danger in lines like "Passing to all who remain in your direction". The "alright Computer" track "Let Down" is likewise included on the Japanese single. 

YouTube spread craftsman Mike Massé recorded a live acoustic adaptation of "Distrustful Android" with Jeff Hall on 9/8/08 at the Pie Pizzeria in Salt Lake City, Utah. 

American metal band System of a Down also played out a front of Paranoid Android at a Los Angeles live execution in 2000. 

Jazz piano player Brad Mehldau recorded a nine-minute front of "Suspicious Android" on his collection "Largo" (2002), highlighting percussionists Jim Keltner and Matt Chamberlain, just as a horn segment. Also, Mehldau played out a 19-minute form of the tune on "Live in Tokyo" (2004). One more solo form of 9 minutes showed up on the limited time collection "Deregulating Jazz" (2000). 

The University of Massachusetts Amherst Minuteman Marching Band shrouded the melody live in an adaptation highlighting xylophones, tolls, catch drums, cymbals, bass drum and timpani. 

Various Radiohead tribute collections incorporate a rendition of "Distrustful Android", including "Rockabye Baby! Bedtime song Renditions of Radiohead" and "Plastic Mutations: The Electronic Tribute to Radiohead". 

The reggae assemble Easy Star All-Stars secured "alright Computer" completely for "Radiodread" (2006). Maker Michael G noticed that "Distrustful Android" was especially hard to orchestrate reggae, saying "There are tunes like 'Jumpy Android', which flips between 4/4 time and 7/8 time around multiple times, and I additionally needed to consider different approaches to reinterpret those parts with horns, melodica, organ ... it was an incredible test." 

Sia Furler secured the melody for the neo soul tribute "" (2006), and this rendition later showed up on "The O.C." scene "The Chrismukk-huh?". 

"Jumpy Android" has likewise been secured by traditional performers. Christopher O'Riley organized "Jumpy Android" for a solitary piano and played out the melody on "Hold Me to This" (2005). 

Los Angeles string group of four The Section recorded the melody for "Unstable on OK Computer: The String Quartet Tribute to Radiohead" (2001); half of this group of four proceeded to frame the Section Quartet, who performed "Distrustful Android" and the remainder of "alright Computer" amid two shows in October 2006. 

Weezer secured "Distrustful Android" in both a live studio adaptation discharged as a YouTube video and in shows amid their 2011 summer visit. "Pitchfork"s Tom Breihan called the Weezer spread "a "screwing odd" encounter", and Jenny Eliscu of "Moving Stone" censured the tune as "essentially exhausting" for not wandering sufficiently far from Weezer's customary sound. 

A piano spread was highlighted in a scene of the HBO TV arrangement "Westworld" in 2016. 

All melodies composed by Thom Yorke, Jonny Greenwood, Ed O'Brien, Colin Greenwood, and Phil Selway.