Gilwell Park 

Gilwell Park is a campground and action community for Scouting and Guiding gatherings, just as schools and other youth associations. The site additionally houses a preparation and meeting focus, including the facilitating of get-togethers, for example, weddings and birthday parties. The 44 hectare (109 acre) site is in Sewardstonebury, Epping Forest, near Chingford, London. 

In the late Middle Ages the territory was a ranch, developing to a well off domain that fell into deterioration towards 1900. It was purchased in 1919 by Scout Commissioner William de Bois Maclaren and given to The Scout Association of the United Kingdom to give outdoors to London Scouts, and preparing for Scouters. As Scout Leaders from all nations of the world have come to Gilwell Park for their Wood Badge preparing, it is one of the tourist spots of the world Scouting development. 

The site contains various outdoors fields, indoor settlement, verifiable locales, landmarks of Scouting, and outside experience exercises. The site can oblige occasions up to 10,000 individuals, and routinely does as such at Scouting occasions consistently. 

Gilwell Park is likewise home to Scout Adventures Gilwell Park, one of nine action focuses of The Scout Association, close by Crawfordsburn, Downe, Ferny Crofts, Great Tower, Woodhouse Park, Yr Hafod and Youlbury. 

The historical backdrop of Gilwell Park can be followed to 1407, when John Crow possessed Gyldiefords, the land that would in the end become Gilwell Park. Somewhere in the range of 1407 and 1422, Crow sold the land to Richard Rolfe, and the region wound up known as Gillrolfes, "Gill" being Old English for glen. Following Rolfe's demise in 1422, unique segments of the property came to be designated "Extraordinary Gilwell" and "Little Gilwell". The two zones were named after the Old English "wella", or spring. A farmhouse has remained at Gilwell Farm from that point onward. 

Around this time, a connecting property was acquired by Richard Osborne. In 1442, he constructed an expansive abiding called Osborne Hall, which represented 300 years. Legend has it that in the mid sixteenth century, King Henry VIII claimed the land and manufactured a chasing lodge for his child Edward. Around 1736 the robber Dick Turpin started utilizing Gilwell's backwoods to hide himself and for ambushing voyagers and cargo along streets driving into London. 

In 1754, William Skrimshire acquired Great Gilwell, Little Gilwell, and half of Osborne's bequest, including Osborne Hall. Skrimshire annihilated Osborne Hall and constructed another home, which he additionally called Osborne Hall. That building is currently called the White House. Timbers in the White House can be dated to this time, yet not to any past time. Leonard Tresilian (?– 1792) purchased the home in 1771 and extended the land possessions and size of the home. 

Tresilian's first spouse, Margaret Holland, passed on youthful subsequent to bearing three little girls. He at that point wedded Elizabeth Fawson. Craving that Gilwell pass on to his oldest little girl, likewise named Margaret (1750 – c.1844), Tresilian drew up a nitty gritty prenuptial concurrence with Fawson's dad. When of Tresilian's demise in 1792, the more youthful Margaret had hitched William Bassett Chinnery (1766– 1834), the senior sibling of the painter George Chinnery. 

The Chinnerys were rich and powerful. William Chinnery's dad, likewise named William, possessed exchanging ships and named one Gilwell in 1800. William and Margaret Chinnery at first lived in London, and following three years of marriage and acquiring Gilwell in 1792, they moved to Gilwell in 1793. They before long stunned the masses by renaming Osborne Hall to "Gilwell Hall". William Chinnery extended Gilwell's property possessions through huge buys more than 15 years and, with his significant other, changed it into a nation bequest with greenery enclosures, ways, and statues. Portions of the patio nursery, ways, and staying alterations exist into the 21st century. William Chinnery was uncovered as the thief of a little fortune from the British Treasury where he worked and was expelled from every one of his posts on 12 March 1812. Margaret Chinnery was compelled to sign over Gilwell Estate to the Exchequer on 2 July 1812. 

The Chinnery family was sufficiently conspicuous that individuals from the English honorability visited regularly amid the 1790s and mid nineteenth century. Ruler George III visited now and again, and the Prince Regent, who later moved toward becoming George IV, was a standard guest. George III's seventh child, Prince Adolphus, turned into a family companion, inhabited Gilwell for some time, and coached their oldest child George. 

Gilpin Gorst purchased the home in 1815 at open closeout, and his child sold it to Thomas Usborne in 1824. At the point when London Bridge was supplanted in 1826, Usborne purchased bits of the stone balustrades, which date to 1209, and raised them behind the White House around the Buffalo Lawn. The bequest changed proprietorship more occasions, yet these families did not keep up the property and it fell into decay by 1900. Reverend Cranshaw, a neighborhood inhabitant, purchased the bequest in 1911 and was the last proprietor preceding the Boy Scout Association, as it was then known. 

The bequest's condition declined all the more amid the 1910s. William de Bois Maclaren was a distributer and Scout Commissioner from Rosneath, Dumbartonshire, Scotland. Amid a work excursion to London, Maclaren was disheartened to see that Scouts in the East End had no appropriate open air territory to direct their exercises. He reached Lord Robert Baden-Powell, who designated P.B. Nevill to deal with the issue. Nevill was Scout Commissioner of the East End. 

On 20 November 1918 over supper at Roland House, the Scout Hostel in Stepney, Maclaren consented to give £7,000 to the task. Some portion of the understanding included narrowing the zones to search for reasonable land to Hainault Forest and Epping Forest. Wanderer Scouts sought both without progress, yet then John Gayfer, a youthful partner Scoutmaster, recommended Gilwell Hall, a spot he went winged creature viewing. Nevill visited the domain and was awed, however the structures were in poor condition. The domain was available to be purchased for £7,000, the value Maclaren had given. The bequest totaled at the time. 

The bequest was bought in mid 1919 by Maclaren for the Boy Scout Association. Nevill first took his Rover Scouts to start fixing the bequest on Maundy Thursday, 17 April 1919. On this visit, the Rovers dozed in the plant specialist's shed in the plantation in light of the fact that the ground was so wet they couldn't pitch tents. They called this shed "The Pigsty" and however bedraggled, regardless it remains, as it is the site of the principal Scout campground at Gilwell Park. Maclaren was a continuous guest to Gilwell Park and helped fix the structures. His devotion was great to the point that he gave another £3,000. Maclaren's advantage had been in giving a campground, however Baden-Powell imagined an instructional hub for Scouters. 

An official opening was made arrangements for 19 July 1919 however it was deferred until Saturday, 26 July 1919 with the goal that Scouts could take an interest in the Official Peace Festival celebrating the finish of World War I. Solicitations were changed by hand to set aside some cash. Huge rebuilding and development was done during the 1920s. In light of restricted funds, couple of enhancements were made amid the Great Depression of the 1930s. 

Baden-Powell never inhabited Gilwell Park yet he frequently stayed outdoors, addressed, showed courses, and went to gatherings. He underscored the significance of Scouters' preparation at Gilwell Park for Scouting by accepting it as the regional assignment in his peerage title of "first Baron Baden-Powell of Gilwell" in 1929 when the barony was given upon him by the ruler. 

The hatchet and log logo was brought about by the main Camp Chief, Francis Gidney, in the mid 1920s to recognize Gilwell Park from the Scout Headquarters. Gidney needed to relate Gilwell Park with the outside and Scoutcraft as opposed to the business or regulatory Headquarters workplaces. Scouters present at the first Wood Badge courses routinely observed hatchet sharp edges conceal for security by being covered in a log. Seeing this, Gidney picked the hatchet and log as the totem of Gilwell Park. This logo came to be unequivocally connected with Wood Badge pioneer preparing is as yet utilized on authentications, banners, and other program-related things. 

The image of the hatchet in the log is related with feudalism after the intrusion and success of England by William the Conqueror. In that time, property, including timberlands, were claimed by the landed nobles and knights. Serfs, bound to the land in a type of changed subjugation, were taboo to cut wood from trees in the backwoods, and just allowed to assemble brought down wood. A freeman who conveyed a hatchet in an aristocrat's woodland exhibited that he had earned the privilege by administration. Emblematically, the grain of a hatchet handle must be "set square in the eye of the head." The steel head must have the correct temper and be kept sharp. To be helpful in the hands of a talented freeman, a hatchet additionally should have been all around adjusted, generally the handle may break, jeopardizing its client. The hatchet spoke to talented workers who had substantiated themselves through administration. In conclusion, the hatchet in the wood reminds the individuals who have finished Wood Badge that they have conceded to be a case of administration and fealty. 

The domain was demanded by the War Ministry from 1940 to 1945 as a nearby order, preparing, and weapons focus. Little stays at the domain from World War II, aside from the opening made by a bomb dropped by the Luftwaffe. It was expanded and is presently utilized for swimming and paddling. 

After the buy of the first site in 1919, the buy of Gilwellbury and connecting land in 1945 is presumably the following most essential in Gilwell Park's Scouting history since it enabled The Scout Association to shut down the first street and completely use Branchet Field. It was initially utilized for little withdraws and meetings however is currently utilized as staff convenience. The Ministry of Education aided the buy. 

The Gilwell Farmhouse is accepted to date from the mid eighteenth century, making it the most seasoned unique structure at Gilwell Park. It is made out of two structures that were combined. There is a block well head on the homestead that is known as the "Gil Well". A field connecting the limits of Gilwell Park, known as Bill Oddie Field, manages emotional perspectives on the London horizon over Pole Hill, Chingford. The field was so-named after workers of The Scout Association spotted TV ornithologist Bill Oddie recording a program about hovering fowls of go after the field in 2006. 

After the war, the Boy Scout Association purchased bordering area to build the bequest and shield it from quickly moving toward new improvements. These zones are known as The Quick, New Field, and Hilly Field. An extra buy and a gift from South Africa in the mid 1950s conveyed the bequest to its present size. This started a time of growing outdoors offices for Scouts which endured until the mid 1960s. Preparing and dozing offices were included through the mid 1970s. The Boy Scout Association was renamed The Scout Association in 1967. 

Amid the 1970s, two key and well known offices were assembled: the Dorothy Hughes Pack Holiday Center for Cub Scouts and the Colquhoun International Center for preparing Scouters, initially called The International Hall of Friendship. During the 1980s broad rebuilding of the White House was finished. In April 2001, The Scout Association moved its program staff from London to Gilwell Park, where its preparation staff were at that point found. Broad remodels were done to the White House and different structures. With a financial plan of £20,000,000 and individual commitments as high as £500,000, enhancements to projects and offices have been continuous from that point forward in anticipation of the 21st World Scout Jamboree in 2007, which was the 100th commemoration of Scouting, facilitated at close-by Hylands Park, Chelmsford, Essex with related exercises additionally being held at Gilwell Park. Gilwell Park gives The Scout Association over £1,000,000 per year through gathering expenses, convenience charges, and offers of materials. 

While distinctive pioneer instructional classes are led at Gilwell Park, the most conspicuous is Wood Badge. Francis Gidney, the main Camp Chief, led the primary Wood Badge course at Gilwell Park 8– 19 September 1919. Gilwell Park turned into the home of administration preparing in the Scout development. Pioneers from everywhere throughout the world get programmed enrollment in first Gilwell Park Scout Group (Gilwell Troop 1) on finishing of the Wood Badge course. These pioneers are from now on called Wood Badgers or Gilwellians. Any area in which Wood Badgers meet is called Gilwell Field. The first Gilwell Park Scout Group meets each first few days of September in Gilwell Park for the Gilwell Reunion. 

The Training Ground, close to the White House, is the sacrosanct ground of Gilwell Park as this is the world home of Wood Badge, the chief Scout pioneer instructional class. An extensive oak tree, the Gilwell Oak, isolates the Training Ground from the Orchard. 

Commander Francis "Captain" Gidney turned into the main Camp Chief in May 1919 and served until 1923. He composed the main Wood Badge preparing, and added to setting up Gilwell Park as the Scouters' instructional hub. The Gidney Cabin was assembled and named in his respect in 1929 to fill in as an instructional hub. The second Camp Chief was John Skinner Wilson, who served from 1923 until 1939. Wilson was Colonel with the British Indian Police when he turned into a Scout Leader in 1917. In 1921 he made a trip to Gilwell Park to take pioneer preparing, which prompted his retirement from the Indian Police in 1922 to turn into a full-time Scout Leader. He was regarded with the Bronze Wolf Award in 1937, the main refinement of the World Organization of the Scout Movement. 

R.F. "John" Thurman was a British Scout Leader who filled in as Camp Chief from 1943 until 1969 and was granted the Bronze Wolf Award in 1959. He was a solid advertiser of Scout preparing and composed books regarding the matter that were converted into different dialects. The Thurman Memorial remains close to The Pigsty. Thurman was prevailing by John Huskin as "Executive of pioneer preparing". 

Wear Potter (1902– 2004) was an English stone worker and wood carver who was a long lasting staff part at Gilwell Park, filling in as a Gilwell Master Craftsman. Potter made wood carvings at Gilwell Park, including the Jim Green Gate, Gidney Cabin, the Leopard Gates, and totems he cut for the 1929 World Jamboree. 

Since 2016, the movement focus at Gilwell Park is run and overseen by Scout Adventures, following a re-marking of Scout Activity Centers across the nation. The middle offers an expansive scope of open air and indoor experience exercises, just as settlement and outdoors, for Scout and Guide gatherings, schools and other youth associations. 

Exercises given by Scout Adventures at Gilwell Park incorporate different high rope exercises, shake climbing, 3G swing, bows and arrows, rifle shooting, kayaking and pontoon building. Every action session keeps going an hour and a half, with most exercises having a member point of confinement of 12. These exercises are basically kept running by a group of worldwide volunteers. 

Gilwell Park gives outdoors openings extending from little gatherings, up to gatherings more than 2,500 individuals. This incorporates everything from unit-level outdoors to facilitating worldwide occasions. 

Essex Chase is a huge, open field situated off of Camp Square. It is a well known field, because of its closeness to Rikki's latrine hinder, the fundamental open air fire circles, Camp Square and Scout Adventures gathering. 

Forests Field is an expansive field that will hold up to 200 campers at the north end of the recreation center. 

Branchet Field is the biggest campground and will hold 1,200 campers. The field is level and open, with Maclarens can obstruct in the inside. The Northern end of the field additionally has electrical hookups for camper vans and bands. 

Mallinson Field is a little, lush, disconnected territory fit to little gatherings. 

The Paddock is a littler outdoors field, legitimately associated with the Dorothy Hughes Pack Holiday Center. The field houses Mallinson's latrine square, and holds 30 campers. 

Ferryman Field is a part level field situated toward the North of the site, appropriate for 'simple outdoors because of its lush nature and separation from offices. 

The Dorothy Hughes Pack Holiday Center was worked in 1970 by fitting interlocking logs together from a Norwegian, without any nails used to develop the first casing. Dorothy Hughes was a Cub Scout Leader from East London who wished to see a reason manufactured office for Cub Scout occasions. 

The Center can rest 40 individuals, principally in quarters style rooms with littler rooms given to use by gathering pioneers. There are both can and shower offices inside the structure. The structure is halfway warmed and incorporates AV hardware and Wi-Fi. The structure is midway warmed with an expansive fundamental corridor and kitchen. 

Branchet Lodge, named after field whereupon it is sited, opened on 23 May 2003 to supplant old convenient lodges. Branchet Lodge is a solitary story assembling that has focal warming and dozes up to 56 individuals in two separate wings with a typical kitchen and fundamental corridor. Each wing has its very own latrine and shower offices. There are four single spaces for pioneers, two available rooms that rest two individuals each, and six rooms that rest eight individuals each. It is developed of stone, timber, copper, and a grass rooftop. The structure is midway warmed, has clothing offices, and incorporates AV hardware and Wi-Fi. 

The Jack Petchey Lodge opened in September 2008, situated alongside the Branchet Lodge. There are five single spaces for pioneers, ten rooms that rest four individuals each and two available rooms that rest two individuals each. All rooms are en-suite, with collective toilets additionally gave in the fundamental lobby. The structure is midway warmed, and incorporates AV gear, freeview and Wi-Fi. There is a huge shared kitchen just as clothing offices. 

The Peter Harrison Lodge was worked in 2009 and is the most up to date settlement working at Gilwell Park. It is fundamentally the same as the Jack Petchey Lodge, and situated inverse the Branchet Lodge. The structure rests 50 individuals. There are four pioneer rooms, ten rooms dozing four individuals each, and two open rooms resting two individuals each. All rooms are en-suite, with public toilets additionally gave in the primary lobby. The structure is midway warmed, and incorporates AV gear, freeview and Wi-Fi. There is an expansive collective kitchen just as clothing offices. 

Log lodges on the edge of Woodland Field rest eight each in cots. Cooking is given in a different sanctuary or an open flame can be used. 

Every year Gilwell Park runs various normal extraordinary occasions. These have been set up for over 20 years with the expansion of Gilwell 24 of every 2004 and Scarefest in 2014 and are probably the biggest yearly Scout occasions in the UK. 

Every year Scout Adventures selects up to 120 volunteers from more than 30 nations to aid the running of its focuses. Scout Adventures at Gilwell Park has between 20 – 50 volunteers, contingent upon the season. These volunteers remain for a most extreme position of one year, and are given convenience as a byproduct of their work. These volunteers are prepared to run movement sessions for visitors, complete upkeep and improvement chips away at the site, and give client administration. 

Another reason constructed settlement building was opened in 2016 to house an expanding number of volunteers, following the debasement of past convenience in The Den and Gilwellbury. The International Volunteer Lodge cost £1.2m to fabricate, the financing for which came to a great extent from the Jack Petchey Foundation, yet additionally from a few single private benefactors with a more extensive enthusiasm for Scouting. The structure is prevalently timber encircled with an extensive social space built utilizing glulam bars and incorporates a two-story dozing region. This gives 26 twofold rooms and an open room, all with en-suite offices. The single story social spaces incorporate a drying and boot room, pantry, open arrangement kitchen, feasting and parlor territory, calm room and film style room. 

Gilwell Park can have indoor and outside gatherings, preparing and extraordinary occasions for organizations and people. Amid the mid year months, Gilwell Park is a prominent wedding setting. The Training and Event Center likewise work the lodging at Gilwell Park, situated inside the White House. 

The Training and Event Center basically uses the White House and Colquhoun International Center (CIC), the two of which have an assortment of adaptable spaces with AV hardware and other gathering advances. Weddings, parties and different capacities are additionally held in The Swan Center, a log-lodge style corridor worked in 1966 to supplant a prior structure, and the Gidney Cabin worked in 1929. 

The White House and its ancestors speak to more than 500 years of Gilwell history. It turned into the home office of The Scout Association on 27 April 2001, in spite of the fact that Baden-Powell House (the previous base camp) still encourages a few divisions of The Scout Association. 

The White House today fills in as an inn and has various gathering rooms on the ground floor, following broad redesigns during the 1990s. The inn contains 41 visitor rooms (35 en-suite) over the White House and its cutting edge augmentation. The White House likewise houses a bar in the Group Room, and a container style eatery. 

The Colquhoun International Center (CIC) was worked in 1971 as a Scout chief instructional hub, and was widely revamped in 1995. The structure has a principle lobby (The International Hall of Friendship) that can situate up to 250 individuals, 2 littler preparing suites, and five course rooms. The fundamental corridor is normally utilized for bigger weddings, meals and gatherings; with the workshop rooms and preparing suites utilized for meetings and gatherings. The CIC likewise houses a second bar that is utilized amid capacities. 

Gilwell Park has numerous attractions, fundamentally Scouting in nature, for guests to see. This incorporates a gift shop, The Providore, the shape and supply of which have changed extensively over its times of activity. The Gilwell Park exhibition hall shut in 2015 attributable to its unsatisfactory conditions to house chronicled pieces. 

The White House is associated with The Barn (initially The Stables), a red-block building worked in 1926. The entrance in the focal point of the structure was initially an open path. It presently houses the meeting room for the Training and Event Center. The main floor of the structure was utilized as preparing spaces for Cub Scout Leaders. The clock on the facade of the structure was a blessing from a previous Japanese Chief Scout, Count Sano, who was available at an early instructional class at Gilwell Park. The climate vane on the rooftop portrays Dick Turpin, who was supposed to live on the site. 

Near the domain entrance, The Lodge was worked in 1934 as the Camp Chief's (later prevailing by the Director of Program and Development) home. The structure is presently used to suit Scout Association staff and host inner gatherings. 

The Gilwell Farm is the most established structure on the site as yet standing, dating from the 1600s. The structure began as two separate cabins. In the grounds of the structure is the final well nearby, known as Gil Well. The Farm was restored from its abandoned site, opening in 2015 as the new workplaces and gathering of Scout Adventures Gilwell Park . Near to, The Leopard Gates mark the first access to Gilwell Park, and were cut by Gilwlel ace skilled worker Don Potter in 1928. 

The Lid, which initially comprised of a rooftop yet no dividers, was a wet climate cover worked in 1967. In 2009, the structure was revamped and now comprises of an extensive movement corridor, two homerooms, staff space and a vast store room included The action lobby houses all the indoor exercises nearby, including an arrow based weaponry range and climbing dividers. Before The Lid, is the Tait McKenzie Statue, skilled by the Boy Scouts of America in 1966. 

The Barnacle was worked in 1950 as a First Aid focus, which rapidly turned into a volunteer-run cabin medical clinic for guests and the neighborhood network. It houses a 6-bed ward, detachment room, dental medical procedure, X-beam room and working theater. In the late 1980s the structure wound up volunteer convenience, until it was decommissioned in 2016 with the opening of the International Volunteer Lodge. The structure presently stands unfilled, anticipating an unsure future. 

The Pigsty, a little plant specialists shed situated on The Orchard, has been protected as the main campground at Gilwell Park. The primary gathering of Rover Scouts who touched base to set up the site when it was bought in 1919 rested here when the climate demonstrated too terrible to even consider pitching their tents. 

The site is home to five places of love for Scouts and different guests, including a Buddhist sala, Jewish synagogue, and an Islamic mosque. The Buddhist Sala was given to Gilwell Park in 1967 by the Boy Scouts of Thailand. The Buddha found inside was a blessing from the Thai government and is more than 1000 years of age. Thai envoys to the United Kingdom regularly visit the sala, as it is their obligation to think about it. 

The White House, initially going back to 1750, is timber surrounded and was stretched out in 1830 and again during the 1960s. The outside is shrouded in hung slates, which made broad harm the first edge which required broad fixes in 1994. The 1797 fireplaces are pointed fit as a fiddle, to stop flying creatures settling and draw smoke up from the flame. The garden before the structure was the house's unique turning circle, with the street once being an avenue from Chingford to Waltham Abbey. 

Camp Square has had an assortment of structures with numerous utilizations throughout the years, including a Warden's Office (as of late devastated), historical center (at present unfilled), bows and arrows run (previous Scout Shop – never again being used), volunteer settlement (pulverized in 2017), shop, soda pops bar, staff space and can square. In the focal point of the Square is the clock tower, known as Big Mac. It was named after Camp Warden Alfred Macintosh. 

Behind Camp Square, The Bomb Hole was made when a World War 2 bomb was dropped on the site, making a little cavity. The Bomb Hole has been broadened a few times, and is currently utilized for kayaking, pontoon building and lake plunging action sessions. 

There are two Campfire Circles which are utilized broadly amid the pinnacle outdoors season. The Large Campfire Circle has a Maori Gatewat which was introduced by the Scouts New Zealand in 1951. 

The Lime Walk, built by past domain proprietor Margaret Chinnery, encompasses the Training Ground which was the first principle yard zone of the White House. Maybe a couple of the Lime trees get by right up 'til today. On this way sits the Jim Green Gate, a 1930 tribute to Jim Green, an editorial manager of The Scouter magazine. 

The Buffalo Lawn is supposed on account of the imitation of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) Silver Buffalo Award that was introduced by the Boy Scouts of America in 1926. This was to respect the Unknown Scout that helped William D. Boyce convey Scouting to the United States. Situated there is a signpost with the bearings and separations to all the World Scout Jamborees from Gilwell Park. Encompassing the Buffalo Lawn is a piece of the first balustrade of London Bridge which was re-worked in 1820. The areas were moved to Gilwell Park subsequent to being acquired at sale in 1826. 

Considered by numerous individuals to be the most vital Scouting site, The Training Ground is the place Wood Badge preparing was verifiably held and where the Gilwell oak tree is found. In opposition to mainstream thinking, the Wood Badge globules have never been made of Gilwell Oak. On the Training Ground sits the Gidney Cabin, a commemoration to the primary Camp Chief, Francis Gidney, in 1929. Opposite the Gidney Cabin is the Thurman Memorial, in memory of Camp Chief John Thurman. 

The train trailer, exhibited to Chief Scout Sir Robert Baden-Powell, alongside another Rolls-Royce vehicle, amid the third World Scout Jamboree in 1929 is in plain view amid the late spring months. The convoy was nicknamed Eccles. The vehicle, nicknamed Jam Roll, was sold after his passing by Olave Baden-Powell in 1945. 

Gilwell Park likewise has various other littler commemorations, statues, and places and objects of recorded or Scouting significance. 

Other truly noteworthy Scout campgrounds and preparing focuses incorporate