Zenobia 

Septimia Zenobia (Palmyrene: (Btzby), articulated Bat-Zabbai; 240 – c. 274 AD) was a third century ruler of the Palmyrene Empire in Syria. Numerous legends encompass her family; she was likely not an everyday person and she wedded the leader of the city, Odaenathus. Her significant other moved toward becoming ruler in 260, hoisting Palmyra to incomparable power in the Near East by vanquishing the Sassanians and balancing out the Roman East. After Odaenathus' death, Zenobia turned into the official of her child Vaballathus and held "accepted" control all through his rule. 

In 270, Zenobia propelled an attack which brought the vast majority of the Roman East under her influence and finished with the extension of Egypt. By mid-271 her domain stretched out from Ancyra, focal Anatolia, to southern Egypt, despite the fact that she remained ostensibly subordinate to Rome. Be that as it may, in response to Roman head Aurelian's battle in 272, Zenobia proclaimed her child ruler and expected the title of sovereign (pronouncing Palmyra's withdrawal from Rome). The Romans were successful after substantial battling; the ruler was blockaded in her capital and caught by Aurelian, who ousted her to Rome where she spent an amazing rest. 

Zenobia was a refined ruler and cultivated a scholarly domain in her court, which was available to researchers and rationalists. She was tolerant toward her subjects and ensured religious minorities. The ruler kept up a steady organization which represented a multicultural multiethnic domain. Zenobia passed on after 274, and numerous stories have been recorded about her destiny. Her ascent and fall have motivated students of history, specialists and authors, and she is a national saint in Syria. 

Zenobia was conceived c. 240– 241. She bore the gentilicium (surname) Septimia, and her local Palmyrene name was Bat-Zabbai (expressed "Btzby" in the Palmyrene letters in order, an Aramaic name signifying "girl of Zabbai"). In Greek—Palmyra's conciliatory and second language, utilized in numerous Palmyrene engravings—she utilized the name Zenobia ("one whose life gets from Zeus"). The philologist Wilhelm Dittenberger trusted that the name Bat Zabbai experienced a detortum (turn), bringing about the name Zenobia. In Palmyra, names, for example, Zabeida, Zabdila, Zabbai or Zabda were regularly changed into "Zenobios" (manly) and "Zenobia" (female) when written in Greek. The history specialist Victor Duruy trusted that the ruler utilized the Greek name as an interpretation of her local name in respect to her Greek subjects. The ninth-century student of history al-Tabari, in his exceedingly fictionalized record, composed that the ruler's name was Na'ila al-Zabba'. Manichaean sources called her "Tadi". 

No contemporary statues of Zenobia have been found in Palmyra or somewhere else, just engravings on statues bases endure, demonstrating that a statue of the ruler once remained in the spot; most known portrayals of Zenobia are the glorified pictures of her found on her coins. Palmyrene models were regularly unoriginal, in contrast to Greek and Roman ones: a statue of Zenobia would have given a thought of her general style in dress and gems however would not have uncovered her actual appearance. English researcher William Wright visited Palmyra close to the finish of the nineteenth century in a vain look for a figure of the ruler. 

Notwithstanding archeological proof, Zenobia's life was recorded in various old sources yet many are imperfect or created; the "Augustan History", a late-Roman gathering of accounts, is the most striking (but problematic) hotspot for the time. The creator (or creators) of the "Augustan History" concocted numerous occasions and letters credited to Zenobia without contemporary sources. Some "Augustan History" accounts are supported from different sources, and are increasingly sound. Byzantine writer Joannes Zonaras is viewed as an imperative hotspot for the life of Zenobia. 

Palmyrene society was an amalgam of Semitic clans (for the most part Aramean and Arab), and Zenobia can't be related to any one gathering; as a Palmyrene, she would have had Aramean and Arab blood. Data about Zenobia's parentage and close family associations is rare and conflicting. Nothing is thought about her mom, and her dad's personality is discussed. Manichaean sources notice a "Nafsha", sister of the "ruler of Palmyra", yet those sources are befuddled and "Nafsha" may allude to Zenobia herself: it is dicey that Zenobia had a sister. 

The "Augustan History" contains subtleties of Zenobia's initial life, despite the fact that their validity is dicey. As per the "Augustan History", the ruler's leisure activity as a tyke was chasing. Obviously not an average citizen, she would have gotten instruction suitable for an honorable Palmyrene young lady. As indicated by the "Augustan History", notwithstanding her Palmyrene Aramaic native language, Zenobia was allegedly conversant in Egyptian and Greek and spoke Latin. Around age 14 (c. 255) she turned into the second spouse of Odaenathus, the "ras" (master) of Palmyra. Respectable families in Palmyra regularly intermarried, and it is plausible that Zenobia and Odaenathus shared a few precursors.