James Wood Bush 

James Wood Bush ( – April 24, 1906) was an American Union Navy mariner of British and Native Hawaiian plunge. He was among a gathering of more than one hundred Native Hawaiian and Hawaii-conceived warriors in the American Civil War, when the Kingdom of Hawaii was as yet a free country. 

Enrolling in the Union Navy in 1864, Bush filled in as a mariner on board the USS "Vandalia" and the caught Confederate vessel USS "Beauregard", which kept up the bar of the ports of the Confederacy. He was released from administration in 1865 after damage, which formed into an interminable condition in later life. The ruined Bush was unfit to come back to Hawaii for over 10 years, amid which time he went through New England and a great part of the Pacific. Back in Hawaii, he functioned as an administration charge authority and street director for the island of Kauai, where he settled down. In later life he changed over to Mormonism and turned into a functioning individual from the Hawaiian Mission. After the extension of Hawaii to the United States, Bush was perceived for his military administration, and in 1905 was conceded an administration annuity for the wounds he got in the Navy. He kicked the bucket at his home on Kauai on April 24, 1906. 

For an extensive stretch after the Civil War, the heritage and commitments of Bush and other reported Hawaiian members were to a great extent overlooked with the exception of in the private circles of relatives and students of history. There has been a recovery of intrigue, particularly through the endeavors of his incredible grandniece Edna Bush Ellis and others in the Hawaiian people group. In 2010, the "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War" were recognized with a bronze plaque raised along the dedication pathway at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu. 

James Wood Bush was conceived in Honolulu. The date of his introduction to the world is dubious; sources guarantee it to be October 1844, 1845, or 1847– 1848. 

He was the child of George Henry Bush (1807– 1853), a local of Suffolk, England, who went to Hawaii in 1825, and his Hawaiian spouse. 

Hedge was in this way of blended Native Hawaiian and Caucasian drop, known as "hapa haole" in Hawaiian, despite the fact that in his lifetime he was alluded to as a "half-station". His more established sibling was John Edward Bush, who turned into a paper distributer and legislator, filling in as regal legislative head of Kauaʻi and a bureau serve under the rule of King Kalākaua. Little is thought about Bush's life before 1864. Like his sibling, he started his profession as a mariner chipping away at either vendor or whaling ships in the Pacific. Hawaiian mariners were exceedingly respected in the eighteenth and nineteenth century oceanic industry. 

After the episode of the American Civil War, the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi under King Kamehameha IV proclaimed its lack of bias on August 26, 1861. Some Native Hawaiians and Hawaiian-conceived Americans (essentially relatives of American preachers) both abroad and in the islands volunteered to enroll in the military regiments of different states in the Union and the Confederacy. Singular Native Hawaiians had been serving in the United States Navy and Army since the War of 1812, and more served amid the Civil War. Numerous Hawaiians felt for the Union as a result of Hawaiʻi's connections to New England through its teachers and the whaling businesses, and the ideological restriction of numerous to the organization of bondage. 

Landing in New England toward the start of the war, Bush enrolled at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, for a three-year term as a "common sailor" on September 27, 1864. Amid his administration, he chipped away at the USS "Vandalia" and later the caught Confederate vessel USS "Beauregard", which pursued barricade sprinters off West Florida as a feature of the squadrons in charge of keeping up the bar of the ports of the Confederacy. He created interminable laryngitis and spinal wounds because of his administration in the Union Navy and was released in September 1865 at the Brooklyn Naval Hospital. At the point when the war finished, the ruined Bush had no chance to get of coming back to Hawaii. For the following decade, he lived in New Bedford, San Francisco, and Tahiti, at long last coming back to Hawaii in 1877. In 1905, after Hawaii turned into a US domain, Bush was allowed an annuity for his administration in the Civil War, with back benefits dating from May 8, 1897. 

In the wake of coming back to Hawaii, Bush settled on the island of Kauai. In 1880, he was recorded as the expense gatherer of Kawaihau, Kauai. In 1882, his more seasoned sibling, in his ability as Minister of Interior, named Bush the Road Supervisor for the District of Hanalei to supplant Christian Bertlemann, who had surrendered. In 1887, Bush changed over to Mormonism and was appointed a senior following two years, undertaking minister work in the islands. He turned into the minister of the Latter-day Saints ward in Kealia and facilitated Mormon history specialist Andrew Jenson amid his 1895 visit to Kauai. In around 1894, Bush wedded a young lady at Lahaina, making a trip to Kona after their marriage. 

Bramble passed on of heart disappointment at Kealia, Kauai, on April 24, 1906. In the most recent long periods of his life, he was a janitor at the Kealia jail. He was made due by his significant other and child. Lorenzo Taylor, composing for the "Deseret News" not long after Bush's demise, stated, "[H]e has taken a functioning part in the preacher work, doing much good among his kindred men. He has additionally been thoughtful to the older folks, and his entryways were constantly open to them. He was enormously dearest and regarded by all who knew him. His life was a respectable case of dependable and untiring commitment to the Gospel." Bush is accepted to be covered on Kauai, yet the area of his grave is unsure. As indicated by Anita Manning, an Associate in Cultural Studies at Bishop Museum, "even the family can't discover him". 

After the war, the military administration of Hawaiians, including James Wood Bush and numerous others, was to a great extent overlooked, vanishing from the aggregate recollections of the American Civil War and the historical backdrop of Hawaii. Hawaiian inhabitants, students of history, and relatives of Hawaiian warriors in the contention have demanded the need to recollect the heritage of the Hawaiians who battled. Recharged enthusiasm for the tales of these people and this specific time of Hawaiian-American history has propelled endeavors to protect the recollections of the Hawaiians who served in the war. 

Expressing that "our young men from Hawaii" ought to be recalled, Bush's extraordinary grandniece Edna Bush Ellis was powerful in restoring interest and in the push to introduce a commemoration perceiving their heritage. On August 26, 2010, on the commemoration of the marking of the Hawaiian Neutrality Proclamation, a bronze plaque was raised along the dedication pathway at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu perceiving the "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War", the more than one hundred Hawaiians who were recorded as serving amid the American Civil War for both the Union and the Confederacy. Starting at 2014, specialists have recognized 119 reported Native Hawaiian and Hawaii-conceived warriors from authentic records. The careful number still stays indistinct in light of the fact that numerous Hawaiians enrolled and served under Anglicized names, and little is thought about them because of the absence of itemized records. 

In 2015, the sesquicentennial of the finish of the American Civil War, the National Park Service discharged the production "Asians and Pacific Islanders and the Civil War" about the administration of the numerous warriors of Asian and Pacific Islander plunge who battled amid the war. The historical backdrop of Hawaii's inclusion and the life stories of Bush and others were composed by students of history Anita Manning, Justin Vance and others. 

Books and diaries 

Papers and online sources