Elliott Fitch Shepard 

Elliott Fitch Shepard (July 25, 1833 – March 24, 1893) was a New York attorney, financier, and proprietor of the "Mail and Express" paper, just as an organizer and leader of the New York State Bar Association. Shepard was hitched to Margaret Louisa Vanderbilt, who was the granddaughter of altruist, business tycoon, and family patriarch Cornelius Vanderbilt. Shepard's Briarcliff Manor habitation Woodlea and the Scarborough Presbyterian Church, which he established adjacent, are contributing properties to the Scarborough Historic District. 

Shepard was conceived in Jamestown, New York, one of three children of the leader of a banknote-etching organization. He went to the City University of New York, and specialized in legal matters for around 25 years. Amid the American Civil War, Shepard was a Union Army enrollment specialist and therefore earned the position of colonel. He was later an originator and promoter of a few organizations and banks. At the point when Shepard moved to the Briarcliff Manor villa of Scarborough-on-Hudson, he established the Scarborough Presbyterian Church and manufactured Woodlea; the house and its property are presently part of Sleepy Hollow Country Club. 

Shepard was conceived July 25, 1833 in Jamestown in Chautauqua County, New York. He was the second of three children of Fitch Shepard and Delia Maria Dennis; the others were Burritt Hamilton and Augustus Dennis. Fitch Shepard was leader of the National Bank Note Company (later merged with the American and Continental Note Companies), and Elliott's sibling Augustus progressed toward becoming leader of the American Bank Note Company. Shepard's more distant family lived in New England, with starting points in Bedfordshire, England. Fitch, child of Noah Shepard, was a relative of Thomas Shepard (a Puritan priest) and James Fitch (child in-law of William Bradford). Delia Maria Dennis was a relative of Robert Dennis, who emigrated from England in 1635. Elliott was depicted in 1897's "Unmistakable Families of New York" as "conspicuous by birth and heritage, just as for his own characteristics". He went to state funded schools in Jamestown, and moved with his dad and siblings to New York City in 1845. He started going to the school preliminary University Grammar School (at that point situated in the City University of New York constructing), and moved on from the college in 1855. Shepard started perusing law under Edwards Pierrepont, and was admitted to the bar in the city of Brooklyn in 1858. 

From January 1861 through the flare-up of the American Civil War and until 1862 Shepard filled in as a "confidant" to Union Army General Edwin D. Morgan with the position of colonel. Amid this time Shepard was set in direction of the bureau of volunteers in Elmira, and enrolled 47,000 men from the encompassing region. In 1862 he was selected Assistant Inspector-General for half of New York state, answering to New York's senator on troop association, gear, and control. 

In 1862 he visited Jamestown to assess, prepare and give regalia to the Chautauqua regiment, his first return since outset, and was invited by a gathering of conspicuous residents. Shepard selected and sorted out the 51st Regiment, New York Volunteers, which was named the Shepard Rifles in his respect. George W. Whitman, sibling of the artist Walt Whitman and an individual from the regiment, was advised by Shepard of an advancement; Shepard may have affected his consequent advancement to study 1865. What's more, Shepard was associated with correspondence with Walt Whitman. Despite the fact that President Abraham Lincoln offered him an advancement to brigadier general, Shepard declined in respect to officers who had seen field administration; Shepard himself never entered the field. From 1866 to 1868 Shepard filled in as "confidant" to Reuben E. Fenton. 

In 1864, Shepard was an individual from the official board of trustees and seat of the Committee on Contributions from Without the City for the New York Metropolitan Fair. He led legal counselors' advisory groups for fiasco help, incorporating those in Portland, Maine and Chicago after the 1866 Great Fire and the 1871 Great Chicago Fire individually, and was an individual from the city board for casualties of the 1889 Johnstown Flood. 

In 1867 Shepard was displayed to Margaret Louisa Vanderbilt at a gathering given by Governor Morgan; their troublesome romance was contradicted by Margaret's dad, William Henry Vanderbilt. After a year, on February 18, 1868, they were hitched in the Church of the Incarnation in New York City. After a 1868 trek to Tarsus, Mersin he helped discovered Tarsus American College, consenting to give $5,000 every year to the school and leave it an enrichment of $100,000 ($ in ). He ended up one of the school's trustees and VPs. 

In 1868, Shepard turned into an accomplice of Judge Theron R. Solid in Strong and Shepard, proceeding with the business after Strong's demise. He kept on providing legal counsel for the following 25 years; he helped found the New York State Bar Association in 1876, and in 1884 was its fifth president. In 1875 Shepard drafted a revision setting up an intervention court for the New York Chamber of Commerce, serving on its five-part official board of trustees the next year. In 1880, the New York City Board of Aldermen designated Shepard and Ebenezer B. Shafer to reexamine and classify the city's neighborhood statutes to shape the New-York Municipal Code; the last update was in 1859. 

Amid the 1880s he helped discovered three banks. At the Bank of the Metropolis, he was an establishing board part. The others were the American Savings Bank and the Columbian National Bank, where he filled in as lawyer. In 1881, US President Rutherford B. Hayes assigned him for United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. In 1884, Shepard drove the push to make an intervention court for the New York Chamber of Commerce. On March 20, 1888, Shepard acquired the "Mail and Express" paper (established in 1836, with an expected an incentive in 1888 of $200,000 ($ in ) from Cyrus W. Field for $425,000 ($ in ). Profoundly religious, Shepard set a section from the Bible at the leader of every version's article page. As leader of the paper organization until his demise, he endorsed each imperative choice or arrangement. Around the same time, Shepard turned into the controlling investor of the Fifth Avenue Transportation Company to drive it to end take a shot at Sundays (the Christian Sabbath). 

At the point when Margaret's dad passed on in 1885, she acquired $12 million ($ in ). The family inhabited 2 West 52nd Street in Manhattan, one of three places of the Vanderbilt Triple Palace which were worked amid the 1880s for William Henry Vanderbilt and his two little girls. After Elliott's passing Margaret exchanged the house to her sister's family, who consolidated their two houses into one. The houses were inevitably destroyed; the nine-story De Pinna Building was worked there in 1928 and was crushed around 1969. 650 Fifth Avenue is the structure presently on the site. 

Shepard and his family visited the world in 1884, visiting Asia, Africa, and Europe. He archived his 1887 excursion from New York to Alaska in "The Riva.: New York and Alaska" taken without anyone else, his significant other and little girl, six other relatives, their house keeper, a gourmet specialist, head servant, watchman and conductor. As indicated by Shepard, the family went on 26 railways and remained at 38 inns in about five months. After the 1884 trek, mindful of the open door for chapel work in the domain, he established a mission and kept up it with his better half for about $20,000 ($ in ) a year. For quite a while Shepard venerated at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church under John Hall, and was a VP of the Presbyterian Union of New-York. Shepard was leader of the American Sabbath Union for a long time, and he likewise filled in as the director of the Special Committee on Sabbath Observance. 

Amid the mid 1890s Shepard moved to Scarborough-on-Hudson in present-day Briarcliff Manor, buying a Victorian house from J. Head servant Wright. He had a manor (named Woodlea, after Wright's home) constructed south of the house, confronting the Hudson River, and improved its grounds. Development of the house started in 1892, and was finished three years after the fact. Shepard kicked the bucket in 1893, leaving Margaret to direct its fulfillment. The completed house has between , making it one of the biggest exclusive houses in the United States. 

After Shepard's demise Margaret lived there in the spring and fall, with her visits winding up less incessant. By 1900 she started pitching property to Frank A. Vanderlip and William Rockefeller, offering them the house in 1910. Vanderlip and Rockefeller collected a top managerial staff to make a nation club; they initially met at Vanderlip's National City Bank Building office at 55 Wall Street (Vanderlip was leader of the bank at the time). Tired Hollow Country Club was established, with Woodlea turning into its clubhouse and the J. Head servant Wright house as its golf house. 

Shepard built up a little house of prayer on his Briarcliff Manor property, and established the Scarborough Presbyterian Church in 1892. The congregation and its chateau were given by Margaret after his demise. It was planned by Augustus Haydel (a nephew of Stanford White) and August D. Shepard Jr. (a nephew of Elliott Shepard and William Rutherford Mead). The congregation, devoted on May 11, 1895 in Shepard's memory, was quickly known as Shepard Memorial Church. 

Shepard and Margaret had five girls and one child: Florence (1869– 1869), Maria Louise (1870– 1948), Edith (1872– 1954), Marguerite (1873– 1895), Alice (1874– 1950) and Elliott Jr. (1877– 1927). The youngsters went to Sunday school and church, and were instructed by private mentors and tutors. Shepard additionally utilized a private culinary expert for his family. Shepard was a severe dad known to beat his child, who was depicted as being as wild as his dad was inflexible and admonishing. 

Shepard was tall, with a wonderful articulation and way, and "The New York Times" considered him the "ideal sort of very much reproduced clubman". He had thick hair, manicured nails, an all around cut facial hair and an athletic figure. An adversary of discrimination against Jews, he went to meals publicizing the situation of Russian Jews and normally tended to Jewish religious and social associations stayed away from by others. He leased seats in numerous New York houses of worship, upheld around twelve ministers and was portrayed as a liberal contributor to emergency clinics and magnanimous social orders. Shepard was politically eager, and chose to manufacture Woodlea as an image of intensity and impact. Shepard had ponies and carriages which were ridden by the family in parks, and he prided himself on his equestrianism. Shepard was a long-term companion of US Senator Chauncey Depew. 

Shepard was a supporter of the Republican Party, contributing $75,000 ($ in ) to the 1888 Presidential battle subsidize and $10,000 ($ in ) to the state board of trustees for the Fassett crusade. He outfitted Shepard Hall, at Sixth Avenue and 57th Street in New York City, offering it lease allowed to the Republican Club. 

Shepard had a place with various associations: the Adirondack League, the American Museum of Natural History, the American Oriental Society, the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, the Century Association, the Congregational Club, the Lawyers' Club of New York, the Manhattan Athletic Club, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the National Academy of Design, the New England Society of New York, the New York Athletic Club, the New York Press Club, the New York State Bar Association, the New York Yacht Club, the Presbyterian Union of New York, the Republican Club of the City of New York, the Riding Club, the Sons of the American Revolution, the Twilight Club, the Union League Club of New York, and the Union League of Brooklyn. 

In 1892, the City University of New York gave Shepard a Master of Laws degree and the University of Omaha gave him a Doctor of Laws degree. On January 11, 1893, Shepard tended to the House Committee on the Columbian Exposition with an end goal to persuade the panel not to open the composition on a Sunday - the Sabbath. Shepard himself visited, having burned through $25,000 ($ in ) on September 7, 1891 in holding sixteen rooms with board at the Auditorium Hotel for a half year amid the reasonable. 

Shepard passed on suddenly amid the evening of March 24, 1893 at his Manhattan living arrangement. Two specialists were endeavoring to expel a bladder stone from him. They trained him to eat gently, just well before the task. They gave him the analgesic ether at 12:45 p.m. For a couple of minutes Shepard did not appear to respond, however soon a while later his shading began changing and his breath and heartbeat darkened, so organization of ether was halted, anyway insufficient ether was given to proceed with the task. His condition began to intensify once more; the specialists speculated nourishment or regurgitation was hindering his windpipe or bronchial cylinders. The specialists at that point controlled oxygen, which helped incidentally; in any case, at 4:00 p.m. his heartbeat turned out to be relentlessly progressively weak, he fell oblivious, and passed on at 4:10 p.m. His reason for death was edema and blockage of the lungs, after the organization of ether, however because of an obscure reason. 

Numerous specialists believed the case to be strange and discussed the reason for death. A few, including relatives, blamed them for criminal carelessness; that Shepard was encouraged well before the task, which could have enabled him to stifle on regurgitation. No post-mortem was made, yet an investigation was made by the coroner. The two specialists to play out the activity created an impression on March 28, 1893 that after earlier examinations no maladies were found and his heart and lungs appeared to be solid. A "Tribune" correspondent met specialist William J. Morton, child of conceivable ether pioneer William T. G. Morton who had first utilized it in 1846. Morton said it was most doubtful Shepard kicked the bucket of ether, guaranteeing its security when appropriately utilized, and that passings were one out of 25,000. He prescribed a dissection. 

The principal memorial service was a little assembling of pallbearers and dear companions of the family at the house; at that point Shepard's body was moved to their congregation. From the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, Shepard was moved to the Battery and afterward onto a ship to Staten Island. 

At the memorial service, associations that Shepard was a piece of sent delegates, including the Union League Club, the Republican County Committee, the Republican Club, the New York State Bar Association, the Presbyterian Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the American Sabbath Union, New York Sabbath Observance Committee, American Bible Society, St. Paul's Institute at Tarsus, the Union League of Brooklyn, the Republican Association of the 21st Assembly District, the Shepard Rifles, the New York Typothetae, the American Bank Note Company, the College of the City of New York, the "Mail and Express", and the New-York Press Club. Those at the memorial service included Albert Bierstadt, Noah Davis, Chauncey M. Depew, John S. Kennedy, John James McCook, Warner Miller, John Sloane, and John H. Starin. Eminent family incorporated his close family, just as a large portion of the living Vanderbilt family, including most of Margaret Louisa's kin, their companions, and Margaret Louisa's mom. 

Shepard was first covered in the Vanderbilt catacomb in Moravian Cemetery. On November 17, 1894 one of his girls, his better half, and her sibling George Vanderbilt administered the exchange of his remaining parts and those of his little girl Florence to another Shepard family tomb in the burial ground adjacent. 

Shepard's domain incorporated the $100,000 Tarsus American College gift, $850,000 in land and $500,000 in close to home property for an aggregate of $1.35 million ($ in ). His will conveyed cash and property to his better half and youngsters, his sibling Augustus, and religious associations. Shepard subsidized various grants and prizes, including one at the City University of New York and New York University's yearly Elliott F. Shepard Scholarship, and in 1888 he gave a vast accumulation of books initially from legal counselor Aaron J. Vanderpoel's library to the New York University School of Law. After a year, Shepard made an enrichment for periodicals, requiring the formation of the college's first perusing room. In 1897, Shepard's better half given his 1,390-volume accumulation of law books to the library. 

At the point when the spouse of Chicago distributer Horace O'Donoghue read him the updates on Shepard's demise four days after the occasion, he got a razor and cut his throat. Despite the fact that his suicide was first idea to be incautious, it was later discovered that the possible reason was O'Donoghue's vast obligations to Chicago distributing houses.