Marian Rejewski 

Marian Adam Rejewski (; 16 August 1905 – 13 February 1980) was a Polish mathematician and cryptologist who recreated the Nazi German military Enigma figure machine locate concealed in 1932. The cryptologic accomplishments of Rejewski and partners Jerzy Różycki and Henryk Zygalski empowered the British to start perusing German Enigma-scrambled messages toward the beginning of World War II, seven years after Rejewski's unique remaking of the machine. The knowledge that was picked up by the British from Enigma unscrambles framed piece of what was code-named Ultra and contributed—maybe unequivocally—to the annihilation of Germany. 

In 1929, while examining science at Poznań University, Rejewski went to a mystery cryptology course directed by the Polish General Staff's Cipher Bureau ("Biuro Szyfrów"), which he participated in September 1932. The Bureau had no achievement in perusing Enigma-enciphered messages and set Rejewski to take a shot at the issue in late 1932; he concluded the machine's mystery inward wiring after just half a month. Rejewski and his two partners at that point created progressive strategies for the standard decoding of Enigma messages. His commitments incorporated the cryptologic card list, determined utilizing the cyclometer that he had concocted, and the cryptologic bomb. 

Five weeks before the German intrusion of Poland in 1939, Rejewski and associates introduced their accomplishments to French and British knowledge delegates gathered to Warsaw. Not long after the episode of war, the Polish cryptologists were cleared to France, where they kept breaking Enigma-enciphered messages. They and their care staff were again constrained to clear after the fall of France in June 1940, and they continued work covert a couple of months after the fact in Vichy France. After the French "Free Zone" was involved by Germany in November 1942, Rejewski and Zygalski fled through Spain, Portugal, and Gibraltar to Britain. There they enrolled in the Polish Armed Forces and were given something to do settling second rate German figures. 

After the war, Rejewski rejoined with his family in Poland and filled in as a bookkeeper. For two decades, he stayed quiet about his prewar and wartime cryptologic work to maintain a strategic distance from unfavorable consideration from the nation's Soviet-overwhelmed government; he ended his quietness in 1967 when he gave to the Polish Military Historical Institute his journals of his work in the Cipher Bureau. He passed on at age 74 of a heart assault and was buried with military distinctions at Warsaw's Powązki Military Cemetery. 

Marian Rejewski was brought into the world 16 August 1905 in Bromberg in the Prussian Province of Posen (presently Bydgoszcz, Poland) to Józef and Matylda, "née" Thoms. Subsequent to finishing auxiliary school, he considered science at Poznań University's Mathematics Institute, housed in Poznań Castle. 

In 1929, in a matter of seconds before moving on from college, Rejewski started going to a mystery cryptology course which opened on 15 January, sorted out for select German-talking arithmetic understudies by the Polish General Staff's Cipher Bureau with the assistance of the Mathematics Institute's Professor Zdzisław Krygowski. The course was directed off-grounds at a military office and, as Rejewski would find in France in 1939, "was completely and actually based" on French Colonel Marcel Givierge's 1925 book, "Cours de cryptographie" (Cryptography Course). Rejewski and individual understudies Henryk Zygalski and Jerzy Różycki were among the rare sorts of people who could stay aware of the course while adjusting the requests of their typical investigations. 

On 1 March 1929 Rejewski graduated with a Master of Philosophy degree in science. Half a month subsequent to graduating, and without having finished the Cipher Bureau's cryptology course, he started the principal year of a two-year actuarial measurements course at Göttingen, Germany. He didn't total the measurements course, on the grounds that while home for the late spring of 1930, he acknowledged an offer, from Professor Krygowski, of an arithmetic showing assistantship at Poznań University. He likewise started working low maintenance for the Cipher Bureau, which by then had set up a station at Poznań to unscramble captured German radio messages. Rejewski worked exactly twelve hours per week close to the Mathematics Institute in an underground vault alluded to puckishly as the "Dark Chamber". 

The Poznań part of the Cipher Bureau was disbanded in the late spring of 1932. In Warsaw, on 1 September 1932, Rejewski, Zygalski, and Różycki joined the Cipher Bureau as non military personnel representatives working at the General Staff fabricating (the Saxon Palace). Their first task was to understand a four-letter code utilized by the "" (German Navy). Advancement was at first moderate, yet accelerated after a test trade—comprising of a six-amass flag, trailed by a four-aggregate reaction—was blocked. The cryptologists speculated accurately that the primary flag was the inquiry, "When was Frederick the Great conceived?" trailed by the reaction, "1712." 

On 20 June 1934 Rejewski wedded Irena Maria Lewandowska, little girl of a prosperous dental practitioner. The couple in the end had two kids: a child, Andrzej (Andrew), conceived in 1936; and a little girl, Janina (Joan), conceived in 1939. Janina would later turn into a mathematician like her dad. 

The Enigma machine was an electromechanical gadget, furnished with a 26-letter console and 26 lights, comparing to the letters of the letter set. Inside was a lot of wired drums (rotors and a reflector) that mixed the information. The machine utilized a plugboard to swap sets of letters, and the encipherment fluctuated starting with one key press then onto the next. For two administrators to convey, both Enigma machines must be set up similarly. The vast number of potential outcomes for setting the rotors and the plugboard joined to frame a galactic number of setups, and the settings were changed every day, so the machine code must be "broken" again every day. 

Prior to 1932, the Cipher Bureau had prevailing with regards to settling a prior Enigma machine that worked without a plugboard, yet had been ineffective with the Enigma I, another standard German figure machine that was coming into across the board use. In late October or early November 1932, the leader of the Cipher Bureau's German segment, Captain Maksymilian Ciężki, entrusted Rejewski to work alone on the German Enigma I machine for two or three hours of the day; Rejewski was not to tell his associates what he was doing. 

To decode Enigma messages, three snippets of data were required: (1) a general comprehension of how Enigma worked; (2) the wiring of the rotors; and (3) the every day settings (the succession and introductions of the rotors, and the attachment associations on the plugboard). Rejewski had just the first available to him, in view of data effectively gained by the Cipher Bureau. 

First Rejewski handled the issue of finding the wiring of the rotors. To do this, as per antiquarian David Kahn, he spearheaded the utilization of unadulterated science in cryptanalysis. Past techniques had to a great extent abused etymological examples and the insights of regular language writings—letter-recurrence examination. Rejewski connected methods from gathering hypothesis—hypotheses about stages—in his assault on Enigma. These scientific systems, joined with material provided by Gustave Bertrand, head of French radio insight, empowered him to remake the inside wirings of the machine's rotors and nonrotating reflector. "The arrangement", composes Kahn, "was Rejewski's own shocking accomplishment, one that hoists him to the pantheon of the best cryptanalysts ever." Rejewski utilized a numerical hypothesis—that two stages are conjugate if and just in the event that they have a similar cycle structure—that science educator and "Cryptologia" co-editorial manager Cipher A. Deavours portrays as "the hypothesis that won World War II". 

Before getting the French knowledge material, Rejewski had made a watchful investigation of Enigma messages, especially of the initial six letters of messages captured on a solitary day. For security, each message was encoded utilizing diverse beginning places of the rotors, as chosen by the administrator. This message setting was three letters in length. To pass on it to the accepting administrator, the sending administrator started the message by sending the message setting in a hidden structure — a six-letter marker. The pointer was framed utilizing the Enigma with its rotors set to a typical worldwide setting for that day, named the "ground setting", which was shared by all administrators. The specific way that the pointer was built brought a shortcoming into the figure. 

For instance, assume the administrator picked the message setting KYG for a message. The administrator would initially set the Enigma's rotors to the ground setting, which may be GBL on that specific day, and after that encode the message setting on the Enigma "twice"; that is, the administrator would enter KYGKYG (which may turn out to something like QZKBLX). The administrator would then reposition the rotors at KYG, and encode the genuine message. A getting administrator could switch the procedure to recoup first the message setting, at that point the message itself. The reiteration of the message setting was obviously implied as a mistake check to recognize confuses, however it had the unanticipated impact of incredibly debilitating the figure. Because of the marker's redundancy of the message setting, Rejewski realized that, in the plaintext of the pointer, the first and fourth letters were the equivalent, the second and fifth were the equivalent, and the third and 6th were the equivalent. These relations could be misused to break into the figure. 

Rejewski considered these related sets of letters. For instance, if there were four messages that had the accompanying pointers around the same time: BJGTDN, LIFBAB, ETULZR, TFREII, at that point by taking a gander at the first and fourth letters of each set, he realized that specific sets of letters were connected. B was identified with T, L was identified with B, E was identified with L, and T was identified with E: (B,T), (L,B), (E,L), and (T,E). On the off chance that he had enough extraordinary messages to work with, he could fabricate whole successions of connections: the letter B was identified with T, which was identified with E, which was identified with L, which was identified with B (see outline). This was a "cycle of 4", since it took four bounces until it returned to the begin letter. Another cycle around the same time may be Aformula_1Fformula_1Wformula_1A, or a "cycle of 3". In the event that there were sufficient messages on a given day, every one of the letters of the letter set may be secured by various diverse cycles of different sizes. The cycles would be reliable for one day, and after that would change to an alternate arrangement of cycles the following day. Comparable investigation should be possible on the second and fifth letters, and the third and sixth, recognizing the cycles for each situation and the quantity of ventures in each cycle. 

Utilizing the information along these lines increased, joined with Enigma administrators' propensity to pick unsurprising letter blends as markers, (for example, lady friends' initials or an example of keys that they saw on the Enigma console <these ended up referred to the partners as "Cillies" ("Sillies" misspelled)>), Rejewski had the capacity to reason six stages relating to the encipherment at six sequential places of the Enigma machine. These changes could be depicted by six conditions with different questions, speaking to the wiring inside the section drum, rotors, reflector, and plugboard. 

Now, Rejewski kept running into challenges because of the vast number of questions in the arrangement of conditions that he had created. He would later remark in 1980 that it was as yet not known whether such a lot of six conditions was solvent moving along without any more information. In any case, he was helped by cryptographic reports that Section D of French military knowledge (the "Deuxième Bureau"), under future General Gustave Bertrand, had acquired and passed on to the Polish Cipher Bureau. The reports, secured from a government operative in the German Cryptographic Service, Hans-Thilo Schmidt, incorporated the Enigma settings for the long stretches of September and October 1932. Around 9 or 10 December 1932, the archives were given to Rejewski. They empowered him to lessen the quantity of questions and explain the wirings of the rotors and reflector. 

There was another deterrent to survive, notwithstanding. The military Enigma had been altered from the business Enigma, of which Rejewski had a genuine guide to examine. In the business machine, the keys were associated with the passage drum in German console request ("QWERTZU..."). Be that as it may, in the military Enigma, the associations had rather been wired in sequential order request: "ABCDEF..." This new wiring grouping thwarted British cryptologists dealing with Enigma, who rejected the "ABCDEF..." wiring as excessively self-evident. Rejewski, maybe guided by an instinct about a German affection for request, basically speculated that the wiring was the typical alphabetic requesting. He later reviewed that, after he had made this supposition, "from my pencil, as by enchantment, started to issue numbers assigning the associations in rotor "N". In this way the associations in a single rotor, the right-hand rotor, were at long last known." 

The settings given by French Intelligence secured two months that straddled a changeover period for the rotor requesting. An alternate rotor happened to be in the right-hand position for the second month, thus the wirings of two rotors could be recuperated by a similar technique. Rejewski later found: "the [wiring] in the third [rotor], and particularly... in the [reflector], presently displayed no incredible troubles. Similarly there were no challenges with deciding the right torsion of the [rotors'] side dividers as for one another, or the minutes when the left and center drums turned." By year's end 1932, the wirings of each of the three rotors and the reflector had been recuperated. An example message in an Enigma guidance manual, giving a plaintext and its relating ciphertext delivered utilizing an expressed day by day key and message key, elucidated some outstanding subtleties. 

There has been theory regarding whether the rotor wirings could have been unraveled without the archives provided by French Intelligence. Rejewski reviewed in 1980 that another way had been discovered that could have been utilized to understand the wirings, yet that the strategy was "defective and monotonous" and depended on possibility. In 2005, mathematician John Lawrence guaranteed that it would have taken four years for this strategy to have had a sensible probability of accomplishment. Rejewski had before composed that "the end is that the knowledge material outfitted to us ought to be viewed as having been conclusive to arrangement of the machine." 

After Rejewski had decided the wiring in the rest of the rotors, he was participated in mid 1933 by Różycki and Zygalski in conceiving strategies and hardware to break Enigma figures routinely. Rejewski later reviewed: 

Presently we had the machine, yet we didn't have the keys and we couldn't require Bertrand to continue providing us with the keys each month ... The circumstance had turned around itself: previously, we'd had the keys yet we hadn't had the machine — we settled the machine; presently we had the machine yet we didn't have the keys. We needed to work out strategies to locate the every day keys. 

Various strategies and gadgets must be designed because of persistent enhancements in German working methodology and to the Enigma machine itself. The most punctual strategy for recreating every day keys was the "barbecue", in light of the way that the plugboard's associations traded just six sets of letters, leaving fourteen letters unaltered. Next was Różycki's "clock" strategy, which once in a while made it conceivable to figure out which rotor was at the right-hand side of the Enigma machine on a given day. 

After 1 October 1936, German technique changed, and the quantity of plugboard associations wound up factor, going somewhere in the range of five and eight. Accordingly, the flame broil technique turned out to be impressively less viable. In any case, a technique utilizing a card index had been contrived around 1934 or 1935, and was autonomous of the quantity of attachment associations. The inventory was built utilizing Rejewski's "cyclometer", an exceptional reason gadget for making a list of stages. When the list was finished, the stage could be gazed upward in the list, yielding the Enigma rotor settings for that day. 

The cyclometer contained two arrangements of Enigma rotors, and was utilized to decide the length and number of cycles of the stages that could be created by the Enigma machine. Indeed, even with the cyclometer, setting up the index was a long and troublesome undertaking. Each situation of the Enigma machine (there were 17,576 positions) must be analyzed for every conceivable succession of rotors (there were 6 conceivable arrangements); in this way, the list involved 105,456 sections. Planning of the index assumed control over a year, however when it was prepared around 1935, it made acquiring every day keys merely 12– 20 minutes. In any case, on 1 or 2 November 1937, the Germans supplanted the reflector in their Enigma machines, which implied that the whole inventory must be recalculated without any preparation. In any case, by January 1938 the Cipher Bureau's German segment was perusing a noteworthy 75% of Enigma blocks, and as per Rejewski, with a negligible increment in work force this could have been expanded to 90%. 

In 1937 Rejewski, alongside the German area of the Cipher Bureau, exchanged to a mystery office close Pyry in the Kabaty Woods south of Warsaw. On 15 September 1938, the Germans presented new standards for enciphering message keys (another "pointer strategy"), making the Poles' prior procedures old. The Polish cryptanalysts quickly reacted with new procedures. One was Rejewski's "", an electrically controlled total of six Enigmas, which settled the every day keys inside around two hours. Six "bomba"s were assembled and were prepared for use by mid-November 1938. The "bomba" misused the way that the plugboard associations did not influence every one of the letters; thusly, when another change to German working technique happened on 1 January 1939, expanding the quantity of plugboard associations, the handiness of the "bomba"s was significantly diminished. The British bombe, the primary instrument that would be utilized to break Enigma messages amid World War II, would be named after, and likely motivated by, the Polish "bomba", however the cryptologic strategies exemplified in the two machines were extraordinary. 

Around a similar time as Rejewski's "bomba", a manual technique was created by Henryk Zygalski, that of "punctured sheets" ("Zygalski sheets"), which was free of the quantity of plugboard associations. Rejewski portrays the development of the Zygalski component and its control: 

In any case, use of both the "bomba" and Zygalski sheets was convoluted by one more change to the Enigma machine on 15 December 1938. The Germans had provided Enigma administrators with an extra two rotors to enhance the first three, and this expanded the multifaceted nature of unscrambling ten times. Building ten fold the number of "bomba"s (60 would now be required) was past the Cipher Bureau's capacity—that many "bomba"s would have cost multiple times its whole yearly gear spending plan. 

More than about fourteen days after the fact, successful 1 January 1939, the Germans expanded the quantity of attachment associations with 7– 10, which, composes Rejewski, "to an extraordinary degree, diminished the value of the bombs." Zygalski's punctured ("Zygalski") sheets, composes Rejewski, "similar to the card-inventory technique, was free of the quantity of fitting associations. In any case, the production of these sheets, [...] in our [...] conditions, was very tedious, so that by 15 December 1938, just a single third of the entire occupation had been finished. [T]he Germans' [introduction of rotors] IV and V [...] expanded the work of making the sheets ten times [since 60, or ten fold the number, arrangements of sheets were presently needed], significantly surpassing our [...] limits." 

As it turned out to be certain that war was up and coming and that Polish money related assets were lacking to keep pace with the development of Enigma encryption (e.g., because of the restrictive cost of an extra 54 "bomba"s and because of the Poles' trouble in creating in auspicious design the full 60 arrangement of 26 "Zygalski sheets"), the Polish General Staff and government chose to start their Western partners into the insider facts of Enigma decoding. The Polish techniques were uncovered to French and British insight agents in a gathering at Pyry, south of Warsaw, on 25 July 1939. France was spoken to by Gustave Bertrand and Air Force cryptologist Captain Henri Braquenié; Britain, by Government Code and Cipher School boss Alastair Denniston, veteran cryptologist Alfred Dillwyn Knox, and Commander Humphrey Sandwith, leader of the segment that had created and controlled the Royal Navy's capture and heading discovering stations. The Polish hosts included Cipher Bureau boss Gwido Langer, the Bureau's German-Section boss Maksymilian Ciężki, the Bureau's General-Staff-Intelligence boss Stefan Mayer, and the three cryptologists Rejewski, Różycki and Zygalski. 

The Poles' endowment of Enigma unscrambling to their Western partners, five weeks before the episode of World War II, came in the nick of time. Information that the figure was crackable was a spirit lift to Allied cryptologists. The British had the capacity to fabricate no less than two complete arrangements of punctured sheets—they sent one to "PC Bruno", outside Paris, in mid-December 1939—and started perusing Enigma inside months of the episode of war. 

Without the Polish help, British cryptologists would, in any event, have been impressively deferred in perusing Enigma. Hugh Sebag-Montefiore reasons that considerable breaks into German Army and Air Force Enigma figures by the British would have happened simply after November 1941 at the soonest, after an Enigma machine and key records had been caught, and correspondingly into Naval Enigma simply after late 1942. 

Knowledge picked up from understanding abnormal state German figures—insight codenamed Ultra by the British and Americans—came primarily from Enigma decodes. While the accurate commitment of Ultra knowledge to Allied triumph is debated, Kozaczuk and Straszak note that "it is generally trusted that Ultra spared the world something like two years of war and potentially kept Hitler from winning." The English student of history Sir Harry Hinsley, who worked at Bletchley Park, also surveyed it as having "abbreviated the war by at the very least two years and most likely by four years". The accessibility of Ultra was because of the before Polish breaking of Enigma; Gordon Welchman, head of Bletchley Park's Hut 6 (which tackled German Army and Air Force Enigma figures), states: "Hovel 6 Ultra could never have gotten off the ground in the event that we had not gained from the Poles, at the last possible second, the subtleties both of the German military form of the business Enigma machine, and of the working methodology that were being used." 

On 5 September 1939 the Cipher Bureau started arrangements to clear key staff and hardware from Warsaw. Before long an uncommon departure train, the Echelon F, transported them eastbound, at that point south. When the Cipher Bureau was requested to cross the outskirt into partnered Romania on 17 September, they had crushed every touchy report and gear and were down to a solitary exceptionally packed truck. The vehicle was seized at the outskirt by a Romanian officer, who isolated the military from the regular citizen work force. Exploiting the perplexity, the three mathematicians overlooked the Romanian's directions. They foreseen that in an internment camp they may be distinguished by the Romanian security police, in which the German Abwehr and SD had sources. The mathematicians went to the closest railroad station, traded cash, purchased tickets, and loaded up the main train traveled south. Following twelve or so hours, they achieved Bucharest, at the opposite end of Romania. There they went to the British international safe haven. Advised by the British to "return a couple of days", they next attempted the French international safe haven, presenting themselves as "companions of Bolek" (Bertrand's Polish code name) and requesting to talk with a French military officer. A French Army colonel called Paris and after that issued directions for the three Poles to be helped with emptying to Paris. 

On 20 October 1939 the three Polish cryptologists continued work on German figures at a joint French– Polish– Spanish radio-knowledge unit positioned at Gretz-Armainvilliers, forty kilometers upper east of Paris, and housed in the Château de Vignolles (code-named "PC Bruno"). 

As late as 3– 7 December 1939, when Lt. Col. Langer and French Air Force Capt. Henri Braquenié visited London and Bletchley Park, the British asked that the Polish cryptologists be made accessible to them in Britain. Langer, in any case, took the position that they should remain where the Polish Army in a state of banishment was shaping—on French soil. 

On 17 January 1940 the Poles observed the primary Enigma key to be unraveled in France, one for 28 October 1939. The "PC Bruno" staff worked together by teleprinter with partners at Bletchley Park in England. For their common correspondences security, the Polish, French, and British cryptologic offices utilized the Enigma machine itself. "Bruno" shut its Enigma-encoded messages to Britain with an unexpected ""Heil Hitler!"" 

In the main long periods of 1940, Alan Turing—key originator of the British cryptological Bombe, explained from the Polish "bomba"— would visit "Bruno" to deliberate about Enigma decoding with the three Polish cryptologists. 

On 24 June 1940, after Germany's triumph in the Battle of France, Gustave Bertrand flew "Bruno's" worldwide faculty—including fifteen Poles, and seven Spaniards who dealt with Italian figures—in three planes to Algeria. 

Around three months after the fact, in September 1940, they came back to work clandestinely in abandoned southern, Vichy France. Rejewski's spread was as "Pierre Ranaud", a "lycée" teacher from Nantes. A radio-knowledge station was set up at the Château des Fouzes, code-named "Cadix", close Uzès. "Cadix" started tasks on 1 October. Rejewski and his associates explained German transmit figures, and furthermore the Swiss variant of the Enigma machine (which had no plugboard). Rejewski may have had practically zero association in taking a shot at German Enigma at "Cadix". 

Toward the beginning of July 1941, Rejewski and Zygalski were approached to have a go at tackling messages enciphered on the mystery Polish Lacida figure machine, which was utilized for secure interchanges among "Cadix" and the Polish General Staff in London. Lacida was a rotor machine dependent on a similar cryptographic guideline as Enigma, yet had never been exposed to thorough security investigation. The two cryptologists made horror by breaking the principal message inside two or three hours; further messages were settled correspondingly. 

The most youthful of the three Polish mathematicians who had cooperated since 1929—Jerzy Różycki—kicked the bucket in the sinking of a French traveler deliver on 9 January 1942, as he was coming back to "Cadix" from a spell in Algeria. By summer 1942 work at "Cadix" was getting to be risky, and plans for departure were drawn up. Vichy France was subject to be involved by German troops, and "Cadix's" radio transmissions were progressively in danger of discovery by the German "Funkabwehr", a unit entrusted with finding foe radio transmitters. For sure, on 6 November a pickup truck furnished with a round radio wire touched base at the door of the Château des Fouzes where the cryptologists were working. The guests, be that as it may, did not enter, and only examined adjacent ranches, gravely unnerving their tenants. In any case, at Bertrand's recommendation French insight requested the departure of "Cadix". The request was done on 9 November, the day after the Allied "Activity Torch" arrivals in North Africa. After three days, on 12 November, the Germans involved the estate. 

The Poles were part into gatherings of two and three. On 11 November 1942 Rejewski and Zygalski were sent to Nice, in the Italian-involved zone. Subsequent to going under doubt there, they needed to escape once more, moving or stowing away always. Their trek took them to Cannes, Antibes, back to Nice, at that point on to Marseilles, Toulouse, Narbonne, Perpignan, and Ax-les-Thermes, close to the Spanish fringe. On 29 January 1943, joined by a nearby guide, Rejewski, and Zygalski, destined for Spain, started a move over the Pyrenees, maintaining a strategic distance from German and Vichy watches. Close midnight, near the Spanish fringe, the guide hauled out a gun and requested that they hand over their residual cash. 

Subsequent to being victimized, Rejewski and Zygalski prevailing with regards to achieving the Spanish side of the fringe, just to be captured inside hours by security police. They were sent first to a jail in La Seu d'Urgell, at that point on 24 March exchanged to a jail at Lerida. On 4 May 1943, subsequent to having gone through more than three months in Spanish penitentiaries, on intercession by the Polish Red Cross the pair were discharged and sent to Madrid. Leaving there on 21 July, they made it to Portugal; from that point, on board HMS "Scottish", to Gibraltar; and after that via air to RAF Hendon in north London, touching base on 3 August 1943. 

Rejewski and Zygalski were accepted as privates into the Polish Armed Forces on 16 August 1943 and were presented on a Polish Army office in Boxmoor, splitting German SS and SD hand figures. The figures were typically founded on the "Doppelkassettenverfahren" ("twofold Playfair") framework, which the two cryptologists had just taken a shot at in France. English cryptologist Alan Stripp proposes that "Setting them to chip away at the "Doppelkassetten" framework resembled utilizing racehorses to pull wagons." On 10 October 1943, Rejewski and Zygalski were dispatched second lieutenants; on 1 January 1945 Rejewski, and apparently additionally Zygalski, were elevated to lieutenant. At the point when Gustave Bertrand fled to England in June 1944, he and his significant other were given a house in Boxmoor, a short stroll from the Polish radio station and cryptology office, where it appears to be likely that his joint effort with Rejewski and Zygalski proceeded. 

Puzzle unscrambling, notwithstanding, had turned into a solely British and American space; the Polish mathematicians who had established the frameworks for Allied Enigma decoding were presently avoided from making further commitments around there. At that point, at Bletchley Park, "not very many even thought about the Polish commitment" in view of the severe mystery and the "have to-know" rule. 

After the Germans stifled the 1944 Warsaw Uprising, they sent Rejewski's significant other and kids west, alongside other Warsaw survivors; the family in the end discovered shelter with her folks in Bydgoszcz. Rejewski was released from the Polish Army in Britain on 15 November 1946. After six days, he came back to Poland to be brought together with his better half and family. On his arrival, he was encouraged by his old Poznań University educator, Zdzisław Krygowski, to take a college science post at Poznań or Szczecin, in western Poland. Rejewski could have anticipated fast headway on account of work force deficiencies because of the war. Be that as it may, he was all the while recouping from ailment, which he had contracted in the moist Spanish penitentiaries. Not long after his arrival to Poland, in the late spring of 1947, his 11-year-old child Andrzej passed on of polio after just five days' sickness. After his child's demise, Rejewski did not have any desire to part, even quickly, with his better half and girl, so they lived in Bydgoszcz with his in-laws. Rejewski accepting a situation in Bydgoszcz as executive of the business office at a link fabricating organization, "Kabel Polski" (Polish Cable). 

Somewhere in the range of 1949 and 1958 Rejewski was over and over explored by the Polish Office of Public Security, who associated he was a previous part with the Polish Armed Forces in the West. He resigned in 1967, and moved with his family back to Warsaw in 1969, to a condo he had gained 30 years sooner with budgetary assistance from his dad in-law. 

Rejewski had composed a "Report of Cryptologic Work on the German Enigma Machine Cipher" in 1942. Prior to his 1967 retirement, he started composing his "Diaries of My Work in the Cipher Bureau of Section II of the [Polish] General Staff", which were obtained by the Polish Military Historical Institute, in Warsaw. Rejewski had regularly pondered what use Alan Turing (who in mid 1940 had visited the Polish cryptologists at "PC Bruno" outside Paris) and the British at Bletchley Park had at last made of the Polish disclosures and creations. For almost three decades after the war, little was openly known because of a boycott forced in 1945 by British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. In a 1967 book Władysław Kozaczuk, related with the Military Historical Institute, uncovered Poland's breaking of the German Enigma figures. 

Until 1974, the meager data distributed concerning Enigma unscrambling pulled in little consideration. Ladislas Farago's 1971 smash hit "The Game of the Foxes" exhibited a distorted record of Ultra's causes: "Authority Denniston went surreptitiously to a segregated Polish château ["sic"] on the eve of the war [to get an Enigma, 'the Wehrmacht's top framework' amid World War II]. Dilly Knox later illuminated its keying ["sic"]..." Still, this was imperceptibly nearer to reality than numerous British and American hit accounts that would trail 1974. Their creators were off guard: they didn't realize that the organizer of Enigma decoding, Rejewski, was as yet alive and alert, and that it was careless to manufacture stories out of entire fabric. 

With Gustave Bertrand's 1973 distribution of his "Conundrum", significant data about the starting points of Ultra started to leak out; and with F. W. Winterbotham's 1974 success, "The Ultra Secret", the dam started to blast. All things considered, many hopeful creators were not loath to filling holes in their data with entire material manufactures. Rejewski battled a brave (if, into the 21st century, not by any stretch of the imagination fruitful) battle to get reality before the general population. He distributed various papers on his cryptologic work and contributed liberally to articles, books, and TV programs. He was met by researchers, writers, and TV groups from Poland, East Germany, the United States, Britain, Sweden, Belgium, the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, and Brazil. 

Rejewski kept up an exuberant correspondence with his wartime French host, General Gustave Bertrand, and at the General's offering he started interpreting Bertrand's "Puzzler" into Polish. In 1976, in line with the Józef Piłsudski Institute of America, Rejewski broke enciphered correspondence of Józef Piłsudski and his individual Polish Socialist schemers from 1904. On 12 August 1978 he got from an appreciative Polish individuals the Officer's Cross of the Order of "Polonia Restituta". 

Rejewski, who had been experiencing coronary illness, kicked the bucket of a heart assault on 13 February 1980, matured 74, in the wake of returning home from a shopping trip. He was covered with military distinctions at Warsaw's Powązki Military Cemetery. 

On 21 July 2000, Poland's President Aleksander Kwaśniewski after death granted Poland's second-most elevated non military personnel embellishment, the Grand Cross of the Order of "Polonia Restituta", to Marian Rejewski and Henryk Zygalski. In July 2005 Rejewski's girl, Janina Sylwestrzak, got on his sake the War Medal 1939– 1945 from the British Chief of the Defense Staff. On 1 August 2012 Marian Rejewski after death got the Knowlton Award of the U.S. Military Intelligence Corps Association; his little girl Janina acknowledged the honor at the place where he grew up, Bydgoszcz, on 4 September 2012. Rejewski had been named for the Award by NATO Allied Command Counterintelligence. 

In 2009, the Polish Post issued a progression of four memorial stamps, one of which imagined Rejewski and individual mathematician-cryptologists Jerzy Różycki and Henryk Zygalski. 

On 5 August 2014 the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) regarded Rejewski, Różycki, and Zygalski with its lofty Milestone Award, which perceives accomplishments that have changed the world. 

A three-sided bronze landmark was devoted in 2007 before the Imperial Castle in Poznań. Each side bears the name of one of the three Polish mathematicians who broke the Enigma figure. 

Rejewski and associates were the saints of "Sekret Enigmy" ("The Enigma Secret"), a spine chiller motion picture about the Poles' answer of the German Enigma figure. Late 1980 additionally observed a Polish TV arrangement with a comparable topic, "Tajemnice Enigmy" ("The Secrets of Enigma").