Wrestle Kingdom 9 

Wrestle Kingdom 9 in Tokyo Dome was an expert wrestling pay-per-see (PPV) occasion created by the New Japan Pro Wrestling (NJPW) advancement, which occurred at the Tokyo Dome in Tokyo, Japan on January 4, 2015. It was the 24th January 4 Tokyo Dome Show and the principal occasion on the 2015 NJPW plan. The occasion included ten expert wrestling matches and one pre-show coordinate, six of which were for titles. 

In the twofold headliner, Shinsuke Nakamura effectively safeguarded the IWGP Intercontinental Championship against Kota Ibushi, and Hiroshi Tanahashi effectively shielded the IWGP Heavyweight Championship against Kazuchika Okada. A Tanahashi– Okada heavyweight title coordinate had featured Wrestle Kingdom 7 two years sooner and was additionally the headliner the next year at Wrestle Kingdom 10. Despite the fact that the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship was effectively shielded, the IWGP Tag Team Championship, IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship and NEVER Openweight Championship changed hands. The presence of Pro Wrestling Noah wrestlers prompted a storyline in which NJPW's Suzuki-weapon assemble started wrestling at Noah occasions beginning the week after Wrestle Kingdom 9. 

The occasion was gone to by 36,000 individuals. Through NJPW's organization with Global Force Wrestling (GFW), the occasion was communicated with English discourse as a GFW occasion. It was accessible on PPV TV in the United States and Canada, and communicate worldwide on the Internet through Flipps and New Japan Pro Wrestling World. Commentators issued positive audits; "Philly.com" said it included "great, quality wrestling", while "Glue" magazine said it introduced "the absolute most enthusiastic and piercing execution workmanship today". Perusers of the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter" casted a ballot Wrestle Kingdom 9 the Best Major Wrestling Show of 2015; they likewise named the Ibushi– Nakamura coordinate as the 2015 Pro Wrestling Match of the Year. 

Wrestle Kingdom has been portrayed as "New Japan's significant yearly show" and the "equal" of WWE's WrestleMania pay-per-see (PPV) occasion. Wrestle Kingdom 9 in Tokyo Dome was advanced as the "biggest wrestling appear on the planet outside of the United States" and was the 24th January 4 Tokyo Dome Show, albeit past occasions were held under various names. 

On August 10, 2014, NJPW made two declarations. Right off the bat, Wrestle Kingdom 9 would be held at the Tokyo Dome on January 4, 2015. Furthermore, NJPW uncovered an association with Jeff Jarrett's Global Force Wrestling, which it drew nearer about conveying the occasion to another market. On November 4, GFW reported that it would display the occasion live on American pay-per-see TV and that it had a PPV market of 125 million homes. 

The occasion was communicated on American PPV as the first GFW occasion. The four-hour "GFW Presents New Japan Pro Wrestling's Wrestle Kingdom 9" broadcast was accessible from pay-per-see suppliers in the United States, including DirecTV, Dish Network, AT&T U-stanza, Comcast, Verizon FiOS and every single link framework, and in Canada from Bell ExpressVu, Rogers, Shaw, Sasktel and Telus. The occasion additionally publicized live on New Japan Pro Wrestling World, an Internet gushing website presented by NJPW toward the beginning of December 2014 which purportedly had 20,000 endorsers worldwide in late January 2015. In Japan, the occasion likewise broadcast on PPV in SKY PerfecTV's! Sukachan administration. In January 2016, Dave Meltzer of the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter" expressed that Wrestle Kingdom 9 "was the main live expert wrestling PPV occasion ever communicated [internationally] from Japan". 

The GFW variant of the occasion was spilled around the world (aside from in North America and Japan) on the Flipps application for Internet-associated cell phones, tablet PCs and savvy TVs. On Flipps, the show was accessible live and on-interest for 30 days after its underlying airing. 

On November 11, 2014, GFW reported that Jim Ross would be the lead commentator for its form of the occasion. It was Ross' first expert wrestling communicated since his 2013 takeoff from WWE. Ross endeavored to acquire Mike Tenay of Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) for shading editorial, however TNA cannot. Others considered for the activity were John Pollock, Mauro Ranallo and Kevin Nash, before GFW settled on Matt Striker. 

Prior to the occasion, the GFW communicates experienced mishaps. Many link organizations chose not to air the occasion live, selecting rather for a replay of UFC 182, and the stream would not keep running on three of the four most utilized gadgets perfect with Flipps: Chromecast, Xbox 360 and Xbox One. As indicated by Dave Meltzer, NJPW undercut GFW by incorporating the occasion in the $8.42 month to month cost for New Japan Pro Wrestling World; the GFW communicate of Wrestle Kingdom 9 alone was $34.95. The New Japan Pro Wrestling World stream had Japanese critique as it were. 

AXS TV, which procured the rights to communicate Wrestle Kingdom 9 from the TV Asahi Corporation, broadcast the occasion in five sections from October 9 to November 6, 2015, to watchers in the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. Critique was given by Mauro Ranallo and Josh Barnett. 

Wrestle Kingdom 9 highlighted ten expert wrestling matches and one pre-show coordinate. It saw proficient wrestlers executing as characters in scripted occasions pre-dictated by the facilitating advancement, New Japan Pro Wrestling. 

The occasion was featured by Hiroshi Tanahashi shielding the IWGP Heavyweight Championship against Kazuchika Okada. Tanahashi won the title by overcoming A.J. Styles on October 13, 2014, at the NJPW King of Pro-Wrestling occasion. Okada turned into the main contender at Wrestle Kingdom 9 by winning the G1 Climax on August 10, 2014. Over the next months, he protected his situation against Karl Anderson and Tetsuya Naito. The Wrestle Kingdom 9 headliner was the seventh match among Okada and Tanahashi since February 2012 and their second January 4 Tokyo Dome Show headliner after Wrestle Kingdom 7 on January 4, 2013. 

Wrestle Kingdom 9's other headliner was resolved at the November 8, 2014, NJPW Power Struggle appear. After Shinsuke Nakamura protected the IWGP Intercontinental Championship against Katsuyori Shibata, Kota Ibushi entered the ring, struck Nakamura, and issued a title challenge; Nakamura acknowledged. This was a defining moment in Ibushi's vocation, since he had as of late joined the heavyweight division in the wake of putting on weight. A past singles coordinate among Nakamura and Ibushi amid the 2013 G1 Climax was positioned "Best Bout of the Year" by the "Tokyo Sports" paper. 

Past IWGP Heavyweight Champion A.J. Styles (of the Bullet Club gathering) and individual top contender Tetsuya Naito were slated to wrestle each other at Wrestle Kingdom 9. Amid the 2014 G1 Climax (when Styles was IWGP Heavyweight Champion), Naito stuck him in a non-title competition coordinate yet did not have a title shot before Styles lost to Tanahashi. Since Styles did not get a rematch with Tanahashi, it was speculated by the American media that the Wrestle Kingdom 9 victor would be the top contender. 

Another title that was challenged at Wrestle Kingdom 9 was the IWGP Tag Team Championship, with Doc Gallows and Karl Anderson shielding against Hirooki Goto and Katsuyori Shibata. Goto and Shibata collaborated after a match against one another at the January 4, 2014, NJPW Wrestle Kingdom 8, and the two previous secondary school colleagues named their group "Meiyu Tag" ("meiyu" signifies "sworn siblings" in Japanese). In March 2014, they entered the IWGP Tag Team Championship picture by crushing the Bullet Club's IWGP Tag Team Champions Anderson and Gallows in a non-title coordinate at NJPW's 42nd-commemoration occasion. This prompted a title coordinate at the April 6 NJPW Invasion Attack 2014, where Anderson and Gallows held the title. In December, Goto and Shibata won the 2014 World Tag League competition, vanquishing Anderson and Gallows in the last to procure another opportunity at the title. 

Wrestle Kingdom 9 additionally exhibited a contention between Toru Yano and the Suzuki-firearm gathering, which had been going on since 2013. In May 2014, Yano's label group accomplice Takashi Iizuka joined Suzuki-weapon, which prompted Yano selecting Kazushi Sakuraba as his new label group accomplice to proceed with the quarrel. The contention went on for the remainder of the year, bringing about two Wrestle Kingdom 9 matches: one between previous blended military craftsmen Sakuraba and Suzuki-weapon pioneer Minoru Suzuki, and a label group coordinate setting Yano and a "puzzle accomplice" against a Suzuki-firearm group. The last turned into an eight-man label group coordinate, with Suzuki-firearm spoken to by Iizuka, Shelton X Benjamin, and the Killer Elite Squad (Davey Boy Smith Jr. what's more, Lance Archer). Yano enlisted three accomplices from the Pro Wrestling Noah advancement: Naomichi Marufuji and TMDK (Mikey Nicholls and Shane Haste). 

The Wrestle Kingdom 9 undercard highlighted a few matches including the Bullet Club, which was driven by A.J. Styles. The gathering ruled NJPW for the majority of 2014, holding each of the four of its heavyweight titles amid the mid year. After the NJPW– GFW organization was produced, GFW head Jeff Jarrett joined the Bullet Club on August 10. On December 7, amid a Bullet Club post-coordinate strike on Tomoaki Honma, NJPW veteran label group Tencozy (Hiroyoshi Tenzan and Satoshi Kojima) raged into the ring to the guide of Honma, pushing the Bullet Club away. They at that point joined Honma to provoke the stable to a six-man label group coordinate at Wrestle Kingdom 9. Misfortune Fale, Yujiro Takahashi and Jeff Jarrett—making his NJPW ring debut—were booked to speak to the Bullet Club at the occasion. 

The pre-show highlighted one match, the New Japan Rumble. Tiger Mask and Yuji Nagata started the match, with new wrestlers entering every moment. Wrestlers attempted to dispose of one another, and the final wrestler won. In this match, disposals could happen by means of pinfall, accommodation, exclusion, or being tossed out of the ring over the top rope. The Great Kabuki, Yoshiaki Fujiwara, and Hiro Saito were shock contestants. Commander New Japan was the first dispensed with when Tama Tonga tossed him over the top rope. Sho Tanaka and Yohei Komatsu cooperated to dispose of Taichi and Tiger Mask. After Tanaka was dispensed with by submitting to Manabu Nakanishi's torment rack, Tonga wiped out Nakanishi and Komatsu by means of pinfall, the last after a hopping DDT. Yoshi-Hashi tossed Tonga over the top rope for the disposal, abandoning himself and Nagata in the match. Nagata won the match by hammering Hashi against the tangle with a stomach to-back suplex, spanning into a pinfall end at 26 minutes and 9 seconds. 

The main match of the PPV show saw reDRagon (Kyle O'Reilly and Bobby Fish) shielding the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship against Forever Hooligans (Alex Koslov and Rocky Romero), Time Splitters (Alex Shelley and Kushida), and the Young Bucks (Matt Jackson and Nick Jackson). Romero played out the "Eternity Clothesline" (various corner clotheslines) and twofold clotheslines on his rivals. A progression of jumps out of the ring finished in Kushida plunging from the turnbuckles onto his adversaries on the floor. Despite the fact that Time Splitters pursued with a neckbreaker-moonsault blend on Nick, the three-mean a pinfall was ceased at two. The Young Bucks began a "Superkick Party" (numerous superkicks) and proceeded with a "Meltzer Driver" (helped Tombstone piledriver) on Koslov, yet the stick was again separated. ReDRagon took over with a backbreaker and jumping knee drop on Shelley, a twofold arm DDT and work cart suplex on Matt, and a super bird of prey bolt by Fish on Nick. The first "Pursuing the Dragon" kick/brainbuster mix endeavor was countered by an inside support by Koslov for a two check, however the second "Pursuing the Dragon" endeavor succeeded; O'Reilly stuck Koslov to hold the title at 13 minutes and 1 second. 

In the second match, the Bullet Club's Bad Luck Fale, Jeff Jarrett, and Yujiro Takahashi confronted New Japan's Hiroyoshi Tenzan, Satoshi Kojima, and Tomoaki Honma. Takahashi got a Jarrett guitar shot implied for Honma, a 3D from Tencozy, and a "Kokeshi" plunging headbutt from Honma before Honma stuck him for the triumph at 5 minutes and 35 seconds. 

The third match saw Suzuki-firearm's Davey Boy Smith Jr., Lance Archer, Shelton Benjamin, and Takashi Iizuka restricting Toru Yano and Pro Wrestling Noah agents Naomichi Marufuji, Mikey Nicholls, and Shane Haste. Smith's powerbomb of Nicholls, Archer's chokeslam of Haste, and Benjamin's excessively overhead gut to-tummy toss of Marufuji were insufficient for the triumph; the contradicting group overpowered Iizuka with a low pass up Yano, a twofold group gorilla press pummel by TMDK, and a "Tiger Uppercut" knee lift by Marufuji. This prompted Marufuji scoring a pinfall on Iizuka at 5 minutes and 5 seconds. 

The fourth match, between Minoru Suzuki and Kazushi Sakuraba, was directed under UWFi rules; it would finish with a knockout, accommodation, or ref stoppage. Amid the match, Sakuraba and Suzuki fought onto the on-ramp, where Sakuraba utilized a kimura lock to harm Suzuki's arm. When they came back to the ring, Sakuraba focused on Suzuki's harmed arm with kicks, steps, and a cross armbreaker hold. Suzuki withstood the attack, reacting with slaps with his great arm and a running kick to Sakuraba's face. Suzuki connected a back bare stifle, making a judo toss while keeping up the gag ("Saka Otoshi"). Sakuraba battled the hold until he lost awareness, so, all things considered the arbitrator halted the match for Suzuki at 9 minutes and 21 seconds. After the match, the wrestlers shook hands and grasped. 

Next, Tomohiro Ishii protected the NEVER Openweight Championship against Togi Makabe. Clotheslines, lower arms, bear squares, slaps, headbutts, heavy hammers, powerslams, powerbombs, and German suplexes were traded. Makabe won the match (and the title) with a running rope and the "Ruler Kong Knee Drop" from the top rope, trailed by a pinfall at 12 minutes and 23 seconds. 

In the 6th match, Ryusuke Taguchi protected the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Championship against Kenny Omega of the Bullet Club. Diversions by the Bullet Club's Young Bucks enabled Omega to shower Taguchi in the eyes with a vaporizer and broke Taguchi's lower leg lock on Omega later in the match. Omega caught the title after a snap mythical beast suplex, a bike knee strike, and the "One Winged Angel" (hot seat dropped into a one-gave driver), sticking the hero at 13 minutes and 20 seconds. 

The last label group match of the occasion, the IWGP Tag Team Championship, set the Bullet Club's Karl Anderson and Doc Gallows against challengers Meiyu Tag (Hirooki Goto and Katsuyori Shibata). The bosses controlled Goto right off the bat in the match, yet after Goto labeled in Shibata, every one of the four men struggled in the ring. Toward the finish of the match, Anderson was commenced the ring overskirt by Shibata; this prompted a pinfall on Gallows after a twofold group GTS and Shibata's "Extra shot", giving Meiyu Tag the title following 9 minutes. 

The eighth match was between A.J. Styles and Tetsuya Naito. In spite of the fact that Styles twice endeavored his mark "Styles Clash", Naito countered and Styles at that point concentrated on assaulting Naito's left leg. Styles later connected the "Calf Killer", driving Naito to snatch the rope to break the hold. After another "Styles Clash" endeavor, Naito countered by tossing Styles over the top rope to the floor. At the point when Styles came back to the ring after a 19 tally (NJPW utilizes a 20 include in their matches), Naito endeavored a top-rope huracanrana. Styles blocked it, changing over it to a "Styles Clash" from the second rope before sticking Naito for another Bullet Club triumph at 14 minutes and 25 seconds. 

Wrestle Kingdom 9 included two headliner matches. In the first, Shinsuke Nakamura protected the IWGP Intercontinental Championship against Kota Ibushi. Ibushi disparaged Nakamura and utilized a few of the boss' moves, including the corner vibration boot, the turn around powerslam, and the "Boma Ye" knee strike. Nakamura, reacting forcefully, kicked out of the last at one. Nakamura utilized an assortment of knee-based strikes, and Ibushi's assaults incorporated a standing corkscrew moonsault, a roundhouse kick, a raised sit-out powerbomb, and a twofold step to the chest. Ibushi additionally bounced on the top rope, getting Nakamura on the overskirt, and German-suplexed him once again into the ring for a two tally. In the completing arrangement, Ibushi got up following accepting a knee from the second rope to the back of his head; both endeavored the "Boma Ye", yet Nakamura recouped first with the "Avalanche" and after that the "Boma Ye" knee to hold the title at 20 minutes and 12 seconds. After the match, the wrestlers knock clench hands. 

In the second headliner, Hiroshi Tanahashi protected the IWGP Heavyweight Championship against Kazuchika Okada. The challenger controlled the early match with a hanging DDT onto the floor, an "Overwhelming Rain" (Death Valley driver) on the on-ramp, and the "D.I.D." accommodation. After they fought on the top rope, Tanahashi missed a "High Fly Flow" however countered Okada's "Rainmaker". The energy moved to Tanahashi as he played out a winged serpent screw legwhip and kept assaulting Okada's leg. Tanahashi later bird off the top rope and over the gatekeeper rail with a "High Fly Flow" crossbody to Okada on the floor outside of the ring. After Tanahashi attempted another "High Fly Flow" crossbody back in the ring, Okada moved through for a Tombstone piledriver, which Tanahashi countered with his very own Tombstone. In spite of the fact that Tanahashi handled a "High Fly Flow" to Okada's back and a conventional "High Fly Flow" frog sprinkle, Okada kicked out at two for a nearfall. 

Tanahashi next attempted a "Rainmaker", which Okada countered with one of his own and scored a nearfall. Despite the fact that Okada endeavored the "Rainmaker" three additional occasions, Tanahashi countered with a connecting straitjacket German suplex, a crossing over mythical beast suplex, a progression of winged serpent screw legwhips, and three "High Fly Flows". The first was a crossbody while Okada was on the ropes; the second a frog sprinkle to a situated Okada, and the third another frog sprinkle, after which Tanahashi scored a pinfall on Okada to hold the title at 30 minutes and 57 seconds. Okada sobbed as he left the ring, and Tanahashi yelled that his adversary had far to go before turning into the New Japan expert. Tanahashi shut the show, expressing gratitude toward the fans and playing out his air guitar schedule. 

Wrestle Kingdom 9 attracted 36,000 fans to the Tokyo Dome, allegedly (appropriately to "Wrestleview.com" and the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter") the best participation for a NJPW January 4 Tokyo Dome Show in 13 years. The occasion apparently had 12,000 to 15,000 buys in North America. 

"Kobe Shimbun" "Every day Sports Online" called Tanahashi "Mr. Tokyo Dome" for winning his fifth continuous Wrestle Kingdom headliner in the field. Jason Namako of "Wrestleview.com", who viewed the Japanese variant of the show through New Japan World, said that the occasion "demonstrated a certain something, "puroresu" is, past a sad remnant of uncertainty, for sure "ichiban"!!" Meanwhile, Aaron Oster of "The Baltimore Sun" composed that "Wrestle Kingdom 9 must be viewed as a triumph". 

Weave Kapur of "Pummel! Wrestling" composed that the show was "too great to even consider missing", "regardless of whether you're not a Japanese wrestling fan", with the positives being in-ring activity, critique and creation levels, and "maybe the main negative remark were some specialized issues" with his Rogers' HD PPV feed falling flat. James Caldwell of the "Expert Wrestling Torch Newsletter" additionally agreed that the show was an "absolute necessity see". Just as an "incredible opening video bundle running down the card", the NEVER Openweight Championship coordinate got four out of five stars as a "fabulous match taking the Tokyo Dome to the following dimension." The IWGP Intercontinental Championship coordinate got four-and-a-half stars: "... a big-time coordinate on a big deal stage, and Ibushi looked like a big deal player". The IWGP Heavyweight Championship coordinate got five stars, with Caldwell expressing, "There's nothing preferable in the business over these two on a major stage in a big deal headliner. Simply the world's ideal." 

As per Garrett Martin of the magazine "Glue", Wrestle Kingdom 9 "effectively could end up being the best [wrestling show of the year] when the year is finished". He applauded Jim Ross, whose "immortal voice slice through the language obstruction" for American wrestling fans, and compared his analysis to "perusing the main English interpretation of Homer." Martin remarked on the consummation of the show, expressing that a "crushed Kazuchika Okada shambling mournfully spirit towards the storage room ... made the minute feel genuine" which showed that "Okada isn't only an incredible competitor however a superior on-screen character than most who venture into the ring, and hoisting the whole scripted, arranged showcase into something past a game." Martin composed that New Japan had risen above puroresu and has created "the absolute most energetic and impactful execution workmanship today." 

Jason Powell of "Expert Wrestling Dot Net" anticipated that even first-time watchers of New Japan would be "excited" watching this occasion. Despite the fact that the "principal half of the night felt surged and had too many label coordinates", the show still held his "enthusiasm through and through" and its last three matches were "astounding". Powell portrayed a few matches as overwhelming each other as the night's best as the occasion advanced: the "physical" Ishii– Makabe, at that point Naito– Styles, at that point Ibushi– Nakamura. English-language analysts Ross and Striker were embraced as a general positive. Ultimately, Powell thought the "pay-per-see communicate is fabulous", yet he likewise said some "Professional Wrestling Dot Net" perusers "revealed issues with the Flipps application [broadcast] feed for the show. 

In his survey, Vaughn Johnson of the Philadelphia Media Network through "Philly.com" expressed: "Everything that was exhibited to the overall gathering of people was straightforward and didn't expect anybody to know the Japanese language. Great, quality wrestling is a widespread language, and I got the message New Japan sent Sunday noisy and clear." According to Johnson, a few watchers were "presented to an item out of the blue where the results of the matches are as yet vital, as Okada appeared by straightforwardly crying after his misfortune to Tanahashi" in a headliner, which was "the same amount of a display as it was a fabulous match athletic show." He composed that to call the Nakamura– Ibushi coordinate "physical would be a gross understatement ... It was severe to watch now and again" however "a standout amongst the best" he had ever observed. Johnson adulated the occasion as "without popcorn matches and senseless contrivances that affront your knowledge", and observers Ross and Striker for centering "on the activity in the ring and the centrality of it as opposed to breaking jokes and making a million attachments." 

As per the "Wrestling Observer Newsletter", albeit a few early matches were "surged", the last two were contender for "match of the year". Perusers of the distribution casted a ballot Wrestle Kingdom 9 the Best Major Wrestling Show of 2015; they additionally named the match among Ibushi and Nakamura the 2015 Pro Wrestling Match of the Year, and the match among Okada and Tanahashi was casted a ballot the fourth best of 2015. Dave Meltzer gave analysis for the outcome in January 2016, portraying Wrestle Kingdom 9 as "the overwhelm show of" 2015 and "the pinnacle show of the ascent of New Japan Pro Wrestling from exceptionally low dimensions for a significant part of the late 00s". 

As indicated by analyst Jim Ross, Japanese TV maker TV Asahi did not contact the English-language group amid the occasion; he and Striker reported "by our impulses and it appeared to work out quite well". Ross likewise stated, "The truth will surface eventually yet on the off chance that this was my last genius wrestling occasion, I picked a damn decent one on which to go out on." 

In the wake of his misfortune to Hiroshi Tanahashi in the headliner, Kazuchika Okada entered a "descending winding" storyline with three brisk misfortunes to Bad Luck Fale. The day after his success over Tetsuya Naito, A.J. Styles developed as the following challenger for the IWGP Heavyweight Championship by sticking Tanahashi in an eight-man label group coordinate. Styles at that point crushed Tanahashi for the title on February 11 at NJPW The New Beginning in Osaka. Shot Club caught two additional titles in that occasion, with the Young Bucks winning the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Championship, and Doc Gallows and Karl Anderson crushing Hirooki Goto and Katsuyori Shibata in a rematch from Wrestle Kingdom 9 to recover the IWGP Tag Team Championship. Okada's droop finished on April 5 at NJPW Invasion Attack 2015, where he vanquished Fale, which he pursued with a triumph over Styles on July 5 at NJPW Dominion 7.5 in Osaka-jo Hall to win the IWGP Heavyweight Championship. 

Another rematch from Wrestle Kingdom 9 was planned for February 14 at NJPW The New Beginning in Sendai between Togi Makabe and Tomohiro Ishii for the NEVER Openweight Championship. At the point when Makabe was sidelined with flu, NJPW stripped him of the title and planned another match, in which Ishii crushed Tomoaki Honma for the now-empty title. Ishii and Makabe had their title rematch on April 29, when Makabe recovered the NEVER Openweight Championship. 

Wrestle Kingdom 9 broke Yuji Nagata's dash of successive January 4 Tokyo Dome Show appearances at 21 by being included on the pre-appear rather than the fundamental card. In a meeting, Nagata said that he felt insulted and pondered stopping when he was consigned to the pre-appear. The day after the occasion, he was booked to challenge Shinsuke Nakamura for the IWGP Intercontinental Championship, coming back to the IWGP headliner picture without precedent for years. In spite of the fact that Nagata got his title shot at NJPW The New Beginning in Sendai, he was vanquished by Nakamura. Nakamura's Wrestle Kingdom 9 adversary, Kota Ibushi, won the 2015 New Japan Cup competition on March 15 by overcoming Hirooki Goto in the finals, hence winning the privilege to pick a title to challenge. Ibushi picked a match with A.J. Styles for the IWGP Heavyweight Championship (leaving Goto to challenge Nakamura). Ibushi bombed in his title challenge on April 5 at NJPW Invasion Attack 2015, and Goto crushed Nakamura on May 3 at NJPW Wrestling Dontaku 2015 to progress toward becoming IWGP Intercontinental Champion. 

After Wrestle Kingdom 9, Suzuki-firearm announced war on Pro Wrestling Noah on the grounds that Naomichi Marufuji and TMDK helped Toru Yano. This storyline point showed up at the January 10 Noah occasion, when Suzuki-weapon assaulted Marufuji and TMDK toward the finish of the show. After the occasion, the eight Suzuki-weapon individuals started working for Noah, and by March 15, the gathering built up its strength by winning each of the four of Noah's titles: Suzuki turned into the GHC Heavyweight Champion, Killer Elite Squad the GHC Tag Team Champions, Taichi the GHC Junior Heavyweight Champion, and El Desperado and Taka Michinoku the GHC Junior Heavyweight Tag Team Champions. 

After a year, at Wrestle Kingdom 10, Okada crushed Tanahashi to hold the IWGP Heavyweight title; Nakamura beat Styles to hold the IWGP Intercontinental title; Honma and Makabe vanquished Anderson and Gallows to catch the IWGP Tag Team title; Kushida beat Kenny Omega to catch the IWGP Junior Heavyweight title; the Young Bucks won a four-path coordinate for the IWGP Junior Heavyweight Tag Team title; Goto crushed Naito in a non-title coordinate; Shibata crushed Ishii to catch the NEVER Openweight title; while Toru Yano and the Briscoes triumphed over Bad Luck Fale, Tama Tonga, and Yujiro Takahashi to turn into the debut NEVER Openweight 6-Man Tag Team Champions.