California Diamond Jubilee half dollar 

The California Diamond Jubilee half dollar was a United States dedicatory silver fifty-penny piece struck at the San Francisco Mint in 1925. It was issued to praise the 75th commemoration of California statehood. 

The San Francisco Citizens' Committee wished to issue a dedicatory coin as a pledge drive for a festival of the statehood precious stone celebration. A California congressman joined approval for it to another coinage charge, which was affirmed by Congress in mid 1925. Structures by artist Jo Mora met a threatening gathering at the Commission of Fine Arts, yet the Citizens' Committee would not transform them, and they were affirmed. The coin has been broadly adulated for its magnificence in the years since. 

The coins were struck in August 1925 in San Francisco, and were sold the next month. They didn't sell just as trusted: just somewhere in the range of 150,000 of the approved mintage of 300,000 were ever struck, and of that, about half went unsold and were dissolved. The coin is indexed at somewhere in the range of $200 and $1,300, however excellent examples have sold for additional. 

The land that is presently the province of California was first visited by Europeans when Spanish pioneer Juan Rodriguez Cabrillo visited there in 1542. His report to the Spanish crown collected little intrigue, and it was not until the English sailor Sir Francis Drake contacted there in 1579 that the Spanish were moved to colonize the region. In any case, throughout the following 275 years, California saw couple of pioneers, for the most part around the chain of missions that were established there, both under the Spanish, and therefore under Mexican standard. 

As indicated by numismatic creator Arnie Slabaugh, "the happening to American pilgrims conveyed two changes to California that proceed right up 'til the present time: migrants (both remote and American) and action". In 1846, American pilgrims rebelled against Mexican standard, establishing the Bear Flag Republic; its banner included a wild bear. The republic demonstrated brief; the Mexican– American War had started, and California was involved by U.S. powers. Seven days before the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was marked in January 1848, gold was found at Sutter's Mill by James W. Marshall. The California Gold Rush pursued, as did statehood for California in 1850. 

The California Diamond Jubilee half dollar began with the craving of the San Francisco Citizens' Committee (Angelo J. Rossi, executive), to have a dedicatory half dollar to sell as a pledge drive for a neighborhood festivity in remembrance of the 75th commemoration of California statehood. On January 9, 1925, a bill was presented in the Senate for a silver half dollar and gold dollar remembering the Battle of Bennington and the American Revolutionary War-time frame autonomy of Vermont. The bill passed the Senate after a correction expelled the gold dollar. At the point when the bill was bantered in the House of Representatives on February 16, 1925, California Congressman John E. Raker offered a change to include a coin for the 75th commemoration of California statehood. This was emphatically contradicted by Representative Albert Vestal, executive of the House Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures, who expressed that the Bureau of the Mint restricted making "these extraordinary coins". He included that along these lines, Washington Representative Albert Johnson had consented to pull back his bill for a memorial regarding Fort Vancouver, in Washington state. Raker by and by persevered, and his revision passed. Agent Johnson at that point offered a correction to include a Fort Vancouver Centennial half dollar to the bill, and to Vestal's dismay, this additionally was received. The bill passed the House of Representatives, and the Senate consented to the House revisions without discussion on February 17. 

Treasury Secretary Andrew W. Mellon encouraged President Calvin Coolidge to veto the bill, composing: 

By and by, Coolidge marked the bill, which turned into the Act of February 24, 1925, approving each of the three coins. This was the first run through memorial coin enactment secured more than one issue. A sum of 300,000 for the California piece was approved, with the coins to be drawn without needing any proof for the benefit of the Citizens' Committee by the San Francisco Clearing House Association or the Los Angeles Clearing House Association. The last gathering of banks had in 1923 appropriated the Monroe Doctrine Centennial half dollar. 

On May 4, 1925, Rossi sent a letter to Mint Director Robert J. Give. Rossi noticed that there had been some deferral in the planning of the structure for the new half dollar, and that California Senator Samuel M. Shortridge had encouraged Rossi's board of trustees to push ahead immediately. Rossi encased draws by California stone carver Joseph (Jo) Mora, with the guarantee that a completed structure, and a model, would pursue. Natives' Committee individuals had chosen Mora collectively, feeling he was the one craftsman who could encapsulate what was being recognized. 

On receipt, the representations and letter were sent to the Commission of Fine Arts, accused since 1921 of making suggestions on coinage configuration, and afterward to its stone worker part, James Earle Fraser, architect of the Buffalo nickel. Fraser wrote to Rossi on May 18, censuring the plans, "the bear is completely excessively short, and the entire thing unpracticed and unprofessional." He prescribed that Chester Beach (credited with the structure of the 1923 Monroe Doctrine coin) or Robert I. Aitken (who had made the 1915 Panama-Pacific $50 pieces) be enlisted, as both were from California and might make "something which would be unquestionably additionally intriguing and with a greater feeling of what California truly is". 

In spite of Fraser's suggestions, the Citizens' Committee remained with Mora, who immediately turned out the completed representations. Anthony Swiatek and Walter Breen, in their volume on U.S. memorial coins, proposed that the Citizens' Committee did not procure Beach or Aitken because of absence of time and a reluctance to pay their substantial charges. The completed models were sent to the Philadelphia Mint on June 17, and were sent to the Commission. At this point, Fraser was never again an individual from the Commission and they were sent to Lorado Taft, alongside a note that the Citizens' Committee had not employed Aitken because of the cost and that the new structures were minimal superior to the old. In any case, both Taft and another part, Louis Ayres, prescribed acknowledgment. Ayres suggested "that 'In God We Trust' be put in some position where it doesn't appear as though the '49ers were fricasseeing it in oil". Numismatic student of history Don Taxay asserted that this exhortation was not pursued because of the absence of an elective position in which to put the aphorism. 

With the plans acknowledged, the Mint made working bites the dust dependent on the mortar display in July 1925. These were sent from Philadelphia to the San Francisco Mint, where 150,000 coins were struck in August, in addition to 200 saved for assessment and testing at the 1926 gathering of the United States Assay Commission. 

In making the half dollar, Mora utilized themes inspiring California at the season of statehood in 1850. The front-side portrays a Gold Rush-period miner, stooping. He washes material with his dish, looking for bits of placer gold. The turn around adjusts the Flag of California, known as the Bear Flag, appearing wild bear. Mora left the fields, or foundation, of the coin unpolished, giving the piece a finished look. 

The California Diamond Jubilee half dollar has been generally appreciated. Swiatek esteemed the coin "one of my most loved numismatic gems". As indicated by coin seller and creator Q. David Bowers, "the Citizens' Committee ... shrewdly disregarded Fraser's analysis". Eric Brothers, in his 2014 article on the coin, composed that it "typified the quintessential symbolism of California during the 1850s". David M. Bullowa, who contemplated dedicatory coins for the American Numismatic Association during the 1930s, viewed it as "a virile and first rate half dollar, in which front-side and turn around are unquestionably identified with one another". His contemporary, B. Max Mehl, wrote in 1937 that it was a "wonderful coin ... [the] front is a fine bit of workmanship". In any case, he confused the creature on the invert with a polar bear, and communicated puzzlement: "I have voyage and visited California from one end to the next and have never yet observed a bear". 

Craftsmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule, in his volume on American coinage, regarded the California piece "one of America's most noteworthy works of numismatic coinage." He thought about the structure striking and powerful, and particularly appreciated the creature, expressing that the "muscles, bones, and tufts of hide express the gigantic assurance of the bear." He felt the lettering especially fruitful, as two unique sizes are utilized, and albeit every one of the three expressions standard on American coinage are available ("Liberty", "In God We Trust", and "E Pluribus Unum"), the "putting is so skillfully dealt with that it appears to be difficult to understand all three ... engravings are utilized". 

The principal California Diamond Jubilee half dollar struck was given to the Memorial Museum in Golden Gate Park, San Francisco. The kick the bucket utilized for the underlying strikings was extraordinarily treated to deliver an iced or appearance impact, which wore out after the principal roughly 75 strikings, as indicated by Swiatek in his later volume on commemoratives. Numismatist Kevin Flynn proposes that the initial 100 pieces show these exceptional surfaces, and this was done at Rossi's solicitation for introduction to VIPs. One piece is known without a mint imprint; this was no doubt a preliminary piece, arranged and claimed by Mint Chief Engraver John R. Sinnock and later sold from his home. 

Somewhere around one half dollar probably left the San Francisco Mint by August 26, 1925, as it was appeared at a gathering of the Pacific Coast Numismatic Society on that day. Youngsters conceived on the 75th commemoration of California statehood (September 9, 1925) in that state were given one of the half dollars, a sum of 494. A couple of pieces were mounted in identifications utilized by authorities. Many were sold at a festival in San Francisco from September 6 to 12 in celebration of that celebration. Albeit thousands were acquired by currency gatherers and vendors, the mass are accepted to have gone to non-authorities. As per Bowers, "dissemination endeavors were not especially very much planned" and 63,606 pieces were come back to the Mint for liquefying, leaving an aggregate of 86,594 pieces appropriated to people in general, including the measure coins. 

The half dollar has slowly ascended in cost throughout the years, with the main mishaps being the value decreases following the memorial coin blasts of 1936 and 1980. The 2015 version of Richard S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins" records it at somewhere in the range of $200 and $1,300, contingent upon condition. One, in uncommon MS-68 condition, brought $17,250 at sale in 2009.