Stanley Price Weir 

Brigadier General Stanley Price Weir, (23 April 1866 – 14 November 1944) was a local official and Australian Army officer. Amid World War I, he told the tenth Battalion of the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) amid the arrival at Anzac Cove and the resulting Gallipoli Campaign, and amid the Battles of Pozières and Mouquet Farm in France. 

Weir came back to Australia at his own solicitation in late 1916 at 50 years old, and in 1917 he was granted the Distinguished Service Order and was referenced in dispatches for his execution at Pozières and Mouquet Farm. He proceeded to turn into the main South Australian Public Service Commissioner. He was given a privileged advancement to brigadier general on his retirement from the Australian Military Forces in 1921. Weir was resigned as open administration official in 1931. In retirement he added to different kindhearted and magnanimous associations, and passed on in 1944. 

Weir was conceived in Norwood, South Australia, on 23 April 1866, a child of Alfred Weir and Susannah Mary (née Price). His dad was a craftsman, who had emigrated to South Australia from Aberdeen, Scotland, in 1839, two years after the state was established. Weir went to Moore's School, the Norwood Public School, and Pulteney Street Grammar School. In 1879, at 13 years old, he joined the Surveyor General's Department as an office partner. He helped the surveyor who pegged out the land at the back of Government House, Adelaide, for the Torrens Parade Ground, and was later elevated to assistant. On 14 May 1890, he wedded Rosa Wadham at the Christian Chapel, Norwood. He ascended through the division to be delegated Survey Storekeeper, Custodian of Plans and Custodian of Government Motor Cars, on 1 July 1911. He was delegated an equity of the tranquility on 10 September 1914. 

Weir enrolled in the low maintenance South Australian Volunteer Military Force in March 1885, joining the first Battalion, Adelaide Rifles, as a private. By 1890, he had been elevated to shading sergeant. He was charged as a lieutenant in the third Battalion, Adelaide Rifles, on 19 March 1890, and was elevated to commander on 25 May 1893. At the point when the South African War broke out he volunteered for administration with the South Australian Bushmen's Corps, however mounted officers were favored, and he was not chosen. 

On 1 July 1903, the Adelaide Rifles turned into the tenth Infantry Regiment of the Commonwealth Military Forces, and Weir was designated aide. He was elevated to major on 1 January 1904, and named as regimental second-in-direction. He was granted the Long Service and Good Conduct Medal in 1905, and the Volunteer Officers' Decoration in 1908. On 22 June 1908, Weir was elevated to lieutenant colonel and named the boss of the tenth Infantry Regiment. On 1 January 1912, he was exchanged to the unattached rundown however this just kept going until 1 July, when the widespread preparing plan was presented. He was before long named to direction the nineteenth Infantry Brigade, and on 9 September 1913 he was elevated to colonel. 

On 12 August 1914, Weir got a message from Colonel Ewen Sinclair-Maclagan, the assigned officer of the third Brigade, offering him the order of the tenth Battalion. Weir instantly acknowledged, and on 17 August was named as a lieutenant colonel in the Australian Imperial Force (AIF), making him the principal South Australian to be charged in the AIF. He held his position of colonel in the low maintenance powers in a privileged limit. 

Weir collected and prepared his contingent at the Morphettville Racecourse, at that point set out with them on the vehicle "Ascanius" on 20 October 1914 as the principal escort of Australian troops left for abroad administration. On entry in Fremantle, six organizations of the eleventh Battalion were left on the vehicle, and Weir was named Officer Commanding Troops for the voyage. The troops started landing at Alexandria on 6 December 1914, and were entrained for Cairo, where they started to set up camp at Mena. The Australian Official War Historian, Charles Bean, portrayed Weir as being "fairly better than expected in years" for a force officer. Following the Allied choice to arrive a power on the Gallipoli Peninsula, the third Brigade was chosen as the covering power for the arrival at Anzac Cove. The tenth Battalion set out for the Greek island of Lemnos in the northern Aegean Sea on 1 March 1915, and after further preparing on Lemnos, the legion was one of the initial two legions aground on the morning of 25 April 1915. 

Amid the arrival, when the water crafts conveying the lead components of the regiment were around from shore, as indicated by Bean, Weir saw to another officer in his watercraft that everything was quiet, yet not long after Ottoman troops started terminating at the arrival compel. Weir arrived with the scout company, and asked the two his men and those of the ninth Battalion to promptly start climbing the bluffs that disregarded the shoreline. Weir, alongside "B" and "C" Companies of the contingent, achieved what later ended up known as "Plugge's Plateau". Overwhelming battling pursued the underlying landing and, inside five days, half of Weir's unit had been killed or injured. The Australian and New Zealand advance inland from Anzac Cove was along these lines checked by the guarding Ottoman powers and was in the long run contained in a little foothold inside a progression of edges that extended around the inlet. Weir was the main leader from the third Brigade to go ahead of the primary edge, and an edge running off the 400 Plateau along these lines wound up known as "Weir Ridge". 

As stalemate set in, Weir kept on directing his contingent all through the beginning periods of the crusade until 25 August, when he was delegated acting brigadier general and put in order of the third Brigade. On 11 September, he turned out to be sick and was emptied to Malta, where he was admitted to emergency clinic. He was in this way emptied to the United Kingdom, where he convalesced until January 1916, when he was designated commandant of the Australian fortification camp at Weymouth, Dorset. 

Weir's wellbeing had not totally recouped when he left for Egypt, and he rejoined his contingent on 4 March 1916. After his takeoff, the tenth had battled through the rest of the crusade before being pulled back alongside the remainder of the Allied power in December 1915. The unit was along these lines moved back to Egypt. In mid-1916, the greater part of the AIF was exchanged toward the Western Front, and Weir drove the tenth Battalion through July and August 1916 amid the Battles of Pozières and Mouquet Farm. At Pozières, the unit endured 350 losses in four days. When of the fight, Weir was the main unique unit officer staying in the first Australian Division, and had turned 50 years old. On 23 August, following Mouquet Farm, Weir was again delegated acting administrator of the third Brigade. Depleted, on 7 September 1916 he requested to be assuaged, and his solicitation was conceded. He came back to Australia on 23 September 1916, and his AIF arrangement was ended on 14 December. In the Australian authority history of the war, Bean saw that notwithstanding his age, Weir "brought his brigade into the cutting edge, told it there all through its first fight, and stayed longer in the field than practically any of the senior civilian army officers who had left with the first power". 

After his AIF arrangement was ended, Weir continued his administration in the Citizen Military Forces (CMF). In 1917, he was granted the Distinguished Service Order and the Russian Empire Order of St. Anne, second Class, with Swords, and was referenced in dispatches for his execution at Pozières and Mouquet Farm. From 1917 to 1920, he was confidant to the Governor-General of Australia, Sir Ronald Craufurd Munro Ferguson. Weir resigned from the CMF as a privileged brigadier general in March 1921, his last arrangement being as officer of the twentieth Infantry Brigade. He was just the second South Australia-conceived officer to achieve the position of brigadier general. On 31 March 1921, Weir was named Honorary Colonel of the tenth Battalion, a position he held for a long time. 

Weir had two huge points of interest in his arrival to a non military personnel profession. Initially, he was repatriated a long time before most servicemen and, besides, South Australia had actualized an approach of promotion of returned servicemen for government business. These conditions helped him gain arrangement as the principal South Australian Public Service Commissioner in 1916. Weir was not fit to this job, being unfit to explore the contending individual and political motivation of senior community workers and lawmakers, and was before long sidelined. In 1925, authoritative changes made it workable for the legislature to supplant Weir, and this occurred in 1930. In the most recent eighteen months before his retirement in 1931, Weir was the director of both the Central Board of Health and the Public Relief Board, exceeding expectations at the last mentioned. 

On 8 June 1923, after numerous long periods of weakness, Weir's better half Rosa kicked the bucket. He wedded Lydia Maria Schrapel in 1926. Weir drove a functioning retirement, adding to a few religious, altruistic and welfare associations and exercises. These incorporated the Norwood and Maylands Churches of Christ, Benevolent and Stranger's Friend Society, the Our Boys Institute (OBI), the Masonic Lodge, Cheer-Up Society, and YMCA. At different occasions he filled in as President of the Commonwealth Club, the Churches of Christ Union, the St. Diminishes Sub-Branch of the Returned and Services League, and the Cheer Up Society. 

Weir composed the foreword for the historical backdrop of the tenth Battalion, titled "The Fighting tenth: A South Australian Centenary Souvenir of the tenth Battalion, AIF 1914– 1919", which was composed by a previous individual from the regiment, Cecil Lock, and distributed in 1936. In 1943, Weir was gravely harmed in an auto crash while coming back from an OBI camp at Victor Harbor. It was trusted that his wounds in the mishap added to his demise on 14 November 1944. Weir was made due by his significant other Lydia, and his child Lionel and little girl Beryl from his first marriage. His sibling, Harrison Weir, was the State Government Printer. Weir was covered in West Terrace Cemetery. 

Weir got the accompanying distinctions and grants: 

Weir's military vocation initiated in March 1885, when he enrolled as a private. He rapidly rose to the position of shading sergeant before being charged in 1890. He ascended from private to brigadier general over a profession crossing 36 years. His officer advancement dates were: