Joe Sakic 

Joseph Steven "Joe" Sakic (; conceived July 7, 1969) is a Canadian expert ice hockey official and previous player. He played his whole 21-year National Hockey League (NHL) profession with the Quebec Nordiques/Colorado Avalanche establishment. Named commander of the group in 1992 (subsequent to filling in as a co-skipper in 1990– 91), Sakic is viewed as a standout amongst the most able group pioneers allied history and had the capacity to reliably persuade his group to play at a triumphant dimension. Sakic drove the Avalanche to Stanley Cup titles in 1996 and 2001, being named the most significant player of the 1996 playoffs, and regarded as the MVP of the NHL in 2001 by the hockey essayists and his kindred players. He is one of six players to partake in both of the group's Stanley Cup triumphs. Sakic was additionally named to play in 13 NHL All-Star Games and chose to the NHL First All-Star Team at focus multiple times. 

Through the span of his vocation, Sakic was a standout amongst the most profitable advances in the diversion, having twice scored 50 objectives and acquiring no less than 100 points in six unique seasons. His wrist shot, thought about a standout amongst the best in the NHL, was the wellspring of quite a bit of his generation as goalies around the group dreaded his quick depiction discharge. At the finish of the 2008– 09 NHL season, he was the eighth unsurpassed focuses pioneer in the NHL, just as fourteenth taking all things together time objectives and eleventh taking all things together time helps. Amid the 2002 Winter Olympics, Sakic helped lead Team Canada to its first ice hockey gold award in 50 years, and was casted a ballot as the competition's most significant player. He spoke to the group in six other worldwide rivalries, including the 1998 and 2006 Winter Olympics. 

Sakic resigned from the NHL on July 9, 2009, and had his shirt number resigned preceding the Avalanche's 2009– 10 season opener on October 1, 2009, at Pepsi Center. On November 12, 2012, Sakic was drafted in the Hockey Hall of Fame, alongside Adam Oates, Pavel Bure and Mats Sundin. On April 11, 2013, Sakic and 11 others were enlisted into the Canada Sports Hall of Fame. He filled in as official counselor and substitute senator for the Avalanche, viable toward the finish of the 2010– 11 season, and elevated to Executive Vice President of hockey activities on May 10, 2013. In 2017, Sakic was named one of the '100 Greatest NHL Players' ever. 

Sakic was conceived in Burnaby, British Columbia, to Marijan and Slavica Sakic (initially Šakić, ), workers from Croatia in what was then Yugoslavia. Experiencing childhood in Burnaby, he didn't figure out how to communicate in English well until kindergarten, having been raised with Croatian as his first language. At four years old, Sakic went to his first NHL diversion, a match between the Vancouver Canucks and Atlanta Flames; subsequent to watching the amusement, Sakic concluded that he needed to turn into a hockey player. As a littler player, he was compelled to utilize ability as opposed to size to exceed expectations, and demonstrated himself after his golden calf, Wayne Gretzky. Subsequent to indicating extraordinary guarantee as a youthful hockey player in Burnaby, Sakic was referenced as another Wayne Gretzky really taking shape. He scored 83 objectives and 156 in just 80 amusements for Burnaby, while going to class at Burnaby North Secondary Soon after, he was added to the Lethbridge Broncos of the Western Hockey League (WHL) for the last piece of the 1985– 86 season. 

Amid the 1986– 87 season, the Broncos migrated to Swift Current, Saskatchewan, turning into the Swift Current Broncos. Sakic, playing in his first full season, was named Rookie of the Year of the WHL. He scored 60 objectives and 73 helps for 133. In any case, while Sakic appreciated accomplishment on the ice, he and his group confronted a catastrophe the evening of December 30, 1986. The Broncos were heading to an amusement against the Regina Pats, and because of terrible climate conditions, the transport smashed after the driver lost control on a fix of dark ice outside of Swift Current. While Sakic was safe, four of his partners (Trent Kresse, Scott Kruger, Chris Mantyka and Brent Ruff) were slaughtered. This occurrence lastingly affected the youthful Sakic, who declined to discuss the accident all through his vocation. The following year, in 1987– 88, Sakic was named the WHL Most Valuable Player and Canadian Major Junior Player of the Year. He scored 160 points (78 objectives, 82 helps), tying him with Theoren Fleury of the Moose Jaw Warriors for the WHL scoring title. 

Sakic was drafted fifteenth by and large by the Quebec Nordiques in the 1987 NHL Entry Draft. As opposed to make the quick hop, he told the Nordiques the board he would want to spend the 1987– 88 season in Swift Current to plan for the NHL. He made his NHL debut on October 6, 1988, against the Hartford Whalers and enlisted a help. His first NHL objective came two days after the fact against goaltender Sean Burke of the New Jersey Devils. Amid the season, he wore #88 in light of the fact that his favored number, #19 was at that point taken by a colleague, Alain Côté. While considered a leader for the Calder Memorial Trophy as newbie of the year because of his fast scoring pace, a lower leg damage that constrained him to miss 10 diversions in December and the subsequent scoring droop suppressed any expectations of winning the honor. He would complete his youngster season with 62 points in 70 recreations, and completing eighth in voting in favor of the Calder; defenceman Brian Leetch, who won the new kid on the block scoring race with 28 objectives and 48 helps, won with forty-two ahead of all comers cast a ballot, while Sakic just gotten two third-place cast a ballot. 

In 1989– 90, his second NHL season, Sakic had the capacity to switch his number back to his recognizable #19 (Alain Côté had resigned over the mid year), and scored 102, which was ninth by and large in the alliance. Toward the beginning of the following season, 1990– 91, he was named co-commander alongside Steven Finn (Sakic was skipper for home recreations, Finn for away diversions) and again passed the 100 point mark, improving to 109 and 6th by and large in the association, however would slip amid 1991– 92 to 94 points, having missed 11 amusements. Right off the bat in the season, Sakic demonstrated a portion of his initiative characteristics, even while Mike Hough was filling in as skipper, as he stood firm in the Eric Lindros holdout issue. With Lindros holding out against the Nordiques, who were one of the most exceedingly bad groups allied, Sakic remarked, "We just need players here who have the enthusiasm to play the amusement. I'm burnt out on hearing that name. He's not all over are a great deal of others in this storage space who truly care about the diversion." Lindros was exchanged a year later, finishing the circumstance and getting various quality players, which limitlessly improved the Nordiques. Amid their initial four seasons with Joe Sakic, the Nordiques completed last spot in the Adams Division and toward the end in the whole class for three straight years, from 1989 to 1991. 

Beginning with the 1992– 93 season, Sakic turned into the sole chief of the establishment. Under his authority, the Nordiques made the playoffs without precedent for a long time and set an establishment record for wins and focuses all the while (since broken by the 2000– 01 Colorado Avalanche group). Sakic achieved the 100-point level, the third time he did as such in five years, by scoring 48 objectives and 105 points in the customary season, and included another six in the playoffs. In the abbreviated 1994– 95, after the 1994– 95 NHL lockout, Sakic was eight behind Jaromír Jágr for the scoring title with a fourth-place complete, and helped the Nordiques win the division title, their first since the 1985– 86 season. 

In May 1995, the Nordiques reported that the group had been sold and were migrating from Quebec. Prior to the beginning of the 1995– 96 season, the establishment moved to Denver, Colorado, and was renamed the Colorado Avalanche. Sakic drove the group to its first Stanley Cup title, scoring 120 of every 82 ordinary season amusements and 34 of every 22 playoff diversions. He was granted the Conn Smythe Trophy as the most profitable player of the 1996 NHL playoffs. Amid the keep running for the Cup, Sakic again turned out to be a compelling group pioneer. In spite of the fact that his Nordiques had missed the playoffs in five of his initial seven years in the NHL, he scored 18 objectives, including six diversion victors, and 34 points. He was one objective off from the record for objectives in a playoff year, and his diversion winning objectives built up another record. 

In the 1996– 97 season, Sakic just played in 65 recreations because of a gashed calf, yet still figured out how to score 74 points as the Avalanche earned their first Presidents' Trophy and third straight division title. He had another incredible playoff season with eight objectives and 17 helps, and took the Avalanche right to the meeting finals, where they in the end lost to the Detroit Red Wings in six amusements. As a free specialist amid the late spring of 1997, Sakic marked a three-year, $21 million offer sheet with the New York Rangers as a limited free operator. Under the aggregate dealing understanding at the time, the Avalanche had multi week to coordinate the Rangers' offer or let go of Sakic. Colorado would coordinate the offer, which incited a pay raise for some NHL players. 

Wounds would again restrict Sakic's playing time in the 1997– 98 season. While playing in his first Olympics with Team Canada, Sakic hurt his knee and was compelled to miss 18 recreations with the Avalanche. In the 64 diversions he played in, despite everything he scored 63 points, enough to win him his seventh All-Star appearance. He at long last bounced back from his damage issues in the 1998– 99 season, completing fifth in the alliance in scoring with 41 objectives and 96 points in just 73 diversions. He drove the Avalanche right to inside one round of the Stanley Cup Finals, where they lost to the possible boss Dallas Stars. After the season finished, Sakic was positioned number 94 on "The Hockey News"' rundown of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players. 

Amid the 1999– 2000 season, Sakic achieved a few vocation achievements. Wounds restricted him to just 60 amusements, yet despite everything he figured out how to lead the group in scoring with 81 points. On December 27, 1999, against the St. Louis Blues, Sakic earned a help to turn into the 56th player in NHL history to achieve 1,000 profession focuses. Later in the season, on March 23, 2000, he scored a cap trap against the Phoenix Coyotes, and turned into the 59th player to score 400 profession objectives. It additionally gave him 1,049 points with the Quebec/Colorado establishment, passing Peter Šťastný as the unsurpassed pioneer in the group. 

Sakic obscured the 100 point mark again in 2000– 01, completing with 118 alongside a lifelong best 54 objectives, both being second-best in the class. He won the Hart Memorial Trophy, the Lady Byng Memorial Trophy and the Lester B. Pearson Award (the last exhibited to him by previous Nordiques guide Peter Šťastný), while likewise being a finalist for the Frank J. Selke Trophy. He drove the Avalanche to their second Stanley Cup title, crushing the protecting title holders New Jersey Devils in seven amusements. Importantly, subsequent to accepting the Cup from the NHL official, Sakic broke with convention by not raising it first as most commanders do, rather passing the Cup directly to Ray Bourque, a player who had held up a record-breaking 22 seasons to win the Stanley Cup. 

Sakic drove the Avalanche in scoring again in the 2001– 02 season, completing 6th in the alliance with 79 points. On March 9, 2002, he played in his 1,000th profession diversion. The Avalanche indeed achieved the Western Conference Finals, yet lost to the possible Cup-winning Detroit Red Wings. The next year, Sakic showed up in just 58 amusements and completed with only 58 points. He bounced back the next year, completing third in the class with 87. It additionally denoted the first run through since the 1993– 94 season that his group did not win the division title, which was won by the Vancouver Canucks. 

Following the 2004– 05 NHL lockout, the Avalanche were compelled to lose a considerable lot of their key players so as to remain beneath the compensation top. Indeed, even with the loss of partners Peter Forsberg and Adam Foote, Sakic still helped the Avalanche get into the playoffs, where they in the end lost to the Anaheim Ducks in the gathering semi-finals. In June 2006, Sakic marked a one-year, $5.75 million arrangement to keep him with the Avalanche for the 2006– 07 season. Upon the retirement of Steve Yzerman a month later, on July 3, 2006, Sakic turned into the League head for most NHL profession focuses scored among dynamic players. 

Sakic had another solid season in the 2006– 07. He scored his 600th profession objective on February 15, 2007, against the Calgary Flames, turning into the seventeenth player in history to achieve the achievement and third that year. On the last day of the normal season, he scored his 100th point, achieving the achievement for the 6th time in his profession. In the meantime, Sakic turned into the second-most established NHL player to score 100 points in a season at age 37, close by hockey legend Gordie Howe. In spite of his endeavors just as a late-season charge, Sakic and the Avalanche missed the playoffs without precedent for a long time, completing one point behind the eighth set Calgary Flames. On May 1, the NHL declared that Sakic was named as one of the three finalists of the Lady Byng Trophy, yet it was in the long run granted to Pavel Datsyuk of the Detroit Red Wings. 

In April 2007, Sakic marked on for a nineteenth NHL season with the Colorado Avalanche, marking a one-year bargain for 2007– 08. Sakic remarked on the arrangement, saying "at this phase in my vocation, I want to complete one-year bargains as I assess my play year-to-year." Upon marking Sakic to the arrangement, Avalanche General Manager François Giguère stated, "Joe is the core of this association and his administration and incentive to this group and particularly our young players is unchallenged." On October 7, 2007, he scored an objective and had a help against the San Jose Sharks, moving past Phil Esposito into eighth spot on the NHL profession focuses list with 1,591. After nineteen days, Sakic scored an objective and helped Ryan Smyth for an additional time diversion winning objective against the Calgary Flames, achieving his 1,600th point in the NHL. On December 27, 2007, it was declared that Sakic experienced hernia medical procedure to quicken the recuperation of damage that had constrained him to miss the past 12 amusements after a 232 continuous recreations played streak. The activity made him miss a profession high 38 recreations. He was initiated off of the harmed save on February 24 and played that night, scoring a help. On March 22, 2008, Sakic recorded his 1,000th profession help against the Edmonton Oilers, turning into the eleventh player in NHL history to achieve this achievement. 

In June 2008, Sakic sat down to chat with Colorado General Manager François Giguère and said that he is dubious with his future with the Avalanche. In any case, it was declared on August 27, 2008, that Sakic chose to sign a one-year contract with the group. Wounds constrained Sakic's playing time in 2008– 09. A herniated circle in his back constrained him to quit playing toward the beginning of November, in the wake of playing in 15 recreations, in which Sakic scored 12 points. While at home giving his back a chance to mend, Sakic broke three fingers in a snow-blower mishap. He declared his retirement on July 9, 2009 The Avalanche resigned his pullover, #19, preceding their 2009– 10 season opener on October 1, 2009, with a "C" on the standard to speak to his extensive administration as group commander (having been the main skipper of the Avalanche until he resigned). Sakic was additionally named the debut individual from the Avalanche Alumni Association. 

Sakic was casted a ballot into the NHL All-Star Game multiple times and played in 12 of them, filling in as a skipper for two of them, the toward the end in 2007. He had no less than one point in 11 of them. The special case that he missed altogether was the 1997 All-Star Game, because of damage. Sakic won the Most Valuable Player grant in the 2004 All-Star Game subsequent to scoring a cap trap, regardless of the Western Conference losing the amusement. He is the untouched help pioneer on the whole Star Games with 16 helps and is third spot taking all things together time elite player scoring with 22, behind Mario Lemieux (23 points) and Wayne Gretzky (25). His best record in an All-Star Game was in 2007, when he scored four helps for the triumphant group; anyway the MVP grant was given to Daniel Brière, who had an objective and four helps. 

Sakic had a broad worldwide hockey profession, speaking to Canada at seven universal rivalries. In the wake of being drafted by the Nordiques in 1987, he went on and helped Canada win the 1988 World Junior Championship. His next competition was the 1991 World Championships, where Canada won the silver award and Sakic contributed eleven out of ten amusements. He went for the 1991 Canada Cup Canadian group, however was the principal player to be cut, being refered to for his powerless leg quality. Sakic was angry about the experience, feeling he was not given an adequate opportunity to substantiate himself, and called the entire experience "a total exercise in futility." 

Sakic's first fruitful expert competition was the 1994 World Championships, where Canada won its first gold award in the competition since 1961. Sakic's seven of every eight amusements were a vital piece of the group's prosperity. Amid the 1996 World Cup of Hockey, he assumed just a minor job in Canada's second-place complete as he scored one objective and two aids six amusements. In any case, the competition enabled him to grandstand that he was in reality a prevailing player who had basically been neglected. 

Sakic's first Olympic appearance came in 1998 at Nagano, Japan, the primary competition in which NHL players took part. Disturbed by knee damage, he just scored three of every four amusements, as the Canadian squad neglected to meet desires and completed in fourth. His second Olympic appearance came in 2002 in Salt Lake City; driven by his solid play, the Canadian group achieved the gold decoration coordinate against Team USA, in which Sakic scored four points and helped Canada win its first gold award in 50 years. He was later named MVP of the competition with a combined count of four objectives and six helps and ended up one of the primary Canadian individuals from the Triple Gold Club. Sakic likewise had an influence in Canada's triumph in the 2004 World Cup of Hockey, where he scored six points in six amusements. 

On December 21, 2005, Sakic was named chief of Team Canada for the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. Indeed, Team Canada was intensely supported and given elevated standards, yet they neglected to decoration, completing seventh by and large. Sakic completed the competition with three points. 

After he resigned, Sakic chose to get a vacation from hockey and invested energy with his family. In 2011, two years after his retirement, Sakic came back to the Avalanche to work in their front office. He was named an official counsel and interchange representative for the group, successful toward the finish of the 2010– 11 season. In his job as a counselor, Sakic would prompt the group in hockey-related issues, and as a substitute representative, would speak to the group at Board of Governors gatherings. 

On June 26, 2012, Sakic was chosen to the Hockey Hall of Fame in his first year of qualification. He was drafted into the Hockey Hall of Fame on November 12, 2012, alongside Mats Sundin, Pavel Bure and Adam Oates. Sakic was the main individual from his class who won the Stanley Cup amid his profession. 

On May 10, 2013, the Avalanche elevated Sakic to Executive Vice President of Hockey Operations. In this extended job, Sakic has the last say on all issues with respect to hockey work force. Amid Patrick Roy's time as head mentor, they shared the vast majority of the obligations regularly held by a general supervisor. General Manager Greg Sherman stayed in his post, however served mostly in a warning job to Roy and Sakic. This true course of action was formalized the accompanying season, when Sakic was formally named general director and Sherman was downgraded to aide general administrator. 

Aside from his two years from hockey, Sakic has gone through just about three decades with the Nordiques/Avalanche association as either a player or official. 

Sakic and his better half Debbie have three youngsters: child Mitchell, conceived in 1996, and brotherly twins; child Chase and little girl Kamryn, conceived in October 2000. They met at a nearby secondary school while he was playing in Swift Current, and they much of the time come back to the town amid the off-season. Sakic is an enthusiastic golfer, and contended in the big name Pro Am golf competition in Lake Tahoe in the late spring of 2006. Each mid year, he additionally has his very own philanthropy golf competition which benefits the Food Bank of the Rockies. His philanthropy work, which is evaluated to have given in excess of seven million dinners to poor youngsters and families, has earned a NHL Foundation Player Award in 2007. 

Sakic was a fan most loved in the place where he grew up of Burnaby, where a road has been named Joe Sakic Way in his respect. All through British Columbia, he is lovingly known as "Burnaby Joe"; in Colorado, he is referred to just as "Super Joe." His more youthful sibling Brian joined the Swift Current Broncos amid Joe's last season with the group, and later played for the Flint Generals of the United Hockey League. Sakic additionally has an uncredited job in the motion picture Happy Gilmore as a "player at hockey tryouts". 

Sakic recorded his 1,000th vocation point on December 27, 1999, against the St. Louis Blues. He turned into the eleventh player to achieve 1,500 points, doing as such on October 25, 2006, with a help against the Washington Capitals, and the 6th to do as such with one establishment. Gordie Howe, Wayne Gretzky, Mario Lemieux, Ray Bourque and Steve Yzerman are the other people who have accomplished this accomplishment. On March 22, 2008, Sakic indented his 1,000th profession help against the Edmonton Oilers on a second time frame objective scored by Tyler Arnason. 

Sakic played his 1,000th profession amusement on March 9, 2002, against the Los Angeles Kings. His 500th profession objective came against the Vancouver Canucks on December 11, 2002. In a February 15, 2007, diversion against the Calgary Flames, Sakic scored his 600th profession objective. He likewise earned his 900th help, the sixteenth player to do as such, against the Flames in a diversion on March 12, 2006. 

Amid the last round of the 2006– 07 season, Sakic scored his 100th purpose of the year. This made him, at age 37, the second most established player in NHL history, after Gordie Howe, to record 100 points in a customary season. He turned into the longest dynamic tenured chief in the alliance, with fifteen seasons driving the Nordiques/Avalanche establishment, after the retirement of Steve Yzerman at the finish of the 2005– 06 standard season. On March 22, 2008, against the Edmonton Oilers, Sakic recorded the 1,000th help of his profession, the eleventh player to do as such. The gloves he wore in the amusement were later sent to the Hockey Hall of Fame. 

Close by Bobby Clarke, Wayne Gretzky and Mark Messier, Sakic is one of four players to skipper his group to a Stanley Cup title and win the Hart Memorial Trophy around the same time. Sakic is likewise an individual from the Triple Gold Club, a term utilized in ice hockey to portray players who have won an Olympic Gold decoration, a World Championship Gold award and the Stanley Cup. 

In his 20-year vocation with the Nordiques and Avalanche, Sakic has gotten about the majority of the establishment scoring records, including most unsurpassed objectives (625), helps (1,016) and focuses (1,641). He additionally holds the establishment record for most diversions played (1,363), and is on a few eminent NHL records which are most All-Star amusement helps (16) and most playoff extra time objectives (8). 

Sakic is likewise the main player to score 100 of every a season for a group that completes dead rearward in the NHL ordinary season standings, achieving this accomplishment in 1989-90 with Quebec Nordiques. 

All through his vocation, Sakic was one of the top scorers in the class, however in his initial years, he was condemned for not driving his group to playoff achievement. While in Quebec, the Nordiques were one of the most exceedingly terrible groups in the alliance, completing toward the end in their division five out of the seven years Sakic was with the group, including three straight long stretches of being last generally speaking in the association. Subsequent to driving the Avalanche to the Stanley Cup in 1996 with his 34 playoff focuses, Sakic started to be viewed as fit for driving a group to progress, and he was viewed as one of the alliance's chief players. 

Despite the fact that Sakic was a calm individual, he had the capacity to rouse his group to play at more elevated amounts, which earned him the regard of his friends and administrators. The primary indications of Sakic's authority started to appear while still an individual from the Swift Current Broncos of the WHL. After the transport crash that murdered four of his partners, Sakic was viewed as the pioneer of the group, recognizing that the experience changed his point of view. From the get-go in his vocation with the Nordiques (when Mike Hough was still chief), with the group planning to revamp around their top draft pick Eric Lindros, and clutching Lindros' rights for the season when he would not sign, Sakic recommended that the group could advance without Lindros, saying, "We just need players here who have the energy to play the diversion. I'm worn out on hearing that name. He's not all over are a ton of others in this storage space who truly care about the amusement." Lindros was exchanged a year later, acquiring various quality players, which inconceivably improved the Nordiques. Sakic's administration characteristics drove him to be sought by different groups, for example, in the mid year of 1997, when the New York Rangers offered him a huge contract so as to supplant withdrew commander Mark Messier, however the Avalanche at last coordinated the offer and held Sakic. 

A standout amongst the most characterizing activities of Sakic's vocation was at the finish of the 2001 playoffs. Opposing the NHL custom of the skipper being the first to skate around with the Stanley Cup, Sakic passed it off to partner Ray Bourque. Bourque, a standout amongst the best defensemen to ever play, had been exchanged to the Avalanche the prior year in the wake of going through 21 years with the Boston Bruins and setting the record for most amusements played without winning the Cup. Sakic's giving of the Stanley Cup embodies his tastefulness and how he performs through activities as opposed to words. 

At the point when eye damage constrained Steve Yzerman (who regularly wore number 19 for Canada) to miss the 2004 World Cup of Hockey, Sakic and Joe Thornton both denied the number keeping in mind their harmed kinsman, despite the fact that the two players each wore the number 19 for their separate NHL clubs and who were presently qualified to wear it for Team Canada in Yzerman's nonattendance. 

Sakic's initiative characteristics and capacities helped convey the Avalanche in the years after their 2001 Stanley Cup, which saw the group lose key players to retirement and free office, particularly after the 2004– 05 lockout.