Mind Meld 

Mind Meld: Secrets Behind the Voyage of a Lifetime is a 2001 American narrative film in which performers William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy examine the "Star Trek" sci-fi establishment and its impacts on their lives. Shatner and Nimoy depicted the characters James T. Kirk and Spock individually in the , the , and their film spin-offs. They talk about contrasts they had with Gene Roddenberry, the maker of "Star Trek", and about the stressed connections among Shatner and a portion of the other cast individuals. It was in this film Nimoy first freely uncovered that he had battled with liquor abuse while he was acting in the first TV arrangement. Shatner discusses the passing of his third spouse, Nerine Kidd, who incidentally suffocated in a pool in 1999 subsequent to experiencing liquor abuse. 

"Mind Meld" was created to publicize Shatner's own site. Taping occurred at Nimoy's home on September 5, 2001, and Billy West portrayed the title grouping. The film's title alludes to an anecdotal practice in "Star Trek"— a mind merge is a clairvoyant connection that Vulcans can make with different living beings. "Mind Meld" was discharged available to be purchased on Shatner's site on November 6, 2001, matching with the arrival of the executive's cut of "". "Mind Meld" pulled in some reputation in light of a unintended sound in one scene that turned into a well known subject of fart humor among "Star Trek" fans and on morning zoo radio projects. Shatner precluded being the source from claiming this sound in various meetings; he and "Mind Meld's" executive, Peter Jaysen, ascribed it to hardware on set. 

The film got blended audits from pundits. Scott Brown of "Stimulation Weekly" gave the film a "F", and said that the main individuals liable to watch the film were outrageous "Star Trek" fans and individuals keen on hearing Shatner's alleged fart. Laurence Lerman of "Video Business" commended the film for not "rehash[ing] tales that have for some time been staples of "Star Trek" traditions and in the background journals", and rather to manage such subjects as liquor addiction, profession challenges, and clashes on the arrangement of "Star Trek". 

William Shatner and Leonard Nimoy separately depicted James T. Kirk and Spock in "Star Trek", first during the 1960s TV arrangement (later retitled ""), then during the 1970s TV arrangement "", and therefore in a few "Star Trek" films somewhere in the range of 1979 and 1994. "As a main priority Meld", they talk about the "Star Trek" media establishment and its suffering achievement. The film is, with the exception of the title arrangement, made completely out of Shatner and Nimoy in discussion. Huge numbers of the themes they talk about were propelled by online inquiries from fans. The film begins in Nimoy's terrace, where the two sit on yard seats, and after that moves into Nimoy's library, which is loaded up with trinkets. 

The film centers around the impacts "Star Trek" had on the lives of Shatner and Nimoy, with every on-screen character meeting the other about his notoriety. They talk about "Star Trek"s inceptions and the passing of DeForest Kelley, who had depicted Leonard McCoy in both "The Original Series" and "The Animated Series". Shatner and Nimoy additionally talk about communications among themselves as well as other people on the arrangement of "Star Trek", including clashes. Both Shatner and Nimoy depict having had stressed associations with Gene Roddenberry, the maker of "Star Trek", and verify different individuals from the "First Series" cast disdaining Shatner. Just a single of these cast individuals is alluded to by name: Nichelle Nichols, who depicted Nyota Uhura. "I never completely grasped what it was that was annoying them", says Shatner. 

The two men portray "Star Trek" as having put individual weights on them that contrarily influenced their family lives. The discussion is for the most part guided by Shatner, who prompts Nimoy to examine issues he had in regards to the authenticity of reliably depicting an extraterrestrial, and different battles with his acting profession at the time. "It took me some time," Nimoy says, "however I disposed of all that outrage when I understood that I never needed to stress over work as far back as "Star Trek" went reporting in real time." Nimoy uncovers that he was a drunkard at the season of the first "Star Trek" arrangement—something that was not freely known before "Mind Meld". He built up "a noteworthy drinking propensity, presumably amid the second or third year" of the arrangement, he says, and had his secretary acquire him liquor paper glasses toward the finish of every day of shooting. Nimoy proposes that he ended up reliant on liquor as a result of the disintegration of his marriage to Sandra Zober, his first spouse. He says that, since separating Zober in 1987 and wedding on-screen character Susan Bay in 1988, he has been a nondrinker. 

Shatner says that acting in "Star Trek" was "life-expending" and left him "scarcely whenever for family", and this was the purpose behind his separation from Gloria Rand, his first spouse. He portrays an ensuing progression of sexual accomplices, including, he says, "Star Trek" on-screen characters. He likewise discusses the passing of his dad, Joseph Shatner, and of his third spouse, Nerine Kidd, who coincidentally suffocated in a pool in 1999, losing a fight with liquor abuse. Shatner reviews that Nimoy had communicated worry about Kidd's liquor addiction and cautioned him about wedding her. Another theme is Nimoy's artistic work photography, which manages otherworldliness and arousing quality. Both Shatner and Nimoy state that, while they are happy that "Star Trek" ended up fruitful, they wish their resulting notoriety had infringed less on their protection. They likewise portray having been pigeonholed because of their jobs in "Star Trek", and state this has had repercussions on their separate acting vocations. Shatner describes his underlying astonishment that, at sci-fi traditions, the fans appear to like each other more than they like the sci-fi performers. The film finishes up with Nimoy putting his arm around Shatner's shoulder and saying, "You're my closest companion." 

"Mind Meld" was delivered as a method for publicizing Shatner's own site, williamshatner.com, which offered highlights including the Shatner and Friends fan club's quarterly bulletin, semi-customary updates on Shatner's life, and a photo of Shatner with the gorilla Koko. Shatner said that another reason they chose to make the film was on the grounds that Nimoy was unmistakably getting old. Shatner inquired as to whether he would talk about his encounters with liquor addiction in the film, and Nimoy concurred. Nimoy later said that nobody had ever gotten some information about this piece of his past, and that examining it "As a main priority Meld" "was a chance to put out some data that may be useful to certain individuals." 

Taping occurred on September 5, 2001, in top quality video at Nimoy's home, under the course of Peter Jaysen. There was no content; the discussion among Shatner and Nimoy was "off the cuff". The title arrangement of "Mind Meld" is described by veteran voice performer Billy West, who had recently voiced such characters as Zim in the TV arrangement "Trespasser Zim", Ralph in "Joe's Apartment", and Elmer Fudd in "". While the taping session brought about roughly two hours of film, a critical segment of this was not utilized, bringing about a last runtime of 75 minutes. In a meeting with sci-fi magazine "Starlog", Shatner stated, "I don't think... that anything was cut since it was excessively close to home or provocative. Alters were set aside a few minutes." The title of the film alludes to an anecdotal practice in "Star Trek"; a mind merge is a clairvoyant connection that Spock can make with different creatures since he is part Vulcan. Shatner condensed the film as being "two companions talking one-on-one". 

"Mind Meld" was discharged on VHS and DVD available to be purchased on Shatner's site on November 6, 2001, corresponding with the arrival of the executive's cut of "", a film that Shatner and Nimoy concurred was not in the same class as they had trusted it would be. "Mind Meld" was delivered by Creative Light Entertainment, an organization that created another taped meeting the next year—"Stan Lee's Mutants, Monsters and Marvels", a meeting of Marvel Comics distributer Stan Lee by movie chief Kevin Smith. The "Mind Meld" DVD offers widescreen and fullscreen alternatives, Dolby Digital encompass sound, and a five-minute "creation of" featurette. "Mind Meld" T-shirts were accessible on Shatner's site. The film's discharge provoked Wil Wheaton, who had depicted Wesley Crusher in "", to change the name of his comic sci-fi improvisational theater organization from "Mind Meld" to "EarnestBorg9". 

Shatner alluded to "The Original Series" as "childish" "As a main priority Meld", however later, after addressing by a correspondent, stated, "I never thought it was an animation ... I never thought it was underneath me." In a February 2002 meeting on "Larry King Live", Shatner said "Mind Meld" was like "My Dinner with Andre", and showed that he and Nimoy were wanting to create more movies of a comparative sort. Nimoy said of the film, "This is the most close to home knowledge the fans will get into our relationship and into parts of Bill and myself they've never heard." In April 2002, "Personality Meld" was screened at the Newport Beach Film Festival. After two years, "Mind Meld" was incorporated into the reward material when the initial six "Star Trek" films were re-discharged as an exceptional version box set. 

Around 52 minutes and 47 seconds into the film, when Shatner is discussing the other "Unique Series" on-screen characters hating him, he moves in his seat and a sound suggestive of tooting is capable of being heard. This sound, evidently unnoticed by the movie producers, was first referenced in the media by Adam Buckman in the "New York Post" on October 10, 2001. Buckman composed that he played the sound for in excess of six partners who all concurred that it originated from Shatner. This scene turned into a well known subject of tooting humor among "Star Trek" fans and on morning zoo radio projects. Analysts recognized upwards of six other comparative commotions "At the top of the priority list Meld", between the 52-minute imprint and the end. 

Howard Stern played the sound on his radio demonstrate a few times, including when Shatner showed up on the show to advance his forthcoming TV arrangement "Iron Chef USA" on November 13, 2001. At the point when Stern got some information about the sound, Shatner said it had been delivered by the blast administrator. A comparable case was made on Shatner's site, where the clamor was ascribed to a squeaky jib. On Conan O'Brien's "Late Night" program on November 14, Shatner called it "crazy" that Buckman ought to accept him to be the wellspring of the sound instead of Nimoy. O'Brien reacted, "You're the commander! You outrank him! It's your duty!" Pressed further by O'Brien on the sound's provenance, Shatner recommended that it might have been a pooch bark or a winged creature call. As per Jaysen, the sound did not exude from Shatner, and was in all probability brought about by links scouring against one another while a camera moved. "It was likely some machine that no one heard", Shatner said in a September 2002 meeting. "The contention is finished." 

Jim Dawson committed a whole section of his 2006 "Current History of the Fart" to Shatner's supposed tooting "As a top priority Meld", which he thinks about to the sound of somebody venturing on a tribble. G. Noel Gross of DVD Talk contrasted the fervor over this sound with that revealed by immature young men watching erotic entertainment, and contrasted the dimension of examination gave with the scene to that gotten by the Zapruder film. 

Sarah Sloboda of "The New York Times" composed that "Mind Meld" "gives a veritable look at the lives of the stars shadowed by the jobs that characterized their open personas, and the common experience that ties them as companions". Net applauded the video quality, however scrutinized the DVD usefulness and highlights. He additionally composed that "even in the heavier pieces of this discussion, there's a glow and comradery there that is overflowing with pleasantness". Scott Brown of "Amusement Weekly" gave the film a F, saying that the main individuals liable to watch the film other than extraordinary "Star Trek" fans are individuals keen on hearing the sound affirmed to be Shatner's fart, which Brown said can be obviously heard. He called the film "apparently endless" and said the dialog among Shatner and Nimoy demonstrates that they "rival dark gaps in sheer self-retention". As per John Henzell, composing for "The Press" of New Zealand, "Personality Meld"s trailer paid attention to its topic with the goal that it wound up diverting. 

Vern Perry of the "Orange County Register" called the film captivating, composing that it skilfully joined funniness and genuineness. He composed that it was moving to see the two performers talk about their own lives with such defenselessness—especially when Nimoy examines his encounters with liquor abuse. Greg Stacy of "OC Weekly" detailed being "completely enchanted" by the film, and called "the love among [Shatner and Nimoy] clear and contacting." 

Laurence Lerman of "Video Business" commended "Mind Meld" for not "rehash[ing] accounts that have for some time been staples of "Star Trek" traditions and in the background diaries", however rather managing such subjects as liquor addiction, vocation challenges, and clashes on the arrangement of "Star Trek". Mike Clark of "USA Today" adulated Shatner's talking capacities and composed that the film was locks in. Clark called Shatner's and Nimoy's discussion "shockingly straight to the point", yet included that Shatner was "brimming with himself". An audit in British paper "The Guardian" condensed "Mind Meld" as "a few gentlemen lounging around talking".