Jacobus Anthonie Meessen 

Jacobus Anthonie Meessen (; 5 December 1836 – 14 November 1885) was a Dutch picture taker who took over 250 portraits and scenes of the Dutch East Indies (presently Indonesia) somewhere in the range of 1864 and 1870. Destined to a craftsman in Utrecht, Meessen worked in that exchange the Indies before wedding in the Netherlands in the mid 1860s. He came back to the settlement in 1864, goal on archiving its property and individuals. He worked for the most part in the capital of Batavia (presently Jakarta), Java, and Padang, Sumatra; he additionally shot Bangka, Belitung, Borneo, and Nias. 

At the point when Meessen came back to the Netherlands in 1870 he set up a fleeting organization with Abraham Vermeulen and started spreading his photos. Chosen pictures were talented to King William III in an extravagantly enlivened collection in 1871, while more were distributed by De Bussy in 1875 and showed in Paris and Amsterdam. In his last years Meessen worked transcendently as a planner. Accumulations of his egg whites prints, some of which were hand-tinted or explained, are held in four organizations in the Netherlands. 

Meessen was conceived in Utrecht, the Netherlands, on 5 December 1836 to the craftsman Hermanus Johannes Meessen and his better half Megteld Legué. In 1858 the more youthful Meessen first went to Batavia (presently Jakarta), the capital of the Dutch state in the East Indies, where he filled in as a woodworker. By 1860 he was living in the Purbalingga zone. After two years he came back to the Netherlands, where he filled in as an uncommon investigator for the Bureau voor nook Waterstaat. On 11 December 1862 he marry Johanna Alida (Jansje) Steenbeek in Utrecht, and the couple settled in that city for the following two years. Their marriage created three girls, conceived in 1865, 1866, and 1869; the first, Antonia, passed on in early stages. 

Meessen and his significant other left for the Indies in 1864, first touching base in Batavia, where Meessen set up a photograph studio in mid 1867. He was one of only a handful couple of picture takers dynamic in the Indies during the 1860s; peers included Isidore van Kinsbergen, Adolph Schaefer, and the business firm of Woodbury and Page (worked by Walter B. Woodbury and James Page). Meessen wanted to in the long run take pictures of the Indies' different terrains and individuals. From May to August he was in Sumatra, first in Padang and later in the Minang Highlands. There he offered different photographic administrations, including twofold and family representations. When he came back to Batavia in September, he opened another studio, offering pictures and selling prints of scenes. 

After three months Jacobus and Johanna sold their assets and moved back to Padang, where the Meessens set up a photography studio. In their history of the picture taker, Mattie Boom and Steven Wachlin recommend this was likely a business need, as Meessen may have been unfit to contend with the Batavia-based Woodbury and Page. By November 1868 Jacobus was publicizing his first collection, titled "Sumatra's Westkust" ("Sumatra's West Coast"). Bound in Moroccan cowhide, the collection contained in excess of sixty scenes of Padang and encompassing urban communities (counting Padang Panjang and Fort de Kock). By June 1869, his studio at the Sumatra Hotel was putting forth workshops, just as pictures from northern Sumatra and Nias. 

Through and through, Meessen's photographic endeavors in the Indies – and the subsequent albums – cost some 34,000 Netherlands Indies gulden, which included camera hardware (however it isn't recognized what model(s) he utilized), synthetic substances, transportation, and facilities. Meessen worked alone, never taking an accomplice while in the Indies, and recorded the land and individuals in the state in his egg whites prints. In his ethnographic photography of the indigenous people groups of the Indies, he regularly needed to beat superstitions which, the "Bataviaasch Handelsblad" stated, "made taking pictures of the general population outside Java practically unimaginable". Others were progressively eager, including the townspeople of Nias: "Upon landing I discharged a couple of shots and flew the Dutch banner. Before long the townspeople came and asked what I needed. When I let them know, they guaranteed their help. At precisely 5 a.m. the next morning I discovered some 60 warriors sitting tight for me on the shoreline." 

In June 1869, Meessen and his better half came back to Batavia, and the next year they came back to Utrecht. There, in late 1870, Meessen banded together with Abraham Adrianus Vermeulen to open another studio, named A. A. Vermeulen and Company. They marked an agreement for a long time, yet this joint effort fallen in March 1873. Blast and Wachlin recommend that Vermeulen – best known for portraits – had been keen on the likelihood of growing his range with scenes, while Meessen required a spot to print and market his pictures of the Indies. In reality, in February 1871 Meessen talented a collection of his better-executed photos from his time in Java and Sumatra to King William III. This collection of 153 images was luxuriously embellished with silver and gold, and highlighted the names of Java, Sumatra, Borneo, and Nias in the corners. In the middle were silver coconut and banana trees encompassing Dutch and Batavian weapons. 

Throughout the following couple of years Meessen kept showcasing his pictures of the Indies. In 1875, he distributed a gathering of 250 – comprising of 175 landscapes and 75 portraits – through the Amsterdam-based printer De Bussy; this accumulation was titled "Verzameling Fotografien van Nederlandsch Indië" ("Collection of Photographs of the Dutch East Indies"), sold for 225 gulden, and arrived in a walnut box. At the 1875 Exposition Géographique in Paris, he showed these pictures to basic approval. The "Bataviaasch Handelsblad", in one survey, composed that the endeavor to archive the Indies was honorable, and communicated trust that pictures of creatures could likewise be taken. In 1883 Meessen again displayed his photos, this time at the International Colonial and Export Trade Exhibition in Amsterdam. At last, in any case, he doesn't seem to have made an arrival on his speculation. 

Meessen's last years were transitory, with some time spent in Gorredijk and different pieces of Opsterland, Friesland. He filled in as a structure administrator, and later city modeler. One of his tasks in this limit was a grade school on Zuidwest Dubbele Street in Gorredijk, a Neo-Gothic building – potentially affected by comparative schools in Raamsdonkveer and Amsterdam – developed to supplant a more seasoned school which had been pulverized. Meessen kicked the bucket in Opsterland on 14 November 1885 in the wake of being stricken by a sickness three days sooner. The inadequate school was done by Hidde Petrus Nicolaas Halbertsma. 

Looking into the nature of Meessen's photography, Boom and Wachilin compose that his Javanese pictures are among his best, though those from different islands are of increasingly factor quality. They note extensive detail in his cityscapes. He picked structures to photo that were well known with different picture takers, including the Governor General's Palace and the home of Raden Saleh. A considerable lot of his studio representations have all the earmarks of being simply business, driving Boom and Wachlin to recommend that they were intended to finance Meessen's scene photography. A portion of his pictures, especially the representations, were hand-tinted. 

Meessen's photographs from the collection he provided for King William III are kept in the Hague at the National Library of the Netherlands. This collection includes a travelog with respect to Meessen's photography, just as pictures from six islands (Java, Sumatra, Bangka, Belitung, Borneo, and Nias) and different ethnic gatherings, including the Javanese, Chinese, Dayaks, and Malays. He incorporates editorial on a few pictures of individuals, taking note of in a picture of "njai" (mistresses): "[They are] a fundamental insidiousness for the military. They protect, in and outside the sleeping enclosure, the best order, and demonstrate significant in campaigns or ocean ventures." 

Two further photos, one of the stream Ciliwung in Batavia, and another of Kali Mati in Padang, are held at the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. The Royal Netherlands Institute of Southeast Asian and Caribbean Studies holds a duplicate of the De Bussy production, and the Leiden University Library holds 281 prints, 7 of which are of debated provenance, which were given to the Royal Dutch Geographical Society by Pieter Johannes Veth in 1891. The four surviving accumulations of Meessen's work are impressively less than those of his peers, for example, Woodbury and Page, and his oeuvre has been minimal contemplated or gathered.