Shelton Benjamin 

Shelton Benjamin (conceived July 9, 1975) is an American expert wrestler at present marked to WWE on the SmackDown brand. He is likewise known for his work in New Japan Pro-Wrestling (NJPW) and Pro Wrestling Noah through their working relationship under the ring name Shelton X Benjamin and for American advancement Ring of Honor (ROH) under his genuine name. Before turning into an expert wrestler, he was a two-sport competitor in school. Benjamin won a NJCAA title in both olympic style events and university wrestling. In the wake of going to junior school, he finished his degree from the University of Minnesota. 

Benjamin began his expert wrestling vocation in WWE's formative region Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), where he held the Southern Tag Team Championship multiple times (multiple times with Brock Lesnar, and once with Rodney Mack). WWE then moved him to the primary list in 2002 where he shaped a union with Kurt Angle and Charlie Haas, known as Team Angle (and later the World's Greatest Tag Team with Haas). Amid his residency with the organization, he won the Intercontinental Championship multiple times, the United States Championship once and the WWE Tag Team Championship twice with Haas. Inside the World Wrestling Council (WWC), he won the Universal Heavyweight Championship once. 

Benjamin was brought up in Orangeburg, South Carolina. He started wrestling his sophomore year at Orangeburg-Wilkinson High School. Benjamin recorded a 122– 10 generally success misfortune record in his secondary school vocation and was a two-time South Carolina state secondary school heavyweight wrestling champion (1993-1994). Benjamin at that point went to Lassen Community College in Susanville, California and turned into a National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA) olympic style events champion in the 100 meter just as a NJCAA university wrestling champion. He at that point exchanged to the University of Minnesota on a wrestling grant for his lesser and senior long periods of school where he accomplished a 36– 6 by and large win-misfortune record. After graduation, he filled in as an associate wrestling mentor at his institute of matriculation and prepared with future Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) label group accomplice Brock Lesnar. Benjamin considered attempting to meet all requirements for the 2000 Summer Olympics however chose rather to seek after an expert wrestling vocation. 

In 2000, Benjamin marked an agreement with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) and was set in its formative region Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). There, he framed a label group with Brock Lesnar, whom he instructed at the University of Minnesota. Together, they were known as the "Minnesota Stretching Crew," and they held the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship on three events. The initial two rules happened amid February and July 2001. They won the title for a third time from Rico Constantino and The Prototype on October 29, 2001. After Lesnar was called up to the principle program in November 2001, Benjamin shaped a label group with Redd Dogg Begnaud called "The Dogg Pound" and by and by won the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship on July 17, 2002. Benjamin at that point wrestled at a few house appears for the fundamental WWE list and in the end made his WWE TV debut on "Sunday Night Heat" as a chivalrous character. 

He joined WWE's SmackDown image as a heel on December 26, 2002, shaping a collusion with Charlie Haas and Olympic gold-medalist Kurt Angle as their tutor known as "Group Angle". Their first broadcast coordinate together in WWE was on the January 2, 2003 scene of "SmackDown" against Edge and Chris Benoit. 

They proceeded with their fight with Benoit until No Way Out, when Benoit collaborated with Brock Lesnar to overcome Team Angle. The couple won the WWE Tag Team Championship only a month after their presentation by vanquishing the bosses, Los Guerreros (Eddie and Chavo Guerrero) on February 6, 2003. The two at that point proceeded to contend in their first WrestleMania coordinate at WrestleMania XIX, holding their label title in a Triple Threat coordinate against Los Guerreros, and Chris Benoit and Rhyno. Group Angle later lost the title to Eddie Guerrero and his new accomplice Tajiri at Judgment Day in a stepping stool coordinate. The storyline finished up on the June 12, 2003 scene of "SmackDown!", when Angle stood up to Benjamin and Haas and terminated them from Team Angle. They at that point started alluding to themselves as "The World's Greatest Tag Team" and won the label titles back on the July 3 scene of "Smackdown". They lost the titles on September 18, after Benjamin endured real knee damage amid a match against Los Guerreros. Benjamin was sidelined for around one month, yet the pair contended together once more, partaking in a Fatal Four-Way coordinate at WrestleMania XX. 

On March 22, 2004, Benjamin was drafted to the Raw brand as a major aspect of the 2004 WWE draft. In the wake of arriving, Benjamin rapidly turned into a face when he scored an agitated triumph over Triple H. Benjamin at that point fought with Triple H, beating him multiple times altogether: once by pinfall, once by countout and once by preclusion. As a component of the storyline, Benjamin at that point quarreled with different individuals from Triple H's steady Evolution. Benjamin crushed Ric Flair at Backlash and lost to Randy Orton in an Intercontinental Championship coordinate at Bad Blood. 

Amid a match with Garrison Cade on "Warmth", Benjamin punched Cade's knee support, breaking his turn simultaneously and quickly making him out of move. Benjamin returned in the fall of 2004 helping Randy Orton fend off Evolution and was later picked by the fans to go after the Intercontinental Championship in a match against then-champion Chris Jericho at Taboo Tuesday. Benjamin won the match, giving him his first singles title in the organization. Amid his rule as Intercontinental Champion, Benjamin held the title against challengers, for example, Christian at Survivor Series, Maven at New Year's Revolution, and Chris Jericho at Backlash. Benjamin lost the title to Carlito when he appeared on "Crude" (Carlito utilized the ropes amid the pinfall.) amid the June 20, 2005 scene, finishing the longest Intercontinental Championship rule of the decade at 244 days. 

Benjamin was then portrayed as having a "losing streak" throughout the following half a month, which prompted Benjamin's "Momma" (played by humorist/performer Thea Vidale) coming to "Crude" to stand up to Benjamin. Momma slapped and hollered at Benjamin each time he lost a match. A little while later, she helped Benjamin in his matches, frequently meddling on his benefit. This prompted Benjamin turning heel for the second time in his vocation. In 2006, Benjamin at that point started a competition with then-Intercontinental Champion Ric Flair. On the February 20 scene of "Crude", Benjamin vanquished Flair to recapture the Intercontinental Championship after Momma faked a heart issue, making a sufficient diversion enable Benjamin to cheat and win the title. Benjamin kept on fighting with Flair, however Momma never again went with him to ringside. Benjamin clarified her nonattendance by expressing that she was experiencing heart medical procedure in the clinic. She in reality left because of being explicitly annoyed by somebody in WWE. 

Benjamin contended in the second Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate at WrestleMania 22. Benjamin at that point started a contention with Rob Van Dam, the champ of that MITB coordinate, trying to take Van Dam's Money in the Bank contract. Amid this time, Benjamin accentuated his new heel persona at this point wearing shades, adornments, and periodic hued shirts while entering the ring. At a certain point, Benjamin was crushed by his previous label group accomplice, the returning Charlie Haas, amid a scene of "Crude". A stipulation added to the match implied that because of this misfortune, Benjamin needed to safeguard the Intercontinental Title in a similar match as his shot at Van Dam's agreement, which means at Backlash it would be a "Champ Takes All" coordinate. Loot Van Dam succeeded at Backlash and wound up Intercontinental Champion. Benjamin recaptured the title from Rob Van Dam in a Tornado Tag Team coordinate, setting Benjamin, Triple H and Chris Masters against Van Dam and WWE Champion John Cena; both the WWE Championship and WWE Intercontinental Championship could be won by whoever stuck the suitable boss. Benjamin stuck Van Dam, grabbing his third Intercontinental Championship. Along these lines, Benjamin quarreled with Carlito and others for his Intercontinental Championship before losing the title to Johnny Nitro in a Triple Threat coordinate additionally including Carlito at Vengeance. 

On the December 4 scene of "Crude", Benjamin's previous label group accomplice Charlie Haas turned out to celebrate with Benjamin after he vanquished Super Crazy. On the next week's "Crude", Benjamin declared The World's Greatest Tag Team was authoritatively in a fragment with Cryme Tyme. They vanquished The Highlanders in a match later that equivalent night. They at that point began a quarrel with Cryme Tyme, yet were to a great extent fruitless in overcoming them, including a label group disturbance coordinate at New Year's Revolution on January 7, 2007, where they were disposed of by Cryme Tyme. They at last dealt with a success over Cryme Tyme, finishing their undefeated streak, on the January 29 scene of "Crude". Benjamin entered the Royal Rumble coordinate at the namesake pay-per-see, yet was killed by Shawn Michaels. 

On the April 2 scene of "Crude", The World's Greatest Tag Team was fruitless in vanquishing the group of Ric Flair and Carlito, however crushed them in a rematch the next week when Haas occupied Carlito, enabling Benjamin to pick up the stick over Flair. They won again two weeks after the fact when Carlito turned on Flair, assaulting him and permitting The World's Greatest Tag Team to win through countout. They at that point tested the Hardy Boyz for the World Tag Team Championship at One Night Stand in a stepping stool coordinate, however were ineffective. 

Following this, The World's Greatest Tag Team started a competition with Paul London and Brian Kendrick subsequent to losing to the pair in their presentation coordinate on "Crude". Half a month later, London crushed Benjamin in a singles coordinate, be that as it may, on the July 23 scene of "Crude", The World's Greatest Tag Team got a label group prevail upon London and Kendrick to end the competition. 

Benjamin and Haas then routinely went up against the groups of Hardcore Holly and Cody Rhodes and Super Crazy and Jim Duggan until November, when the group was disbanded because of Benjamin joining the ECW program. 

On the November 20, 2007 airing of "ECW", Elijah Burke presented Benjamin as the most current ECW genius. Benjamin, who had colored his hair light before leaving "Crude", started wearing gold wrestling clothing and alluding to himself as "The Gold Standard". On ECW, Benjamin started by and by getting more broadcast appointment and higher profile matches, overcoming Tommy Dreamer in his introduction. Benjamin at that point met all requirements for the Royal Rumble match and won a ludicrous rope review. Benjamin showed up in the Rumble coordinate, entering at number 17, however was dispensed with by Shawn Michaels. He endured his first misfortune since coming to ECW to Kane by check out, on the January 29, 2008 scene of "ECW on Sci Fi". On the February 22 scene of "SmackDown!", Benjamin crushed Jimmy Wang Yang in a passing counterpart for the Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate at WrestleMania XXIV, which was won by CM Punk. After WrestleMania, Benjamin quickly fought with Punk, before he started an on-screen contention with Kofi Kingston, who vanquished Benjamin on the April 22 scene of "ECW". On ECW's 100th scene, notwithstanding, Benjamin crushed Kingston, along these lines finishing the last's undefeated streak. To end the fight, Kingston at that point crushed Benjamin in an ECW Extreme Rules coordinate. 

As a major aspect of the 2008 supplemental draft, Benjamin was drafted to the SmackDown! brand. On the July 11, 2008 airing of "SmackDown!", Benjamin vanquished United States Champion Matt Hardy in a non-title coordinate, acquiring himself a future title shot. At The Great American Bash, Benjamin by and by crushed Hardy to win the United States Championship. All through his rule as boss, he held the title a few times against contenders, for example, R-Truth and Hurricane Helms. On the 500th scene of "SmackDown!", on March 20, 2009 Benjamin lost his United States Championship to Montel Vontavious Porter, finishing Benjamin's rule at 240 days. Benjamin at that point partook in the Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate at WrestleMania XXV, however neglected to win as CM Punk won the counterpart for the second year straight. On June 29, 2009, Benjamin was exchanged back to the ECW brand. The next night, Benjamin came back to the brand in a losing exertion to the appearing Yoshi Tatsu. He crushed Tatsu in a rematch the next week on "ECW". After a label group coordinate, Benjamin deserted his accomplice Zack Ryder amid a label group coordinate, turning Benjamin face. He would before long quarrel with Ryder and Sheamus over the next weeks. Benjamin and Sheamus started fighting with and exchanged successes against one another on "ECW" and "Whizzes" and the quarrel kept going until Sheamus was moved to the Raw brand on October 26. The following night on "ECW", Benjamin lost to Sheamus in Sheamus' last match on the brand. 

Benjamin wrestled Christian at for the ECW Championship in a Ladder Match, however came up on the losing end. On the last scene of "ECW", Benjamin framed a collusion with Vladimir Kozlov. Together, they vanquished three individuals from the ECW list: Vance Archer, Caylen Croft and Trent Barreta. On the February 26, 2010 scene of "SmackDown", Benjamin indeed fit the bill for the Money in the Bank stepping stool coordinate at WrestleMania XXVI, beating CM Punk. In any case, Benjamin neglected to win the match. He vanquished the returning Joey Mercury in his last match at the "SmackDown" recordings on April 20 of every a dim match. On April 22, Benjamin was discharged from his WWE contract, alongside Jimmy Wang Yang, Kung Fu Naki, Slam Master J, Mickie James and Katie Lea Burchill. 

Benjamin made his autonomous circuit return on July 24, 2010, in San Diego, California against Scorpio Sky. On July 31, 2010, amid the World Wrestling Council's "La Revolución" appear in Puerto Rico, Benjamin crushed Ray González to win the WWC Universal Heavyweight Championship. At Crossfire on November 27, Benjamin lost the Universal Heavyweight Championship to Carlito. 

In November 2010, Benjamin vied for American Wrestling Rampage. He made his introduction on November 10 with Haas confronting La Résistance. Amid his visit with AWR he crushed Shawn Daivari in a steel confine coordinate. He likewise had label group matches with Haas taking on Booker T and Scott Steiner. On March 8, 2011, Benjamin wrestled in a dim match preceding the "SmackDown" recordings in Houston, Texas, crushing Curt Hawkins. On March 9, 2011, Benjamin won the MWF Heavyweight Championship and lost it on June 4. 

At JAPW eighteenth Anniversary Show, Haas, Benjamin and Angle rejoined without precedent for a long time. In the headliner, Benjamin and Haas crushed Chris Sabin and Teddy Hart. 

On May 15, 2015, Global Force Wrestling (GFW) reported Benjamin as a major aspect of their program. He made his presentation for the advancement on June 20, crushing Chris Mordetzky in a headliner singles coordinate. Benjamin took part in Global Force Wrestling's debut competition to crown their absolute first GFW Global Champion, which filled in as the organization's reality heavyweight title. Subsequent to picking up a triumph in the quarter-finals, he relinquished his next coordinate to Bobby Roode because of a storyline blackout. 

On September 11, 2010, at Glory By Honor IX, Benjamin and Charlie Haas made their Ring of Honor makes a big appearance in a match, where they were vanquished by The Kings of Wrestling (Chris Hero and Claudio Castagnoli). 

Benjamin and Haas came back to ROH at the "Ring of Honor Wrestling" TV recordings on December 9, where they vanquished the Bravado Brothers (Harlem and Lance). The next day, at the second arrangement of TV recordings, they crushed the All-Night Express of Kenny King and Rhett Titus, and took an interest in an eight-man label group coordinate, cooperating with the Briscoe Brothers against the Kings of Wrestling and the All-Night Xpress, which finished in a no challenge. On December 18 at the Final Battle 2010 pay-per-see Benjamin and Haas declared that in 2011 they would wrestle routinely to ring of Honor. At the accompanying pay-per-see, ninth Anniversary Show, on February 26, 2011, Benjamin and Haas vanquished the Briscoe Brothers in the headliner of the night to gain another shot at the Kings of Wrestling and the ROH World Tag Team Championship. On April 1 at Honor Takes Center Stage, Benjamin and Haas vanquished the Kings of Wrestling for the ROH World Tag Team Championship. On June 26, best case scenario in the World 2011, Benjamin and Haas effectively protected the ROH World Tag Team Championship in a four-manner coordinate against the Briscoe Brothers, the Kings of Wrestling and the All Night Express. The next day ROH declared that both Benjamin and Haas had marked contracts with the advancement. On December 23, at Final Battle 2011, Wrestling's Greatest Tag Team lost the ROH World Tag Team Championship to the Briscoe Brothers. On May 12, 2012, at Border Wars, Benjamin and Haas recovered the ROH World Tag Team Championship from the Briscoe Brothers. On June 24, best case scenario in the World 2012, Benjamin and Haas lost the title to Kenny King and Rhett Titus. 

Toward the beginning of August, ROH, in storyline, suspended Benjamin for assaulting Titus and a few ROH authorities with a steel seat. The suspension was utilized to clarify Benjamin's nonattendance from ROH, while he was working in Japan. Benjamin returned on September 15 at , going with Charlie Haas and Rhett Titus amid their label group title competition matches. On December 16 at , Benjamin and Haas vanquished Titus and B.J. Whitmer in a Street Fight. The next day it was accounted for that Benjamin had mentioned and gotten a discharge from his ROH contract. Benjamin showed up for ROH on February 2, 2013, when Haas turned on him amid a ROH World Tag Team Championship coordinate against the Briscoe Brothers. Benjamin was booked to confront Haas on April 5 at Supercard of Honor VII, however after Haas had gone separate ways with the advancement, he was supplanted by Mike Bennett, who proceeded to crush Benjamin. 

On December 9, 2011, New Japan Pro-Wrestling declared that Benjamin would join MVP for a label coordinate against Masato Tanaka and Yujiro Takahashi at Wrestle Kingdom VI in Tokyo Dome on January 4, 2012. Benjamin and MVP were triumphant in the match, after MVP submitted Takahashi. Benjamin came back to New Japan on June 16 at Dominion 6.16, where he and MVP vanquished Karl Anderson and Tama Tonga in a label group coordinate, with Benjamin sticking Tonga for the success. On July 8, New Japan declared Benjamin as a member in the 2012 G1 Climax competition. Benjamin came back to the advancement on July 29 at "Last Rebellion", where he, Karl Anderson, MVP and Rush vanquished Suzuki-firearm (Minoru Suzuki, Lance Archer, Taichi and Taka Michinoku) in an eight-man label group coordinate, with Benjamin sticking Taichi for the success. In the next month's G1 Climax competition, Benjamin wound up winning four out of his eight matches, neglecting to progress to the finals. On November 11, New Japan reported that Benjamin would come back to partake in the 2012 World Tag League, where he would group with MVP under the label group name "Dark Dynamite". Benjamin and MVP completed their competition on December 1 with a record of three successes, one over the ruling IWGP Tag Team Champions K.E.S. (Davey Boy Smith, Jr. what's more, Lance Archer), and three misfortunes, neglecting to progress from their square. On December 2, the last day of the competition, Benjamin got into a fight with Masato Tanaka, which prompted New Japan the naming him the main contender to Tanaka's NEVER Openweight Championship the next day. On January 4, 2013, at Wrestle Kingdom 7 in Tokyo Dome, Benjamin fruitlessly tested Tanaka for his title. 

Benjamin came back to New Japan on April 20, presently filling in as an individual from the terrible Suzuki-firearm, cooperating with the steady's chief Minoru Suzuki in a headliner label group coordinate, where they crushed Kazuchika Okada and Shinsuke Nakamura. On the accompanying visit, Benjamin worked under the ring name "Shelton X Benjamin", playing off the way that before him being uncovered as the most up to date individual from Suzuki-weapon, Suzuki's accomplice had been charged just as "X". On May 3 at Wrestling Dontaku 2013, Benjamin fruitlessly tested Nakamura for the IWGP Intercontinental Championship. Benjamin came back to New Japan on June 22 at Dominion 6.22, where he and Minoru Suzuki vanquished Shinsuke Nakamura and Tomohiro Ishii in a label group coordinate, with Benjamin sticking Nakamura for the success. From August 1 to 11, Benjamin partook in the 2013 G1 Climax, where he completed with a record of five successes and four misfortunes, barely missing progression from his square. On September 29 at Destruction, Benjamin got another shot at the IWGP Intercontinental Championship, yet was again vanquished by Shinsuke Nakamura. From November 24 to December 7, Benjamin and Suzuki participated in the 2013 World Tag League, where they completed with a record of three successes and three misfortunes, with a misfortune against Takashi Iizuka and Toru Yano on the last day costing them a spot in the elimination rounds. Benjamin came back to New Japan on January 4, 2014, at Wrestle Kingdom 8 in Tokyo Dome, where he and Suzuki were crushed by The Great Muta and Toru Yano in a label group coordinate. On March 15, Benjamin entered the 2014 New Japan Cup, crushing Yujiro Takahashi in his initially round match. On March 22, Benjamin crushed Katsuyori Shibata to progress to the elimination rounds of the competition. The next day, Benjamin was dispensed with from the competition in the elimination rounds by Bad Luck Fale. From July 21 to August 8, Benjamin participated in the 2014 G1 Climax, where he completed fifth in his square with a record of five successes and five misfortunes. 

Benjamin came back to New Japan on January 4, 2015, at Wrestle Kingdom 9 in Tokyo Dome, where he, Davey Boy Smith, Jr., Lance Archer and Takashi Iizuka were crushed by Naomichi Marufuji, Toru Yano and TMDK (Mikey Nicholls and Shane Haste) in an eight-man label group coordinate. Benjamin's profile has since been expelled from NJPW's site. 

On January 10, 2015, Benjamin, alongside the remainder of Suzuki-firearm, partook in a noteworthy storyline, where the stable attacked a Pro Wrestling Noah appear, assaulting Marufuji and TMDK. Benjamin made his in-ring debut for Noah on January 12, when he, Suzuki, Taichi and Michinoku vanquished Marufuji, Atsushi Kotoge, Muhammad Yone and Taiji Ishimori in an eight-man label group coordinate. Throughout the following couple of weeks, Benjamin worked all Noah occasions, while beginning a quarrel with Takashi Sugiura because of him additionally having considerable experience with novice wrestling. Benjamin and Sugiura at last met in a battle on July 18, where Sugiura was successful. In November, Benjamin made it to the finals of Noah's head singles competition, the Global League, however was crushed there by Naomichi Marufuji. On June 12, 2016, Benjamin ineffectively tested Go Shiozaki for Noah's top title, the GHC Heavyweight Championship. 

On the July 26, 2016, scene of "SmackDown", a vignette circulated advancing Benjamin's WWE return. In any case, on August 7, Benjamin declared that his arrival was on break due to a torn rotator sleeve, which required medical procedure. On March 30, 2017, Benjamin declared on Twitter that he was indeed restoratively cleared to contend. In any case, he additionally affirmed that he never marked with WWE before his damage and was for the time being a free operator. 

On August 17, 2017, it was accounted for that Benjamin had formally re-marked with WWE. On the August 22 scene of "SmackDown", Benjamin came back to WWE in a behind the stage fragment, where general supervisor Daniel Bryan made Benjamin the new label group accomplice for Chad Gable. The next week on "SmackDown", Benjamin and Gable would overcome The Ascension in their first match as a group. On the September 12 scene of "SmackDown", Benjamin and Gable would overcome The Hype Bros and again in a rematch at Hell in a Cell, denoting Benjamin's first appearance at a WWE pay-per-see since 2010. On the October 10 scene of "SmackDown", Benjamin and Gable would vanquish The Hype Bros, The Ascension and Breezango (Fandango and Tyler Breeze) in a deadly four-manner match to turn into the main contenders for the WWE SmackDown Tag Team Championship. On the November 7 scene of "SmackDown", Benjamin and Gable would get their title opportunity against The Usos, where they would win the match by countout, in any case, the Usos would hold the titles. Both Benjamin and Gable have discreetly turned heel now out of the blue since 2009. At Clash of Champions, Benjamin and Gable would challenge for the titles again in a deadly four-manner label group coordinate against Rusev and Aiden English, The New Day and The Usos, in which they were ineffective. After two days on "SmackDown", Benjamin and Gable beat the Usos in a non-title coordinate, at that point vanquished The New Day and Rusev and English in a triple danger coordinate the next week to procure another shot at the SmackDown Tag Team titles. 

On the January 2, 2018 scene of "SmackDown Live", Benjamin and Gable crushed the Usos for the SmackDown Tag Team title however the choice was switched by the arbitrator when he understood they unwittingly stuck the wrong twin. Multi week later, when the couple got out the arbitrator and called general administrator Daniel Bryan one-sided, the last reported they will get a rematch at the Royal Rumble PPV in a 2 out of 3 falls match. At the Royal Rumble, Benjamin and Gable lost to the Usos in two sequential falls. On April 16, Gable would be exchanged to "Crude" amid the 2018 WWE Superstar Shake-up, hence disbanding the group. 

On the April 17 scene of "SmackDown", after apparently wishing Gable good karma on his turn to the "Crude" brand on Twitter, Benjamin would guarantee his record "got hacked" and started to debilitate Gable, before issuing a test to anybody in the storage space. Randy Orton would at first acknowledge the test, in any case, while advancing toward the ring, recently drafted United States Champion Jeff Hardy would turn out and acknowledge the test rather, crushing Benjamin. Benjamin contended in the Greatest Royal Rumble occasion in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Benjamin entered the match as contestant number 48 and was disposed of by Chris Jericho. Following this, Benjamin took a break to recuperate a few wounds; he returned in time for the June 12 scene of "SmackDown", losing to Daniel Bryan in a singles challenge. 

He was for the most part off TV for the remainder of the year, showing up at times with no genuine storyline. At the Royal Rumble pay-per-see on January 27, 2019, Benjamin contended in the Royal Rumble coordinate, however was disposed of by Braun Strowman. Benjamin came back to TV on the March 11, 2019, scene of "Crude" assaulting Seth Rollins, and later confronted Rollins in a losing exertion. 

Benjamin is an aficionado of computer games. He won WWE's THQ Superstar Challenge, a computer game competition that happens each year amid WrestleMania weekend, four years straight before resigning from the occasion in 2007. He has the Guinness World Record for "wrestler who won the most WWE THQ Superstar Challenges". Benjamin is additionally eagerly keen on workmanship. He once needed a profession in the comic book workmanship field. Benjamin is the back up parent to Charlie Haas' most established little girl. Benjamin is dear companions with Brock Lesnar, having met him at the University of Minnesota and living with him. Brock remained in Benjamin's storm cellar when he was out of cash. Brock was somewhat in charge of getting Benjamin a WWE contract by telling the WWE that he would will not sign an agreement with WWE except if they offered one to Benjamin too. He is additionally adoptive parent to Brock Lesnar's little girl. In 2004, Benjamin visited Four Dwellings Primary School in Birmingham, UK, to show kids perusing week. 

Benjamin, alongside Candice Michelle, Dave Bautista and Josh Mathews, spoke to WWE at the 2008 Democratic National Convention with an end goal to urge fans to enlist to cast a ballot in the 2008 Presidential decision.