Roberto Luongo 

Roberto Luongo (, , ; conceived April 4, 1979) is a Canadian expert ice hockey goaltender for the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League (NHL). Conceived in Montreal, Quebec, he is of Italian and Irish family line. He utilizes the butterfly style of goaltending, and has recently played in the NHL for the New York Islanders and the Vancouver Canucks. Luongo is a two-time NHL Second All-Star (2004 and 2007) and a champ of the William M. Jennings Trophy for backstopping his group to the least objectives against normal in the class (2011; with reinforcement Cory Schneider). He has also been a finalist for the Vezina Trophy as the association's best goaltender (2004, 2007 and 2011), the Lester B. Pearson Award as the top player casted a ballot by his friends (2004 and 2007) and the Hart Memorial Trophy as the group's most important player (2007). Luongo is second-record-breaking in amusements played as a NHL goaltender, and is third untouched in wins. 

Preceding his NHL profession, Luongo played in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) for the Val-d'Or Foreurs and the Acadie-Bathurst Titan, winning consecutive President's Cups and building up the class' record-breaking play-off records in amusements played and wins. Following his second QMJHL season, Luongo was chosen fourth in general by the Islanders in the 1997 NHL Entry Draft. In the wake of part his expert freshman season between the Islanders and their American Hockey League (AHL) member, the Lowell Lock Monsters in 1999– 2000, he was exchanged to the Panthers. In five seasons with Florida, Luongo set up group unsurpassed records for most recreations played, wins and shutouts. Amid the 2006 off-season, he was exchanged to the Canucks after fizzled contract dealings with the Panthers. Following his second year with the Canucks, he turned into the first NHL goaltender to fill in as a group commander since Bill Durnan in the 1947– 48 season. Luongo served in that limit with respect to two seasons before leaving from the situation in September 2010. In the ensuing 2010– 11 season, he helped the Canucks to Game 7 of the Stanley Cup Finals and lost to the Boston Bruins. Amid his residency with Vancouver, Luongo turned into the group's record-breaking wins and shutouts pioneer. 

Universally, Luongo has vied for Team Canada in various competitions. As a lesser, he won a silver decoration at the 1999 World Junior Championships, while being named Best Goaltender in his second competition appearance. Luongo has won two gold awards at the 2003 and 2004 World Championships and a silver in the 2005 World Championships. He likewise won the 2004 World Cup title and showed up in the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin as a reinforcement to Martin Brodeur in the two cases. He succeeded Brodeur as Canada's beginning goaltender amid the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, winning a gold award. On January 7, 2014, he was named to the 2014 Canadian Olympic Hockey Team, where he won his second Olympic gold decoration in a to a great extent reinforcement job to Carey Price. 

Luongo was destined to Pasqualina and Antonio Luongo in Montreal, Quebec. His dad is an Italian outsider, conceived in Santa Paolina, Avellino. He worked in the development and conveyance of furniture, while Luongo's mom, an Irish-Canadian worked in advertising with Air Canada. Antonio and Pasqualina wedded in Montreal after Antonio emigrated there in 1976. 

Luongo has two more youthful siblings, Leo and Fabio, who were additionally trying goaltenders. Fabio advanced the further of the two, playing Junior An in the British Columbia Hockey League (BCHL) with the Williams Lake Timberwolves in 2004– 05 preceding surrendering to wounds. He has since turned into a Junior AAA mentor, while Leo is a goaltending mentor with HC Lugano. Luongo and his family lived in St. Leonard, Quebec, a precinct north of Montreal with a solid Italian people group, only four traffic lights from Martin Brodeur, who turned into the goaltender for the New Jersey Devils six years before Luongo entered the NHL. Luongo is conversant in English, French and Italian. His dad communicated in Italian and his mom communicated in English with somewhat French at home. 

Luongo moved on from Montreal Francophone secondary school Antoine de St-Exupéry in 1996. He started playing composed hockey at eight years old as a forward. His dad showed every one of his children soccer and Luongo played until he was 14, so, all things considered he chose to focus on hockey. In spite of the fact that he at first wanted to play in net, his folks needed him to build up his skating first. Quite a long while later, after Luongo was cut from a peewee group, he did the change to goaltender. At 11 years of age, his group's standard goaltender did not appear and subsequent to asking his mom, still reluctant about Luongo playing the position, he went in net and posted a shutout. In August 2009, the field in which Luongo played his minor hockey in St. Leonard was named after him as the Roberto Luongo Arena. It is the second field in the network to be named after a NHL goalie after the Martin Brodeur Arena was renamed in that capacity in 2000. 

By 15, Luongo was playing smaller person with Montreal-Bourassa, a similar group that delivered NHL Quebecer goalies Brodeur and Félix Potvin. Luongo has credited Hall of Fame goaltender Grant Fuhr as his motivation growing up, refering to a reverence for his "marvelous glove spares". He had the chance to initially meet Fuhr before an amusement against the Calgary Flames amid his new kid on the block season with the Islanders. 

The Val-d'Or Foreurs made Luongo the most elevated drafted goaltender in QMJHL history, at second generally speaking, in 1995. He started his lesser profession in the 1995– 96 season with Val-d'Or and posted six successes in 23 recreations played. As the group's beginning goaltender the accompanying season in 1996– 97, he improved to a group record 32 wins, and was granted the Mike Bossy Trophy as the class' best proficient prospect. After his execution at the 1997 CHL Top Prospects Game, restricting mentor Don Cherry compared Luongo to Montreal Canadiens' Hockey Hall of Famer Ken Dryden, while NHL Central Scouting Bureau chief Frank Bonello proclaimed him as an "establishment goalie". 

At the 1997 NHL Entry Draft, Luongo was chosen in the first round, fourth by and large, by the New York Islanders. The pick initially had a place with the Toronto Maple Leafs however was exchanged to the Islanders in return for Wendel Clark, Mathieu Schneider and D. J. Smith. At the season of the draft, Luongo was the most astounding picked goaltender in NHL history, outperforming Tom Barrasso and John Davidson's fifth generally determinations in 1983 and 1973 (Luongo's choice was later outperformed by Rick DiPietro's first by and large choice by the Islanders in 2000). 

Upon his draft, Luongo kept on playing junior with the Foreurs in 1997– 98. He recorded 27 wins and a 3.09 objectives against normal (GAA). His seven shutouts tied Nick Sanza's QMJHL record, set in 1974– 75 (Adam Russo later tied it also in 2002– 03). 

In spite of the fact that the Islanders intended to have Luongo play in the NHL for the 1998– 99 season, a conflicting execution at preparing camp prompted Luongo's arrival to the QMJHL that season. Due to having neglected to settle on an agreement before October 1, 1998, Luongo was not permitted to be called up to the Islanders from junior through the span of the resulting season. He began the season with Val-d'Or yet was exchanged to the Acadie-Bathurst Titan amid the 1999 World Junior Championships for the rest of the 1998– 99 season. He proceeded to lead the Titan to his second back to back President's Cup title with a 2.74 GAA in 23 diversions. He completed his QMJHL playoff profession with the untouched group record in amusements played (56), minutes played (3,264:22), wins (38) and shots confronted (1,808). 

After his execution at the 1999 World Junior Championships, Luongo was marked by the Islanders to a three-year, $2.775 million contract on January 8, 1999. The accompanying season, he made his expert presentation with the Lowell Lock Monsters, the Islanders' American Hockey League (AHL) subsidiary. Right off the bat in the season, Luongo was called up to the Islanders on November 22, 1999, after shoulder damage to reinforcement Wade Flaherty. He made his NHL debut six days after the fact on November 28, halting 43 shots in a 2– 1 success against the Boston Bruins. Luongo's initial exhibitions cemented him as the Islanders' beginning goalie once again veteran Félix Potvin. Almost a month after Luongo's presentation in New York, Potvin was exchanged to the Vancouver Canucks on December 19 in return for reinforcement goaltender Kevin Weekes. The following month, he recorded his first vocation NHL shutout in his eighth amusement, halting 34 shots in a 3– 0 triumph over the Bruins on December 27. 

In January 2000, Luongo was freely condemned by Islanders general supervisor Mike Milbury for having gone searching for a condo in New York on a diversion day before letting in seven objectives to the Boston Bruins. Milbury told the media, "You can't do that in the NHL. You need to set yourself up." Luongo shielded himself by saying he didn't redirect from his standard diversion day schedule by taking a gander at only one loft. 

In the off-season, the Islanders chose goaltender Rick DiPietro with the primary by and large pick in the 2000 NHL Entry Draft. DiPietro's choice replaced Luongo as the most noteworthy drafted goaltender in NHL history and the Islanders' goaltender of things to come. Thus, Milbury exchanged Luongo to the Florida Panthers alongside focus Olli Jokinen for winger Mark Parrish and focus Oleg Kvasha that equivalent day on June 24, 2000. The arrangement would later be believed to have lopsidedly profited the Panthers, as both Jokinen and Luongo would in the end form into star players, as opposed to Parrish and Kvasha. Luongo communicated shock at the exchange, saying, "I didn't anticipate it by any means. One day they're disclosing to me I'm the goalie of things to come, and the following day I'm no more. I didn't generally welcome that. The great side is that [the Panthers] needed me." 

The Panthers' association communicated high recognition for Luongo following the exchange. General supervisor Bryan Murray described him as "an establishment fellow", while head mentor Terry Murray included "He's the person groups must have to win the Stanley Cup." He entered his first preparing camp with the Panthers going after the beginning job with veteran goaltender Trevor Kidd; mentor Terry Murray selected to start the season with Kidd because of his experience. Luongo made his first begin with the Panthers on October 9, 2000, making 18 spares in a 4– 2 misfortune to the Boston Bruins. While part the goaltending obligations, Luongo proceeded to show up in 43 recreations, in contrast with Kidd's 42. He completed his 2000– 01 new kid on the block season (Luongo qualified as a youngster since he had not played in somewhere around 26 diversions the past season with New York) by indenting an establishment record fifth shutout of the period in a 3– 0 success against the New York Rangers on April 7, 2001. The complete outperformed John Vanbiesbrouck's four-shutout mark, set in both the 1994– 95 and 1997– 98 seasons. He posted a 12– 24– 7 record with the battling Panthers, who completed twelfth in the Eastern Conference, while recording a 2.44 GAA. His .920 spare rate was 6th in the group and second unequaled among tenderfoot goaltenders, behind Manny Fernandez's imprint set the past season. 

Moving toward his third NHL season, Luongo concurred on a four-year contract expansion with the Panthers on September 13, 2001. He was picked to play in the debut NHL YoungStars Game in 2002 for Team Melrose, prevailing upon 13– 7 Team Fox. In the wake of showing up in 58 amusements in 2001– 02, Luongo endured a torn tendon in his correct lower leg in a diversion against the Montreal Canadiens on March 20, 2002. Sidelined for the rest of the period, he completed with a 16– 33– 4 record, a 2.77 GAA and .915 spare rate. Luongo returned in 2002– 03 to a heavier outstanding task at hand, playing a 65-amusement season. He had an establishment record-setting shutout mark that kept going 144:51 minutes; it was snapped on January 20, 2003, against the Montreal Canadiens. 

In his fourth season with the Panthers (2003– 04), Luongo developed with his first Vezina Trophy and Lester B. Pearson Award assignments as the top goaltender and top player as chosen by the players, individually. Playing in 72 amusements, he set NHL marks for most spares and shots looked in a solitary season with 2,303 and 2,475, individually. The two imprints were recently set by previous Islanders partner Félix Potvin in 1996– 97 as a Toronto Maple Leaf. His subsequent .931 spare rate was first among those goalies with no less than 50 begins and set a Panthers establishment record, breaking Vanbiesbrouck's .924 imprint, set in 1993– 94. His seven shutouts promoted his establishment record and was sufficient for fifth in the association. At mid-season, he was named to his first NHL All-Star Game, held in February 2004. Going after the Eastern Conference, he won the Goaltenders Competition fragment of the SkillsCompetition, permitting the least objectives on goaltender-related occasions. The next day, he played in the third time of the All-Star Game and helped the East to a 6– 4 success against the West. Toward the finish of the period, he was named to the Second NHL All-Star Team, however lost the Vezina Trophy to individual Montreal-local Martin Brodeur of the New Jersey Devils, while Martin St. Louis of the Tampa Bay Lightning won the Pearson Award. 

Because of the 2004– 05 NHL lockout, Luongo was latent, except for two global competitions, the 2004 World Cup and the 2005 World Championships. With the NHL set to continue in 2005– 06, Luongo was without an agreement. After exchanges fizzled, the Panthers petitioned for mediation on August 11, 2005. The procedure granted Luongo a one-year, $3.2 million contract on August 25. 

On April 13, 2006, Luongo turned into the most-wins Panthers goaltender ever, passing Vanbiesbrouck, with his 107th success with the group – a 5– 4 extra time triumph against the Ottawa Senators. He proceeded to post 35 wins, breaking Vanbiesbrouck's 27-win single-season Panthers mark, set in 1996– 97. Set to turn into a free specialist for the second sequential off-season, he couldn't go to a concurrence with the Panthers, having formally turned down a five-year, $30 million contract offer in January 2006. It was additionally announced that among Luongo's requests were that reinforcement goaltender Jamie McLennan be re-marked, his long-term goaltending mentor François Allaire be employed and that an open articulation be discharged that he would not be exchanged until the no-exchange provision of his agreement produced results. 

Preceding the beginning of the 2006– 07 season, Panthers general supervisor Mike Keenan exchanged Luongo to the Vancouver Canucks on June 23, 2006. He was bundled with defenceman Lukáš Krajíček and a 6th round draft pick (Sergei Shirokov) in return for forward Todd Bertuzzi, defenceman Bryan Allen and goaltender Alex Auld. Quickly following the arrangement, Vancouver marked Luongo to a four-year, $27 million arrangement. He communicated shock, guaranteeing that he and the Panthers were extremely near an arrangement the day preceding the exchange. 

Luongo's entry in Vancouver finished a seven-and-a-half-year time of precariousness for Canucks netminding, with an aggregate of 18 goaltenders having played for the club since Kirk McLean's flight in 1998. General chief Brian Burke had authored the expression "goalie burial ground" amid his residency in Vancouver to portray the club's goaltending fortunes. 

Luongo recorded a 3– 1 success against the Detroit Red Wings in his Canucks debut on October 5, 2006. Later in the month, he scored his first shutout with the Canucks, halting 32 shots in a 5– 0 success over the Chicago Blackhawks on October 25. On January 9, 2007, Luongo was casted a ballot in as a beginning goaltender without precedent for his vocation for the Western Conference All-Stars. Six days after the declaration, he was hospitalized in the wake of taking a puck to the throat by and by. He went through the night in the emergency unit fears his windpipe would swell and end up blocked. Released from the clinic on amusement day, Luongo recorded a shutout that night against the Montreal Canadiens on January 16, 2007. Amid the 2007 NHL All-Star Game in Dallas, Luongo was named the Skills Competition's top goaltender and helped the West to a 12– 9 prevail upon the East. Late in the season, Luongo recorded his establishment record-setting 39th win in a 2– 1 extra time triumph on March 9. He outperformed Kirk McLean's 38-win mark set in 1991– 92. He proceeded to complete with a profession high 47 wins, one short of class pioneer Martin Brodeur, who broke Bernie Parent's thirty-three-year-old NHL record of wins in a season. Luongo and Brodeur are considered, notwithstanding, to have been given favorable position to Parent with the introduction of the shootout that season by the NHL, enabling more recreations to be chosen with wins, instead of ties. 

Notwithstanding his 47 wins, Luongo recorded a 2.29 GAA (which was around then, an individual best) and a group record .921 spare rate (outperforming Dan Cloutier's .914 spare rate in 2003– 04; later broken by Cory Schneider's .929 spare rate in 2010– 11). He won three group grants – the Cyclone Taylor Trophy as MVP, the Molson Cup as the player with the most three-star determinations, and the Most Exciting Player Award. He drove the Canucks to a Northwest Division title and what was then an establishment record of 105, The group was seeded third in the Western Conference. The 2007 playoffs denoted Luongo's first NHL post-season appearance. Confronting the Dallas Stars in the opening round, he nearly set a NHL record for most spares in a playoff amusement in his post-season debut. He ceased 72 shots, in transit to a 5– 4 fourfold additional time triumph, one spare short of Kelly Hrudey's 73-spare imprint set in 1987. Luongo proceeded to win his first playoff arrangement as the Canucks wiped out the Stars in seven recreations. They were, be that as it may, vanquished in the second round by the inevitable Stanley Cup champions, the Anaheim Ducks. Luongo set forth a losing 56-spare execution in the choosing fifth amusement against the Ducks. After the diversion finished in guideline at a 1– 1 tie, he missed the initial three minutes of the main additional time frame to what was first accepted to be a gear glitch. In any case, after the arrangement finished, it was uncovered that Luongo, rather, had a less than ideal instance of looseness of the bowels. The Canucks lost the diversion 2– 1 in the second extra time when Luongo took his eye off the puck to take a gander at the arbitrator, trusting a punishment ought to have been issued to the Ducks on a play in which Canucks forward Jannik Hansen was hit by Ducks forward Rob Niedermayer. With Luongo not focusing, Ducks defenceman Scott Niedermayer shot the puck from the point to score the arrangement winning objective. 

Toward the finish of the period, Luongo was selected for three noteworthy NHL grants: the Vezina Trophy, Lester B. Pearson Award and Hart Memorial Trophy as the class MVP. Be that as it may, Luongo completed second in the voting in favor of every one of the three honors, behind Brodeur for the Vezina and Sidney Crosby of the Pittsburgh Penguins for the Hart and Pearson. 

Luongo kept pace factually with his past season's work in 2007– 08 and kept on setting noteworthy imprints, including a three-amusement shutout streak traversing 210:34 in late-November (breaking the Canucks' past establishment record of 184:20 set by Ken Lockett in 1975). He was casted a ballot in as the 2008 NHL All-Star Game's Western Conference beginning goalie for the second back to back season, despite the fact that he didn't go to so as to be with his pregnant spouse in Florida. 

With the Canucks engaging for the Northwest Division title throughout the entire season, a losing mark that saw Luongo win just a single of his last eight begins made the Canucks miss the playoffs by and large. All things considered, he got his second sequential group MVP and Molson Cup grants. He additionally completed seventh in Vezina Trophy balloting. 

On September 30, 2008, preceding the beginning of the 2008– 09 season, Vancouver Canucks general supervisor Mike Gillis and head mentor Alain Vigneault named Luongo the twelfth commander in group history, supplanting the withdrew Markus Näslund. The choice was eccentric, as group rules disallow goaltenders from being commanders. In that capacity, Luongo turned out to be just the seventh goaltender in NHL history to be named a chief, and the first since Bill Durnan captained the Montreal Canadiens in 1947– 48 (after which the association actualized the standard). So as to represent the association rule, Luongo did not play out any of the on-ice obligations saved for chiefs and did not wear the skipper's "C" on his pullover. Rather he consolidated it into the work of art on the facade of one of his veils which he once in a while wore for the early months of the 2008– 09 season. Canucks defenceman Willie Mitchell was assigned to deal with correspondences with on-ice authorities, while defenceman Mattias Öhlund was in charge of stately faceoffs and other such customs related with captaincy. Focus Ryan Kesler was picked alongside Mitchell and Öhlund as the third interchange chief. 

A month into the 2008– 09 season, Luongo started a shutout mark that kept going three diversions against the Nashville Predators, Phoenix Coyotes, and the Minnesota Wild, much the same as the accomplishment he achieved around the same time of November the earlier year. His general shutout streak was snapped at 242:36 minutes, in a 2– 1 shootout misfortune against the Colorado Avalanche, outperforming the Canucks record he set the past season. Soon thereafter, on November 22, Luongo left an amusement versus the Pittsburgh Penguins subsequent to enduring an adductor strain in his crotch. At first recorded as week-to-week, he endeavored what was viewed as an early rebound inside about fourteen days of the damage, yet endured a difficulty amid a group practice on December 10, leaving right off the bat in distress. Subsequent to missing 24 amusements, Luongo made his arrival on January 15, 2009, in a 4– 1 misfortune to the Phoenix Coyotes. While harmed, Luongo was picked for the fourth time to the NHL All-Star Game in 2009 as the solitary Canucks delegate. In spite of hypothesis he would need to miss his second in a row All-Star Game, Luongo recouped in time and partook in a 12– 11 shootout misfortune toward the Eastern Conference. He completed the season with consecutive shutouts in the last two amusements against the Los Angeles Kings and Colorado Avalanche to build up another profession high of nine shutouts on the season, breaking Dan Cloutier's past establishment single-season shutout record of seven, set in 2001– 02. 

Winning their second Northwest Division title in three years, Luongo and the Canucks came back to the playoffs following a one-year nonappearance. Amid the 2009 playoffs, he drove the Canucks to a first round scope of the St. Louis Blues. The Canucks at that point confronted the Chicago Blackhawks in the second round, which Chicago at last won in six amusements. Luongo was intensely scrutinized following his execution in the 6th and choosing amusement, permitting seven objectives in the 7– 5 misfortune. In a post-amusement talk with, Luongo told journalists that he "let [his] partners down". Numerous in the Vancouver media rushed to propose exchanging Luongo, contending that his expansive compensation could be better spent, while indicating a few effective groups with moderately low-pay goalies. In any case, Luongo was displayed at the year-end grants service with the Scotiabank Fan Fav Award, a fan-casted a ballot grant in its debut year for the group's most loved player. Additionally completing fourth in Vezina Trophy casting a ballot, he passed up his second designation in three years by one vote, behind Niklas Bäckström of the Minnesota Wild, Steve Mason of the Columbus Blue Jackets and trophy-victor Tim Thomas of the Boston Bruins. 

With one season left on his unique four-year manage the Canucks, Luongo and operator Gilles Lupien started contract exchanges with general supervisor Mike Gillis in the 2009 off-season. At the season of the 2009 NHL Entry Draft, ESPN detailed that Luongo and the Canucks had concurred on a long haul expansion to be reported on July 1. The report was, be that as it may, denied by both Lupien and Gillis. Barely a month later toward the beginning of August, Gillis disclosed to Vancouver sports radio station TEAM 1040 out of a meeting that he was "rationally" near an arrangement with Luongo to be marked before the up and coming 2009– 10 season. That equivalent month, while at Team Canada's mid year camp for the 2010 Winter Olympics, Luongo set a September 13 due date to sign an agreement before the Canucks' preparation camp started, clarifying that he "won't consult amid the season ... [not wanting] that diversion". 

A few days after the fact, on September 2, the Canucks reported that they had marked Luongo to a 12-year contract augmentation worth $64 million for a $5.33 million yearly pay top hit. The front-stacked arrangement, which will lapse when Luongo is 43 and incorporates a no-exchange proviso, sees him make $10 million in 2010– 11, at that point around $6.7 million every year through to 2017– 18, $3.3 million and $1.6 million the ensuing two seasons, before following off to $1 million for the last two years. The agreement contains two extra conditions to go around the no-exchange proviso that permit Luongo to encourage an exchange after the fifth year and for the Canucks to likewise encourage an exchange after the seventh year. 

About a month into the 2009– 10 season, on October 25, 2009, Luongo recorded his 21st shutout as a Canuck (48th profession) in a 2– 0 success against the Edmonton Oilers, outperforming Kirk McLean as the establishment shutouts pioneer. The accompanying amusement against the Detroit Red Wings on October 27, he endured rib damage that was uncovered the next day to be a hairline crack. Luongo initially harmed his rib two recreations earlier against the Toronto Maple Leafs on October 24 subsequent to making a go in the chest from Leafs' forward Niklas Hagman. The damage was re-disturbed amid the Detroit amusement amid an impact with Red Wings forward Todd Bertuzzi. He came back to the lineup on November 10 subsequent to missing six diversions. On January 7, 2010, Luongo recorded his 50th profession shutout in a 4– 0 success against the Phoenix Coyotes. Regardless of account the second 40-win period of his profession, Luongo completed with his most noticeably awful factual season as a Canuck, vigorously influenced by a poor second-half. Pulled multiple times in 68 appearances, he recorded a 2.57 GAA and a .913 spare rate. In the ensuing 2010 playoffs, the Canucks crushed the Los Angeles Kings in six amusements just to be vanquished by the Chicago Blackhawks for the second year straight. 

In the off-season, it was estimated by numerous individuals in the media whether Luongo would remain Vancouver's skipper, refering to the additional weight of the goaltending position. After the Canucks' 3– 1 arrangement shortage in the second round, Luongo stopped to make himself accessible for pre-amusement interviews – a standard practice for goaltenders, yet not for skippers. At the point when asked after the Canucks' disposal whether he figured he ought to remain group skipper, he told columnists he didn't think it was an issue. Be that as it may, Gillis, who delegated him skipper two seasons earlier, affirmed it was a point to be tended to in the off-season. On September 13, 2010, Luongo affirmed he was venturing down, expressing that "Serv[ing] as captain...in a Canadian city for a group with such energetic fans is a benefit and an encounter I will dependably invest heavily in. I will keep on being a pioneer in this group and bolster my partners a similar way I generally have while concentrating on our definitive objective." Center Henrik Sedin, who won the Hart Trophy for the 2009– 10 season, was named Luongo's successor in a pre-amusement service to the Canucks' season-opener. 

Likewise in the off-season, Gillis terminated Luongo's goaltending mentor Ian Clark and employed Roland Melanson in his place. Luongo had been a close companion of Clark's and freely expressed being amazed and frustrated with the switch. The choice to employ Melanson was to a great extent accelerated on his eagerness to work with Luongo on a full-time premise – something Clark was unfit to do. Regardless of the instructing change at the club level, Luongo held Clark as his own mentor for his mid year preparing. He started working with Melanson paving the way to the 2010– 11 season and utilized a few changes in his playing style, which included playing further into his wrinkle as opposed to testing shooters. 

Amid the 2010 pre-season, Luongo supported crotch damage, yet recouped in time for the customary season. Halfway through the crusade, Luongo was named the NHL's Second Star of the Month for December 2010. He posted a 11– 1– 2 record with a 2.07 GAA, a .922 spare rate and one shutout. Amid the month, he began a 21-diversion guideline unbeaten streak that kept going until a misfortune against the St. Louis Blues on February 14, 2011. Luongo's record in that length was 16 wins and 5 additional time or shootout misfortunes. Later in the battle, he recorded his 300th vocation win against the Los Angeles Kings on March 5, 2011. He turned into the sixth most youthful goaltender to achieve the achievement and the 25th by and large. The 2010– 11 season established a diminished remaining task at hand for Luongo, as he showed up in 60 recreations. Group the board had attested toward the start of the crusade that new kid on the block reinforcement Cory Schneider would be allowed the chance to play in 20 to 25 diversions. Luongo completed the season with a class driving 38 wins, alongside 22 misfortunes (15 in guideline and 7 in extra time or a shootout). His profession high 2.11 GAA positioned second in the association, behind Tim Thomas' 2.00, and set a Canucks record, outperforming Dan Cloutier's 2.27 GAA, set in 2003– 04. While his .928 spare rate enhanced his group record setting .921 in 2006– 07, it was bettered by one-hundredth of a point by Schneider. Together, Luongo and Schneider won the William M. Jennings Trophy for driving the Canucks to the most reduced GAA in the group; their joined 2.20 GAA was one-tenth superior to the Boston Bruins' second-place goaltending pair of Tim Thomas and Tuukka Rask. Luongo helped the Canucks to their first Presidents' Trophy in group history with a NHL-best and establishment record 54 wins and 117 points. His endeavors in the normal season earned him his third vocation Vezina Trophy designation, close by the Boston Bruins' Tim Thomas and the Nashville Predators' Pekka Rinne. 

Entering the 2011 playoffs as the main seed in the West, the Canucks were coordinated against the Blackhawks for the third straight year. In the wake of opening the arrangement with three straight successes, the Canucks lost the following three, driving a seventh amusement. After he was pulled for Schneider amid Games 4 and 5 – having permitted six and four objectives, separately – Luongo began Game 6 on the seat. Amid the third time frame, Schneider endured damage, constraining Luongo to complete the diversion. He made 12 spares in help of Schneider before Blackhawks forward Ben Smith scored in extra time. In spite of the fact that Schneider was accessible to play for Game 7, Vigneault began Luongo. He made 31 spares in the choosing amusement, helping the Canucks to a 2– 1 additional time win. His endeavors incorporated a cross-ice save money on a one-clock from forward Patrick Sharp amid a Blackhawks powerplay at an opportune time in the additional period. Clashing against individual Vezina Trophy chosen one Pekka Rinne and the Nashville Predators in cycle two, Luongo held Nashville to 11 objectives more than 6 recreations to enable the Canucks to progress. He kept up his execution in the Conference Finals against the San Jose Sharks, permitting 13 objectives more than 5 challenges, incorporating 54 spares in the fifth and choosing match, an amusement that went to twofold extra time. Luongo's endeavors helped the Canucks achieve the Stanley Cup Finals without precedent for a long time. He opened the arrangement against the Boston Bruins halting every one of the 36 shots in a 1– 0 success for his third shutout of the post-season. As the arrangement moved to Boston's TD Garden with a two-diversions to-none Canucks lead, Luongo surrendered eight objectives in Game 3. The accompanying challenge, he was pulled for the third time in the playoffs in the wake of permitting 4 objectives on 20 shots. In the midst of overwhelming examination from the media and Canucks fans, Luongo recouped for Game 5, halting each of the 31 Bruins shots in a 1– 0 success. It was his fifteenth win and fourth shutout of the post-season, tying both of Kirk McLean's single-year playoff group records, recently set in 1994. With a chance to secure the Stanley Cup in Game 6, be that as it may, he was pulled again subsequent to permitting three objectives in under three minutes in the main time frame; the amusement finished in a 5– 2 misfortune. Beginning for the choosing seventh diversion, he permitted 3 objectives on 20 shots, including one in need of help objective, as the Canucks lost 4– 0. 

Almost a month-and-a-half into the 2011– 12 season, Luongo endured a chest area damage that sidelined him for two recreations. The idea of the damage was unspecified, however was accepted to have happened amid a diversion against the Islanders on November 13, 2011, when he gave off an impression of being in distress. Preceding the damage, Luongo was attempting to perform with his insights close to the base of the group. After recuperating, Schneider's play consigned Luongo to reinforcement status for five recreations. By December, he continued as the group's starter with improved execution. The next month, Luongo achieved two achievements. On January 4, 2012, he turned into the 23rd goalie allied history to play in his 700th diversion, a challenge in which he recorded a 3– 0 shutout against the Wild. With his 212th triumph as a Canuck on January 21 (a 4– 3 success against the Sharks), he outperformed Kirk McLean as the most-wins goalie in group history. Luongo achieved the accomplishment in 364 amusements, 152 not exactly McLean. 

Confronting the eighth-seeded Los Angeles Kings in the opening round of the 2012 Stanley Cup playoffs, Luongo began the initial two recreations and played well yet his group lost both. Vigneault picked to begin Schneider for the remainder of the arrangement, so as to give the Canucks some energy, and Luongo stayed on the seat for the rest of the arrangement as the Kings won four amusements to one. Dressing as a reinforcement for the Canucks' last three playoff diversions drove numerous in the media to trust that Luongo would be exchanged the off-season, for Schneider, who recorded better standard season and playoff insights than him in 2011– 12. Gotten some information about his job with the Canucks following the thrashing, Luongo told journalists that he would forgo his no-exchange provision if his administration asked him to so. In June 2012, Schneider was marked to a three-year $12 million contract, which made Luongo superfluous, however broad chief Mike Gillis' endeavors to exchange Luongo were ineffective because of his $64 million (U.S.), 12-year contract. 

In the lockout-abbreviated 2012– 13 NHL season, the two goaltenders split the playing obligations in spite of the fact that Schneider was the main goalie. Luongo dealt with his downgrade with class and stayed steady of Schneider, before long calling the Canucks "Cory's group." Head mentor Alain Vigneault said "Cory is our MVP and one of reasons why we got into playoffs. I have a great deal of confidence in him and that is for what reason we're running with him". In the opening playoff round confronting the San Jose Sharks, as Schneider had been harmed close to the finish of the customary season, Luongo began the initial two amusements and played well yet his group lost both. Luongo fell off the seat in amusement three after Schneider was pulled in the third time frame. Luongo was the reinforcement in diversion four as the Canucks lost in extra time, finishing his group's postseason in four straight recreations. Luongo put his penthouse available to be purchased, as it was acknowledged that he had played his last amusement as a Canuck. In spite of the fact that he had nine years left on a 12-year, $64-million contract, which spoke to a $5.33 million pay top hit, general administrator Mike Gillis stayed certain of making an arrangement in the late spring. 

Schneider was out of the blue exchanged to the New Jersey Devils on June 30, 2013, reestablishing Luongo in the beginning position for the 2013– 14 NHL season. John Tortorella, who had supplanted Alain Vigneault as Canucks head mentor after the finish of the 2012– 13 season, picked youngster Eddie Läck to begin in objective rather than Luongo in the Heritage Classic against the Ottawa Senators at BC Place. Tortorella's choice was disagreeable with the group as they booed Läck, while Luongo was additionally despondent as he had been anticipating that diversion all season. 

On March 4, 2014, multi day before the NHL exchange due date, Luongo was exchanged back to the Florida Panthers alongside prospect Steven Anthony in return for goaltender Jacob Markström and focus Shawn Matthias. The Canucks hold some portion of Luongo's pay. Luongo was viewed as key to helping incorporate the Panthers with a solid contender. 

Amid the 2017– 18 season, Luongo played in his 1,000th NHL amusement, ending up only the third goaltender in NHL history to do as such, the other two being Patrick Roy and Martin Brodeur. At the finish of the standard season, Luongo was the Panthers' selection for the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy and turned into the establishment unsurpassed pioneer in recreations played, wins, and shutouts. On February 10, 2019, Roberto Luongo played in his 1030th profession diversion, passing Roy for second untouched behind Brodeur, who played 1,266 recreations in his vocation. With a 4-3 win against the Colorado Avalanche on February 25, Luongo passed Ed Belfour for third-most successes as a NHL goaltender, by and by behind Roy and Brodeur. 

Luongo made his worldwide introduction at the 1995 World U-17 Hockey Challenge in Moncton, New Brunswick, with Team Québec, winning bronze. After three years, he was named to the Canadian national junior group for the 1998 World Junior Championships in Finland. He played reinforcement to Victoriaville Tigres goaltender Mathieu Garon, going winless in three appearances with a 3.70 GAA, as Canada completed in eighth spot. Luongo turned into the beginning goaltender the next year at the 1999 World Junior Championships in Winnipeg, Manitoba, showing up in seven of Canada's eight diversions. He recorded a shutout in the main round of the competition against the Czech Republic, making 36 spares in a 0– 0 tie. He proceeded to help Team Canada to the gold decoration amusement against Russia, however lost in additional time, surrendering an objective to Artem Chubarov. With a 1.92 GAA and two shutouts, Luongo was given Best Goaltender and All-Star Team praises. 

Luongo first showed up with the Canadian men's group at the 2001 World Championships in Germany. He played reinforcement to Fred Brathwaite of the Calgary Flames before harming his finger amid the primary round of the capability round against Switzerland on May 4, 2001. 

Amid his next appearance at the 2003 World Championships in Finland, Luongo started the competition as reinforcement to the Phoenix Coyotes' Sean Burke. He earned successes against Latvia in the starters and Switzerland in the passing round. Amid the elimination rounds against the Czech Republic, Luongo supplanted Burke after he left the diversion with a lower-body damage eight minutes into the second time frame. Luongo permitted four objectives in help, yet earned the success as Canada vanquished the Czechs 8– 4. With Burke still out for the gold award diversion, Luongo made 49 spares against Sweden in a 3– 2 additional time win. In spite of Luongo's decoration round endeavors, Burke was named the Best Goaltender for the competition, as he played in most of Team Canada's amusements. The gold-decoration winning 2003 group was later named the Canadian Press national games group of the year on January 2, 2004. 

Luongo showed up at the World Championships in 2004 in the Czech Republic. He played in seven diversions as the beginning goaltender, recording a 2.32 GAA and one shutout, as Canada caught its second in a row gold award at the competition, beating Sweden 5– 3 in the last. A while later, Luongo sought Team Canada in the 2004 World Cup as reinforcement to Martin Brodeur of the New Jersey Devils. It denoted Luongo's first universal competition in which all NHL players were qualified, as the yearly World Championships strife with the Stanley Cup playoffs. He had another chance to venture in as the beginning goalie when Brodeur destroyed out before the semi-last amusement against the Czech Republic because of a sprained wrist. Filling in for Brodeur, Luongo made 37 of 40 stops in a 4– 3 extra time triumph to put Team Canada into the finals against Finland. Brodeur returned for the title diversion to barrier Team Canada to a 3– 2 success. 

Luongo showed up in his fourth World Championships in 2005. Because of the 2004– 05 NHL lockout, all NHL players were accessible for the competition in Austria, and Luongo played reinforcement to Brodeur. He showed up in two diversions, including a shutout win against Slovenia in the round-robin. Luongo earned a silver decoration as Team Canada was closed out by the Czech Republic 3– 0 in the last. 

Luongo was named to his first Winter Olympics in 2006. The competition was held in Turin, Italy, his nation of social birthplace. He again played behind Brodeur and showed up in two diversions. He made his Olympic presentation in the second round of the round-robin with a 5– 1 success against Germany. His second appearance of the competition was a misfortune to Finland, likewise in the round-robin. 

Paving the way to the 2010 Winter Olympics, to be held in Luongo's NHL main residence of Vancouver, Luongo and Brodeur were viewed as locks to be named to the national group heading into the late spring introduction camp in August 2009 and hypothesis started concerning who might be designated the beginning position. On December 31, 2009, Luongo was chosen to Team Canada, alongside Brodeur and Marc-André Fleury of the Pittsburgh Penguins as the three goaltenders. Luongo was given the begin for the main amusement against Norway. He recorded his first Olympic shutout, making 15 spares in a 8– 0 success to open the competition. After Brodeur surrendered four objectives in a 5– 3 misfortune to the United States in their last starter diversion, Luongo supplanted him as the beginning goalie. He helped Canada to four sequential single-disposal amusement wins against Germany, Russia, Slovakia and the United States to catch the gold award. Amid the elimination round against Slovakia, Luongo made a diversion sparing stop against Canucks colleague Pavol Demitra with nine seconds to go in guideline. With Slovakia's goaltender pulled and somewhere around an objective, the puck bobbed to Demitra by the side of the net. Out of position, Luongo figured out how to get his glove on the puck, avoiding it far from the net and protecting the success. In the resulting gold decoration diversion, Luongo made 34 spares in Canada's additional time win against the United States. 

The next month, Luongo led into Robson Square in Downtown Vancouver for the 2010 Paralympics on March 11, 2010. 

After four years, Luongo was chosen to Team Canada for his third straight Olympics. Heading into the Sochi Games as the officeholder starter, there was much discussion among the media with respect to whether he or Montreal Canadiens goaltender Carey Price would play the greater part of Canada's diversions. 

Luongo plays in the butterfly style of goaltending, dropping to his knees with his skates pointing outwards and his cushions compromising so as to cover the base bit of the net. Because of the style of play, crotch wounds are normal for butterfly goalies. Luongo endured one amid the 2008– 09 season and missed 24 amusements. 

An athletic goaltender, Luongo is known for having fast reflexes, especially with his glove. One of Luongo's initial goaltending mentors, François Allaire, has recalled Luongo to have had the "best getting glove [he'd] ever found in a child" when he originally went to his goaltending school in Sainte-Thérèse-de-Gaspé, Québec, at 14 years old. Allaire is known to be a solid defender of the butterfly style. At 6 feet and 3 inches, Luongo can cover a great deal of net with his size. Spectators additionally note the solid fixation, aggressiveness and mental parts of his diversion. Then again, his puck-taking care of abilities have been depicted as a shortcoming. 

His style started to be coordinated amid his dwarf a very long time with Allaire and Montreal-Bourassa goaltending mentor Mario Baril. Luongo sent tapes of his play to Allaire amid his new kid on the block season in the QMJHL and his previous goaltending mentor prompted him to be increasingly forceful and left the net more to cut off edges and challenge shooters. Later in his NHL profession, the Canucks contracted another goaltending mentor, Roland Melanson, preceding the 2010– 11 season. Working with Melanson, Luongo started playing further in his wrinkle against Allaire's unique guidance, enabling him to keep up situating for bounce back. 

Vancouver Canucks head mentor Alain Vigneault has said that Luongo plays best with additionally playing time over the length of the period. All through his profession, he has gathered loads of playing time, including four back to back 70-diversion seasons from 2003– 04 to 2007– 08 between the Florida Panthers and Canucks. He has been known to experience the ill effects of moderate begins to the season, typically in the primary month of October. In his initial three Octobers with the Canucks, Luongo posted a consolidated 10– 13– 0 record and a .899 spare rate – numbers that are well underneath his vocation pace. 

Luongo got the Mark Messier Leadership Award in his first season with the Canucks for the long stretch of March 2007. Preceding his third season with Vancouver, he was named Markus Näslund's successor as group commander and the principal goaltender to be named a skipper in 59 years. Colleague Mattias Öhlund, who filled in as exchange chief to Luongo for one season, portrayed him as a vocal head, while Luongo has additionally distinguished that quality in himself. General supervisor Mike Gillis depicted his responsibility level as "phenomenal", including that "he'd be an extraordinary case for our more youthful folks", at the season of the captaincy declaration. He served in that limit with respect to two seasons before surrendering the captaincy preceding the 2010– 11 season. 

While playing with the Florida Panthers, Luongo met his significant other, Gina (né e Cerbone), at a group home base called the Pizza Time Trattoria. Gina is the little girl of the Italian eatery proprietor, Umberto Cerbone, who is initially from Naples, while Gina's mom is from Palermo. Luongo proposed to Gina under the Bridge of Sighs in Venice in 2004. They lived in Broward County, Florida, amid his residency with the Panthers. Anyway inside a month of moving into another home in Florida, Luongo was exchanged to Vancouver. They in this way moved into the Vancouver neighborhood of Yaletown, while spending Luongo's off-seasons in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Their little girl was conceived on March 27, 2008. Luongo had been picked as a beginning goaltender for the 2008 NHL All-Star Game, however he decided not to go to so as to be with Gina, who was pregnant at the time and had come back to Florida. On December 27, 2010, Gina brought forth the couple's child. 

Luongo is included with a few foundations. In the same way as other Canucks players, he invested energy with Canuck Place, a kids' hospice in Vancouver. He additionally supported an observer's case in Rogers Arena that is saved for underprivileged kids to go to Canucks recreations. Toward the finish of diversions in which he was named one of the three stars, he was known to give away his goalie adhere to a fan in the group. In the late spring of 2009, he facilitated the Roberto Luongo Golf Open to profit Montreal Children's Hospital, Sainte-Justine Hospital, and a seniors focus organize in Saint-Léonard. After the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, Luongo, who lives in Parkland, gave a pre-diversion discourse recognizing the casualties of the shooting and calling for activity against mass shootings. 

Notwithstanding being an eager golfer, Luongo likewise appreciates playing poker. 

In September 2011, Luongo was accepted into the Italian Walk of Fame in Toronto, Ontario.