No. 91 Wing RAAF 

No. 91 (Composite) Wing was a Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) wing that worked amid the Korean War and its quick outcome. It was built up in October 1950 to regulate RAAF units sent in the contention: No. 77 (Fighter) Squadron, flying North American P-51 Mustangs; No. 30 Communications Flight, flying Austers and Douglas C-47 Dakotas; No. 391 (Base) Squadron; and No. 491 (Maintenance) Squadron. The wing was headquartered at Iwakuni, Japan, similar to its subordinate units except for No. 77 Squadron, which was situated in Korea and went under the operational control of the United States Fifth Air Force. 

No. 30 Communications Flight was re-assigned No. 30 Communications Unit in November 1950, and No. 30 Transport Unit a year later, before re-shaping as No. 36 (Transport) Squadron in March 1953. It embraced therapeutic departure, payload and troop transport, and dispatch flights. No. 77 Squadron changed over to Gloster Meteor flies among April and July 1951, and worked essentially in the ground assault job from December that year. It stayed in Korea on battalion obligation following the July 1953 truce, and came back to Australia in November 1954; No. 491 Squadron disbanded that month. No. 36 Squadron came back to Australia in March 1955, leaving four flying machine to prepare the recently shaped RAAF Transport Flight (Japan), which quickly went under No. 91 Wing's control. The next month, No. 391 Squadron and No. 91 Wing central station were disbanded. 

At the point when the Korean War broke out on 25 June 1950, No. 77 (Fighter) Squadron of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) was based at Iwakuni, Japan. For the past four years, furnished primarily with North American P-51 Mustangs, it had presented with the British Commonwealth Air Group, the air segment of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force (BCOF), at first as a component of No. 81 Wing RAAF. No. 81 Wing was disbanded in November 1948, leaving No. 77 Squadron as Australia's sole air unit in Japan. It was currently the biggest squadron in the RAAF, involving 299 officers and men, forty Mustangs, three CAC Wirraways, two Douglas C-47 Dakotas and two Austers. The squadron was getting ready to come back to Australia when it was set on backup for activity over Korea; it started flying missions as a component of the United Nations (UN) peacekeeping power seven days after the fact. No. 77 Squadron's leader, Wing Commander Lou Spence, was executed in real life on 9 September 1950, and Air Commodore Alan Charlesworth, Chief of Staff at BCOF, briefly assumed responsibility at Iwakuni, pending the arrangement of a general association for help and organization at the base. Squadron Leader Dick Cresswell touched base on 17 September to expect order of No. 77 Squadron. 

Following the arrival at Inchon and the northward development of UN troops, No. 77 Squadron migrated to Pohang, South Korea, on 12 October 1950. It left its principle bolster components at Iwakuni. No. 91 (Composite) Wing was built up at the base on 20 October. The expression "composite" alluded to a RAAF development made up of divergent operational components, as opposed to one involving a solitary sort, for example, planes or warriors. Instructed by Group Captain A.D. (Dallas) Charlton, No. 91 Wing was given managerial obligation regarding all RAAF units working amid the Korean War. Just as No. 77 Squadron, this incorporated the recently shaped No. 391 (Base) Squadron and No. 491 (Maintenance) Squadron, and No. 30 Communications Flight, in the past the No. 77 Squadron Communications Flight and at first including its two Dakotas and two Austers. Aside from No. 77 Squadron, the wing's units were altogether headquartered at Iwakuni. A few individuals from the US Far East Air Forces order supported the foundation of a British Commonwealth Wing, to incorporate No. 77 Squadron and the Mustang-prepared No. 2 Squadron of the South African Air Force, at that point on the way to Korea, however the South African government vetoed the thought. 

No. 77 Squadron's entrusting was constrained by the United States Fifth Air Force from the time it initiated tasks in Korea, and this course of action was not influenced by the development of No. 91 Wing. It pushed ahead from Pohang to Yonpo, close Hamhung, in November 1950, proceeding with its help of UN powers as they progressed up the landmass. North Korea's counter-assault, increased by Chinese powers, prompted the squadron being quickly pulled back to Pusan on 3 December. Poor radio correspondences with No. 91 Wing hounded the clearing from Yonpo, which was affected through US Air Force support enhancing the endeavors of RAAF Dakotas. Cresswell trusted that the Iwakuni-based wing home office was not generally tuned in to forefront necessities, and he regularly managed Lieutenant General Sir Horace Robertson, BCOF administrator and the auditorium's senior Australian officer, and the RAAF's Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Frederick Scherger. 

In light of the risk of socialist Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15 stream contenders, No. 77 Squadron was pulled back to Iwakuni in April 1951, to re-outfit with Gloster Meteors. Four Royal Air Force officers with Meteor experience were supported to No. 91 Wing to help with preparing. The squadron came back to activity with its new flying machine on 29 July, working out of Kimpo, South Korea. The Mustangs had been very successful in close help, yet No. 77 Squadron's principle job in the RAAF was block attempt, and it was normal that with the Meteor it could again concentrate on contender obligations. As indicated by the official history of Australia in the Korean War, the unit demonstrated its esteem carefully just as operationally: having been one of the main UN squadrons to go vigorously, it included 33% of the fly contender constrain in the last piece of 1951, when conflicts in "MiG Alley" were at their tallness. In any case, dogfights among Meteors and MiGs that August persuaded the new boss, Wing Commander Gordon Steege, that the Australian planes were outmatched, and Fifth Air Force consented to remove them from a hostile aerial battle job for escort obligations and neighborhood air protection. The squadron's misfortune rate before the year's over was one of every four slaughtered or caught. 

Starting in December 1951 under Steege's substitution, Wing Commander Ron Susans, No. 77 Squadron again took up a hostile job, in particular ground assault, which established its essential entrusting for the remainder of the war. Flight Lieutenant J.C. Smith, No. 91 Wing's weapon officer, assumed a key job in creating "Blazing Onion", napalm-tipped air-to-ground rockets that were utilized in a few activities in 1952 and 1953. No. 77 Squadron stayed in Korea on battalion obligation—at first at Kimpo, later at Kunsan—following the cease-fire in July 1953. It had lost forty-one pilots murdered amid the war. A further seven pilots moved toward becoming detainees of war. Flying machine misfortunes totalled just about sixty, including more than forty Meteors, for the most part to ground fire. The squadron flew 18,872 fights, incorporating 3,872 in Mustangs and 15,000 in Meteors. It was credited with shooting down five MiG-15s and devastating 3,700 structures, 1,408 vehicles, ninety-eight trains and carriages, and sixteen scaffolds. 

No. 30 Communications Flight incorporated Robertson's own Dakota, working under his bearing. The unit's supplement of two Dakotas and two Austers was before long increased by two additional Dakotas from Australia. On 1 November 1950, No. 30 Communications Flight was renamed No. 30 Communications Unit. That month, it got another four Dakotas from No. 38 Squadron, of No. 90 (Composite) Wing in Malaya, giving it a quality of eight Dakotas and two Austers. The unit bolstered every single Australian power in Korea. One of its key capacities was medicinal clearing, however it was additionally in charge of supply drops, inquiry and salvage, surveillance, and mail conveyance, just as transporting payload, troops, and VIPs. Dissimilar to No. 77 Squadron, it was not entrusted by Fifth Air Force but rather worked under Australian control, which was practiced through BCOF base camp in Japan. No. 30 Communications Unit was re-shaped as No. 30 Transport Unit on 5 November 1951, and as No. 36 (Transport) Squadron on 10 March 1953. Amid the war it transported around 100,000 travelers and more than 6,000 tons of load. No. 91 Wing's records recorded 12,762 therapeutic departures from Korea to Japan, and more than 2,000 from Japan to Australia or Britain. The transportation unit lost an Auster and a Wirraway to crashes, bringing about four passings. 

At the point when the Korean War broke out, No. 77 Squadron was self-supporting. The additional weight of battle tasks made this circumstance indefensible after the squadron went without hesitation in Korea, prompting the arrangement of No. 391 (Base) Squadron at Iwakuni, in the meantime as No. 91 Wing central station. RAAF base squadrons were in charge of regulatory, calculated, therapeutic, correspondences and security capacities. Staffed basically by previous No. 77 Squadron individuals, in the primary year of its reality No. 391 Squadron needed to battle with serious deficiencies of winter garments and gear. Further issues emerged following the presentation of the Meteor, as extras for the British-made fly were more earnestly to acquire than for the American Mustang. Alongside its RAAF obligations, No. 391 Squadron upheld Australian Army and other UN work force going through Iwakuni. It ran No. 91 Wing's "Travel Hotel", which suited specialists and performers, just as military work force. The squadron's therapeutic unexpected was intensely occupied with the readiness and escort of harmed work force from Korea to Iwakuni and after that to different goals. 

No. 491 Squadron was likewise framed pair with No. 91 Wing on 20 October 1950. Headquartered at Iwakuni, it was in charge of all upkeep of the wing's air ship aside from everyday adjusting. An area was joined to No. 77 Squadron in South Korea to help ground staff with every day support. Faculty from Iwakuni were normally turned through this segment, and enlarged by extra No. 491 Squadron staff as required for fix or rescue work. The standard RAAF working days for specialists at Iwakuni stood out from movements of as long as sixteen hours close to the cutting edge in Korea. Korea was one of the coldest atmospheres in which RAAF ground groups had ever worked; Squadron Leader Cresswell saw upkeep staff with devices solidified to their hands. Both Nos. 391 and 491 Squadrons utilized Japanese experts just as Australian, which was irregular for the time; amid the control of Japan following its surrender in World War II, the RAAF had just utilized Japanese specialists for humble assignments. 

No. 77 Squadron remained down at Kunsan on 7 October 1954 and flew its Meteors to Iwakuni five days after the fact. It withdrew for Australia in November and wound up operational again at RAAF Base Williamtown, New South Wales, on 4 January 1955. Its eleven-year nonappearance from Australia, starting in the Pacific amid World War II and proceeding in Japan as a feature of BCOF, was a record for a RAAF unit. No. 491 Squadron disbanded at Iwakuni on 13 December 1954. No. 36 Squadron stopped flying on 13 March 1955 and came back to Australia, deserting three Dakotas and a Wirraway that prepared RAAF Transport Flight (Japan), framed the next day under No. 91 Wing. No. 391 Squadron and No. 91 Wing central station were disbanded at Iwakuni on 30 April 1955. Transport Flight (Japan) flew a messenger administration to South Korea and stayed operational until 8 July 1956, when its last Dakota—the last RAAF flying machine in Japan—left Iwakuni. 

No. 91 Wing was directed by the accompanying officers: