Task Pamphlet 

Task Pamphlet, additionally called Convoy Pamphlet, was a World War II caravan activity led amid January and February 1943 to transport the ninth Australian Division home from Egypt. The escort included five transports, which were shielded from Japanese warships by a few Allied maritime teams amid the outing over the Indian Ocean and along the Australian coast. The division set out in late January 1943 and the escort task started on 4 February. No contact was made among Allied and Japanese boats, and the division touched base in Australian ports amid late February without any misfortunes from foe activity. 

The activity came after the British and United States governments consented to an Australian government demand that the ninth Division be returned home, and finished the job of the Second Australian Imperial Force in the Western Desert Campaign. This pursued a long discussion between the separate national pioneers, with Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt endeavoring to persuade the Australian Prime Minister John Curtin to pull back his solicitation until the Allied triumph in North Africa was finished. Curtin was reluctant to delay, as he and the Allied military pioneers in the South West Pacific trusted that the veteran division was expected to support the powers for hostile tasks in New Guinea. 

A guard to restore the ninth Australian Division to Australia was amassed in the Red Sea close Massawa from late January to early February 1943. The boats started their voyage over the Indian Ocean on 4 February, refueled at Addu Atoll, and arrived securely at the Western Australian port of Fremantle on 18 February. Four transports proceeded to the Australian east coast, one docking at Melbourne on 25 February and the rest of at Sydney two days after the fact. After its arrival to Australia, the division made an essential commitment to activities in New Guinea in late 1943. 

Amid 1940 and 1941, three infantry divisions and different units appointed to I Corps of the Second Australian Imperial Force (AIF) were transported to the Middle East, where they participated in a few battles against German, Italian and Vichy French powers. Following the flare-up of the Pacific War, the corps central command and the sixth and seventh Divisions were come back to Australia in mid 1942 to strengthen the resistance of Australia in Operation Stepsister. The Australian Government consented to British and United States demands incidentally to hold the ninth Australian Division in the Middle East in return for the sending of progressively United States Army units to Australia and British help for a proposition to extend the Royal Australian Air Force to 73 flying squadrons. The ninth Division assumed a critical job in the First Battle of El Alamein amid July 1942 and the Second Battle of El Alamein between 23 October and 4 November. The division endured numerous setbacks amid the last commitment and did not partake in the quest for the Axis retreat. 

A few variables affected the choice made by the Australian Government in October 1942 to review the ninth Division to Australia. Above all, the Government and the officer of the Australian Military Forces, General Thomas Blamey, needed to alleviate the sixth and seventh Divisions from battle in the New Guinea Campaign and Blamey believed the ninth Division to be preferable arranged for this obligation over the Australian Army's volunteer army powers or US Army units. The leader of Allied powers in the South West Pacific Area, General Douglas MacArthur, had likewise been squeezing the US and Australian Governments for fortifications to direct hostile tasks against Japanese positions. Different variables impacting the Australian Government's choice were a longing to focus the Australian Army in a solitary theater, the expanding trouble of discovering substitutions for the ninth Division's losses given the Army's labor deficiencies, the political challenges related with executing changes to allow volunteer army units to serve outside An australian area, and worries that a drawn out nonappearance from Australia would influence resolve among the ninth Division's officers. 

On 17 October 1942, Australian Prime Minister John Curtin cabled British Prime Minister Winston Churchill to demand that the ninth Division be come back to Australia. In the link Curtin expressed that, inferable from Australia's labor deficiency and the requests of the war in the Pacific, it was never again conceivable to give enough fortifications to support the division in the Middle East. The British Government at first opposed this solicitation in light of the fact that the ninth Division was required for the forthcoming hostile at El Alamein. On 29 October (six days into the fight) Curtin again cabled Churchill, expressing that Australia required the division in the Pacific and in a fit state to take part in hostile activities. On 1 November, US President Franklin D. Roosevelt wrote to Curtin proposing to send another US Army division to Australia if the Australian Government consented to hold the ninth Division in the Middle East. Curtin, following up on the counsel of MacArthur, reacted to Roosevelt on 16 November dismissing this recommendation, and again mentioned that the ninth Division be returned. 

On 21 November, the administrator of the ninth Division, Major General Leslie Morshead, was educated by General Harold Alexander, the president of the Middle East Command, that a choice had been made to restore the division to Australia. Churchill told the Australian Government on 2 December that while he was set up to prescribe to Roosevelt that the ninth Division be restored, the resultant preoccupation of delivery would decrease the measure of the development of United States military powers in Britain and North Africa by 30,000 men. In a similar link, Churchill likewise expressed that because of a deficiency of transportation the ninth Division's overwhelming gear would need to stay in the Middle East. On 3 December, Roosevelt again wrote to Curtin to propose that the ninth Division stay in the Middle East until the last annihilation of the Axis powers in North Africa. Roosevelt likewise educated Curtin that the US Army's 25th Infantry Division would be exchanged to Australia amid December. Following these messages the Australian Government looked for counsel from Blamey and MacArthur on whether it was important for the ninth Division to come back with its overwhelming hardware, and was educated that the fundamental supplies could be sourced from American assets once the unit landed in Australia. 

Curtin answered to Churchill and Roosevelt on 8 December, and again focused on the need to restore the ninth Division to Australia as quickly as time permits to make great the Army's misfortunes to tropical infections and plan for future offensives in the Pacific. In his message he consented to leave the division's substantial hardware in the Middle East, and mentioned just that it go with things important to rapidly reemerge battle in the South West Pacific. No further discussion occurred, and on 15 December Churchill educated Curtin that delivery would be made accessible in late January to transport the division and a little part of its hardware to Australia. 

The ninth Division's job in the Second Battle of El Alamein finished on 5 November 1942. From 30 November the division made a trip to Palestine by street, and every one of its units touched base there by 9 December. In the wake of sinking into camps situated among Gaza and Qastina, the ninth Division embraced a time of modifying and preparing, and numerous troopers were conceded leave. On 22 December, a formal procession including the whole division was led at Gaza Airport. 

Arrangements to restore the ninth Division to Australia started in late December 1942. On 26 December, the majority of the AIF unit bosses in the Middle East were educated that their directions were to come back to Australia; the development was code-named "Liddington". Tight security was initiated, and increasingly junior staff who should have been educated were informed that their units were being exchanged to Egypt. Numerous individuals from the AIF at first trusted that they would participate in further battling in the Mediterranean, yet as arrangements proceeded with it wound up evident that the units were going to embrace a long ocean voyage. The ninth Division's gunnery, tanks and other overwhelming hardware were exchanged to arms warehouses amid early January 1943, and on the sixteenth of that month the division started moving to the Suez Canal region, from where it was to set out. Amid this period the majority of the faculty relegated to the AIF Reinforcement Depot in Palestine were exchanged to the ninth Division, bringing about the arrangement being bigger than its approved quality. The development of the ninth Division occurred in gatherings, every one of which went through a couple of days at a travel camp at Qassin, where all vehicles were given to British specialists. The ninth Division additionally started preparing for wilderness and land and/or water capable fighting before leaving the Middle East. Amid January, each detachment went through three days practicing in the unpleasant territory close Bayt Jibrin, which was accepted to be the closest comparable to a wilderness in Palestine. The vast majority of the unit commandants and a few officers from every one of the infantry legions additionally gone to short courses at the British land and/or water capable fighting school on the Bitter Lakes in Egypt. 

The Royal Navy likewise made arrangements in late 1942 for the development of the ninth Division back to Australia. Four extensive troop ships were allotted to the assignment, and the British Chiefs of Staff Committee at first proposed to Churchill that they cruise over the Indian Ocean without a defensive escort. In any case, as the eastern Indian Ocean was inside scope of Japanese warships based at Singapore and Japanese submarines had sometimes assaulted ships close Aden, this was made a decision to be unsuitably hazardous, particularly as it was not likely that the development of such a large number of warriors could be stayed discreet. In addition, transporting the division without an escort would have disregarded the long-standing approach of appointing something like one capital ship to secure troop caravans in this locale, and would not have been acknowledged by the Australian government. In November, the Chiefs of Staff Committee chose to assign an escort to the guard, however did not indicate what it ought to include. 

The boats relegated to convey the ninth Division to Australia were the changed over sea liners "Aquitania", "Île de France", "Nieuw Amsterdam" and "Ruler Mary"; these four substantial vessels had recently conveyed Australian troopers to the Middle East and different areas. The liners were vigorously entrusted transporting Allied military work force crosswise over long separations, and touched base at Suez independently. "Aquitania" put in from Australia on 5 January, "Ruler Mary" was reassigned from transporting American work force over the Atlantic and landed from the United Kingdom on 18 January, "Nieuw Amsterdam" finished one of her continuous voyages along the shoreline of East Africa on 31 January and "Île de France" touched base in late January. Notwithstanding the four changed over liners, the equipped shipper cruiser HMS "Ruler of Bermuda" was exchanged from transport obligations in the Indian Ocean to both enlarge the guard's escort and set out Australian faculty. The four liners were equipped with against airplane weapons kept an eye on by devoted work force, just as two 6-inch firearms each. The activity to cruise these vessels from Egypt to Australia together was assigned Operation Pamphlet. 

The AIF started setting out on the troop transports on 24 January 1943. As the Suez Canal ports were unreasonably little for the four troop boats to stack at the same time, the embarkation procedure was organized and the escort's five vessels cruised independently through the northern Red Sea and rendezvoused close Massawa in Eritrea. English destroyers , and the Greek destroyer "Vasilissa Olga" were exchanged from the Mediterranean Fleet to watch the troop ships from assault by Japanese submarines as they went through the Red Sea. 

"Ruler Mary" was the primary ship to finish stacking, and left Port Tewfik on 25 January. She tied down at Massawa three days after the fact, and the officers on board persevered through hot conditions until she continued her voyage. "Aquitania" was by burden, and set out the whole twentieth Brigade somewhere in the range of 25 and 30 January. "Île de France" finished stacking and withdrew Egypt on 28 January, and "Nieuw Amsterdam" and "Ruler of Bermuda" cruised together on 1 February. Generally speaking, 30,985 Australians were set out on "Ruler of Bermuda" and the changed over liners; "Aquitania" conveyed 6,953, "Île de France" 6,531, "Nieuw Amsterdam" had 9,241 ready, 9,995 cruised on "Ruler Mary" and 1,731 on "Ruler of Bermuda". An aggregate of 622 AIF staff stayed in the Middle East after the boats left Egypt, yet this figure was relentlessly diminished to underneath 20 by March 1943. 

The five boats of the guard rendezvoused off the Red Sea island of Perim on the morning of 4 February, and passed Aden soon thereafter. The destroyers left the caravan as it passed Cape Guardafui, and were supplanted by the substantial cruiser and light cruiser , which were to fill in as sea escorts. Skipper James Bisset, leader of the "Ruler Mary", filled in as the guard commodore. The four vast changed over liners cruised in line side by side development and "Ruler of Bermuda"s position fluctuated dependent on the season of day and the circumstance. The caravan went at a speed of ; while the liners ordinarily cruised at a lot higher velocities amid their autonomous voyages, they were compelled by the greatest that "Ruler of Bermuda" could keep up. Bisset was disappointed by the choice to cruise the vehicles together, as it significantly expanded the time taken to finish the voyage and involved extensive deferrals for the vigorously entrusted "Ruler Mary". 

In the wake of entering the Indian Ocean, the guard cruised south-east. The boats moved together in a crisscross course; staying away from crashes amid the regular turns set substantial requests on the watch-keeping officers, who found their days of work debilitating. The troops persevered through entirely awkward conditions on the hot and swarmed ships, however confidence was high. They engaged themselves with games, sun heating and betting, and those on "Ruler Mary" could go to shows performed by a regimental metal band. The ninth Division's officers appreciated to some degree better conditions, which disappointed a portion of different positions. The ninth Division's arrangements for wilderness fighting kept amid the voyage, with all work force going to every day addresses conveyed by officers on the exercises picked up amid the past battling in the Pacific. 

The escort touched base at Addu Atoll on the night of 9 February, and moored there to refuel and take on provisions. This atoll filled in as a mystery supply base for Allied vessels in the Indian Ocean, and the Australian officers were not told where they were while the refueling occurred. The troops were additionally not allowed to go aground, yet respected seeing the tropical atoll as a much needed development from the parched Middle East. After the boats were refueled, the caravan cruised on the evening of 10 February. 

A solid escort constrain was given to monitor the caravan as it went through the eastern Indian Ocean. This was viewed as the most risky phase of the voyage, as the guard would go inside scope of the Japanese warships based at Singapore. To counter this danger, the caravan's escort was fortified for a few days by Force An of the British Eastern Fleet. This power included the war vessels , and , just as the light cruiser and six destroyers. Power A cruised inside perspective on the vehicles on 10 February to give consolation to the Australian troopers, and in this manner watched into the great beyond from the escort. At the point when the caravan achieved a point from the Western Australian port of Fremantle its escort was strengthened by the Dutch cruisers HNLMS "Jacob van Heemskerck" and "Tromp", just as the destroyers HNLMS "Tjerk Hiddes" and "Van Galen". 

The boats touched base at Fremantle on 18 February. Seeing the Australian coast had been excitedly foreseen by the troopers, who broke into cheers when it wound up unmistakable quickly before early afternoon that day. "Nieuw Amsterdam" and "Ruler of Bermuda" berthed in Fremantle Harbor, and the other three troop ships tied up at Gage Roads. The Western Australian individuals from the ninth Division landed, and the boats stacked supplies and mail. As "Ruler of Bermuda" left the escort at Fremantle, her staying 517 travelers were exchanged to "Nieuw Amsterdam". This brought about impressive congestion for the rest of the liner's voyage. 

The Australian Government was worried that the troop boats could be assaulted while going through Australian waters. At a gathering hung on 17 February, the Advisory War Council considered embracing a proposal that the officers be moved toward the east coast by rail. It ruled against doing as such in the wake of being educated that, because of the constrained limit of the Trans-Australian Railway, it would take a while to move the 30,000 faculty. Rather, the board suggested that the caravan proceed however be given "the most extreme security conceivable". Because of the nearness of Japanese submarines off the Australian coast, tight safety efforts were founded after the caravan touched base at Fremantle; non military personnel correspondences between Western Australia and the east coast were cut for a few days, and Curtin requested that the media not report the development of the ninth Division. Amid a classified preparation on 24 February, Curtin told columnists that he had not rested soundly for three weeks because of worries over the caravan's wellbeing. 

At the point when the guard cruised from Fremantle on 20 February it was escorted by the Australian light cruiser , just as "Jacob van Heemskerck" and "Tjerk Hiddes". To maintain a strategic distance from any foe ships or submarines working off the Australian coast, the escort's course took it well toward the south of the mainland. The escort constrain was reinforced on 24 February when the caravan rendezvoused with Task Group 44.3; this power involved the substantial cruiser and American destroyers , and , and had been dispatched from Sydney on 17 February. "Adelaide" and the Dutch warships left the guard in the blink of an eye a short time later to escort "Nieuw Amsterdam" into Melbourne; the liner docked there on the evening of 25 February. Assignment Group 44.3 escorted the rest of the boats to Sydney, cruising south of Tasmania before continuing up the east coast. The escort was fortified by "Jacob van Heemskerck" and the French destroyer as the caravan passed the eastern end of the Bass Strait. The three changed over liners touched base at Sydney on 27 February 1943, finishing Operation Pamphlet without misfortune. 

In spite of the official mystery concerning the caravan, expansive groups gathered on vantage indicates around Sydney Harbor watch the boats arrive. "Ruler Mary" tied down off Bradleys Head and the other two liners berthed at Woolloomooloo. Curtin formally reported that the ninth Division had come back to Australia in a discourse conveyed to the House of Representatives on 23 March. 

The boats associated with Operation Pamphlet quickly left for different obligations. In the wake of dumping her troops at Fremantle, "Ruler of Bermuda" left for the United Kingdom on 3 March and landed there on 13 April. "Nieuw Amsterdam" cruised from Melbourne destined for San Francisco by means of New Zealand on 6 March conveying 2,189 Allied military staff; she finished her voyage on 22 March. In the wake of setting out 350 Free French work force and roughly 150 ladies and kids, "Île de France" left Sydney for Durban on 16 March. On 22 March, "Ruler Mary" cruised for the United Kingdom conveying 8,326 US military staff. Going at , she landed at Gourock in Scotland precisely one month later. "Aquitania" left Sydney at around a similar time as "Ruler Mary", and finished her voyage to New York City on 4 May. 

Subsequent to landing in Australia, all individuals from the ninth Division were given three weeks leave. The men were then collected in their home state capital and participated in an appreciated home walk; these walks were directed both to recognize the division's administration in the Middle East and promote a war credit drive. Following the walks the division re-amassed at preparing camps on the Atherton Tableland in far North Queensland, where it was to finished its preparation for wilderness fighting. As the division was still overstrength because of the fortifications which had been allocated to it before leaving the Middle East, its abundance work force were exchanged to other AIF units. The ninth Division next observed activity against Japanese powers amid the Salamaua– Lae crusade in New Guinea amid September 1943; had the division not come back from the Middle East, in any event part of this errand would have tumbled to less-experienced local army units.