Gottlob Berger 

Gottlob Christian Berger (16 July 1896 – 5 January 1975) was a senior German Nazi authority who held the position of "SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Waffen-SS" (lieutenant general), and was the head of the SS Main Office in charge of "Schutzstaffel" (SS) selecting amid World War II. Following the war, he was sentenced as a war criminal, spending a sum of six-and-a-half years in jail. Serving in the German Army amid World War I, he was injured multiple times and granted the Iron Cross First Class. Following the war, he was a pioneer of the "Einwohnerwehr" civilian army in his local North Württemberg. He joined the Nazi Party in 1922, yet lost enthusiasm for conservative governmental issues amid the 1920s, preparing and filling in as physical instruction educator. 

In the late 1920s, he rejoined the Nazi Party and turned into an individual from the paramilitary "Sturmabteilung" (SA) in 1931. He conflicted with different pioneers of the SA, and joined the "Allgemeine-SS" in 1936. At first in charge of physical training in a SS area, he was before long exchanged to the staff of "Reichsführer-SS" Heinrich Himmler as leader of the games office. In 1938, he was delegated as leader of the selecting office of the SS Main Office (SS-HA), taking over as head of the SS-HA the next year. To a noteworthy degree, Berger was the "father" of the "Waffen-SS", as he not just executed enlisting structures and strategies that helped the "Waffen-SS" to bypass Wehrmacht powers over enrollment, yet in addition expanded "Waffen-SS" selecting first to "Germanic" volunteers from Scandinavia and western Europe, at that point "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic Germans) outside the Reich, lastly to people groups who not the slightest bit mirrored Himmler's thoughts of "racial virtue". He reliably supported more prominent ideological preparing for the "Waffen-SS", however did not see SS philosophy as a trade for religion. He additionally supported and ensured his companion Oskar Dirlewanger, whom he put in order of a unit of indicted culprits; the SS-"Sonderkommando Dirlewanger" in this manner carried out many atrocities. Berger regularly conflicted with senior officers of the Wehrmacht and even with senior "Waffen-SS" officers over his enlisting strategies, however he exploited open doors as they introduced themselves so as to become the "Waffen-SS" to an aggregate of 38 divisions by war's end. 

Berger embraced a few different jobs in the last phases of the war, while proceeding as head of the SS-HA. He had a key job in the Reich Ministry for the Occupied Eastern Territories from mid-1942, enabling the SS to coordinate a great part of the monetary action in the east. In this job he proposed an arrangement to seize and subjugate 50,000 Eastern European kids between the ages of 10 and 14, under the codename "Heuaktion", an arrangement that was in this way completed. In light of the Slovak National Uprising in August 1944, Berger was named as Military Commander in Slovakia, and was in control amid the underlying inability to stifle the revolt. The next month he was selected as one of the two head of staff of the "Volkssturm" volunteer army, and as head of the captive camps. In the last a long time of the war he told German powers in the Bavarian Alps, which included remainders of a few of the "Waffen-SS" units he had helped select. He surrendered to U.S. troops close Berchtesgaden, and was quickly captured. He was attempted and sentenced in the Ministries Trial of the U.S. Nuremberg Military Tribunals for atrocities, and was condemned to 25 years detainment. His sentence was before long decreased to 10 years, and he was discharged subsequent to serving six-and-a-half years. After discharge he pushed for the restoration of the "Waffen-SS" and worked in a few assembling organizations. He passed on in the place where he grew up in 1975. 

Portrayed as stormy, negative, and "a standout amongst Himmler's most equipped and confided in war-time lieutenants", Berger was additionally a passionate enemy of Semite and a gifted and corrupt bureaucratic controller. Because of his hierarchical and selecting aptitudes, Berger was kept as the head of the SS-HA all through the war. 

Berger was conceived on 16 July 1896 at Gerstetten in the Kingdom of Württemberg, the child of saw-plant proprietors Johannes and Christine (), and was one of eight youngsters. He went to "Volksschule" (primary school) and "Realschule" (middle school) and after that instructor preparing in Nürtingen. He volunteered for military administration toward the start of World War I, and rose to the position of "Leutnant" in the infantry when of his release in 1919. Injured multiple times, he was granted the Iron Cross First Class, and was viewed as 70 percent impaired at the season of his release. Amid the war, every one of the three of his siblings kicked the bucket, two murdered in real life and the other executed as a covert agent in the United States. Berger's confrontational personality and preservationist legislative issues fitted him for a position of authority with the North Württemberg "Einwohnerwehr" local army in 1918– 19. He wedded Maria () in 1921. In the wake of joining the Nazi Party in 1922, he was captured and quickly held in care after Adolf Hitler's Munich Beer Hall Putsch in November 1923. He prepared and filled in as physical training educator, in spite of his wounds, and lost enthusiasm for legislative issues for certain, prior years rejoining the Nazi Party in 1929, and the paramilitary "Sturmabteilung" (SA) in January 1931. 

Berger's SA profession was constrained by his soldierly thoughts of legislative issues and authority, however after the Nazi seizure of intensity in January 1933, he was observed to be truly appropriate to lead "Schutzhaft" tasks, which included the gathering together of Jews and "political nuisances". In April 1933, his conflicts with more youthful pioneers implied his SA profession had met an impasse. His SA peers scrutinized Berger's aggressive nature, frankness and absence of self-reflection. Starting in July 1934, Berger worked with the SA preparing boss " SA-Obergruppenführer" Friedrich-Wilhelm Krüger. Somewhere in the range of 1933 and 1935, he was a school reviewer in Esslingen am Neckar close Stuttgart, and in 1935 was a senior authority in the Gau Württemberg – Hohenzollern Ministry of Culture. He was selected into the "Allgemeine-SS" by "Reichsführer-SS" Heinrich Himmler in 1936, on Krüger's suggestion. At first selected to regulate sports and physical preparing for "SS-Oberabschnitt Südwest" (SS Regional Headquarters Southwest), he at that point moved to Himmler's own staff as leader of the games office. 

Berger intervened for the benefit of his World War I friend Oskar Dirlewanger, who had been detained for a long time in 1935 for offenses against a minor. On his discharge from jail, Berger utilized his impact to guarantee Dirlewanger could join the Condor Legion and battle in the Spanish Civil War. 

On 1 July 1938, Himmler named Berger as head of the selecting bureau of the "SS-Hauptamt" (SS Main Office, or SS-HA), which he immediately formed into an amazing asset for Himmler's desire. As per Berger, the German Army was at first contemptuous of the possibility of SS battle troops. He cited the Commander-in-Chief of the Army, "Generaloberst" Werner von Fritsch as saying, "If the Reich Transport Minister has his militarily-prepared Railway Police, is there any good reason why himmler shouldn't likewise play at fighters?" 

Berger later asserted that he had thought of the possibility of SS battle troops wearing cover coats from his very own chasing days, and had recommended it to "SS-Obergruppenführer" Sepp Dietrich, officer of the Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler Regiment (LSSAH). From 1938, different types of "Flecktarn" disguise were issued. The creator Adrian Weale questions Berger's record. 

Berger had accomplished the position of "Major der Reserve" in the Wehrmacht by 1938, however his underlying position after joining the "Allgemeine-SS" was "SS-Standartenführer", in light of his SA administration. Berger assumed a key job in coordinating the fifth section "Sudetendeutsches Freikorps" amid the Sudeten Crisis in Czechoslovakia in 1938, and the hierarchical abilities he showed there stamped him as profoundly reasonable for the SS enlisting job. 

Preceding the flare-up of World War II, the SS-HA had been in charge of arranging a past "regular citizen" political association, the "Allgemeine-SS". After the war started, obviously those branches of the SS-HA caring for the "SS-Verfügungstruppe" (SS dispositional troops or SS-VT) had performed inadequately. Amid the intrusion of Poland, insufficiencies in association, hardware and preparing had turned out to be self-evident. The SS-HA, and explicitly its boss, "SS-Obergruppenführer" August Heissmeyer, were considered mindful, and Heissmeyer before long cleared path for Berger. As head of enrolling, Berger had effectively brought together the enlisting framework for the three principle SS associations, the "Allgemeine-SS", SS-VT and police, and in August 1938 he arranged a selecting understanding among Himmler and the "Reichsjugendführer" (Reich Youth Leader) Baldur von Schirach which made a solid selecting pathway for the young fellows of the Hitler Youth into the SS. 

Following the Polish battle, Hitler affirmed the development of the SS battle troops to three divisions just as conveying the LSSAH up to the quality of a strengthened mechanized regiment. To accomplish this objective before the beginning of the arranged attack of France and the Low Countries, Berger required in any event halfway prepared faculty. To do this, he evaded the enrolling power of the Wehrmacht by exchanging men from powers officially under Himmler's control, the "SS-Totenkopfverbände" (SS-TV) that ran the death camps, and battle prepared police fortifications of the "Ordnungspolizei" (Order Police or Orpo). By adding these men to the LSSAH and the current three regiments of the SS-VT, he extended the power to the affirmed roof, including 50,000 prepared substitutions. The three new divisions were: the "SS-Verfügungs-Division" (later given the name "Reich" and after that "Das Reich") instructed by the Inspector of the SS-VT, "SS-Gruppenführer" Paul Hausser; the "SS-Division-Totenkopf" told by the Inspector of Concentration Camps, "SS-Gruppenführer" Theodor Eicke; and the "Polizei-Division", directed by "SS-Gruppenführer und Generalleutnant der Polizei" Karl Pfeffer-Wildenbruch. This fast change was hypothetical to a noteworthy degree, as Eicke and the SS-TV kept on opposing trades of faculty with the SS-VT. 

The way that Berger had the capacity to grow the SS battle troops so rapidly was a tribute to his improvisational abilities. On 1 December 1939, Himmler elevated Berger to head of the SS-HA. To a huge degree, Berger was the "father" of the "Waffen"- SS (or Armed SS), a term he begat in an understanding dated 2 March 1940. He utilized the new term to cover up contact between the SS-VT and SS-TV, as they were consolidated in new arrangements. Berger's freshly discovered specialist for SS selecting matters disturbed the head of the "Allgemeine-SS" regions, who had recently been in charge of this capacity. This reached a crucial stage when the head of "SS-Oberabschnitt Südwest", "SS-Gruppenführer" Kurt Kaul would not perceive Berger's agent in his area, alluding to Berger as a "low-positioning domain manufacturer". Kaul's arrangement of letters to Berlin came to nothing, as the power and impact of the "Allgemeine-SS" had melted away with the episode of war and the induction of a significant number of its individuals into the Wehrmacht, "Waffen-SS" and police. Eventually, when Kaul took steps to capture Berger's representative in "SS-Oberabschnitt Südwest", Himmler interceded actually in February 1940, expressing that "the most unsavory results" would occur for Kaul on the off chance that he didn't advocate Berger and his selecting association. Kaul assented, and Berger's matchless quality as SS enrolling supremo was immovably settled. 

In spite of this achievement, Berger still needed to consult with the Wehrmacht, which restricted his endeavors to grow the "Waffen-SS" at pretty much every turn. In mid 1940, Himmler and Berger were defeated by "Generaloberst" Wilhelm Keitel, Chief of "Oberkommando der Wehrmacht" (Wehrmacht High Command or OKW) on various issues around "Waffen-SS" selecting, mirroring the solid impact the Wehrmacht still had with Hitler. On 20 April 1940, Berger was elevated to "SS-Brigadeführer". As per Berger, Himmler never expected that the "Waffen-SS" would supersede the Army, and after the war he proposed that it is decreased to seven dynamic and five hold divisions. Berger made an enlisting structure all through the Reich, reflecting that of the Army, however while the Wehrmacht, which controlled the draft, was eager to permit Berger enough selects to keep up the three divisions and the LSSAH, it would not like to perceive any further extension. To get around this, Berger needed to look outside the Reich. 

At this point, the "Waffen-SS" numbered just shy of 125,000, of whom more than 40,000 began from post-Anschluss Austria and different zones outside the pre-1933 outskirts of Germany. In April 1940, the Germans had attacked and involved Denmark and Norway, opening up a wellspring of "Nordic" or "Germanic" initiates, which Berger rushed to abuse. After the attack of France and the Low Countries, the subsequent regiment, "SS-Nordland", was joined by a Dutch-Belgian-Flemish regiment, "SS-Westland". In the meantime as they were enlisting for these "Germanic" regiments, Berger's representatives were additionally concentrating on increasing ethnic German volunteers from outside the Reich, men not expose to the Wehrmacht-controlled draft. In May, in excess of 1,000 Romanian "Volksdeutsche" had been selected, with the assistance of Andreas Schmidt, Berger's child in-law and the political pioneer of the Romanian "Volksdeutsche". Three weeks after the intrusion of Belgium, Berger was selected as the leader of the German-supported ace Nazi Belgian ideological group, "DeVlag". Berger additionally attempted to bring the Yugoslav "Volksdeutsche" affected by the SS, which he had the capacity to accomplish a half year preceding the intrusion of that nation by the Axis in April 1941. Berger's enrolling work with the Flemish and Croatian people group was encouraged by his chairmanship of both the "Deutsche-Flämischen Studiengruppe" (German-Flemish Studies Group) and the "Deutsche-Kroatischen Gesellschaft" (German-Croatian Society). 

Before the finish of May 1940, Berger had filled the approved share of newcomers, yet his selection representatives kept joining young fellows to make a save that could supplant the numerous more seasoned "Allgemeine-SS" reservists in the three field divisions. To enhance this pool, Berger likewise kept selecting for the SS-TV and police regiments, which were not under Wehrmacht control, were still beneath the qualities endorsed by Hitler. This kept on making contact between the Wehrmacht and SS, as potential Wehrmacht initiates were redirected to powers under Himmler's control. By a scope of strategies, Berger redirected labor from the more youthful age gatherings, and furthermore focused on zones outside the Reich that were not expose to Wehrmacht selecting controls. 

Berger's avoidance of Wehrmacht-forced enlisting limitations reached a critical stage in June, when the Chief of the OKW Operations Staff, "Generalmajor" Alfred Jodl started an examination of SS selecting tasks inside the Reich. The outcome was that around 15,000 SS enlistments were held up by different Wehrmacht military area base camp. Berger wound up mindful of Jodl's request and exhorted Himmler that even their request had thought little of his prosperity, giving the model that the Wehrmacht trusted he had surpassed the June portion for "SS-Division-Totenkopf" by 900 men, when in truth the genuine figure was 1,164. He bragged to Himmler that amid the entire enrolling effort, he had joined 15,000 men for "SS-Division-Totenkopf", when Hitler had just approved the selecting of 4,000 for the division in a similar period. To legitimize his activities, Berger indicated the way that, just before the French surrender, Hitler had requested the arrival of over-age SS reservists. In the "SS-Division-Totenkopf", this implied 13,246 of the 20,000-in number arrangement. 

Berger had been amazingly effective, in spite of the impediments put in his way by the Wehrmacht, having enrolled almost 60,000 men for the "Waffen-SS" between mid-January and the finish of June. These crisp troops were more than adequate to supplant those discharged when Himmler retired a few classes of SS reservists in late July. However, Himmler realized that the eventual fate of the "Waffen-SS" was guaranteed; Hitler was at that point thinking about attacking the Soviet Union. 

In August 1940, Berger revamped the SS-HA to concentrate better on its fundamental job of selecting for the "Waffen-SS", making separate segments to manage enrolling inside and outside the Reich. The area focusing on enlisted people from outside of the Reich created out of a preparation he got from the Chief of the "SS-Führungshauptamt" (SS Command Main Office, or SS-FHA) "SS-Brigadeführer" Hans Jüttner on Hitler's desires for the "Waffen-SS" for the up and coming intrusion of the Soviet Union, which incorporated the raising of a fourth division and the development of the LSSAH to a mechanized unit. Berger understood that the Wehrmacht amounts for the "Waffen-SS" would miss the mark concerning its labor needs by no less than 6,000 every year. 

Berger's SS-HA had a tricky association with the SS-FHA, which was in charge of arranging, preparing and preparing the "Waffen-SS". The SS-FHA needed the "Waffen-SS" to be a little first class corps, yet Berger and Himmler realized that Hitler required whatever number divisions as could be expected under the circumstances, regardless of whether that implied some "Waffen-SS" developments would be of lesser quality. Jüttner's underlying endeavors at coordinating the enlisted people from western Europe and Scandinavia were lacking, with inadequate accentuation on preparing and selecting officers and non-authorized officers from the positions of the newcomers. The SS-FHA had additionally given meager consideration to maintenance of positions for previous individuals from national military, contact with home regions, and even mail. Berger's all around inquired about report to Himmler on these disappointments was cursing, and the "Reichsführer-SS" soon issued point by point directions on the treatment of these newcomers, from the minute they joined the "Waffen-SS". Berger's reactions of Jüttner must be found in the light of the focal points Berger considered he would accomplish if Jüttner's situation with Himmler was debilitated. 

One of the conspicuous hotspots for "Waffen-SS" labor was the about 40,000 troops of the SS-TV regiments, which comprised of young people beneath induction age for the Wehrmacht, just as more established "Allgemeine-SS" reservists. These regiments were under Himmler's control, and were sent crosswise over German-involved Europe as political police, yet the security capacities they did were plainly inside the abilities of the Orpo. In late 1940, so as to guarantee that Himmler's directions were completed, Berger set up an extraordinary camp at Sennheim in involved Alsace, where non-Reich German enlisted people could be raised to physical models and ideologically taught before "Waffen-SS" preparing. This was an endeavor to address the worries of certain authorities about the nature of these volunteers, and their capacity to be incorporated into units made for the most part out of Reich Germans. Enlisted people sent to this camp included "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic Germans from outside the Reich), Danes, Norwegians, Dutch and Flemings. Berger likewise made a system of workplaces all through German-involved Europe to guarantee the welfare of the groups of such enlists, impact the nearby networks to help "Waffen-SS" selecting, and get ready potential volunteers for teaching. This system and its exercises was firmly opposed by the Main Welfare Office for Ethnic Germans ( or VoMi) the Nazi Party arm in charge of directing the ethnic German people group outside the Reich. Himmler, discontent with crafted by VoMi in supporting SS selecting, did not annul VoMi, he simply approved Berger to evade it. 

Before the finish of 1940, "SS-Nordland" and "SS-Westland" had turned into the reason for the arrangement of the fourth division, "SS-Division Wiking". Throwing about for another wellspring of volunteers, Berger struck upon enrolling indicted lawbreakers, who were amassed in the "Sonderkommando Dirlewanger", told by Berger's companion, Dirlewanger. Dirlewanger had come back from Spain and been reestablished as a "SS-Standartenfuhrer der Reserve" in the "Allgemeine-SS" at Berger's prompting. In September 1940, Dirlewanger's unit had been conveyed to the zone of involved Poland, where they set up cautious positions and gave watchmen to a Jewish work camp. 

In March 1941, Berger established the German Guidance Office which was in charge of the enrollment of "Germanic" men for the "Waffen-SS". The German Guidance Office enveloped the camp at Sennheim, just as the system of enrolling workplaces officially settled all through involved Europe, and turned into a different division of the SS-HA, with discrete segments for administration, enlisting and instruction, and six territorial sub-segments. 

After the Balkan Campaign of April 1941, the LSSAH was extended to divisional quality, and following the beginning of the attack of the Soviet Union, a 6th "Waffen-SS" division, "SS-Division Nord" was shaped from four of the previous "SS-Totenkopf" regiments, all of which had been re-assigned "SS Infantry" regiments. These new divisions had an underlying quality just 66% of that of the first divisions. The "Polizei-Division" was additionally renamed the "SS-Polizei-Division". The desires on Berger's enrolling system kept on expanding, similarly as losses started to mount decisively. 

Toward the beginning of April 1941, Hitler had consented to the making of the "SS-Freiwilligenstandarte Nordwest" (SS Volunteer Regiment Northwest), with an approved quality of 2,500 men enlisted from Flanders and the Netherlands. This arrangement benefited from the push for a self-sufficient Flemish-Dutch district inside the Reich. Critical defenders of such an association were Anton Mussert of the National Socialist Movement in the Netherlands and Staf De Clercq of the Flemish National League. In this, Berger was abusing Mussert and De Clerq, in light of the fact that he was really moving in the direction of Hitler's concept of joining Flanders and Wallonia into the Reich as two "Gaue", not a bound together independent substance. 

Toward the finish of April, Himmler requested Berger to get 20,000 newcomers for the "Waffen-SS" before the finish of May. With Hitler's authorisation, the enlistment quantities were lifted by the Wehrmacht, permitting Berger a basically free hand temporarily. He didn't baffle, deceiving the newcomers with regards to the length of their administration commitment, and joining 22,361 new troops by 29 May, huge numbers of whom were just 18 years of age. To meet Himmler's objective, Berger had likewise called up qualified individuals from the "Allgemeine-SS" and strengthened endeavors to select western Europeans. The last activity demonstrated baffling, with just 2,000 of the complete originating from that source. A sum of 400 Finnish battle veterans additionally volunteered to join the "Waffen-SS" in this period, and they were sent to join the "SS-Division-Wiking". 

In June 1941, soon after the initiation of Operation Barbarossa, Hitler announced that the "Waffen-SS" could select outsiders for administration on the Eastern Front. He needed an army to be raised from every one of the involved nations of Western Europe, however Himmler was just keen on enlisting "Germanic" individuals into the "Waffen-SS". Himmler chose that there were substantial quantities of potential expert German yet nationalistic enlisted people accessible from the "Germanic" races in involved nations, and coordinated Berger to investigate this labor source. Because of Himmler's choice, the Wehrmacht was allowed to enlist Frenchmen, Spaniards and Croats, while Dutch, Flemish, Swedish, Norwegian and Danish men were Berger's area. The "national armies" each numbered 1,000, with the exception of the Netherlands Legion, which had a most extreme quality of 2,000. In November 1941, the Netherlands Legion and Flemish Legion had finished light infantry preparing and were sent to join the second SS Infantry Brigade on the Leningrad Front. While they swore an individual vow to Hitler and were liable to SS tenets and guidelines, they were not individuals from the SS, and wore national images instead of the sig runes. Berger even ventured to such an extreme as to prescribe to Himmler that Flemings never again be treated as outsiders, however be given full citizenship rights as Germans. 

Having "national armies" was ineffectively overseen, with certain volunteers being deceived into enrolling, and a large number of the newcomers being severely treated by their German educators. When updates on this achieved their home regions, the restricted stream of expert German volunteers evaporated. Once enrolled, the SS-FHA neglected to bring through the duties made to the men of the "national armies" when they enrolled, and joined with abuse and maltreatment from their German unit staff and educators, this negatively affected confidence and the eagerness of more men to volunteer. This was something from which the "national armies" never completely recouped, regardless of Himmler's intercession at Berger's command. In any case, because of the extension of SS enrolling rights in zones outside the Reich and the disappointment of the Wehrmacht to benefit from enlisting openings managed them, a few of the "national armies" selected by the Wehrmacht were in the long run exchanged to the "Waffen-SS". 

Empowered by the achievement he had accomplished in Romania in 1940 with the assistance of his child in-law, Berger had proposed to Himmler that the following selecting circle be the "Volksdeutsche" people group of Romania, Hungary and Yugoslavia, which together contained about 1.5 million ethnic Germans. Little should be possible to encourage this proposition until mid-1941, by which time Yugoslavia had been invade by the Axis, and Romania and Hungary had joined the agreement. Following the lightning-fast thrashing of Yugoslavia in April 1941, Hausser was being squeezed to acknowledge Yugoslav "Volksdeutsche" into his renamed "SS-Division-Reich", even before it was pulled back to get ready for Operation Barbarossa. On his way back to Germany from Yugoslavia, Hausser had traveled through Romania and accumulated another 600 ethnic German volunteers who he snuck out of the nation. 

Not content with this genuinely minor and clandestine selecting exertion, Berger proposed to raise a seventh "Waffen-SS" division from the ethnic Germans of Yugoslavia. Before the finish of 1941, looked with the Partisan-drove uprising in Yugoslavia, Hitler approved the raising of the "SS-Freiwilligen-Division Prinz Eugen". It was to be the first of the many "remote" divisions that would significantly change the structure of the "Waffen-SS" amid the rest of the war. The division was conformed to a current SS-controlled "Selbstschutz" (local army) drawn from ethnic Germans in the Banat, however Berger had misread the readiness of the nearby ethnic German populace to volunteer for administration outside their country. His enrollment specialists at first attempted to draw in volunteers, so pressure was connected, and eventually, the Banat was announced to be under German power, and Himmler endorsed induction based on an antiquated law, the "Tiroler Landsturmordnung" (Tyrolean General Levy Act) of 1872. 

On 29 January 1942, Himmler issued a request which re-titled Dirlewanger's unit as "SS-Sonderkommando Dirlewanger", and formally consolidated it into the "Waffen-SS". Soon thereafter, when a SS judge issued a capture warrant for Dirlewanger because of his unit's enemy of factional tasks, the SS-HA boss interceded with Himmler saying, "Better to shoot two Poles an excessive number of than one excessively few. A savage nation can't be represented in a not too bad way." 

Inside half a month of the intrusion of the Soviet Union, Berger's groups had started enrolling Baltic volunteers for SS police units, shaping a few security regiments of Latvian and Estonian volunteers. The Wehrmacht likewise enlisted eight Estonian contingents. This split way to deal with enrolling in the Baltic locale proceeded into 1942, with certain units being destroyed in cutting edge battling. In May of that year, Berger chose to misuse the patriots inside the Baltic states so as to access initiates for the "Waffen-SS". Himmler was tepid on his underlying proposition, yet as losses began to mount in 1942, he altered his opinion, and endorsed the development of a "Waffen-SS" Estonian Legion. In spite of beginning qualms, Berger likewise proposed the arrangement of a Latvian Legion, which was affirmed toward the finish of 1942. 

Meanwhile, the "Waffen-SS" had endured more than 43,000 setbacks up to February 1942, especially in the Battle of Moscow, and Berger needed to supplant them. Berger next directed his concentration toward the Hungarian "Volksdeutsche". Through a concurrence with the Royal Hungarian Army, his selection representatives enrolled in excess of 16,500 ethnic German enlisted people from Hungary among March and May 1942. While this crusade was progressing, on 20 April 1942 Berger was elevated to "SS-Gruppenführer". Now, he saw a huge contrast between SS ideological authority and the military influence led by the German Army. In September 1942, the SS-FHA whined harshly about Berger's scouts, expressing that a significant number of the volunteers were therapeutically unsatisfactory, had been pressured or hoodwinked into enrolling, or were in actuality ethnic Hungarians. Late in 1942, more "Volksdeutsche" from the Banat and Romania were joined with the SS Cavalry Brigade to frame the "SS-Kavallerie-Division". On 24 November 1942, the Chief of the Gestapo, Heinrich Müller instructed Himmler regarding a proposition he had gotten from Berger that a Hungarian SS division could be financed by offering resettlement licenses to Slovak Jews. 

The "national armies" were joined to the "Waffen-SS", and battled on the Eastern Front in 1942 and mid 1943. Unfit to supplant their misfortunes, a large portion of the survivors were consolidated into "SS-Panzergrenadierdivision Nordland", approved by Hitler toward the finish of 1942. The three regiments of the new division were shaped utilizing overcomers of the "Freikorps Danemark", Legion "Niederlande" and Legion "Norwegen", enhanced by exchanges from "SS-Division Wiking", newcomers from the involved West European nations, and Reich Germans. Army "Flandern" was separated and utilized as substitutions in various "Waffen-SS" developments. While Weale states that they were for the most part persuaded by against socialism, the history specialist George C. Stein sees that few of the "national army" initiates were spurred by "political or ideological optimism", yet were rather roused by such factors as a craving for experience, better sustenance, the eminence of the uniform, and individual conditions. As indicated by Stein, Berger had no hallucinations about the thought processes of his West European volunteers, however paid minor lip administration to the possibility that they joined the "counter socialist" cause out of vision. Around 25,000 Dutch, 5,000 Danish and 3,900 Norwegian men served in the "Waffen-SS". In any case, by mid-1942 onwards, the "Waffen-SS" confronted expanding troubles with these "Germanic" initiates, particularly because of the approach of incorporating them into "skillet Germanic" developments, for example, "SS-Division Wiking". For instance, Norwegian enlisted people started mentioning their discharge from obligation, and toward the start of 1943, almost the whole Finnish contingent of that division requested to be discharged from their administration commitments. 

In November 1942, orders were issued for the transformation of LSSAH, "Das Reich" and "Totenkopf" into panzergrenadier divisions, and the next month, Hitler requested the development of two more panzergrenadier divisions, the main new "Waffen-SS" divisions to be raised from Reich Germans since 1940. These were named "Hohenstaufen" and "Frundsberg". 

From the time that he had taken over as head of the SS-HA, Berger had attempted extensive endeavors to build the measure of ideological preparing gotten by "Waffen-SS" work force. In February 1943, in the wake of the German misfortunes at Stalingrad, Berger again revealed to Himmler that the SS required more grounded ideological preparing. Thus, the SS-HA issued a progression of flyers on racial belief system, including "Der Untermensch" (The Sub-Human), which portrayed certain people groups as profoundly and rationally lower than creatures. Himmler and Berger likewise facilitated delegates from the Wehrmacht who were quick to gain from SS mastery in ideological teaching. On 13 February, following a methodology from "Reichsjugendführer" (German Youth Leader) Artur Axmann for a "Waffen-SS" division to be raised from the Hitler Youth, Berger and Axmann were told the thought had been affirmed by Hitler and that they could initiate arranging. Berger begged Himmler to select him as the officer of this new division, however the "Reichsfuhrer" disputed, advising Berger not to be eager. Additionally in February, Berger grumbled to Himmler that the dispersal of "Germanic" volunteers all through the "Waffen-SS" was having noteworthy negative consequences for the selecting of substitutions in the involved nations. In March 1943, "Wiking" was additionally moved up to a panzergrenadier division. 

In April, misfortunes at Stalingrad and in Tunisia permitted Berger to enroll from outside laborers in the Reich, over the protests of "Reichsminister" Albert Speer, the Minister for Armaments and War Production. By August, he had enlisted 8,105 of these workers, and 3,154 had effectively finished determination for the "Waffen-SS". In June, Berger was elevated to "SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Waffen-SS", and later that month the new division, twelfth SS Panzergrenadier Division "Hitlerjugend" was authoritatively actuated. 

On 5 July 1943, Berger was granted the German Cross in silver. Before the finish of 1942, the "Germanic" SS had been incorporated into the more extensive "Allgemeine-SS", and Berger attracted up an identification to compensate brandishing ability, aptitudes exceedingly prized among SS individuals. The outcome was the Germanic Proficiency Runes, which Himmler endorsed on 1 August 1943, in spite of the fact that it is accepted under 200 were really granted. 

In November 1943, when German-introduced Latvian experts took steps to leave over induction, Berger proposed they be sent to a death camp. Before the finish of 1943, the previous "national armies" had been essentially extended. The Dutch regiment of "SS-Panzergrenadierdivision Nordland" was utilized to frame a free "SS-Panzergrenadierbrigade Nederland", and a patched up Flemish unforeseen was amassed into the "SS-Freiwilligen-Sturmbrigade Langemarck". The Wehrmacht likewise surrendered its French volunteer regiment and the Wallonian Legion, which turned into the "SS-Freiwilligen-Sturmbrigade France" and "SS-Freiwilligen-Sturmbrigade Wallonien". Before the finish of the war, these arrangements had been given divisional status in the "Waffen-SS", notwithstanding the way that they never developed to more than detachment quality. In connection to these enlisted people, Berger pessimistically watched, "For each outside conceived officer who passes on, no German mother sobs". By August 1943, the emergency in the "Germanic" venture was self-evident, with Berger seeing that "we have reached the finish of our tie in the Germanic nations". 

The grievances from the SS-FHA about the nature of "Volksdeutsche" initiates had no impact on Berger's methodology. He finished up further concurrences with Hungary and Romania, and forced on the manikin routines of the Independent State of Croatia and the Slovak State, to successfully approve the unhindered enrollment of ethnic Germans in those domains. In the German-involved region of Serbia, the General Government (added Poland) and parts of the Soviet Union, ethnic Germans were recruited into the "Waffen-SS" in the equivalent discretionary way Reich Germans were recruited by the Wehrmacht. Before the finish of 1943, a fourth of the quality of the "Waffen-SS" was comprised of "Volksdeutsche". 

Before either Baltic army could total preparing, these advancements were overwhelmed by substantial setbacks endured by the West European armies on the Eastern Front, and like the West European armies, it was chosen to join the Baltic armies into bigger arrangements. This brought about the "Estnische SS-Freiwilligen Brigade", comprising of the Estonian Legion and components of the first SS Infantry Brigade, and the "Lettische SS-Freiwilligen Brigade", conformed to the Latvian Legion and parts of the second SS Infantry Brigade. The beginnings of a large number of the men of the two SS infantry detachments was Reich German or "Volksdeutsche", so these two developments were never simply Baltic. Not long after the two new volunteer units had been shaped and resolved to fight, they were moved up to divisional status, and a third Baltic division was approved, utilizing the labor of the Latvian security contingents. To man and keep up these three new divisions, Himmler requested the enrollment of Estonian and Latvian men, and made all previous Estonian Army officers and non-authorized officers obligated for administration. By 1944, the "Waffen-SS" incorporated the three divisions, to be specific; the fifteenth Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (first Latvian), the nineteenth Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (second Latvian), and the twentieth Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (first Estonian). The two Latvian divisions were later consolidated into the VI SS Army Corps (Latvian), and every one of the three divisions battled the Soviet Red Army with regards to their countries amid 1944, and were enclosed there or devastated in consequent battling somewhere else. 

By February 1943, Himmler's standards of "Waffen-SS" racial virtue had been fundamentally weakened. The principal division to be raised by Berger's enrollment specialists that was unmistakably outside the "Waffen-SS" racial and ethnic strictures utilized labor from the Muslim people group of Bosnia. The thirteenth "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian) first went enthusiastically in February 1944, and was of restricted esteem, particularly outside of its region of tasks in eastern Bosnia. While it accomplished triumphs and substantiated itself capable in counter-uprising activities against the Partisans in eastern Bosnia, the division earned a notoriety for severity and viciousness, amid battle tasks, yet in addition through barbarities submitted against Serb and Jewish regular citizens in the security zone. Its backlash assaults in northern and eastern Bosnia left a large number and conceivably upwards of a few thousand Serb regular folks dead by the spring and summer of 1944. 

Amid 1944, two progressively Muslim divisions were raised, the 21st "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Skanderbeg" (first Albanian) made up Kosovar Albanians, and the 23rd "Waffen" Mountain Division of the SS "Kama" (second Croatian), additionally made up of Bosnian Muslims. Neither of these divisions were of huge battle esteem, and every one of the three Muslim divisions were broken down before the finish of 1944. 

In the meantime as the Balkan Muslim analysis, divisions were raised from Ukrainian, Russian and Hungarian men, exhibiting that racial restrictiveness was never again a section prerequisite for the "Waffen-SS". In April 1943, an enrolling effort started among Ukrainians living in that piece of General Government (Polish) an area that had been in Austrian Galicia before 1919. These Ukrainian patriots had been alluded to by Himmler as "sub-human" just merely months prior. The subsequent division was the fourteenth "Waffen" Grenadier Division of the SS (first Galician). After a short time of frantic battling in mid-1944 amid the Soviet Lvov– Sandomierz Offensive, just 3,000 got away encompassing and obliteration from a unique quality of 14,000. Not exactly remarkable in battle, the division never observed activity again. 

In mid 1944, the SS coordinated the administrations of Hungary and the Slovak State to exchange to the "Waffen-SS" all the "Volksdeutsche" serving in their military. This added up to another 50,000 troops. Amid 1944, Berger gave a discourse in which he pushed a "Germanic Reich" that incorporated every one of the nations that had Germanic or Nordic populaces. He stated, "Since the "Schutzstaffel" was taken over by the "Reichsführer-SS" in 1929, its long haul objective has been the Germanic Reich. This long haul objective unavoidably shapes some portion of the SS guarantee to be an arrangement of Nordic men. It can't be ceased by falsely drawn limits". He was likewise worried that the SS was losing its past predominance in ideological issues, as the Wehrmacht had to a great extent embraced the ideological sayings of the SS. This narrowing of the ideological hole between the "Waffen-SS" and the Army was of impressive worry to SS pioneers, for example, Berger, as it undermined the authenticity of the SS as the pioneers of the Nazi task. 

The Galician approach was rehashed in mid-1944 despite mounting setbacks from Soviet offensives. Security units kept an eye on by Russians and Ukrainians were consolidated to shape two additional divisions, the 29th "Waffen" Grenadier Division of the SS (first Russian) and 30th "Waffen" Grenadier Division of the SS (second Russian). Neither achieved more than regimental size. The primary division was given over to the Russian Liberation Army of Andrey Vlasov before it saw battle, and the second observed activity on the Western Front in late 1944 preceding being reconstituted as a "White Ruthenian" unit in March 1945. It also observed no further activity. 

In the period from late 1944, increasingly Eastern European arrangements were speedily raised by Berger's enrollment specialists or changed over from existing littler units. These incorporated the 25th "Waffen" Grenadier Division of the SS "Hunyadi" (first Hungarian), 26th "Waffen" Grenadier Division of the SS (second Hungarian), 31st SS Volunteer Grenadier Division, and various littler arrangements of detachment and regimental size. A few Cossack units were additionally exchanged from the Wehrmacht. Indeed, even the "Sonderkommando Dirlewanger" was expanded in size, taking on Russian detainees of war to support its numbers. 

In July 1942, Berger was delegated as Himmler's contact officer with the Reichsminister for the Occupied Eastern Territories, Alfred Rosenberg. To reinforce his situation with Himmler, Rosenberg was notwithstanding eager to designate Berger as his second state secretary, yet Hitler would not permit it. On 10 August 1943, Berger persuaded Rosenberg to delegate him as the Chief of Political Operations in the Occupied Eastern Territories. Himmler had since quite a while ago needed such obligations to be set in SS hands, and this arrangement implied that Berger could attack any protection from SS mastery of the economy and populace of the enslaved east. The arrangement produced results on 10 August 1943, and kept going until January 1945. In this job, Berger proposed an arrangement to capture and subjugate 50,000 Eastern European youngsters between the ages of 10 and 14, under the codename "Heuaktion". On 14 June 1944, Rosenberg issued orders executing Berger's thought. 

On 20 July 1944, the obligation regarding organization of German captive (POW) camps was exchanged to Berger. This pursued the fizzled endeavor on Hitler's life prior that month, when the "Führer" swung to his "reliable Heinrich" to head the Replacement Army, and the SS boss immediately designated the obligation to Berger. By September, the obligation had been formally exchanged to Himmler, however Berger did not act to incorporate his new duties into the SS administration. Rather, he enabled the camps to proceed as they were, with a similar staff and strategies. 

After the war, Berger guaranteed that he had been hesitant to take on this new obligation, and had told Hitler, bringing about a dressing down. He likewise guaranteed that Hitler had instructed him to pulverize put away Red Cross supplies, stop Red Cross investigations, and square the landing of further Red Cross supplies to the camps. Further, he stated that Hitler had needed more shootings of POWs and harsher disciplines. As indicated by Berger, he had discreetly abstained from completing these requests, and even countered an arrangement by the "Luftwaffe" to build up POW focuses in real urban areas, utilizing the POWs as human shields against air assaults. Creators John Nichol and Tony Rennell saw that none of these cases have ever been autonomously confirmed, yet some declaration has disproved Berger's cases. They inferred that most, if not all, of Berger's cases about his activities to help POWs are "extraordinary", and noticed that he didn't raise any of these cases amid his preliminary at Nuremberg after the war, or even in his collection of memoirs. One of only a handful couple of cases that has been confirmed to some degree is his work to ensure the "Prominente", a gathering of high-positioning or generally vital POWs that had been held at Colditz Castle until 13 April 1945. There were an aggregate of 21 "Prominente", including Viscount Lascelles and the Master of Elphinstone, the two nephews of King George VI, and Giles Romilly, a nephew of the British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. Berger masterminded them to be cleared from Colditz and transported south and gave over to progressing U.S. Armed force troops. 

On 23 August 1944, an uprising broke out against the German manikin government in the Slovak State. The revolt was fixated on Banská Bystrica high in the Low Tatra mountains. The disobedience was driven by a few previous individuals from the Government, and included components of the Slovak Army and some British-prepared parachutists. The uprising was depending on a fast development of the Red Army into the Slovak State. In spite of the way that the Soviet armed forces were simply over away at the time the revolt started, they didn't achieve the radicals in time. On 31 August, Berger was delegated Military Commander in Slovakia, and held influence for the following three weeks. His undertakings were to incapacitate the Slovak Army, guarantee lines of correspondence toward the Eastern Front and reestablish request. He was additionally to work with the conservative Hlinka Guard to build up another outfitted power in the manikin state. Another Slovak government was built up under the administration of Štefan Tiso. Berger's underlying power comprised of a few specially appointed "kampfgruppen" (battle gatherings) totalling 10,000 men, against a radical armed force of nearly 47,000. On 9 September, Himmler prompted Berger that he had been granted the Iron Cross Second Class for his work in Slovakia. By mid-September, the uprising still couldn't seem to be controlled, and the main areas that had been assuaged were western Slovakia and the Váh valley, despite the fact that the radicals had been enclosed. Because of Berger's absence of accomplishment, Himmler supplanted him with a HSSPF, Hermann Höfle, and Berger surrendered the job of Military Commander in Slovakia on 19 September. Höfle then bloodily smothered the revolt with the help of extra troops that touched base in late October. Berger was then named to sort out the "Volkssturm" (Home Guard) in Germany. 

As Germany's circumstance crumbled, Hitler chose to frame the "Volkssturm", a Nazi Party neighborhood volunteer army to guard networks inside the Reich. On 24 September 1944, Hitler designated his private secretary and leader of the Reich Chancellery, "Reichsleiter" Martin Bormann to shape the "Volkssturm". Himmler was given duty regarding the military association and hardware of the new state army, which he designated to Berger, who ended up one of two head of staff for the association. Bormann opposed Berger's endeavors to assume control over the "Volkssturm", and it remained generally under Bormann's control, with nearby selecting directed by the "Gauleiters". 

Over the most recent couple of months of the war, the Western Allies wound up worried that Hitler would focus his outstanding powers in a redoubt in the Alps. While this thought was more along the lines of a potential shelter from the Russians as opposed to a stronghold, fears of the presence of a "High Fortress" brought about the redirection of solid powers towards the southern pieces of the Reich to thwart such an arrangement. Truth be told, at a surrender service on 5 May, German "General der Infanterie" Hermann Foertsch surprised General Jacob L. Devers, officer of the Sixth United States Army Group, when he revealed to him that upwards of 350,000 German troops were still cut off in the Alps. Berger told a "Kampfgruppe" of remainders of the XIII SS Army Corps, including sections of the seventeenth SS Panzergrenadier Division "Götz von Berlichingen", 35th SS and Police Grenadier Division, and the second Mountain Division. Berger expected to surrender independently to American powers, and following two days delay, figured out how to find a regimental leader of the 101st Airborne Division close Berchtesgaden south of Salzburg. On the next day, Berger was captured. 

Berger has been portrayed as "tempestuous", negative, and "a standout amongst Himmler's most equipped and heartless war-time lieutenants". A vigorous enemy of Semite, he was likewise an advocate of the Final Solution. The history specialist Gerhard Rempel depicted him as a talented bureaucratic controller, who was "corrupt, obtuse, and inelegant in way and articulation, yet likewise brimming with cheerful garrulity and scandalous cleverness". Notwithstanding his very own unassailable position at the leader of the SS, Himmler was frequently occupied by Berger's tattle and subterfuge against different pioneers inside the SS. 

Inside the SS, Berger was known as one of Himmler's "Twelve Apostles", and was nicknamed ""der Allmächtige Gottlob"" ("the Almighty Gottlob", a play on "The Almighty God", as "Gott" is the German word for "God"). He was likewise alluded to by the expression "Applause God" and another moniker was "The Duke of Swabia", mirroring his Swabian birthplaces. 

At last, Berger was in charge of the expansive quantities of non-Reich remote enrolls that joined the "Waffen-SS" somewhere in the range of 1940 and 1945. Regardless of the way that Berger would have favored a field order, he was one of Himmler's not many confided in senior lieutenants, and his enrolling and authoritative aptitudes implied he was kept as head of the SS-HA all through the war. The main special case was the brief time frame as military leader in the Slovak State in the harvest time of 1944 amid the uprising. In September 1939, the quantity of non-Germans in what before long turned into the "Waffen-SS" was insignificant. By May 1945, the power included 38 divisions, and the larger part were non-Germans. None of the 38 divisions were only kept an eye on by Reich Germans, and half were generally comprised of staff from outside the Reich. 

After his capture in May 1945, Berger stayed in Allied authority pending a preliminary before a US military court for different atrocities. He was at first to be a respondent in the proposed "Detainees of War" Trial, yet was in the end incorporated into what ended up known as the Ministries Trial of the resulting Nuremberg preliminaries. The last prosecution against Berger and his co-litigants was held up on 18 November 1947; the preliminary started on 6 January 1948, under the steady gaze of Judges Christianson (managing), Maguire and Powers, and finished on 13 April 1949. 

There were eight tallies that shaped the prosecution against Berger: 

Amid his preliminary, Berger guaranteed that he had not known about the Final Solution until after the war, however the arraignment delivered proof that he had been available at the first of Himmler's scandalous 1943 Posen discourses in which the "Reichsfuhrer-SS" had expressly discussed the killing of Jews. Berger's resistance counsel guaranteed that his customer did not trust "annihilation" had been utilized by Himmler with respect to Jews amid the discourse. Berger's legal counselor went on trying to relieve Berger's activities by asserting that the Cold War bore solid parallels to the Nazi battle against "Jews and Bolsheviks", and the likelihood that the US would likewise need to battle the Soviet Union sooner rather than later. Amid the war, Berger wrote in an article, "We the National Socialists trust the Fuhrer when he says that the destruction of Jewry in Europe remains toward the finish of the battle induced by the Jewish World Parasite against us as his most grounded foe." Berger and others likewise guaranteed that the unit directed by Dirlewanger was not part of the SS, despite the fact that when the content of Himmler's second Posen discourse was revealed in 1953, it "cast questionable light" on Berger's case. He showed no regret for his activities. 

Most of the council announced that "it appears to be difficult to trust Berger's declaration that he knew nothing of the designs to pulverize the Jews or that he never knew about the "last arrangement" until after the war." However, the court acknowledged his case that he spared the lives of Allied POWs whose security was gravely endangered by Hitler's requests that they be shot or held as prisoners. The court confirmed that Berger had defied arranges and submitted himself in risk in request to intercede in the interest of the POWs being referred to. Interestingly, Berger was discovered blameworthy of transporting Hungarian Jews to death camps and enlisting inhumane imprisonment protects. Berger additionally expressed in his proof that he considered Himmler "an unassimilated mutt and unfit for the SS". 

Berger was vindicated under tallies one, and two, and a few pieces of checks three, and five, and was additionally absolved under tally six. He was indicted under that piece of tally three identifying with the homicide of Mesny, and under those pieces of tally five identifying with his inclusion with the SS-"Sonderkommando Dirlewanger", for being a cognizant member in the death camp program, and the enrollment of nationals of different nations. He was likewise sentenced under that piece of tally seven identifying with the kids and youth slave work program, including the "Heuaktion", and was additionally indicted under tally eight. Judge Powers passed on a disagreeing feeling, expressing that he was of the view that Berger was not in charge of the homicide of Mesny. 

On the checks under which he was indicted, Berger was condemned to 25 years detainment, however gotten credit for the almost four years amid which he had been in authority anticipating preliminary. Dwindle Maguire sees that given the status of the litigants and the assemblage of proof against them, the sentences given to each one of those arraigned in the Ministries Trial were light. 

The sentences were audited by an Advisory Board for Clemency for War Criminals, which was in charge of giving exhortation to the U.S. High Commissioner for Germany John J. McCloy. On 31 January 1951, McCloy resolved to diminish Berger's sentence to 10 years detainment, expressing that he seemed to have been unfairly indicted for the homicide of Mesny, and that McCloy had given more prominent load to Berger's dynamic intercessions "to spare the lives of Allied officers and men who under Hitler orders were held for liquidation or as prisoners". McCloy did not clarify why Berger couldn't be considered in charge of the homicide of Mesny, in spite of the larger part finding of the council that Berger bore "direction obligation" for the homicide. Berger was discharged from Landsberg jail in December 1951, having spent a sum of six and a half years in care. 

After his discharge from jail in 1951, Berger worked in Stuttgart and Böblingen in his local Baden-Württemberg, and dealt with a shade rail processing plant. He additionally contributed articles to the month to month conservative diary "Country Europa" distributed in Coburg, and at times composed articles empowering the North Atlantic Treaty Organization to give more prominent thought to previous individuals from the "Waffen-SS". He and his significant other Christine had four kids: Krista, Wolf, Helgart and Folkart. He passed on 5 January 1975 in Gerstetten. 

Berger got the accompanying honors and awards amid his life: