Ernst Lindemann 

Otto Ernst Lindemann (28 March 1894 – 27 May 1941) was a German "Kapitän zur See" (maritime commander). He was the main leader of the war vessel amid its eight months of administration in World War II. 

Lindemann joined the German Imperial Navy () in 1913, and after his essential military preparing, served on various warships amid World War I as a remote telecommunication officer. On board , he took an interest in Operation Albion in 1917. After World War I, he served in different staff and maritime gunnery preparing positions. One year after the episode of World War II, he was selected administrator of the ship "Bismarck", at the time the biggest warship in commission anyplace on the planet and the pride of the "Kriegsmarine" (Nazi Germany's naval force). 

In May 1941, Lindemann told "Bismarck" amid "Activity Rheinübung". "Bismarck" and the substantial cruiser shaped a team under the direction of Admiral Günther Lütjens on board Bismarck. Requests were to break out of their base in German involved Poland and assault British trader shipping paths in the Atlantic Ocean. The team's first significant commitment was the Battle of the Denmark Strait which brought about the sinking of . Not exactly seven days after the fact, on 27 May, Lindemann and the majority of his group passed on in "Bismarck"s last fight. 

He was after death granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross (), the most astounding honor in the military and paramilitary powers of Nazi Germany amid World War II. The award was displayed to his widow, Hildegard, on 6 January 1942. 

Otto Ernst Lindemann was conceived on 28 March 1894 in Altenkirchen in the Westerwald, Rhine Province. He was the first of three offspring of Dr. jur. Georg Heinrich Ernst Lindemann and Maria Lindemann, née Lieber. Known as Ernst, Georg Lindemann was a trial judge (Gerichtsassessor) and later leader of the Prussian Central Land Credit Company, a Prussian credit bank. 

Otto Ernst Lindemann was purified through water into the Protestant Church on 26 April 1894. The family moved to the Charlottenburg quarter of Berlin, where they inhabited 6 Carmer Street, in 1895. His more youthful sibling—Kurt—was conceived in 1896, trailed by a second sibling, Hans-Wolfgang, in 1900. The family migrated again in 1903, this opportunity to their very own home in the Dahlem quarter of Berlin, close to the Grunewald timberland. 

In 1910, when Lindemann was 16, his uncle "Kapitän zur See" Friedrich Tiesmeyer was in order of the light cruiser (October 1909 – January 1910) of the Imperial Navy, around then holding the position of (leader). At a family gathering in Hamelin, Lindemann conversed with his uncle and knew about his nautical undertakings in the Far East. These discussions gave Lindemann the possibility of a maritime vocation. 

Lindemann moved on from the Bismarck-Gymnasium (optional school) in Berlin-Wilmersdorf with his "Abitur" (certificate) late in 1912 with a normal to-great by and large appraising. For the following a half year, he went to the Royal Polytechnic Institution in Richmond, London. 

Ernst Lindemann met Charlotte Weil (née Fritsche; 1899– 1979), a Berlin vocalist, in the spring of 1920. The couple wedded on 1 February 1921, and they had a little girl, Helga Maria, conceived on 26 February 1924. Lindemann's activity as a maritime officer requested that he be far from his family for significant lots of time. This ended up being excessively requesting on the marriage, and they were separated in 1932. Lindemann was locked in again on 20 July 1933 to his most youthful sibling's sister-in-law, Hildegard Burchard. Hildegard was 14 years more youthful than Lindemann. They wedded on 27 October 1934 in the St. Annen Church in Berlin– Dahlem. The function was performed by Martin Niemöller, an author of the Confessing Church, later detained as an enemy of Nazi. They had a little girl, Heidi Maria, conceived on 6 July 1939. 

On 26 March 1913, Lindemann headed out with his folks to Flensburg for his therapeutic examination at the Naval Academy at Mürwik. The solid money related foundation of his folks made him an appropriate candidate for the Imperial Navy, as the expenses related with maritime instruction in 1909 were 800– 1,000 Marks for every year for a long time. By correlation, a metal laborer earned 1,366 Marks every year and an educator 3,294 Marks. Just 5 percent of the German populace at the time earned in excess of 3,000 Marks every year. Notwithstanding, the specialist ensured him as fit just for restricted obligations (), as pneumonia in adolescence had abandoned him unfit for administration in U-pontoons. Following a second examination, he was acknowledged on post trial supervision, and Lindemann ended up one of the 290 young fellows of "Group 1913" (the approaching class of 1913). He was authoritatively enrolled in the Imperial Navy as a (sailor) on 1 April 1913. 

Toward the beginning of May 1913, the cadets of Crew 1913 were sent to the preparation ships , and . Lindemann was allocated to "Hertha" with 71 of his confidants. Around then, "Hertha" was under the order of Captain Heinrich Rohardt, a companion of his uncle Friedrich. Landing on board on 9 May, they were partitioned into watches comprising of approximately 18 men each. "Hertha" left Mürwik and remained in Kiel until the month's end. On 29 May 1913, "Hertha" set out toward Swinemünde, where she remained until 15 June. The following stop, by means of Sassnitz and Visby, was Stockholm, Sweden, touching base on 24 June. The ship stayed in Stockholm until 1 July, before leaving for Bergen in Norway. Following a couple of days, the voyage proceeded to the Lönne Fjord. Here, Lindemann met his president—Kaiser Wilhelm II—out of the blue. "Hertha" at that point came back to Germany, touching base in Wilhelmshaven on 8 August 1913. 

Multi week later, "Hertha" started a seven-month preparing journey (15 August 1913 – 12 March 1914). The voyage took Lindemann to Dartmouth in England, Vilagarcía de Arousa in Spain, Faial Island in the Azores and to the extent Halifax in Nova Scotia. The arrival trip at that point went by means of Vera Cruz in Mexico, Havana in Cuba, Port-au-Prince in Haiti, Kingston in Jamaica, Port of Spain in Trinidad and afterward to the Canary Islands, Madeira, and the Spanish terrain, touching base back in Germany amidst March 1914, first in Brunsbüttel and after two days in Kiel. Lindemann was elevated to "Fähnrich zur See" (Ensign) on 3 April 1914. 

With the German presentation of war in August 1914, all further preparing at the maritime institute was ended and the ordinary necessary officer examination was skipped. The whole Crew 1913 was appointed to different units in the Imperial Navy. Lindemann was allocated to , a warship which had a place with the second Battle Squadron of the High Seas Fleet under the order of "Vizeadmiral" (bad habit naval commander) Reinhard Scheer, assuming the situation of third remote telecommunication officer. "Lothringen" was for the most part entrusted with watching the North Sea, cruising forward and backward between Altenbruch (presently part of Cuxhaven) and Brunsbüttel without participating in battle. Lindemann left "Lothringen" on 1 June 1915 to go to the remote telecommunication school at Mürwik. He effectively finished the course and came back from it in July 1915. He at that point assumed control over the situation of second remote telecommunication officer and was elevated to "Leutnant zur See" (Second Lieutenant) on 18 September 1915. 

On 19 March 1916, Lindemann was exchanged to the recently appointed ship (under the order of Captain Max Hahn), with a similar position of second remote telecommunication officer. "Bayern", with her eight firearms, was the most dominant ship of the armada. Her group had been to a great extent allocated from "Lothringen", which kept on filling in as a preparation transport. On board "Bayern", presently under the order of Captain Rohardt, Lindemann took an interest in Operation Albion in September– October 1917. Activity Albion's goal was the intrusion and control of the Estonian islands of Saaremaa (Ösel), Hiiumaa (Dagö) and Muhu (Moon), at that point some portion of the Russian Republic. At 05:07 on 12 October 1917, "Bayern" struck a mine while moving into her barrage position to verify the arrival shorelines at Pamerort. Seven mariners were executed. In spite of mine harm, "Bayern" connected with the coast guard battery at Cape Toffri on the southern tip of Hiiumaa. "Bayern" was discharged from her obligations at 14:00 that day. Starter fixes were made on 13 October in Tagga Bay before she came back to Kiel on 1 November 1917. 

After the peace negotiation in 1918, "Bayern"— together with most of the German High Seas Fleet—was interned at Scapa Flow, the home of the British Grand Fleet. "Bayern" touched base there on 23 November 1918 with a skeleton team of just 175 men, including Lindemann, who was then arranged to come back to Germany, landing in Kiel on 12 January. On 21 June 1919, Admiral Ludwig von Reuter requested the leaving of the armada, and "Bayern" sank at 14:30. 

At the point when Ernst Lindemann came back to Germany, it was unsure whether he could stay on dynamic military administration. Because of the Treaty of Versailles which was marked on 28 June 1919, the previous Imperial German Navy was cut back to 15,000 men, including 1,500 officers, while being renamed the "Reichsmarine" in the time of the Weimar Republic. As Lindemann had completed fifth in the Class of 1913, he stood a decent possibility of being held. He served briefly in the Dahlem Protection Company a piece of the Protection Regiment of Greater Berlin (June– July 1919), preceding he moved toward becoming aide to the recently made head of the Naval Command Department (1 August 1919 – 30 September 1922), at the time under the order of William Michaelis. The Naval Command Department was straightforwardly subjected to the Admiralty Staff. In the meantime, he held the situation of aide in the Fleet Department. Amid this task Lindemann was elevated to "Oberleutnant zur See" (Sub-Lieutenant) on 7 January 1920. 

Lindemann's next task (1 October 1922 – 30 September 1924) was on board the ship , where he filled in as a watch and division officer. Amid this task, he went to an officers' course at the boats' gunnery school in Kiel between 5 February and 3 May 1924. From here, Lindemann took direction of the first Artillery Company of the third Coastal Defense Department in Friedrichsort in Kiel from 1 October 1924 – 26 September 1926. His leader was "Korvettenkapitän" (Lieutenant Commander) Otto Schultze, a previous World War I U-pontoon officer and later "Generaladmiral" (general chief of naval operations) of the "Kriegsmarine". In this position, Lindemann was elevated to "Kapitänleutnant" (skipper lieutenant) on 1 January 1925. 

His next task (27 September 1926 – 6 September 1929) put him on the Admiral's staff at the Baltic Naval Station, first as a staff officer and after that as right hand to the head of the station, which at the time was under the direction of Vice Admiral Erich Raeder. From here, he was exchanged to the filling in as the second gunnery officer and "Fähnrichsoffizier" (officer accountable for cadets), in charge of the on-board preparing of the officer cadets, from 7 September 1929 – 25 February 1930. Holding a similar position and position, Lindemann then exchanged to the . 

On 30 January 1933, the Nazi Party, under the initiative of Adolf Hitler, came to control in Germany, introducing a time of maritime rearmament. In 1935, the "Reichsmarine" was renamed the "Kriegsmarine". Between 22 September 1931 and 22 September 1934, Lindemann was a senior teacher at the Naval Gunnery School in Kiel. He was then presented on the under the order of Captain Hermann Boehm and filled in as first gunnery officer from 23 September 1933 to 8 April 1934. Ernst Lindemann was elevated to Lieutenant Commander on 1 April 1932. On 9 April 1934, he was requested to the Wilhelmshaven Shipyard (9 April– 11 November 1934) for preparing in ship development and acclimation with the substantial cruiser , under the order of Captain Wilhelm Marschall. 

On "Chief naval officer Scheer", he again filled in as first gunnery officer, and in this position he took an interest in the Spanish Civil War (24 July– 30 August 1936). "Chief of naval operations Scheer" needed to make prepared for the mission without prior warning; request originated from Admiral Rolf Carls on 23 July 1936 at 13:45. The ordinary 48 hours required to set up the ship was decreased to 12 hours, requesting a great deal of the group and particularly Lindemann. As the main gunnery officer, Lindemann was in charge of dealing with and putting away all weapons. "Chief naval officer Scheer" and the cruiser left Germany on 24 July at 8:00. Lindemann's primary obligations included instructing the German arrival gatherings and going about as conciliatory guide and mediator for Captain Marschall. These arrival parties comprised of up to 350 men, which included 11 officers, 15 non-charged officers and 266 mariners, or approximately 33% of the group. On the arrival voyage to Germany, "Chief naval officer Scheer" ceased at Gibraltar on the morning of 25 August 1936. Marschall, Lindemann and different officers met with the British Governor and Rear Admiral James Somerville. After Lindemann came back to Germany, he was elevated to leader on 1 October 1936. 

Somewhere in the range of 1936 and 1938, he was a counsel and later leader of the ship development division at the Naval High Command, and in the meantime an expert to and later head of the Naval Training Department. On 1 April 1938, he was elevated to the position of "Kapitän zur See" (chief adrift). On 30 September 1939, one month after the episode of World War II, Lindemann succeeded Captain Heinrich Woldag as authority of the Naval Gunnery School in Wik in Kiel, after Woldag took order of the overwhelming cruiser . Under his direction were three preparing offices, the gunnery preparing boat and "Hektor", various gunnery preparing water crafts, weapon bearers, helper vessels, and once in a while Hitler's state yacht, the aviso . 

Ernst Lindemann was disappointed by the way that—as authority of the Naval Gunnery School—he could never come into direct contact with the foe. When he got the news that he had been chosen to be the primary authority of the war vessel , he was respected by the trust that had been offered on him yet questioned that he would almost certainly get "Bismarck" good to go before the war was finished. His questions propose that he was certain the war would finish in a great result for Germany by mid-1940. Preceding directing "Bismarck", Lindemann had never held any shipboard order, a circumstance uncommon if not remarkable in the "Kriegsmarine". By the by, Lindemann had served solely on boats with a weapon gauge of in any event , and he was Germany's driving gunnery master. In 1940, he positioned second out of Crew 1913 and was viewed as a remarkable pioneer. 

Lindemann touched base at the Blohm and Voss shipbuilding works in Hamburg toward the start of August 1940. "Bismarck"s bottom had been laid on 1 July 1936 and she was propelled on 14 February 1939. Burkard Freiherr von Müllenheim-Rechberg joined "Bismarck" as fourth gunnery officer in June 1940, and he would turn into the most astounding positioning officer to endure "Bismarck"s keep going fight on 27 May 1941. Quite a bit of what is right now thought about "Bismarck"s last days is credited to his record as an observer. Lindemann made Von Müllenheim-Rechberg his own assistant and educated him to allude to the ship as "he" instead of "she"; Lindemann considered the ship too amazing to even think about being alluded to as a female. He authorized the ship on 24 August 1940. He demonstrated a lot of connection to the ship and was regarded by his team. 

"Bismarck" left the Kiel Fjord on the morning of 28 September 1940 traveling east. After an uneventful voyage through unpleasant oceans, "Bismarck" came to Gotenhafen (presently Gdynia) the following day. Here "Bismarck" led various ocean preliminaries in the overall wellbeing of the Bay of Danzig (presently Gdańsk Bay). By 30 November 1940, Lindemann had set various tests for the group, which they passed effectively. Amid rapid preliminaries, "Bismarck" achieved a top speed of , surpassing the plan speed. Be that as it may, one shortcoming rapidly wound up evident: without utilizing the rudders yet just the screws, "Bismarck" was practically difficult to control. 

In November 1940, Von Müllenheim-Rechberg was sent to the Naval Gunnery School at Wik to finish his overwhelming firearm instructional classes, which finished his situation as Lindemann's own auxiliary. Lindemann's new aide was the signs officer Second Lieutenant Wolfgang Reiner. "Bismarck"s substantial weapons were first test-shot in the second 50% of November, and "Bismarck" was appeared to be a truly steady firearm stage. After the 1940 Christmas festivity ready, Lindemann and most of the officers, non-authorized officers and mariners went on home leave. First gunnery officer Lieutenant Commander Adalbert Schneider diminished Lindemann as "Bismarck"s administrator amid his nonappearance. Lindemann went through his leave with his significant other and little girl and returned on 1 January 1941. 

On 28 April 1941, the ship and group were prepared, and stores were ready for a three-month mission. Lindemann advised Naval High Command ("Oberkommando der Marine"), Naval Groups North and West ("Marinegruppen Nord und West") and Fleet Command that "Bismarck" was good to go. The Chief of Fleet—Admiral Günther Lütjens—and his armada staff held penetrates out of the blue ready "Bismarck" on 13 May, testing the correspondence chain between Fleet Command and "Bismarck"s officers. 

Adolf Hitler—joined by "Generalfeldmarschall" Wilhelm Keitel, his previous maritime auxiliary Commander Karl-Jesko von Puttkamer, and his "Luftwaffe" aide "Oberst" Nicolaus von Below, among others—visited "Bismarck" on 5 May 1941. Missing was Grand Admiral Erich Raeder. Hitler was taken on a voyage through the ship by Admiral Lütjens and assessed the different fight stations. Hitler and Lütjens likewise met in private and talked about the dangers of a mission in the North Atlantic. After this gathering, Hitler and the officers of "Bismarck" ate in the officers' chaos, where Hitler talked about America's reluctance to enter the war. Lindemann transparently couldn't help contradicting Hitler, communicating his conclusion that the likelihood of the United States entering the war couldn't be precluded. 

The objective of Operation "Rheinübung" (Rhine Exercise) was for "Bismarck" and the overwhelming cruiser — under the order of Lindemann's "Team 1913" colleague Captain Helmuth Brinkmann—to break into the Atlantic and assault Allied delivering. Fantastic Admiral Raeder's requests to the team leader—Admiral Günther Lütjens—were that "the goal of the "Bismarck" isn't to crush foes of equivalent quality, however to secure them in a deferring activity, while safeguarding battle limit however much as could be expected, in order to permit "Prinz Eugen" to get at the trader transports in the caravan" and "The essential focus in this task is the adversary's dealer shipping; foe warships will be locked in just when that target makes it vital and it very well may be managed without unnecessary hazard." 

At 02:00 on 19 May 1941, "Bismarck" and "Prinz Eugen" left Gotenhafen and continued through the Baltic Sea and out toward the Atlantic. Obscure to Lütjens, the British had caught enough flags to gather that a German maritime task may happen in the zone. The German team was first experienced by the Swedish seaplane-cruiser on 20 May traveling north-west past Gothenburg. The British Admiralty was educated through a Norwegian officer in Stockholm who had taken in of the locating from a Swedish military knowledge source. Cautioned by this report, British Admiralty mentioned air surveillance of the Norwegian coast. A Spitfire observation flying machine found and shot the German team in the Grimstad fjord (), close Bergen, at 13:15 on 21 May. On the night of 23 May at 19:22, the German power was recognized by the overwhelming cruisers and that had been watching the Denmark Strait in the desire for a German breakout. The alert was sounded and Lindemann reported at 20:30 over the radio: "". (Foe located to port. Draw in!) "Bismarck" terminated five salvos without scoring an immediate hit. The intensely outgunned British cruisers resigned to a protected separation and shadowed the foe until their very own substantial units could move nearer. Nonetheless, "Bismarck"s forward radar had flopped because of vibration from the overwhelming firearms terminating amid this clash, and Lütjens was obliged to arrange "Prinz Eugen" to advance of "Bismarck" so as to give the squadron forward radar inclusion. 

At the Battle of the Denmark Strait on 24 May 1941, was sunk, likely by "Bismarck". The hydrophones on "Prinz Eugen" identified a remote ship to port at 05:00. The Germans located the smokestacks of two boats at 05:45, which the main gunnery officer Lieutenant Commander Adalbert Schneider at first revealed as two substantial cruisers. The principal British salvo uncovered them to be war vessels, yet not until the British team swung to port was their exact character uncovered. The British boats began terminating at the German team at 05:53. Bad habit Admiral Lancelot Holland anticipated focusing on "Bismarck" first, yet because of the turned around German fight request, "Hood" opened flame on the "Prinz Eugen." The German team was all the while trusting that the request will begin terminating, which Admiral Lütjens did not give right away. After two minutes, after numerous request by Schneider, ""? (Authorization to start shooting?), a fretful Lindemann reacted: "" (I'm not giving my ship a chance to get shot out from under my arse. Open flame!) At 06:01, the fifth salvo by "Bismarck", terminated at a scope of about , supposedly hit "Hood" side by side her mainmast. Almost certainly, one shell struck somewhere close to Hood's mainmast and 'X' turret toward the back of the pole. A tremendous fly of fire burst out from "Hood" from the region of the mainmast. This was trailed by a staggering magazine blast that crushed the toward the back piece of the ship. This blast crushed the spirit of "Hood", and she sank in just three minutes, her almost vertical bow last to plunge into the water. 

Following the blast, "Sovereign of Wales" was focused by both German ships and withdrew from battle after seven direct hits, four by "Bismarck" and three by "Prinz Eugen", at about 06:09. Amid this concise commitment, "Sovereign of Wales" had additionally hit "Bismarck" multiple times, first striking the officer's pontoon and putting the seaplane launch amidships out of activity. The second shell went directly through the bow from one side to the next. The third struck the body submerged and burst inside the ship, flooding a generator room and harming the bulkhead of an abutting engine compartment, halfway flooding it. The harm caused to "Bismarck" by these two shots permitted of water into the ship. 

Lindemann and Lütjens now contrasted on how best to proceed with the mission. Lindemann, as authority of a warship, was guided by the strategic circumstance, and needed to chase down the harmed "Sovereign of Wales". (The Germans did not around then realize the ship to be "Sovereign of Wales", yet realized that it was a war vessel.) Lütjens, clearly aware of the armada request to maintain a strategic distance from superfluous contact with comparable foe units, dismissed this without discourse. Lindemann and Lütjens likewise contrasted on where to take the ship for fixes; Lindemann supported following their course through the Denmark Strait and coming back to Bergen, Norway. Lütjens overruled him and requested a course set for Saint-Nazaire, France. Toward the evening, Admiral Lütjens requested "Prinz Eugen" to split far from "Bismarck" and work autonomously against the foe's trader shipping. "Prinz Eugen" and "Bismarck" isolated at 18:14 that night. "Prinz Eugen" arrived securely at Brest, France on 1 June 1941. No immediate observers to this distinction of sentiment endure the sinking, however "Matrosengefreiter" (Leading Seaman) Heinz Staat, the helmsman on the extension, recollected a phone call between the First Watch Officer, Commander Hans Oels, and an armada staff officer which recommended that Lindemann had been endeavoring to convince Lütjens to seek after the adversary. A courier coming back to his confidants beneath discussed ""dicke Luft"" ("thick air" or a "terrible environment") on the scaffold. 

"Bismarck" was sunk three days after the fact, after a concentrated exertion by Britain's Royal Navy. At 23:30 (neighborhood time 19:30) on 24 May an assault was made by a little gathering of nine Swordfish biplane torpedo planes of 825 Naval Air Squadron under the order of Eugene Esmonde from the plane carrying warship . One hit was scored, which murdered "Oberbootsmann" Kurt Kirchberg, however made just shallow harm the "Bismarck"s defensively covered belt. In early in the day at 10:30 on 26 May, a RAF Coastal Command Catalina surveillance flying machine from 209 Squadron RAF spotted "Bismarck" generally west of Saint-Nazaire. The British fight aggregate Force H, under the direction of Admiral James Somerville, whose fundamental units were the plane carrying warship , the First World War time battlecruiser and the cruiser , was requested to stop "Bismarck". At 19:15 that night, 15 Swordfish from "Ark Royal" propelled an assault. The air attack alert was sounded on "Bismarck" at 20:30. About 15 minutes into the assault "Bismarck" was conceivably hit by one torpedo, and at around 21:00 another single torpedo stuck "Bismarck"s rudder 12° to port. Harm control parties worked to recapture controlling control and uncoupled and focused the starboard rudder, yet neglected to free the port rudder. With topsy-turvy control connected, speed decreased to , "Bismarck" was on a combining course with the Royal Navy units on the pursuit. The caution sounded again at 23:00 when destroyers of the fourth Destroyer Flotilla under the order of Captain Philip Vian assaulted "Bismarck". For the duration of the night "Bismarck" was focused by unending torpedo assaults by , and , denying Lindemann and the group genuinely necessary rest. 

"Bismarck"s alert sounded once and for all at 08:00 on the morning of 27 May 1941. "Norfolk" located the "Bismarck" at 08:15, and the war vessel opened flame on "Bismarck" at 08:48. "Bismarck" returned fire at 08:49. Further engaged with the last fight were the war vessel and the cruisers "Norfolk" and . Torpedo planes did not take an interest in the last fight. "Bismarck"s forward order position was hit at 08:53, and both forward firearm turrets were put out of activity at 09:02, slaughtering Adalbert Schneider in the fundamental weapon executive. The after direction position was crushed at 09:18 and turret "Dora" was crippled at 09:24. "Bismarck" got further substantial hits at 09:40, bringing about a flame amidships, and turret "Caesar" left activity after a hit at 09:50. All weapons fell quiet at 10:00. Shy of fuel, "Rodney" and "Lord George V" needed to separate preceding "Bismarck"s sinking. The Germans were planning to abandon "Bismarck" when three torpedoes terminated by "Dorsetshire" hit the ship's side defensive layer. "Bismarck" sank at 10:36 at position , generally west of Ouessant (Ushant). The cruiser "Dorsetshire" spared 85 men, and the British destroyer "Maori" spared 25. A further five mariners were spared by under the order of "Kapitänleutnant" Eitel-Friedrich Kentrat and the climate perception dispatch . The "Befehlshaber der U-Boote" (U-water crafts Commander-in-Chief) Karl Dönitz had requested under the direction of "Kapitänleutnant" Herbert Wohlfarth to get "Bismarck"s war journal. Out of torpedoes and low on fuel, Wohlfarth mentioned that the request be exchanged to "U-74". "U-74" neglected to achieve Bismarck on schedule and the war journal was never recovered. 

Burkard von Müllenheim-Rechberg saw Lindemann once and for all at around 08:00 on the direction connect only preceding the last fight. Von Müllenheim-Rechberg portrayed the typically astute, amusing and hopeful Lindemann now as skeptical and pulled back. Von Müllenheim-Rechberg endeavored to converse with him and was disregarded, and later pondered whether this was because of battle weariness or whether the conflicts with Lütjens had worn him out. 

Lindemann's body was never recouped, and it is believed that he, Lütjens and different officers most likely kicked the bucket when shells from the British warships hit "Bismarck"s connect at 09:02. At the point when Robert Ballard, the oceanographer in charge of finding found the disaster area of the "Bismarck" in 1989, he found that a large portion of the forward superstructure had been shot away by shellfire and there were in excess of 50 shell gaps around the zone of the conning tower. This may bolster the hypothesis. 

On the other hand, Lindemann may have left his battle position when the ship's controls were rendered inoperable, and before the deadly hit on the direction position, so as to give the order to surrender the ship. The enduring "Matrose" Paul Hillen—who had figured out how to disappear to the upper deck in the last period of the fight, expressed that he had seen a gathering of 20– 30 individuals remaining at the bow, among them a man with a white topped top. Regularly on a German maritime vessel adrift, a white top is worn just by the boss. Also, the enduring "Maschinengefreiter"— Rudolf Römer, who at the time was at that point in the water—guaranteed that he had seen Lindemann remaining on the bow, close "Bismarck"s forward 38 cm turret, "Anton". He was said to be with his battle delivery person, a main sailor, and obviously endeavoring to influence his delegate to spare himself. In this record, his detachment grasped Lindemann's hand and the two strolled to the forward flagmast. As the ship turned over, the two stood quickly to consideration, at that point Lindemann and his flag-bearer saluted. As the ship moved to port, the envoy fell into the water. Lindemann proceeded with his salute while sticking to the flagmast, running under with the ship. 

Lindemann's companions of Crew 1913 all reached the youthful widow after his demise. The previous head of Crew 1913, Captain Otto Klüber, reached Mrs Lindemann in the fall of 1941 and offered her a privileged participation. Not long after Christmas on 27 December 1941, precisely seven months after the sinking of "Bismarck" and the passing of its authority, Captain Ernst Lindemann got a post mortem Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross. He got this high honor in light of the fact that the "Oberkommando der Marine" felt that his talented initiative essentially added to the decimation of the British battlecruiser "Hood" and the harm delivered on the British war vessel "Sovereign of Wales". 

Lindemann's first gunnery officer—Lieutenant Commander Adalbert Schneider—had been granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross on 27 May 1941. Generally, the boss would have gotten this honor before some other team part was so regarded. This exemption had been condemned by different circles in the "Wehrmacht". All things considered, Ernst Lindemann's cousin, the previous "General der Kavallarie" (General of the Cavalry) Georg Lindemann, interceded. Fabulous Admiral Erich Raeder, with whom Lindemann shared a 20-year comradeship dating to the beginning of the "Reichsmarine", displayed the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross to Mrs Lindemann on Tuesday, 6 January 1942, in Dahlem. Raeder proceeded to give moral and enthusiastic help to Lindemann's mom and widow. 

To respect the late Captain Lindemann, the overwhelming maritime battery at Sangatte, among Calais and Boulogne was initiated "Batterie Lindemann" (the Lindemann Battery) on 19 September 1942 by the naval commander in direction of the Channel Coast Friedrich Frisius. The battery comprised of three overwhelming SK C/34 weapons housed in casemates, initially proposed for the early H-class warships. Preceding this, the weapons had been alluded to as "Batterie Schleswig-Holstein" or "Batterie Groß-Deutschland" and were situated in the Hel Peninsula, Poland. The battery was devastated by Canadian powers on the night of 26 September 1944. Today the structure is incompletely secured by unearthed material from the Channel Tunnel, and just the order fortification with various littler solid focuses are as yet noticeable. 

Austrian performing artist Carl Möhner played Captain Ernst Lindemann in the 1960 high contrast British war film "Sink the Bismarck!" The film depended on the novel "The Last Nine Days of the Bismarck" by C. S. Forester.