HMS Emerald (1795) 

HMS Emerald was a 36-weapon frigate that Sir William Rule structured in 1794 for the Royal Navy. The Admiralty requested her development towards the finish of May 1794 and work started the next month at Northfleet dockyard. She was finished on 12 October 1795 and joined Admiral John Jervis' armada in the Mediterranean. 

In 1797, "Emerald" was one of a few vessels sent to chase down and catch the disabled Santisima Trinidad, which had gotten away from the British at the Battle of Cape St Vincent. "Emerald" should have been available at the Battle of the Nile however in May 1798 a tempest isolated her from Horatio Nelson's squadron and she touched base in Aboukir Bay nine days past the point of no return. She was a piece of Rear-Admiral John Thomas Duckworth's squadron amid the Action of 7 April 1800 off Cadiz. 

"Emerald" served in the Caribbean all through 1803 in Samuel Hood's armada, at that point participated in the intrusion of St Lucia in July, and of Surinam the accompanying spring. Coming back to home waters for fixes in 1806, she served in the western methodologies before joining an armada under Admiral James Gambier in 1809, and partaking in the Battle of the Basque Roads. In November 1811 she cruised to Portsmouth where she was laid up in conventional. Fitted out as a getting ship in 1822, she was in the long run separated in January 1836. 

"Emerald" was a 36-firearm, 18-pound, "Amazon"- class frigate worked to William Rule's plan. She and her sister dispatch, , were requested on 24 May 1794 and were worked to similar measurements: along the weapon deck, at the bottom, with a light emission a profundity in the hold of . They quantified 933 tons burthen. 

"Emerald" was finished at Thomas Pitcher's dockyard in Northfleet at an expense of £14,419 and propelled on 31 July 1795, twenty-seven days after "Amazon". Her coppering at Woolwich was done on 12 October 1795 and she was fitted-out at a further expense of £9,390. The Admiralty requested a second pair of "Amazon"- class transports on 24 January 1795. They were insignificantly littler at 925 tons (bm) and were worked from pitch pine. 

"Emerald" was first appointed in August 1795, under Captain Velters Cornewall Berkeley and in January 1797, she cruised for the Mediterranean. Spain had turned out to be unified to France and pronounced war on Britain in October 1796. Right off the bat in 1797, a Spanish armada of 27 boats of the line was at Cartagena with requests to join the French armada at Brest. A tempest passed the Spanish armada over course, empowering Admiral John Jervis' armada of 15 boats of the line to catch it off Cape St Vincent on 14 February. Albeit appended to Jervis' armada at the time, as a frigate "Emerald" was excessively softly worked to partake in the Battle of Cape St Vincent; rather she tied down in adjacent Lagos Bay with different vessels. 

On 16 February, the successful British armada and its prizes entered the narrows. Jervis requested the three frigates—"Emerald", , and , of 40 and 32 weapons individually—to look for the impaired lead, "Santisima Trinidad", which had been towed from the fight. Two littler art—"Bonne-Citoyenne", a corvette of 20 firearms, and the 14-weapon sloop — joined the frigates. The British squadron on 20 February located "Santisima Trinidad" under tow by a huge frigate and in the organization of a brig. Berkeley, considering the little squadron under his order lacking, declined to draw in and in the long run the Spanish boats cruised from sight. The 32-firearm , while cruising alone, later found "Santisima Trinidad" and connected with her yet the out-gunned British frigate was compelled to relinquish her assault. 

Following the Battle of Cape St Vincent, the British sought after the rest of the Spanish armada to Cadiz, where Jervis started a long-running bar of the port. On 26 April, while cruising in the organization of the 74-weapon , "Emerald" caught a 34-firearm Spanish ship and to demolish another. The Spanish vessels were near the coast when Jervis' armada located them. Sent to explore, "Emerald" and "Compelling", under Captain George Martin, found the boats were the frigates and — the Spanish boats had been conveying silver from Havana to Cadiz, yet had exchanged their payload the earlier night to an angling vessel that had cautioned them of the nearness of the British armada. 

The Spanish boats looked for haven from the British north of Trafalgar in Conil Bay, the passage to which was ensured by an expansive rough edge. "Powerful" and "Emerald" arranged this impediment at around 14:30 and drew in the Spanish boats, which were moored in the Bay. The Spanish boats surrendered at around 16:00. Eighteen Spaniards were murdered and 30 injured amid the battling; one Briton was executed and one injured. The rest of the team of "Santa Clause Elena" dodged catch by cutting her links and floating her on shore so they could escape by walking. The British figured out how to drag "Santa Clause Elena" off the shoreline be that as it may, seriously harmed, she sank adrift. 

The British took "Ninfa" into administration as HMS "Hamadryad", a 36-firearm frigate with a fundamental battery of 12-pounders, however were unfit to recover the load of silver, which later arrived securely in Cadiz. 

Commander Thomas Waller took direction of "Emerald" in mid-1797, and was positioned with Admiral Jervis' armada off Cadiz. On 3 July, Jervis endeavored to end the extended bar by requesting an assault of the town. A first endeavor brought about the catch of two Spanish mortar water crafts yet accomplished little else. Amid a second assault the evening of 5 July, "Emerald", in the organization of "Terpsichore" and the 74-weapon , gave a defensive escort to three bomb vessels, , and . This assault caused significant harm; the following morning, the Spanish briskly moved ten of their line-of-fight sends out of range. The British dropped a third assault, made arrangements for 8 July, when the climate wound up negative. 

Later in July 1797, "Emerald" partook in an ineffective assault on Santa Cruz. An arranged assault in April, proposed by Admiral Nelson, had been prematurely ended as the troops required to execute it were inaccessible. At the point when Jervis was thusly prompted that the Spanish fortune armada was secured there, he resuscitated Nelson's thought. 

For the new assault, Nelson was to take three boats of the line, three frigates, including "Emerald", and 200 marines, for a land and/or water capable arriving outside the Spanish fortress. The frigates would then connect with the batteries toward the north-east of Santa Cruz while the marines raged the town. Nonetheless, a mix of solid flows and overwhelming Spanish flame constrained the British to forsake the assault. A few further endeavors were made somewhere in the range of 22 and 25 July; in spite of the fact that the British had the capacity to arrive troops, Spanish opposition was excessively solid and the British needed to request a noteworthy withdrawal. 

After the assault, Nelson sent "Emerald" with his report to Jervis, who thusly sent her on to England with dispatches. Waller touched base at the Admiralty on 1 September, with the updates on the fizzled assaults. 

While presenting with Jervis on the Lisbon station in December 1797, "Emerald", under the transitory direction of Lord William Proby, caught the 8-firearm privateer, "Chasseur Basque". Waller returned as skipper in April 1798. In May, Jervis dispatched a squadron of five boats, including "Emerald" and told by Nelson in the 74-firearm , to find a substantial attack armada that had left Toulon. Subsequent to getting knowledge on 22 May, Nelson accurately anticipated the French armada's goal and set course for Alexandria where the British caught or obliterated everything except two of the French boats at the Battle of the Nile, which happened between 1– 3 August 1798. "Emerald" missed the fight; having recently turned out to be isolated from the remainder of the squadron in a tempest on 21 May, she landed at Aboukir Bay on 12 August. 

At the point when Nelson left for Naples on 19 August 1798, he abandoned a squadron—involving three 74s , three frigates "Emerald", , and , and the corvette "Bonne Citoyenne"— under Samuel Hood to watch the waters around the port and along the coast. On 2 September, it experienced and pulverized the French aviso "Anémone". 

"Emerald" and "Seahorse" pursued "Anemone" inshore, where she tied down in shallow water out of their compass. When they propelled their water crafts to remove "Anėmone", her group cut the grapple link and their ship floated on to the shore; as the Frenchmen were endeavoring to escape along the coast, antagonistic Arabs caught them and stripped them of their garments, shooting the individuals who stood up to. An overwhelming surf kept the British water crafts from landing, so a sailor from "Emerald", the youthful Francis Fane, swam shorewards with a line and void barrel to protect the officer and seven other people who had gotten away bare to the shoreline. "Anėmone" had a team of 60 men under the order of "Enseigne de Vaisseau" (Ensign) Garibou, and was additionally conveying General Camin and Citoyen Valette, Aide-de-Camp to General Napoleon Bonaparte, with dispatches from Toulon. Camin and Valette were among those the Arabs murdered. "Emerald" remained positioned off Alexandria for the remainder of the year. 

"Emerald" and "Minerve", while cruising together on 2 June, took "Caroline", a 16-weapon French privateer, off the south-east bank of Sardinia. Afterward, "Emerald" aided the catch of , "Salamine", and in the Action of 18 June 1799. The British armada under George Elphinstone was about 69 miles off Cape Sicié when three French frigates and two brigs were spotted. Elphinstone drew in them with three seventy-fours, , and , and two frigates, "Emerald" and . The following night, following a 28-hour pursue, the French boats were constrained into an activity. The French squadron had dispersed, empowering the British to assault it piecemeal. "Bellona" discharged the primary shots at 19:00 as she, "Skipper", and the two frigates shut with "Junon" and "Alceste", the two of which struck their hues right away. "Bellona" at that point joined "Centaur" in pursuing "Courageuse". Looked with overpowering chances, "Courageuse" additionally surrendered. "Emerald" at that point redesignd "Salamine", and "Skipper" took "Alerte" at around 23:30. 

"Emerald" came back to bar obligation at Cadiz in April 1800, joining a squadron under Rear-Admiral John Thomas Duckworth that incorporated the 74-weapon boats and "Swiftsure", and the fireship . The squadron located a Spanish caravan on 5 April, which contained 13 trader vessels and three going with frigates, and without a moment's delay gave pursue. At 03:00 the next day, "Emerald" figured out how to update and cross the bow of a 10-firearm freighter, which, having no place to go, quickly surrendered. By dawn, the rest of the Spanish escort had dissipated and the main ship noticeable was a 14-firearm brig, "Los Anglese". The nonattendance of wind kept the quieted British vessels moving toward her. Rather, "Leviathan" and "Emerald" brought down water crafts that paddled towards the brig, which they caught after a short trade of flame. 

Different sails were currently seen in the east, west and south, driving the British to isolate their power: "Swiftsure" went south, "Emerald" east, and "Leviathan" west. At noontime, "Emerald" flagged that there were six vessels toward the north-east, and "Leviathan" wore round to seek after. Before dinnertime, the two British boats had nine Spanish art in sight. Three boats were seen at midnight toward the north-north-west, and by 02:00 the next morning, two had been recognized as the adversary frigates and . Duckworth requested "Emerald" to take a parallel course to the adversary frigates fully expecting a day break assault, and at first light, the British shut with their adversaries. 

The Spaniards had expected the moving toward vessels were a piece of their escort, yet by dawn they had understood their mistake and vainly set more sail to get away. Being close enough to hail the Spanish teams, Duckworth requested that they surrender. At the point when the Spaniards overlooked the interest, he requested "Leviathan" and "Emerald" to start shooting at the apparatus of the Spanish vessels so as to impair them. Both Spanish frigates immediately surrendered. "Carmen" had 11 men killed and 16 injured; "Florentina" 12 killed and 10 injured, including her first and second chiefs. The two Spanish frigates were each conveying 1500 quintals of mercury. 

A third frigate was obvious not too far off. "Emerald" promptly set off in interest however Duckworth reviewed her and rather requested her to find the shipper ships; she verified four of the biggest vessels by dusk. The need to make the two caught frigates prepared to cruise postponed "Leviathan", and when this was finished the third frigate had made her break. "Leviathan" at that point came back to meet with "Emerald", figuring out how to take a further adversary brig before night fell. The next day, both British vessels cruised for Gibraltar with their prizes. On entry, they experienced "Ignitable", which had made port the earlier day with two caught vessels of its own. The little British squadron figured out how to verify nine vendor vessels and two frigates altogether. 

England pronounced war on France in May 1803 after the fleeting Peace of Amiens and by June, "Emerald", under the order of Captain James O'Bryen, had joined Samuel Hood's squadron in the Leeward Islands. Preceding the British intrusion of St Lucia on 21 June, she bothered adversary shipping, disturbing the island's resupply. 

The attack drive left Barbados on 20 June. It contained Hood's 74-firearm leader , the 74-weapon , the frigates and "Chichester", and the sloops and . The next morning, "Emerald" and the 18-firearm sloop had gone along with them. By 11:00, the squadron was secured in Choc Bay. The troops were arrived by 17:00 and after thirty minutes the town of Castries was in British hands. In the island's principle stronghold, Morne-Fortunée, the French troops wouldn't surrender; the British raged it at 04:00 on 22 June, and by 04:30 St Lucia was in British hands. Following this simple triumph, the British sent a power to Tobago, which gave in on 1 July. 

"Emerald" was between St Lucia and Martinique on 24 June, when she caught the 16-weapon French privateer "Enfant Prodigue" following a 72-hour pursue. The French vessel was under the order of "lieutenant de vaisseau" Victor Lefbru and was conveying dispatches for Martinique. The Royal Navy took "Enfant Prodigue" into administration as HMS St Lucia. 

While in the organization of the 22-weapon brig , "Emerald" caught and caught a Dutch vendor vessel going among Surinam and Amsterdam on 10 August. On 5 September, she caught two French boats, and soon thereafter partook in assaults on Berbice, Essequibo and Demarara. 

"Emerald"s first lieutenant, Thomas Forest, instructed the 6-firearm shaper on 13 March 1804 when, with 30 of "Emerald"s group on board, she caught a French privateer off Saint-Pierre, Martinique. Opposite breezes kept the privateer, "Mosambique", from entering St Pierre and she had looked for asylum underneath the batteries at Seron. Since "Emerald" was excessively far downwind, Captain O'Bryen utilized pontoons and group from "Emerald" to make a preoccupation and draw fire from the battery while "Post Diamond" drew nearer from the other way, adjusted Pearl Rock (around two miles off the coast), and hunkered down on "Mosambique". Timberland put the shaper close by with such power that a chain verifying the privateer to the shore snapped. The 60-man French group deserted their vessel and swam aground. The Royal Navy took into administration. 

In the spring of 1804, "Emerald" and her group partook in an intrusion of Surinam. The attack constrain comprised of Hood's lead , "Emerald", the 44-firearm overwhelming frigates "Pandour" and , the 28-weapon 6th rate , the 12-weapon clipper , the 12-firearm corvette , and the 8-firearm "Drake", together with 2,000 troops under Brigadier-General Sir Charles Green. The power touched base from Barbados on 25 April following a twenty-two-day venture. The sloop "Hippomenes", a vehicle and a further three furnished vessels, landed Brigadier-General Frederick Maitland and 700 troops at Warapee Creek the evening of 30 April. The next night, O'Bryen was requested to help Brigadier-general Hughes in the taking of Braam's Point. A sandbar at first avoided "Emerald" from entering the Surinam River however O'Bryen constrained her crosswise over on the rising tide, with "Pandour" and "Drake" following. Tying down near to, the three British ships rapidly put the Dutch battery of 18-pounders out of activity and caught the fortress without death toll. 

"Emerald", "Pandour", and "Drake" at that point pushed up the waterway, once in a while in less water than the frigates required to drift legitimately, until on 5 May they arrived near the strongholds Leyden and Frederici. The British handled a unit of troops under Hughes some separation away, which walking under the front of the woodlands and marshes, propelled an assault that brought about the quick catch of the two fortifications. At this point, a large portion of the squadron had figured out how to stir its way up the waterway to the extent Frederici, Maitland was progressing along the Commewine River, and with troops ready to assault the fortification of New Amsterdam, the Batavian commandant, Lieutenant-Colonel Batenburg, properly surrendered. 

"Emerald" caught the vessel "Augusta", which was under American hues, on 22 August and sent her into Antigua with the payload of wine that she had been conveying from Leghorn to Guadeloupe. "Emerald" left Tortola on 26 October as escort to a caravan of 50 vessels for England however having separated from them in a tempest, she put into Madeira in trouble on 11 December. 

Among February and June 1806, "Emerald" experienced fixes at Deptford dockyard and was recommissioned under Captain John Armor; Frederick Lewis Maitland accepted direction in the main quarter of 1807. While in the Basque Roads in April, "Emerald" caught the 14-firearm privateer "Austerlitz", a brig from Nantes under the order of Captain Gatien Lafont. "Emerald", while escorting a Spanish polacca that she had taken, spotted and caught the privateer on 14 April following a ten-hour pursue. "Austerlitz" had been out of port two days however had made no catches; the polacca was the Spanish ship "Sovereign of Asturias", which had cruised from La Guayra with a payload of cocoa, bark and indigo. "Emerald" sent the two prizes into Plymouth, where they touched base on 22 April. "Emerald" herself set off in quest for another vessel from La Guayra. 

"Emerald" recovered "Zulema" which had been looted and taken by a French privateer as she cruised from Philadelphia to Liverpool. She touched base in Plymouth under her lord, Mr Howard, on 4 May. Amid December, Plymouth got a greater amount of "Emerald's" catches. Toward the start of the month, "Youthful Elias" was confined. Her lord Monsieur Delance, had been cruising from Philadelphia to Bordeaux. On 26 December, Mr Seaton's vessel, "Companionship" was found coming back from France. 

"Emerald"s water crafts took part in a removing undertaking in Viveiro harbor on 13 March 1808. While cruising inshore at around 17:00, "Emerald" recognized a huge French clipper, "Opportune", of 250 tons (bm), secured in the inlet. "Relevant" was furnished with twelve 8-pounder weapons, however punctured for 16, and had a group of in excess of 70 men under the order of "lieutenant de vaisseau" Lagary. 

The groups of the yacht and of the two batteries guarding the harbor had seen "Emerald" yet Maitland still made arrangements to assault "Relevant". He before long found it was impractical to put "Emerald" in order to draw in both adversary batteries at the same time, and rather sent landing gatherings to quietness the weapons, which had been discharging on his ship since 17:30. The principal arrival party, driven by Lieutenant Bertram and joined by two marine lieutenants and two ace mates, raged the external fortification. Maitland at that point situated "Emerald" near the second battery while a pontoon under the order of his third lieutenant, Smith, arrived about a mile along the shore. This second arrival party experienced Spanish officers, however drove them off and sought after them inland. When Smith's gathering came back to the shoreline, "Emerald" had officially hushed the battery. In the haziness, Smith in this way neglected to find the post. 

The group of "Pertinent" had pursued her aground soon "Emerald" had entered the harbor. The harbor batteries having been decimated, Captain Maitland sent a further power under Midshipman Baird to verify and refloat the French ship. The first arrival party under Lieutenant Bertram, which had just experienced and scattered 60 individuals from the yacht's group, met Baird's gathering on the shoreline. The British made a few fruitless endeavors to re-drift the clipper before being compelled to set her burning and leave. English losses were substantial. "Emerald" had nine men murdered, and 16 injured, including Lieutenant Bertram. Maitland assessed that French setbacks also had been substantial. 

In 1847 the Admiralty issued the fasten "Emerald 13 March 1808" to the Naval General Service Medal to the ten enduring petitioners from the activity. 

A French yacht "Amadea" touched base in Plymouth on 15 December 1808 having recently been caught and sent in by "Emerald". Back in the Basque Roads on 23 February 1809, "Emerald" was this time some portion of a squadron under Robert Stopford. Stopford's lead, the 80-weapon , was additionally joined by the seventy-fours and , and the 36-firearm frigates and . At 20:00, Stopford's squadron was secured off the Chassiron Lighthouse, toward the north-west of Ile d'Oléron, when the locating of a few rockets provoked him to examine. Around an hour later, sails were seen toward the east which the British pursued until light the next morning. The sails had a place with a French squadron that Stopford reasoned to be out of Brest and which hurled to in the Pertuis d'Antioche. 

The French power included eight boats of the line and two frigates, and Stopford quickly sent "Naiad" to advise Admiral James Gambier of the circumstance. "Naiad" had not gone excessively far anyway when she flagged that there were three different vessels toward the north-west. Stopford requested "Amethyst" and "Emerald" to remain while he and the remainder of the squadron set off in interest. The British frigate and the sloop additionally joined the pursuit. "Caesar", "Donegal", "Resistance", and "Amelia" in the long run drove the three French frigates aground and pulverized them. 

"Emerald" and "Amethyst" had more achievement in the spring of 1809 when on 23 March they caught the brigs "Caroline" and "Snake". In April, "Emerald" helped "Amethyst" in the pursuit of a vast 44-weapon frigate off Ushant. "Emerald" located , with a principle battery of 18-pounders and under the order of Captain Dupoter, at 11:00 on 5 April and quickly flagged "Amethyst" for help. "Amethyst" got a look at the French forty-four similarly as she dismissed toward the south-east and gave pursue however by 19:20 had dismissed both "Niemen" and "Emerald". "Amethyst" fell in with "Niemen" again at around 21:30 and drew in her. "Niemen" was compelled to strike when a second British frigate, came into view and terminated a broadside. The Royal Navy took "Niemen" into administration under her current name. 

On 26 March, "Enfant de Patria" touched base at Plymouth. "Patria", of 500 tons (bm), 10 weapons, and 60 men, had cruised from France for Île de France when "Emerald" and "Amethyst" caught her. After two days "Emerald" caught a second letter of marque, the 4-firearm "Aventurier", headed for the help of Guadeloupe. She had a group of 30 men. 

"Emerald" was a piece of the armada under Admiral Lord Gambier that battled the Battle of the Basque Roads in April 1809. The French boats were moored under the insurance of the ground-breaking batteries on the Isle d'Aix when on 11 April Lord Cochrane assaulted them with fireships and unstable vessels. "Emerald" gave a redirection toward the east of the island with the brigs , and "Growler". The fireships met with just fractional achievement; the French, having foreseen such an assault, had fixed a blast over the channel. One of the touchy vessels broke the blast, driving the French to cut their links and float on to the shores. 

The next day, after much deferral, Gambier requested a fight squadron to fortify Cochrane in the Basque Roads. The British boats tied down, with springs, in a sickle around a portion of the stranded French ships, and traded fire. "Emerald" took up position in front of "Relentless" and behind "Aigle" and "Unicorn", and guided her flame principally towards the French boats of the line, "Varsovie" and "Aquilon", the two of which struck at around 17:30. 

At 20:00, "Emerald", alongside the other British frigates and brigs, gauged and tied down with the 74-weapon in the Maumusson entry toward the south of Oléron while a second fireship assault was under readiness. In spite of the fact that the fireships were prepared in the early hours on, despite what might be expected breezes kept their sending. The British rather set "Varsovie" and "Aquilon" land soon after 03:00, on the requests of Captain John Bligh, subsequent to expelling their teams. "Emerald", and different vessels moored with her, were reviewed at 05:00 however attributable to the absence of water, just the brigs had the capacity to leave further behind the waterway. "Emerald" along these lines took no further part in the assault, which proceeded until 29 April when the last French ship had the capacity to free herself from the mud and break up the stream to Rochefort. 

"Emerald" took two French sloops in July 1809. "Deux Freres", on the way for Guadeloupe from Rochelle when caught, landed in Plymouth on 26 July. After seven days, "Emerald" caught the French clipper "Equalization", which had been cruising to France from Guadeloupe. The two catches conveyed letters of marque, an administration permit approving the assault and catch of foe vessels. The first, of four weapons, was conveying a little fortification for Guadeloupe's battalion. The second, additionally of four firearms, was conveying a load of espresso and other pilgrim produce. 

While off the bank of Ireland on 8 October, "Emerald" safeguarded a British brig by catching "Unique", a 8-firearm French privateer. The Frenchman was going to take the British vessel when "Emerald" mediated. "Unique" had a group of 63 men and was four days out of Saint-Malo, yet had not yet caught some other vessel. Still in Irish waters on 6 November, "Emerald" took the 16-firearm French brig , two days out of Brest and headed for Guadeloupe. Following a throughout the night pursue, "Emerald" made up for lost time. "Capitaine de fregate" Croquet Deschateurs of "Fanfaron" opposed, discharging a few broadsides and a last twofold shotted broadside. Unfit to get away, Deschateurs arranged to load up however "Emerald" sidestepped the move and terminated a broadside that dismasted "Fanfaron", leaving Deschateurs no alternative yet to surrender his vessel. The ensuing French court-military not just exculpated Deschateurs of any risk for the misfortune yet additionally lauded him for his lead. After four days "Emerald" landed at Cork with "Fanfaron" and "Luna". "Fanfaron", with a team of 113, had been conveying a payload of flour, salt, and different arrangements, just as iron, lead, and nails, for Guadeloupe. 

Toward the start of February 1810, "Emerald" caught and sent into Plymouth, "Business", Hanson, ace, which had been cruising from Drontheim to Bordeaux. At that point on 22 March, "Emerald" caught the 350-ton (bm) "Beauty Etoile" in the Bay of Biscay. Gotten following a twelve-hour pursue amid which she casted off quite a bit of her payload; "Beauty Etoile", out of Bayonne, was punctured for 20 weapons however just conveyed eight. Conveying a freight of wine, flour, oil, and other stock to Île de France, she was sent into Cork with her 56-man team. "Emerald" caught an American ship, "Wasp", in July 1810. "Wasp" was conveying 91 travelers from New York to Bordeaux; they touched base at Plymouth on 30 July. 

"Emerald" was all the while serving on the Home Station on 11 April 1811 when she sent into Cork a French privateer. This was the 18-weapon (or "Augusta"), which had been taken on 6 April. Almost a month later, on 5 July, "Emerald" left Madeira in the organization of five East Indiamen was still on guard obligations soon thereafter when a vehicle transport detected her escorting thirteen vessels off the bank of West Africa on 18 July. 

In November 1811, "Emerald" cruised to Portsmouth and was laid up in standard. Fitted out as a getting ship in 1822, she was in the long run separated in January 1836.