Edwin Taylor Pollock 

Edwin Taylor Pollock (October 25, 1870June 4, 1943) was a lifelong officer in the United States Navy, serving in the Spanish– American War and in World War I. He was later elevated to the position of skipper. In the same way as other maritime officers, his name was regularly contracted utilizing initials: Pollock. 

As a youthful ensign, Pollock served on board amid the Spanish– American War. After the war, he ascended through the positions, served on a few ships, and did imperative examination into remote correspondence. In 1917, not exactly seven days before the United States entered World War I, he won a race against an individual officer to get the U.S. Virgin Islands from Denmark, and filled in as the domain's first acting representative. Amid the war, he was elevated to skipper and a vessel under his direction transported 60,000 American troopers to France, for which he was granted a Navy Cross. A short time later, he was made the eighth Naval Governor of American Samoa and after that the administrator of the United States Naval Observatory, before resigning in 1927. 

Initially from Mount Gilead, Ohio, Pollock went to the United States Naval Academy and, as a sailor, was doled out to and . He graduated with a position of ensign in 1893. 

After graduation, Pollock came back to Ohio and wedded Beatrice E. Law Hale on December 5. After two weeks, he was appointed to the cruiser amid its underlying shake-down. He was in this manner relegated to the gunboat for a campaign to China. He stayed in China for more than two years as a major aspect of the Asiatic Squadron, at that point exchanging to before returning home in 1897. On his arrival home, the Spanish– American War was warming up and he was reassigned to the "New York", to see administration in Cuba and Puerto Rico, in the long run participating in the Battle of Santiago de Cuba. 

In January 1900, he was elevated to lieutenant and allocated to . Over the next year he served on and . On board the "Wild ox", he came back to the Asiatic Squadron close China and was at long last exchanged to , the squadron's leader. He stayed on board the "Brooklyn", until its arrival home in May 1902. After a short leave, Pollock was appointed to the USS "Chesapeake" (as the watch and division officer), a position he held for over one year. He was exchanged to , serving for one more year, and after that to Cavite Naval Base. At Cavite, he was elevated to lieutenant authority in February 1906. 

His first obligation as a lieutenant leader was on , as the pilot. In 1910, Pollock was reassigned to , where he was elevated to authority in March 1911. 

On his advancement, Pollock told and , before being exchanged to the United States Naval Observatory. Amid his direction of the "Kearsarge", Pollock quickly told for a world-record setting remote test. For this accomplishment, the "Salem" was furnished with 16 diverse remote broadcast innovations and cruised to Gibraltar, with Pollock instructing. On entry, they tried these advances and set a world-record for longest remote transmit remove, , utilizing a "Poulsen Apparatus", in light of standards by Valdemar Poulsen. Trials were additionally directed to decide remote attributes amid nasty climate and amid both the day and night. In 1916, he was placed in order of , the ship on which he had been the pilot. 

In the last days before the passage of the United States into World War I, the US military was worried that Germany was wanting to buy or catch the Danish West Indies for use as a submarine or blimp base. At the time, Charlotte Amalie on Saint Thomas was viewed as the best port in the Caribbean outside of Cuba, and Coral Bay on Saint John was viewed as the most secure harbor in the territory. In spite of the fact that the United States was not yet at war with Germany, the US marked an arrangement to buy the domain from Denmark for 25 million dollars on March 28, 1917. President Woodrow Wilson selected James Harrison Oliver to be the primary military senator. The United States declared designs to construct a maritime base in the domain to help in the security of the Panama Canal. 

Oliver was unfit to make a trip quickly to the Islands and the respect of being the main Acting Governor of the United States Virgin Islands was chosen in a surprising way. Both Pollock, telling , and B. B. Blerer's were dispatched to the Islands in a race. The administrator of the ship that arrived first would administer at the exchange function and be acting representative. Pollock arrived first and the exchange function occurred on March 31, 1917, on Saint Thomas. Blerer directed at a littler function on Saint Croix. Present for the handover was the group of the Danish station cruiser "Valkyrien" and the previous island governing body. The United States proclaimed war on Germany on April 6, not exactly seven days in the wake of verifying the islands. Oliver was affirmed by Congress on April 20 and mitigated Pollock as senator. 

Amid the war, Pollock was named as commander on , a German luxury ship which was seized by the United States government for use as a military transport dispatch. She was rechristened "George Washington" in September 1917 and Pollock was given her direction on October 1, 1917. That December, she set out with her first heap of troops. Amid the war, Pollock effectively transported 60,000 American warriors to France in 18 round excursions. In 1918, the "George Washington" was entrusted to convey President Woodrow Wilson to the Paris Peace Conference, however Pollock would not make the trek. He was reassigned on September 29, 1918. 

While on board the "George Washington", Pollock and Chaplain Paul F. Bloomhardt altered a day by day paper. After the war, stories from the paper were gathered and distributed in 1919 by J. J. Little and Ives co. as "Ax of the United States Ship "George Washington"". A short survey of the work by "Viewpoint" magazine called the book "lucid" and "outstandingly delineated". It "possesses large amounts of shrewd bits of fun, strange and prominent episodes, and sound and energetic articles." 

After the war, he was in the long run reassigned to the war vessel , to serve in the Pacific armada. On November 10, 1920, Pollock was granted a Navy Cross for his administrations amid the war. 

On November 30, 1921, Pollock was exchanged from direction of the "Oklahoma" to turn into the Military Governor of American Samoa. Occasions both individual and political had prompted a past senator, Warren Terhune's, suicide on November 3, 1920, and the arrangement of Governor Waldo A. Evans to direct a court of investigation into the circumstance and to reestablish request. Pollock succeeded Evans, who had effectively reestablished the legislature and efficiency of the islands after a time of agitation. Right now, American Samoa was directed by a group of twelve officers and a representative, with an all out populace of around 8,000 individuals. The islands were fundamentally essential because of the amazing harbor at Pago. 

Starting in 1920, a Mau development, from the Samoan word for "restriction", was framing in American Samoa in challenge of a few Naval government arrangements, some of which had been actualized by Terhune yet which were not repudiated following his passing, which locals (and some non-locals) discovered graceless. The development itself may have been propelled by an alternate and more established Mau development in close-by Western Samoa, against the German and after that New Zealand provincial forces. A portion of the underlying complaints of the development incorporated the nature of streets in the domain, a marriage law which generally restricted locals from wedding non-locals, and an equity framework which oppressed local people to some degree since laws were not frequently accessible in Samoan. Likewise, the United States Navy additionally precluded a gathering of Samoan boss, whom the development thought about the genuine administration of the domain. Shockingly, the development had developed to incorporate a few unmistakable officers of previous Governor Terhune's staff, including his official officer. It finished in a declaration by Samuel S. Ripley, an American Samoan from an "afakasi" or blended blood Samoan family, with extensive shared property in the islands, that he was the pioneer of a genuine successor government to pre-1899 Samoa. Evans additionally met with the high boss and verified their consent to proceeded with Naval government. Ripley, who had headed out to Washington to meet with Secretary of the Navy Edwin C. Denby, was not allowed by Evans to enter the port at American Samoa and came back to oust in California, where he later turned into the city hall leader of Richmond. 

In the wake of being selected as senator, Pollock's proceeded with the colonization work begun by his antecedent. Before venturing out to the domain, he met with Ripley in San Francisco, California. Despite the fact that Ripley kept up that American "occupation" of Samoa was usurpation, he consented to enable Pollock to oversee free and to give him duplicates of his letters. Very quickly subsequent to touching base on the island, Pollock and Secretary of Native Affairs S. D. Corridor met with agents of the Mau, turning into the main senator to do as such. Without further ado a short time later, a few individuals from the Mau disbanded, however the development would proceed in some structure for an additional 13 years. 

Pollock's outstanding time as senator was less astounding. While investigating Tonga in May 1923, he found a turtle which had been marked by Captain Cook on his undertaking there in 1773. The turtle was therefore known to have lived over 150 years. He was requested home on July 26, 1923. 

Quickly on leaving Samoa, Pollock was delegated director of the United States Naval Observatory in Washington, D.C., supplanting active Rear Admiral William D. MacDougal. 

On August 22, 1924, Mars went inside of Earth. The US Naval Observatory mentioned no formal objective facts of the planet, yet Pollock and the child of space expert Asaph Hall ritualistically re-instituted Hall's 1877 disclosures of the moons Phobos and Deimos with his unique telescope. They likewise mentioned objective facts to figure the majority of the two moons. 

On January 24, 1925, Pollock directed the zeppelin on a departure from Lakehurst, New Jersey, to photo a sun oriented obscuration from a height of . This was the first run through a shroud had been shot from the air. 

Pollock resigned from administration in 1927 and was supplanted as administrator by Captain Charles F. Freeman. In 1930, Pollock and his significant other bought a mid year home in Jamestown, Rhode Island, while proceeding to keep up their fundamental living arrangement in Washington, D.C. In 1932, he was made a chief of the Jamestown Historical Society. He additionally ended up intrigued by parentage and distributed a few takes a shot at his family ancestry's through the 1930s. He passed on June 4, 1943, after a long sickness and was covered in Arlington National Cemetery on June 7, 1943.