Lilias Armstrong 

Lilias Eveline Armstrong (29 September 1882 – 9 December 1937) was an English phonetician. She worked at University College London, where she achieved the position of peruser. Armstrong is most known for her work on English sound just as the phonetics and tone of Somali and Kikuyu. Her book on English pitch, composed with Ida C. Ward, was in print for a long time. Armstrong additionally given a portion of the primary itemized depictions of tone in Somali and Kikuyu. 

Armstrong experienced childhood in Northern England. She moved on from the University of Leeds, where she contemplated French and Latin. She showed French in a grade school in the London rural areas for some time, however then joined the University College Phonetics Department, headed by Daniel Jones. Her most prominent works were the 1926 book "A Handbook of English Intonation", co-composed with Ward, the 1934 paper "The Phonetic Structure of Somali", and the book "The Phonetic and Tonal Structure of Kikuyu", distributed after death in 1940 after she kicked the bucket of a stroke in 1937 at age 55. 

She was the subeditor of the International Phonetic Association's diary "" for over 10 years, and was applauded in her day for her instructing, both amid the scholastic term and in the office's late spring excursion courses. Jones wrote in his eulogy of her that she was "one of the best phoneticians on the planet". 

Lilias Eveline Armstrong was conceived on 29 September 1882 in Pendlebury, Lancashire, to James William Armstrong, a Free Methodist clergyman, and Mary Elizabeth Armstrong, "née" Hunter. Her childhood prompted her discourse having certain Northern English qualities. Armstrong contemplated French and Latin at the University of Leeds, where she was a lord's researcher. She got her B.A. in 1906, and she was additionally prepared as an instructor. 

Subsequent to moving on from Leeds, Armstrong showed French in East Ham for quite a while; she had accomplishment in this profession, and was well on her approach to getting to be headmistress when she left this situation in 1918. While she was Senior Assistant Mistress, she started examining phonetics in the nights low maintenance at the University College Phonetics Department so as to improve her educating of French elocution. In 1917, Armstrong got a Diploma with Distinction in French Phonetics; she got a Diploma with Distinction in English phonetics the next year. 

Armstrong initially shown phonetics in 1917 in Daniel Jones' late spring course for evangelists; even before at that point, Jones had wanted to give Armstrong a full-time position at the University College Phonetics Department. Those plans were briefly put on hold when London County Council ruled against a budgetary increment for the office in October, however in November 1917, Jones selected Armstrong to get a transitory, low maintenance lectureship, which she began in February 1918. She was at long last ready to work all day toward the beginning of the 1918– 1919 scholarly year, turning into the Phonetics Department's first full-time associate. Armstrong progressed toward becoming teacher in 1920, senior speaker in 1921, and peruser in 1937. Her advancement to readership was reported in "The Times" and "The Universities Review". Armstrong additionally at times educated at the School of Oriental Studies. At the point when Jones needed to withdraw from nonattendance the initial nine months of 1920, Armstrong wound up acting leader of the office in his stead. Amid this time, she met and conceded understudies into the office. Different positions she held at University College were Chairman of the Refectory Committee and Secretary of the Women Staff Common Room. Learned social orders Armstrong had a place with incorporated the International Phonetic Association, the Modern Language Association, and the International Congress of Phonetic Sciences. 

Armstrong showed classes on the phonetics of French, English, Swedish, and Russian, and, close by Daniel Jones, a class on discourse pathology titled "Address exhibits on Methods of Correcting Defects of Speech". Armstrong additionally driven ear-preparing works out, which were a critical piece of instructing at the University College Department of Phonetics. 

What's more, Armstrong was associated with the instructing of a few excursion courses held at University College. In 1919, the Phonetics Department started training its prevalent excursion courses in French and English phonetics. In the debut 1919 course, Armstrong led day by day ear-preparing practices for a course proposed for those considering and educating French. Two perusers of "English Studies" who had gone to the 1919 summer course for English positively depicted Armstrong's ear-tests as "an extraordinary help" and "marvelous"; these ear-preparing practices were commended by the diary ". A Dutch member in the 1921 session praised Armstrong's ear-instructional courses and gave a depiction thereof. By the 1921 summer course, she directed the ear-preparing works out, yet in addition addressed on English phonetics nearby Jones; she later gave addresses on English phonetics for a "Course of Spoken English for Foreigners", instructed with Jones and Arthur Lloyd James amid the late spring of 1930. A notice for the 1935 summer course depicted the entire program as being "under the general bearing" of Jones and Armstrong; that year included addresses instructed by Armstrong and John Rupert Firth just as ear-preparing practices driven by Jones and Armstrong. 

In October 1922, Armstrong conveyed an open address at University College about the utilization of phonetics in educating French. The Verse Speaking Fellowship welcomed her to talk at their yearly gathering in 1933. She ventured out to Sweden in 1925 to convey addresses on English sound, going to Gothenburg in September and Stockholm in October. In April 1927, she gave an address on English pitch to a gathering of the of Helsinki, Finland. Different nations Armstrong made a trip to so as to give addresses incorporated the Netherlands and the Soviet Union. 

Armstrong had a few understudies who were notable researchers and etymologists themselves. Indian etymologist Suniti Kumar Chatterji learned at the University of London from 1919 to 1921 for his D.Litt.; while he was there, Armstrong and Ida C. Ward showed him phonetics and bored him with ear-preparing and translation works out. John Rupert Firth, who might later work at the University College Phonetics Department himself along Armstrong, was an understudy at University College from 1923 to 1924; the classes he took incorporated Armstrong's course in French Phonetics. In the mid year of 1934, Scottish phonetician J. C. Catford, at that point age 17, took a class in French phonetics educated by Armstrong and Hélène Coustenoble. Armstrong showed propelled phonetics to American etymologist Lorenzo Dow Turner while he was doing postdoctoral research at the School of Oriental Studies from 1936 to 1937. French Canadian language specialist , who got his lords qualification concentrating under Armstrong in 1937 and later worked close by her, particularly brought up Armstrong's benevolence and articulatory ability. While Australian artistic researcher Robert Guy Howarth was concentrating for his doctorate in English from 1937 to 1938, he likewise got a testament in phonetics and took "A Course of General Phonetics", instructed by Armstrong and others. 

The International Phonetic Association had suspended production of its diary ' amid World War I, however in 1921 it started delivering a yearly distribution ' ("Texts for our understudies"), which comprised of writings deciphered in the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) from different dialects, for example, English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish. Armstrong contributed a few interpretations of English messages all through its volumes. 

In 1923, ' continued distribution and began its third arrangement. Armstrong was recorded as the ' (subeditor) beginning from the July– September 1923 issue (third Ser. 3); she held this situation all through the January– March 1936 issue (third Ser. 53). Armstrong had a critical job in the restoration of the diary and of the International Phonetic Association, whose exercises relied upon the diary's distribution. She composed different book surveys in the diary's (, "Reports") area, just as phonetic translations of English messages in its (, "Understudies' segment"). 

''s (', "Examples") segment comprised of phonetic representations of less-considered dialects joined by the phonetic interpretation of a short content. For example, one year ' had examples of Gã, Biscayan, Japanese English, Poitevin, and Punjabi. Armstrong's first example was of Swedish and distributed in 1927; it comprised of a stock of Swedish vowels and an interpretation of "" (', "The man who dropped his hatchet"), an interpretation of "The Honest Woodcutter", as articulated by Fröken Gyllander of Stockholm. Prior, Swedish grammarian had expressed gratitude toward Armstrong for her help with portraying the phonetics and sound-arrangement of Swedish in his 1923 book "Present day Swedish Grammar". Armstrong's second example, distributed in 1929, was of Russian and comprised of a translation of a selection of Nikolai Gogol's "May Night, or the Drowned Maiden". Armstrong had additionally amended the confirmation of M. V. Trofimov and Daniel Jones' 1923 book "The Pronunciation of Russian". Armstrong likewise researched on Arabic phonetics, however never distributed anything regarding the matter, in spite of the fact that she composed an audit of British preacher William Henry Temple Gairdner's book on Arabic phonetics for "". 

Armstrong's initial two books, "An English Phonetic Reader" (1923) and "A Burmese Phonetic Reader" (1925, with Pe Maung Tin), were a piece of the London Phonetics Readers Series, altered by Daniel Jones. Books in this arrangement gave a phonetic sketch just as writings deciphered in the International Phonetic Alphabet. Her "English Phonetic Reader" included translations of entries composed by Alfred George Gardiner, Henry James, Robert Louis Stevenson, Thomas Hardy, and John Ruskin. Jones had urged Armstrong to compose a phonetic peruser of English in "thin interpretation". One of the main refinements of "limited interpretation" for English was the utilization of the extra phonetic images for vowels, for example, (as in the RP elocution of ), (), and (). In the examination behind a Jonesian "expansive translation" of English, the vital contrast between those vowels and the vowels (), and (), individually, was thought of as length rather than quality; in like manner, the nonattendance or nearness of a length diacritic was utilized to recognize these vowels rather than discrete IPA characters. Armstrong's restricted interpretation for the peruser utilized these additional vowel images and expressly checked vowel length with the diacritics 'half-long' and 'long'. She additionally talked about the utilization of tight interpretation in her first paper for "Le Maître Phonetique", distributed as one of its ("", "Highlight articles"); Armstrong entreated the diary's perusers to figure out how to utilize the additional images. Armstrong's "An English Phonetic Reader", Armstrong and Ward's "Handbook of English Intonation", and Ward's "The Phonetics of English" were the first to promote this interpretation framework for English. 

Armstrong's second book for the arrangement was a Burmese peruser, co-composed with the Burmese researcher Pe Maung Tin. Pe Maung Tin had the chance to examine phonetics at University College and work together with Armstrong while he was in London considering law at Inner Temple and going to addresses by Charles Otto Blagden about Old Mon engravings. Preceding the production of the Burmese peruser, Pe Maung Tin had composed a Burmese example for "Le Maître Phonétique". Canadian American language specialist William Cornyn portrayed their peruser as having a "detailed depiction" of Burmese phonetics. Armstrong and Pe Maung Tin built up the main translation framework for Burmese in understanding to standards of the International Phonetic Association; this was an "extremely point by point" interpretation conspire, which utilized five diacritics for tone, some of which could be put at various statures. 

One contemporary survey of this book alluded to the measure of specific phonetic images and diacritics as an "abundance of diacritical imprints that is fairly befuddling". Pe Maung Tin reacted to this by elucidating the diacritics were important to pass on the communication of tone and prosody and to guarantee that English speakers did not peruse the writings with an English pitch. He additionally guarded other translation decisions like utilizing "" to speak to a suctioned alveolar fricative as in the Burmese word (, "oil"), which Armstrong and Pe Maung Tin interpreted as ""; the commentator suspected it was confounding to utilize "" to allude to a sound other than the post-alveolar fricative spoken to by the English as in "she" (). R. Concede Brown, a previous individual from the Indian Civil Service in Burma, applauded "A Burmese Phonetic Reader" for being the joint work of a phonetician and a local speaker, expressing "This great little book sets a standard which different essayists on living Oriental dialects should pursue on the off chance that they don't want their work to be viewed as below average", despite the fact that he thought their interpretation framework was "unreasonably intricate for common use". English language specialist John Rupert Firth utilized a wide interpretation which he streamlined from Armstrong and Pe Maung Tin's framework situated to a limited extent on his experience utilizing their "Peruser" with Burmese speakers and with understudies of Burmese phonetics at Oxford's Indian Institute. Burmese language specialist Minn Latt said their interpretation framework utilized too much "new images" for a perfect romanization plot. English etymologist Justin Watkins utilized Armstrong and Pe Maung Tin's interpretation of "The North Wind and the Sun" for his 2001 representation of the IPA for Burmese in the "Diary of the International Phonetic Association". 

Armstrong and her associate Ida C. Ward distributed their book "Handbook of English Intonation" in 1926. It was joined by three twofold sided gramophone records which comprised of Armstrong and Ward perusing English entries. These accounts showed up in catalogs of discourse and theater preparing for a considerable length of time. Armstrong and Ward examined all English sound examples as basically comprising of only two "Tunes": Tune 1 is embodied by completion in a fall, and Tune 2 by consummation in an ascent. American language specialist Kenneth Lee Pike called their investigation "significant" for students of English since it discovered shared characteristics in the different employments of rising forms and of falling shapes. In 1943, Danish language specialist expressed "there is genuinely broad understanding" about the Tune 1 and Tune 2 characterization; he likewise analyzes the Tune 1 and Tune 2 arrangement of "Handbook of English Intonation" with the inflection groupings in "An Outline of English Phonetics" by Daniel Jones and "English Intonation" by Harold E. Palmer. 

Armstrong and Ward deciphered inflection in a framework where lines and dabs relate to focused and unstressed syllables, separately, and vertical position compares to pitch. Their strategy for deciphering inflection was foreseen by the one utilized in H. S. Perera and Daniel Jones' (1919) peruser for Sinhalese, and the introduction to "Handbook of English Intonation" takes note of a motivation in Hermann Klinghardt's documentation for inflection. Klinghardt said his book would have been outlandish without Daniel Jones; his activities additionally share likenesses to Jones' pitch bends. Armstrong and Ward utilized an arrangement of discrete specks and stamps to check the pitch shape since they thought that it was simpler for students of English to pursue than a persistent line. 

"Handbook of English Intonation" had an enduring effect for a considerable length of time, especially with respect to instructing English. Pike composed that the work was "a powerful commitment to the field"; in 1948, he depicted it as giving "the most generally acknowledged investigation of British sound". Armstrong and Ward's book stayed in print and being used at any rate up until the 1970s. In spite of its notoriety, its investigation has been reprimanded for being excessively oversimplified. English phonetician Jack Windsor Lewis composed their handbook made "practically no development in breaking down the structure of English sound", and reprimanded their framework for recording inflection for having "so much unnecessary detail". Pike composed their tune-based pitch "demonstrates lacking to symbolize sufficiently (for example basically) the complicated fundamental arrangement of shapes conversely one with another". Armstrong and Ward themselves composed that they knew there is "a more prominent abundance of detail than [is] here recorded", however that "consideration has been focused on the least complex types of pitch utilized in discussion and in the perusing of account and engaging exposition" since the book's proposed peruser was a remote student of English. 

In 1932 she stated "The Phonetics of French: A Practical Handbook". Its expressed objectives are "to help English understudies of French elocution and particularly educators of French articulation". To this end, it contains different practice activities and instructing clues. In the main section, she examines procedures for French instructors to direct ear-preparing practices which were such her very own imperative piece educating of phonetics. The impacts of Daniel Jones' addresses on French phonetics can be found in Armstrong's discourse of French rhotic and stop consonants. Armstrong's production of this generally welcomed book "enlarged the hover of her impact". In 1998, Scottish phonetician J. C. Catford composed that he trusted this book to in any case be the "best commonsense prologue to French phonetics". 

Part XVII of "The Phonetics of French" was about pitch, however her fundamental work on the subject was the 1934 book "Concentrates in French Intonation" co-composed with her partner Hélène Coustenoble. This book was composed for English students of French also; it gave the principal thorough depiction of French inflection. French inflection was additionally investigated as far as tunes; it was a setup based methodology, where sound comprises of an arrangement of discrete pitch forms. French sound basically comprises of three forms in their examination, to be specific: ascent falling, falling, and rising. Armstrong and Coustenoble utilized a prosodic unit known as a Sense Group, which they characterized as "every one of the littlest gatherings of linguistically related words into which numerous sentences might be isolated". The book additionally gives talk of English pitch so as to exhibit how French sound contrasts. One contemporary survey noticed that "it appears to have gotten an ideal gathering" in England. The book contained various activities, which prompted another commentator calling it "a brilliant showing manual" also. Oxford language specialist called the book "exceptionally helpful" in 1936, Austrian philologist Elise Richter called it "a praiseworthy accomplishment" in 1938, and American etymologist Robert A. Corridor, Jr. called the book "amazing" in 1946. It has been later portrayed as "very glorified" for being founded on traditions of perusing French writing for all to hear. It is viewed as an "exemplary work on French inflection". 

Armstrong began doing phonetic research on Somali in 1931. She distributed a Somali example for "Le Maître Phonétique" in 1933, just as an interpretation of "The North Wind and the Sun" for the 1933 Italian variant of "Standards of the International Phonetic Association," however her primary work on Somali was "The Phonetic Structure of Somali", distributed in 1934. Her examination depended on two Somalis, and she gives their names as "Mr. Isman Dubet of Adadleh, around 25 miles upper east of Hargeisa, and Mr. Haji Farah of Berbera"; in Somali orthography, these names would be and . These men were clearly mariners living in the East End of London, and Armstrong likely worked with them from 1931 to 1933. Farah's elocution had been the reason for Armstrong's 1933 example, and he had additionally been the subject for a radiographic phonetic investigation led by UCL phonetician Stephen Jones. 

Armstrong's investigation affected a report by the Somalists Bogumił Andrzejewski and Musa Haji Ismail Galal, which thus impacted Somali language specialist Shire Jama Ahmed's fruitful proposition for the Somali Latin letter set. Specifically, Andrzejewski offered credit to her for the act of multiplied vowels to speak to long vowels in Somali. Andrzejweski referenced a few inconveniences of Armstrong's orthography proposition concerning vowels, composing that "Armstrong's framework is too thin to even consider dealing with the vacillations in the degrees of Vowel Harmony thus unbending that its images regularly infer stops (or nonappearance of delays) and a specific speed and style of articulation". He additionally guaranteed that Armstrong's orthographic proposition for Somali vowels would be "unreasonably troublesome for the overall population (both Somali and non-Somali) to deal with". 

In 1981, American phonologist Larry Hyman called Armstrong's paper "spearheading"; she was the first to altogether analyze tone or contribute Somali. She broke down Somali just like a tone language with four tones: abnormal state, mid dimension, low dimension, and falling, and she gave a rundown of negligible sets which are recognized by tone. German Africanist reacted to Armstrong's work in a 1949 paper He called Armstrong's work "a superb phonetic examination", however contended that Somali was not a genuine tone language yet rather a pressure language. Andrzejewski wrote in 1956 that Armstrong's phonetic information were "more precise than those of some other creator on Somali"; he examined Somali as being "a marginal case between a tone language and a pressure language", utilizing what he called "accentual highlights". There remains a discussion regarding whether Somali ought to be viewed as a tone language or a pitch complement language. 

Armstrong was the first to portray the vowel arrangement of Somali. A 2014 book index on the Somali language called Armstrong's paper "original" and notes she gives a more definite portrayal of Somali vowels than different works. She was likewise the first to talk about vowel amicability in Somali; her vowel congruity examination was applauded by Italian Somalist . Australian British language specialist Roy Clive Abraham composed that he concurred with Armstrong on most parts in regards to Somali phonetics: "there are not very many focuses where I can't help contradicting her". Austro-Hungarian language specialist Werner Vycichl composed that Armstrong's investigation "opens another section of African examinations". In 1992, Trinity College, Dublin language specialist John Ibrahim Saeed said Armstrong's paper was "even now the extraordinary investigation of Somali phonetics", and in 1996, Martin Orwin composed that it "stays fundamental perusing for anybody keen on seeking after any part of the sound arrangement of Somali". 

Armstrong composed a short sketch of Kikuyu phonetics for the book "Down to earth Phonetics for Students of African Languages" by Diedrich Westermann and Ida C. Ward. Her etymological specialist was a man whom she alludes to as Mr. Mockiri. She likewise composed a sketch on Luganda phonetics for this book. Her principle deal with Kikuyu was "The Phonetic and Tonal Structure of Kikuyu" distributed after death in 1940. Jomo Kenyatta, who might later turn into the main President of Kenya, was Armstrong's semantic expert for this book. He was utilized by the Phonetics Department from 1935 to 1937 with the end goal for Armstrong to complete her examination; this was while Kenyatta was concentrating social human studies at the London School of Economics under Bronisław Malinowski. The book was to a great extent completed when Armstrong kicked the bucket; just Chapter XXII "Tonal Forms of Adjectives" stayed to be composed, in spite of the fact that Armstrong had officially composed notes for it. Daniel Jones depended Beatrice Honikman to compose the rest of the section and conclude the book's arrangements for its 1940 distribution; she was a Lecturer at SOAS who had before done chip away at Kikuyu with Kenyatta, and she was additionally once Armstrong's understudy. Part IV "The Consonant Phonemes" contains twelve kymograph tracings of Kikuyu words to show phonetic subtleties; the phonetic kymograph was an imperative instrument for trial phonetic research at University College under Jones. 

The book contains an addendum in which Armstrong proposes an orthography for Kikuyu. She recommended that the voiced dental fricative be spoken to by and the prenasalized plosive by ; in parallel were the sets/and/. Westermann and Ward additionally upheld the utilization of for in their book. Kenyatta thought Kikuyu individuals would not acknowledge the utilization of for on the grounds that in different orthographies Kikuyu individuals would be comfortable with, to be specific English and Swahili, speaks to a stop consonant, not a fricative; Armstrong noted there did not appear to be any complaint to utilizing and to speak to fricatives in Kikuyu orthography despite the fact that they speak to stops in English. The utilization of for has likewise been reprimanded as there is no variation between and in Kikuyu not at all like the other two sets; besides the Kikuyu voiced dental fricative phonologically designs with voiceless fricatives rather than with other voiced ones. 

Armstrong additionally recommended that the seven vowels of Kikuyu be spoken to by the IPA images ; this pursued the pragmatic orthography, presently known as the Africa Alphabet, conceived by the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures. This framework maintained a strategic distance from the utilization of diacritics which Armstrong called "tedious", and which regularly were precluded when composing. A disadvantage to this framework is that it is less unwavering to historical underpinnings and clouds the association with related dialects. Kikuyu pioneers likewise despised the utilization of the specific phonetic images and , discovering them unrealistic since they couldn't undoubtedly be composed on a . Armstrong likewise suggested that the velar nasal be composed with the letter and that the palatal nasal be composed with the digraph (in spite of the fact that she composed she by and by would lean toward the letter ). The instruction experts in Kenya quickly prescribed that schools utilize Armstrong's framework. In present day Kikuyu orthography, the voiced dental fricative is composed , the velar and palatal nasals are separately as and , and the vowels are individually composed . 

Armstrong's book gave the first top to bottom depiction of tone in any East African Bantu language. All through the book, Armstrong spoke to tone with a pictorial framework; an advantage of this technique was that she didn't need a tonemic investigation. A succession of dashes at different statures and edges went with each word or sentence all through the book. Armstrong's portrayal of Kikuyu tone included gathering stems into tone classes; each tone class was characterized as far as its tonal allomorphy relying upon encompassing setting. Subclasses depended on properties like length or structure of the stem. Armstrong examined five tone classes for action words, named Tonal Class I– V, and a little gathering of action words which don't have a place with any of those five classes, seven tone classes for things, each named after a word in that class, e.g., the ' Tonal Class ( "individual"), and three tone classes for descriptors, each named after a stem in that class, e.g., the ' Tonal Class ( "great"). 

American Canadian language specialist William J. Samarin noted Armstrong conflated tone and pitch generally; he guaranteed this prompted "misrepresented complexities" in her portrayal, especially as for the last intonational fall in interrogatives. At the point when Armstrong kept in touch with her original copy, investigation of tone was a beginning field and the mind boggling connection between phonemic tonemes and phonetic pitch drove phoneticians to break down dialects as having vast quantities of tones. In 1952, SOAS etymologist Lyndon Harries had the capacity to take Armstrong's information and dissect Kikuyu tone as just having two hidden tone levels. American etymologist Mary Louise Pratt additionally re-examined Armstrong's Kikuyu information as just having two dimensions. Pratt likewise noted Armstrong did not recognize allophonically long vowels from vowels which are phonemically long. College of Nairobi etymologist Kevin C. Portage composed that if Armstrong had not kicked the bucket before finishing this book "there is no uncertainty she could have extended her scope of information and most likely exhibited some thorough investigation, which is tragically ailing in the distributed work". The American phonologist Nick Clements depicted Armstrong's book in a 1984 paper as "a very important wellspring of data because of the exhaustiveness of its inclusion and exactness of the writer's phonetic perceptions". 

Armstrong wedded Simon Charles Boyanus (; 8 July 1871 – 19 July 1952) on 24 September 1926, in spite of the fact that she still kept on passing by "Miss Armstrong" expertly after marriage. Boyanus was a teacher of English philology at the University of Leningrad, where he worked with Russian language specialist Lev Shcherba. He went to the University College Phonetics Department in 1925, where he went through eight months learning English phonetics under Armstrong. 

After marriage, Boyanus needed to come back to the Soviet Union for a long time, while Armstrong needed to remain in England. While away, Boyanus worked with Vladimir Müller to create English– Russian and Russian– English lexicons. Armstrong helped with the phonetic interpretation for the catchphrases in the English– Russian volume. She had the capacity to visit Boyanus in Leningrad on two events, and he had the capacity to quickly come back to London in 1928. Boyanus was at last ready to forever move to England in January 1934, whereupon he turned into a teacher in Russian and Phonetics at the School of Slavonic and East European Studies at the University of London. While working at University College, Armstrong lived in Forest Gate and Church End, Finchley. 

In November 1937, Armstrong wound up wiped out with a diligent episode of flu. Her condition exacerbated, and she had a stroke. She kicked the bucket at Finchley Memorial Hospital, Middlesex on 9 December 1937, at 55 years old. There was an administration for her at Golders Green Crematorium around early afternoon on 13 December. The University College Provost, Secretary, and Tutor to Women Students were among those present at her memorial service. Her tribute was imprinted in "The Times", "The New York Times", "Nature", "", the "Yearly Report" for University College, and different diaries; her demise was likewise detailed in "Exchanges of the Philological Society", among different distributions. 

In mid 1938, when her single man Simon Boyanus raised the likelihood of distributing Armstrong's Kikuyu original copy, Daniel Jones orchestrated Beatrice Honikman to oversee it to production. Jones was allegedly "profoundly influenced" by Armstrong's demise; he composed Armstrong's tribute for "", and his prelude to "The Phonetic Structure of Kikuyu" paid praise to her life. At the point when the University College phonetics library must be restocked in the wake of being shelled in World War II amid the London Blitz, Jones gave a duplicate of Armstrong's after death distributed book "as a fitting begin in the remaking of the Phonetics Departmental Library".