2006 UAW-Ford 500 

The 2006 UAW-Ford 500 was a stock vehicle race that occurred on October 8, 2006. The 38th yearly running of the UAW-Ford 500, it was held at Talladega Superspeedway in Talladega, Alabama, before 160,000 onlookers; the 188-lap race was the thirtieth in the 2006 NASCAR Nextel Cup Series and the fourth in the ten-race, season-finishing Chase for the Nextel Cup. Brian Vickers of Hendrick Motorsports won the race; Kasey Kahne completed second, and Kurt Busch came in third. 

David Gilliland, who had the post position, was passed quickly by colleague Dale Jarrett. The race lead changed multiple times, with Dale Earnhardt Jr. driving for the most laps (37). Earnhardt was driving on the last lap when he and Jimmie Johnson slammed after Vickers reached Johnson's correct back quarter board, making the race end under alert banner conditions. Vickers (Johnson's partner) was resolved the race victor by NASCAR and was later censured since the accident brought down Johnson in the focuses standings. 

The triumph was the first in Vickers' vocation. After the race, Jeff Burton kept up his Drivers' Championship focuses lead, despite the fact that that lead diminished essentially in light of the fact that he had a punctured tire amid the last laps of the race. Chevrolet kept up its lead in the Manufacturers' Championship, 51 in front of Dodge and 52 in front of Ford with six races staying in the season. 

Talladega Superspeedway is one of six superspeedways which have NASCAR races. The standard track is a four-turn, superspeedway. Its turns are banked 33 degrees, and its front stretch (the area of the end goal) is banked at 16.5 degrees. The back stretch additionally has a two-degree bank. 

Before the race Jeff Burton drove the Drivers' Championship with 5,511, with Denny Hamlin second and Mark Martin third. Matt Kenseth and Kevin Harvick balanced the main five and Jeff Gordon, Dale Earnhardt Jr., Jimmie Johnson, Kyle Busch and Kasey Kahne adjusted the best ten drivers contending in the 2006 Chase for the Nextel Cup. In the Manufacturers' Championship, Chevrolet drove with 222 points; Ford was second with 175, and Dodge was a nearby third with 174. Dale Jarrett was the race's safeguarding champion. 

After the past race at Talladega (the 2006 Aaron's 499), the track's condition was starting to fall apart. Splits in the third and fourth turns were starting to cause dealing with issues with the autos, and a transitory stockpiling unit was worked outside the track to suit the black-top required for restoring the track. The whole track, including the slip cushion and pit street, was reemerged, with the work finished presently before the 2006 UAW-Ford 500 started. 

Two hour long practice sessions were held the Friday before Sunday's race. In the principal session Jeff Gordon was the quickest, in front of Jarrett in second and Robby Gordon in third. David Gilliland set fourth and Dave Blaney followed in fifth, with Casey Mears, J. J. Yeley, David Stremme, Brian Vickers and Kurt Busch balancing the best ten. Soon thereafter, Robby Gordon paced the second session, with Bobby Labonte, Hamlin and Tony Stewart in second, third and fourth spot. Blaney copied his first-session result in fifth, trailed by Yeley, Harvick, Scott Riggs, Ryan Newman and Tony Raines. 

Forty-nine vehicles were entered in the qualifier, albeit because of NASCAR's passing methodology just forty-three could race. Gilliland secured his first vocation post position with a period of 49.950 seconds and was joined on the matrix's first column by Jarrett, his Robert Yates Racing partner. Johnson, Jeff Gordon and Greg Biffle balanced the main five positions, with Travis Kvapil, Chad Chaffin, Todd Bodine, Hermie Sadler, Kirk Shelmerdine and Kevin Lepage neglecting to qualify. 

Early practice speeds drew nearer . NASCAR had ordered before the qualifier that the openings in the autos' restrictor plates be diminished by , later yielding that the standard may have influenced a few groups more than others. As indicated by Gilliland, "They tossed a curveball at us early today with the restrictor plate and (motor manufacturer) Doug Yates wasn't concerned in any way. He put the super-tune on it and the thing ran incredible." Earnhardt called the decrease in speed superfluous: "The track is safe ... I don't feel (the late change in plate estimate) is a reasonable circumstance for everyone. When you're up around the 190s, what's two miles 60 minutes? I don't perceive what the major ordeal is. The speed normal is up in light of the fact that the corner speed stays better with the new black-top. To the extent running in a straight line, we're no quicker than we've generally kept running here." Despite the commanded change, NASCAR did not plan an extra practice session. 

Live TV inclusion of the race, the thirtieth of thirty-six in the 2006 season, started in the United States at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time on NBC. Rev. Mike Jackson gave the summon at 2:20, trailed by the 151st Army Band's interpretation of the national song of praise. The direction for the drivers to begin their motors was given by Gary Casteel of the UAW, and no driver needed to move to the back of the matrix toward the begin. 

The race started at 2:41 p.m. Jarrett passed Gilliland very quickly to lead the primary lap, however lost the lead to Jeff Gordon a lap later. Jamie McMurray passed Gordon for the lead on lap 4; at this point, Gilliland had fallen back to 30th in the wake of losing the draft. Three laps later Gordon recovered the lead from McMurray, with drafting help from Vickers. On lap 18 McMurray recovered the lead from Gordon, and they traded the lead again two laps later. On lap 24 McMurray recovered the lead, and Kenny Wallace made a pit stop with his vehicle smoking. 

On lap 28, Biffle led the pack from McMurray and Earnhardt moved into the main five. Green-banner pit prevents were produced using laps 30 to 33, with Biffle keeping up his lead. On lap 35 he was passed by Stewart, who lost the lead to Carl Edwards and Kyle Busch two laps later. On the 38th lap, Earnhardt led the pack. Busch passed him on lap 41, with Earnhardt (in the outside path) dropping back to seventh. On lap 46 Kenseth passed Kyle Busch for the lead, with Kurt Busch and Earnhardt passing Kenseth five laps later. 

Earnhardt recovered the lead on lap 52, losing it seven laps later to Elliott Sadler. Sadler refueled on the following lap, giving the lead back to Earnhardt. Kenseth led the pack on lap 61, as Earnhardt and others made green-banner pit stops. Kenseth ceased on lap 71 with Biffle and Edwards, with Biffle leading the pack as the pit-stop cycle finished. Lap 72 saw the principal alert, as Blaney's left back tire destroyed and he made a pit stop. Biffle, Edwards and Sterling Marlin remained out, while the others ceased. 

Biffle directed the field back up to speed at the restart, and was passed on lap 77 by Jeff Gordon. Three laps later, Sadler made a pit stop with a level right back tire. On lap 90 Kyle Busch led the pack, losing it to Gordon on the following lap. Earnhardt passed Gordon on lap 93, holding the lead for nine laps. Vickers led the pack on lap 102; Earnhardt's left front tire went level the following lap, costing him a lap. Green-banner pit stops started on lap 107, with Vickers ceasing on lap 108 and giving the lead to McMurray. After the pit stops, Vickers recaptured the lead. 

On lap 121 Kyle Busch led the pack, losing it to Jeff Gordon two laps later. Inside a lap Gordon lost the draft and fell back to 27th, permitting Kenseth to recapture the lead. On lap 127 Clint Bowyer passed Kenseth, holding the lead for two laps until a second yellow banner was shown because of flotsam and jetsam. Hamlin and Michael Waltrip stunned their pit quits, empowering every one of them to lead a lap under the alert. Bowyer recovered the lead after Waltrip halted, and the race restarted on lap 134. Kenseth moved once more into the lead on the following lap, with Bowyer falling back to tenth. 

In a multi-fender bender on the primary turn of lap 137 Edwards and Mears impacted, including Biffle, Jeff Gordon, Hamlin, Harvick, Marlin, McMurray, Kyle Petty and Martin Truex Jr. Gordon drove directly to the carport and others made pit quits, giving the lead to Burton. The race restarted on lap 145, amid which numerous drivers finished up with fuel. Kenseth recovered the lead; Vickers passed him on lap 147, with Johnson leading the pack a lap later. That lap Reed Sorenson's motor fizzled, finishing his race. 

Truex Jr. avoided pit street, and drove the field to the restart on lap 152 preceding Johnson passed him a lap later. On lap 154 Paul Menard led the pack, with drafting help from Earnhardt, before Johnson recovered the lead a lap later. Kahne led the pack on lap 158, losing it to Earnhardt on lap 165. A five-auto crash on turn two of lap 173, including Yeley, Menard, Stewart, Stremme and Hamlin, incited the fifth alert; none of the pioneers made pit quits amid this alert. 

The race restarted on lap 178, with Earnhardt driving Johnson and Vickers. That lap, Burton (in fifth) had a level left back tire and lost a lap. The field at that point shaped a solitary line, with most staying in that arrangement for the remainder of the race. On the last lap, Johnson and Vickers left turn two with Johnson moving out of line to pass Earnhardt. At the point when Vickers endeavored to move out with Johnson to give drafting help, he cut Johnson's correct back quarter board. Johnson cut Earnhardt, sending the two drivers into the infield. The yellow banner went out and the field was solidified set up, with the request of completion dictated by where the drivers were the point at which the alert started. This gave Vickers the triumph (the first of his profession), in spite of the fact that he was booed by the group. 

Vickers showed up in Victory Lane to praise his first profession win before the group, winning $228,850 for the triumph. Earnhardt rushed to pardon him for the last-lap mishap: "He didn't wreck anybody deliberately. He was endeavoring to push the 48. I don't think he thought, 'Goodness, here's my opportunity to thump them both out.' He just got energized attempting to push the 48." Johnson was less cheerful: "We had an extraordinary opportunity to make up certain focuses and got smashed by a teammate ... I was genuine patient until the white banner was up. I got a decent kept running inside the 8 and got a great deal of assistance from behind — an excess of help ... Realizing the circumstance we're all in, I would trust somebody would be somewhat more patient." Johnson's team boss, Chad Knaus, was irritated: "I simply don't think [Vickers] has the ability to comprehend what he has underneath him." 

Vickers, who might leave Hendrick Motorsports in 2007 for Red Bull Racing Team, stated: "I would anticipate that them should be somewhat vexed. Jimmie is my companion, my partner, and he is running for a title. However, he realizes similarly just as I do that on the off chance that I wasn't knock drafting, he never would have had a shot to pass Junior." Additionally, he denied that he drove all the more forcefully on the grounds that he was leaving. Third-place finisher Kurt Busch contended Vickers was in a "Conundrum" circumstance: "He was attempting to support his partner. It simply didn't turn out that way. Vickers was doing as well as could be expected to help the 48. He simply didn't envision the 8 vehicle hindering as long as he did." Vickers would later get extra security amid the following race end of the week. 

The outcome kept Burton ahead of the pack in the Drivers' Championship. After the race, Jeff Gordon (who was associated with the lap-137 mishap) was less hopeful about his title risks: "This essentially does it for us to the extent I'm worried for the title. You knew precisely that something to that effect would occur." In the Manufacturers' Championship Chevrolet expanded its direct aggregate toward 231; Dodge moved into second spot with 180 and Ford was a nearby third with 179. The race took three hours, ten minutes and twenty-three seconds to finish; since it finished under alert, no edge of triumph was recorded.