St. Elmo (1914 film) 

St. Elmo is a 1914 American quiet show film delivered by the Balboa Amusement Producing Company and appropriated by William Fox's Box Office Attractions Company. It was the main full length film adjustment of Augusta Jane Evans' 1866 novel of a similar name. The story pursues the life of the title character (played by William Jossey), who murders his cousin (Francis McDonald) over the affection for Agnes (Madeline Pardee), transgresses, and inevitably discovers recovery and love with Edna (Gypsy Abbott). It is questioned who coordinated the film; numerous sources credit Bertram Bracken, while others list "St. Elmo" as J. Gordon Edwards' directorial debut. 

A few analysts commended the landscape and in general generation quality, considering the film an improvement over organized adjustments of the novel. Others found the landscape unessential and the story befuddling. In spite of blended audits, the film was monetarily fruitful, allegedly setting film industry records. The next year, a film adjustment of a disconnected Evans epic, "Beulah", was showcased as a continuation. Similarly as with most Balboa films, "St. Elmo" is currently trusted lost. 

St. Elmo Murray and Murray Hammond, his cousin and closest companion, are both in affection with a young lady named Agnes Hunt. In spite of the fact that Agnes adores Murray, she rejects him for being excessively poor. Rather, she acknowledges the affluent St. Elmo's engagement proposition. St. Elmo's mom holds a ball to praise the commitment. After the prearranged engagement is freely declared, Murray and Agnes meet secretly in the patio nurseries. St. Elmo finds their issue, provokes Murray to a duel, and slaughters his cousin with the principal shot. The Devil has St. Elmo, and he turns into a savage drifter, spreading hopelessness and incident where he voyages. 

After twenty years, the ingenue Edna Earle is going via train, wanting to discover work in a cotton factory after the passing of her dad, the town metal forger. The train wrecks, and St. Elmo spares her from the consuming destruction. This demonstration sets St. Elmo on the way to salvation as he and Edna gradually begin to look all starry eyed at. At first intending to withdraw for far off grounds, a dream of Christ drives him to help the ruined. Liberated from the Devil, he turns into a pastor and weds Edna. 

Augusta Jane Evans' 1866 household novel "St. Elmo" was a standout amongst the smash hit books of the nineteenth century, outperformed at the time just by "Uncle Tom's Cabin", and later by "". With the novel's prosperity came expansive social effect. Different customer items, inns, steamboats, railroad carriages, and even a few towns were named after the book, and numerous families named kids after its characters. In spite of the fact that there was significant enthusiasm for a dramatic adjustment, Evans was worried about how the novel's topics would be depicted on the stage and did not support the main content for a "St. Elmo" play until 1909. Other stage renditions, a large number of which were monetarily fruitful, were immediately created after her demise soon thereafter. The main film variants of the story pursued presently. In 1910, the Thanhouser Company picked "St. Elmo" for its second generation, and Vitagraph Studios created its own adjustment that year. Both were one-reel short movies. 

In 1914, while working for the Balboa Amusement Producing Company, William Jossey composed the screenplay for the principal full length film adjustment. Recording occurred in Long Beach, California, where the Balboa studios were found. Film of a genuine church under development over the road from the studio was utilized for a scene in which one was worked by St. Elmo. Contemporary essayists acknowledged Bertram Bracken as executive, as do some cutting edge sources, including the American Film Institute. Others consider the movie the directorial presentation of J. Gordon Edwards. The two men in this way had long professions coordinating for Fox Film. 

Balboa featured the film's creation esteem and creativity in its promoting; its film blurb publicizes "194 gorgeous scenes". Notwithstanding, Balboa was not a film wholesaler, so in May 1914 they contracted with William Fox's Box Office Attractions Company to have Fox handle the conveyance of all Balboa films, starting with "St. Elmo". Duplicates of these movies were then appeared at Fox's theaters or leased to other performance center establishment proprietors, in what was known as the states' rights circulation framework. On 1 February 1915, William Fox joined Fox Film, which acquired Box Office's advantages. The new organization kept on disseminating some Box Office films, including "St. Elmo", which played in certain zones into 1916. 

Contemporary surveys were blended. Composing for "Movie News", A. Danson Michell found the film better than stage adjustments of the novel, and particularly applauded the photography. "Moving Picture World" Hanford Judson likewise gave a for the most part positive survey, trusting that its creation characteristics and prevalent intrigue more than adjusted for the "imitation" of a couple of scenes. Not all faultfinders lauded the film. Vanderheyden Fyles of "Motion picture Pictorial" felt the Long Beach view commended somewhere else was immaterial to the plot and the adjusted story was a "confusing misunderstanding". An especially negative survey showed up in "Assortment", proposing the film was bad to the point that its creators "may have a little benefit out of the crude [film] by not destroying it through putting "St. Elmo" on it." The Chicago Board of Censorship discovered a few scenes frightful and necessitated that Chicago showings of the film be altered to expel portrayals of dueling and Murray's dead body. 

"St. Elmo" was a money related achievement, announced by "The Photoplayers' Weekly" as breaking film industry records. The next year, Bertram Bracken coordinated a film adjustment of another Augusta Jane Evans epic, "Beulah" (1859), for Balboa. In spite of the fact that not legitimately identified with "St. Elmo", the 1915 "Beulah" film was promoted as a continuation. In 1923, Fox Film created another adjustment of the novel, likewise titled "St. Elmo", which was likewise a triumph. 

Around 90% of Balboa's movies have been lost, most likely including the 1914 "St. Elmo". The Library of Congress doesn't know about any surviving duplicates.