2006 Subway 500 

The 2006 Subway 500 was the 32nd stock vehicle race of the 2006 NASCAR Nextel Cup Series and the 6th in the ten-race season-finishing Chase for the Nextel Cup. It was hung on October 22, 2006, preceding a horde of 65,000, at Martinsville Speedway in Martinsville, Virginia, one of five short tracks to hold NASCAR races. The 500-lap race was won by Jimmie Johnson of the Hendrick Motorsports group, after he began from ninth position; Denny Hamlin completed second, and Bobby Labonte came in third. 

Despite the fact that Kurt Busch won the post position, he was promptly passed by Jeff Gordon toward the beginning of the race. 143 laps later Johnson led the pack for one lap. Gordon recaptured the lead on the following lap, just to lose it to Johnson again on the 153rd lap. Labonte moved into the lead on lap 406 and held it with 55 laps remaining, when he was passed by Johnson. At the race's last restart on lap 495 Hamlin tested Johnson for the lead, however the last held off Hamlin's passing move and won the race. There were 18 alerts and 16 lead changes by five unique drivers amid the race. 

It was Johnson's fifth win of the 2006 season, and the 23rd of his profession. The outcome propelled him to third in the Drivers' Championship, 41 points behind Matt Kenseth (who assumed control over the title lead when Jeff Burton resigned amid the race; this made Burton tumble to fifth in the title, one point behind Hamlin). Chevrolet kept up its lead in the Manufacturers' Championship, 53 in front of Dodge and 61 in front of Ford with four races left in the season. 

The Subway 500 was the 32nd of 36 planned stock vehicle races of the 2006 NASCAR Nextel Cup Series and the 6th in the ten-race season-finishing Chase for the Nextel Cup. It was hung on October 22, 2006 at Martinsville Speedway in Martinsville, Virginia, one of five short tracks to hold NASCAR races; the others are Richmond International Raceway, Dover International Speedway, Bristol Motor Speedway and Phoenix International Raceway. The standard track at Martinsville Speedway is a four-turn, oval. Its turns are banked at eleven degrees, and neither the front stretch (the area of the end goal) nor the back stretch is banked. 

Before the race Jeff Burton drove the Drivers' Championship with 5,763 points, with Matt Kenseth second and Kevin Harvick third. Imprint Martin and Dale Earnhardt Jr. were fourth and fifth, and Denny Hamlin, Jimmie Johnson, Kasey Kahne, Kyle Busch and Jeff Gordon adjusted the best ten drivers going after the 2006 Chase for the Nextel Cup. In the Manufacturers' Championship, Chevrolet drove with 237; Dodge was second with 179, trailed by Ford with 173. Gordon was the race's shielding champion. 

In the wake of tumbling from seventh to tenth in the Drivers' Championship at the past race (at Charlotte Motor Speedway), Gordon said he would attempt and win races to come back to dispute for the title. Jeff Burton called the Subway 500 "another unpredictable race in the Chase", and figured it would essentially affect the pursuit contenders. In spite of the fact that Kenseth felt that the race would be the hardest for his group, he trusted that a decent completion would place him in a superior position for the title in view of his great outcomes at the tracks following the Martinsville race. After a decent completion at Charlotte, Earnhardt felt he was "healthy": "Jeff has been at this quite a while, yet I don't take a gander at him as indestructible. On the off chance that he has a misstep or even a few awful runs, it will totally shake up the focuses." After winning the Busch Series title, Harvick concentrated on the Nextel Cup title: "We're amped up for it, pleased with what we've done for the current year, and, ideally, we can do what we have to do on the Cup side in the following five weeks. I have never had a season this way." Hamlin figured he would perform well at Martinsville, where he felt agreeable, and he and his group did not lead themselves out of conflict for the title. 

In anticipation of the race, NASCAR held the remainder of its test days for Nextel Cup participants on October 16– 18 at Homestead-Miami Speedway. Sessions started at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT), delayed from 5:00 to 6:00 p.m. what's more, closed at 9:00 p.m. Fifty-eight vehicles, a blend of Cars of Tomorrow and 2006 autos, took an interest in the October 16 evening session. Reed Sorenson was fastest with a speed of , and Casey Mears had the most elevated speed of at night session. Amid the third session (with 75 autos), Kyle Busch had the quickest speed of ; Gordon had the most elevated speed of the three days, at in the fourth session. Amid the fifth session, on the evening of October 18, 23 vehicles were tried. Scott Wimmer had the most astounding rate of , and Jeff Green had the most elevated speed of at night session. 

One group substituted for its standard driver. Morgan-McClure Motorsports driver Todd Bodine chose to focus on the Craftsman Truck Series title, and was supplanted by Ward Burton, the 2002 Daytona 500 victor. Burton, who had not hustled since 2004, went to Motor Mile Speedway to reacquaint himself with NASCAR. As indicated by group boss Chris Carrier, Burton communicated a lot of enthusiasm for driving at Martinsville: "He's a Virginia driver and we're a Virginia group. That makes for an extraordinary mix at Martinsville." On October 18, Roush Racing declared that Craftsman Truck Series driver David Ragan would drive the 06 vehicle in four of the period's five outstanding races starting with the Subway 500. Ragan said that the experience would enable him to get ready for his full-time début in 2007. 

Three practice sessions were held before the Sunday race: one on Friday and two on Saturday. The primary session endured an hour and a half, the second an hour and the third 45 minutes. In the main practice session, Gordon was quickest with a period of 19.478 seconds; Ryan Newman was second and Hamlin third. Johnson took fourth position, and Dave Blaney put fifth. Kurt Busch, Sterling Marlin, Green, Sorenson and Kahne balanced the session's main ten drivers. Martin changed to a back-up vehicle after he slammed. 

Albeit fifty vehicles were entered in the qualifier, as indicated by NASCAR's passing strategy just forty-three could race. Every driver ran two laps, with the beginning request controlled by the contender's quickest occasions. Kurt Busch secured his 6th shaft position of the period, the ninth of his vocation and his first at Martinsville, with a period of 19.408. He was joined on the matrix's first column by Gordon, who was 0.038 seconds slower and had the shaft position until Kurt Busch's lap. Hamlin qualified third, Newman fourth and Tony Stewart fifth. Blaney was 6th, with Earnhardt and Green seventh and eighth. Johnson, a Chase for the Nextel Cup driver, qualified ninth and Ken Schrader adjusted the best ten qualifiers. Harvick, another driver in the Chase, set the twelfth-quickest time. The seven drivers who neglected to qualify were Mike Bliss, Hermie Sadler, Chad Chaffin, Morgan Shepherd, Ted Christopher, Derrike Cope and Stanton Barrett. After the qualifier Kurt Busch stated, "It was an extraordinary lap, unforeseen for me, however this group has constantly qualified well at this track, Martinsville is the sort of track that you either love or abhor, and I've figured out how to do both. It's an intense, testing short track." 

On Saturday morning Marlin was quickest in the second practice session with a period of 19.668 seconds, in front of Kahne and Gordon. Dale Jarrett was fourth-quickest; Mears was fifth and Johnson 6th. Hamlin, Brian Vickers, Greg Biffle and Jeff Burton followed in the best ten. Of different drivers in the Chase, Kyle Busch was thirteenth quickest and Martin set the nineteenth quickest time. Amid the second practice session, Scott Riggs (who had the forty-third snappiest time) had a motor disappointment in the session's opening minutes and changed motors. Soon thereafter, Johnson paced the last practice session with a period of 19.722; Harvick was second and Biffle third. Marlin was fourth-quickest, in front of David Stremme and Hamlin. Earnhardt was seventh-quickest, Kyle Busch eighth, Gordon ninth and Mears tenth. Other Chase drivers included Jeff Burton in seventeenth and Kahne in seventeenth; all were inside one-tenth of a second of Johnson's time. The session was suspended when Kenny Wallace's motor exploded, since the track at that point should have been checked and cleaned, and Wallace changed motors. Jarrett spun out with a brake issue, however since he reached the divider he didn't need to change to a back-up vehicle. After a comparable impact, Michael Waltrip additionally did not need to switch vehicles. 

Live TV inclusion of the race started at 12:32 p.m. EDT in the United States on NBC. Downpour showers were gauge for the day of the race, and toward the begin climate conditions were cloudy and some downpour had effectively fallen. The air temperature was around . Cleaning trucks cleared the track before the begin. Eldrid Davis of Raceway Ministries started pre-race services with a summon, the Martinsville High School walking band played out the national song of praise and Subway representative Jared Fogle told the drivers to begin their motors. Amid the pace laps, Riggs and Wallace moved to the back of the lattice since they had changed their motors. 

The race started at 1:00 p.m. Gordon quickened quicker than Kurt Busch off the line, and was in front of him continuously turn. The main alert was given two laps later when Martin Truex Jr. spun sideways thus four and Marlin, Sorenson and Kyle Petty supported harm to their autos. Jeff Burton had front-end harm to his vehicle when he reached the back of Joe Nemechek's vehicle. At the lap ten restart, Gordon kept up his lead over Kurt Busch and Denny Hamlin. Seven laps later, Hamlin passed Kurt Busch for second spot. Earnhardt passed Kurt Busch for fourth spot on the 44th lap. On lap 45, he revealed that one of his motor's chambers was fizzling and was more awful leaving the turns. Five laps later Gordon had a 1.8-second lead over Hamlin, which developed to 2.4 seconds on lap 60; Earnhardt had moved into second by that lap. On lap 64, a crash among Mears and Newman thusly four provoked the second alert; in spite of the fact that Mears was spun around, he had the capacity to proceed. Amid the alert, every one of the pioneers made pit stops for fuel and tires. Jeff Burton's pit team fixed his free hood with tape on the correct front. Biffle left the track on lap 67 with brake issues. Newman was sent to the back of the longest queue by NASCAR two laps later for his job in the occurrence with Mears, and Gordon kept up the top position at the lap-71 restart. 

Eight laps later Earnhardt passed Raines for second position, and Gordon had a 1.7-second favorable position over Earnhardt by lap 80. Raines was passed by Stewart for third on lap 83, and Johnson took third spot from Stewart six laps later. J.J. Yeley headed to pit street on the 94th lap with a level left-back tire. On lap 106, Burton (whose vehicle was hot on account of the tape on his hood) reached Gordon and got away with minor harm after a three-lap fight. Twenty-four laps later Johnson passed Earnhardt for second spot, and on lap 144 he passed Gordon for the lead. One lap later Gordon recovered in front of the pack, and fabricated a quarter-second lead by lap 150. Johnson moved once more into the lead on lap 153. Two laps later Stremme spun sideways, provoking the third alert, and every one of the pioneers made pit stops. Johnson remained the pioneer at the lap-161 restart, in front of Gordon and Stewart. After the alert finished, Burton changed to a second start in the wake of inclination he had an issue with his motor. Forty-two laps later Waltrip's turn-four turn provoked the fourth alert, in spite of the fact that he had the capacity to proceed. Amid the alert, the pioneers again made pit stops. Johnson, who had minor pneumatic stress changes due to daylight introduction at his pit stop, kept up his lead at the restart. 

Jeff Burton headed to his carport on lap 218 when a carburetor issue made him run slower than his adversaries; Earnhardt and Stewart maintained a strategic distance from a disaster area on that lap. Four laps later, the fifth alert turned out when David Gilliland reached Ward Burton thusly two; in spite of the fact that Burton spun, he abstained from reaching the stopping point. Johnson kept up his lead at the lap-227 restart. The 6th alert was given on lap 231 when Sorenson spun in the wake of slamming into Riggs, making Mike Skinner contact the left front quarter of Harvick's vehicle and Travis Kvapil to turn sideways. Biffle supported harm to his vehicle's nose, and turn three was briefly blocked. Harvick, Kahne, Vickers and Biffle went to pit street for fixes, while the pioneers stayed on the track. Johnson drove on the lap-238 restart. Four laps later Kvapil reached the divider in the wake of being knock and Tony Raines' vehicle had a cut tire from contact with Ragan, inciting the seventh alert. The vast majority of the pioneers, including Johnson, again made pit stops. On lap 244, it was declared that Jeff Burton had resigned from the race. Gordon turned into the pioneer at the restart, in front of Hamlin, Elliott Sadler, Kurt Busch and Nemechek. 

Hamlin passed Gordon for the lead on lap 256. Twenty-three laps later Bowyer reached Kenseth, turning him thusly four (in spite of the fact that he kept his vehicle off the divider) and inciting the race's eighth alert. Amid the alert, the greater part of the pioneers (counting Hamlin) made pit stops. Kyle and Kurt Busch's pit teams made track-bar changes in accordance with their vehicles. Hamlin had tape added to the front of his vehicle to fix a taking care of issue, and Sadler barely maintained a strategic distance from an impact with Kahne. Johnson recovered the lead after the pit quits, keeping up it at the lap-286 restart. Fourteen laps later Kurt Busch passed Earnhardt for second spot, and Gordon moved back up to fifth by lap 318. On lap 331, the ninth alert was given; Schrader slammed into the divider, reached Ragan going into turn two and the two drivers hit Jarrett. Schrader resigned from the race in light of the impact, yet Ragan and Jarrett proceeded. The pioneers, including Johnson, made pit quits amid the alert. Kurt Busch picked up the lead after the pit quits, keeping up it at the lap-341 restart. Six laps later Raines reached Skinner, constraining him to slam into within divider and inciting the tenth alert. With serious harm to his vehicle's backside quarter, Skinner ceased before the begin complete line. Kurt Busch kept up his lead at the lap-353 restart, in front of Johnson and Earnhardt. 

Johnson moved into the lead on a similar lap in the wake of passing Kurt Busch, who dropped two additional spots on the lap. Two laps later Ragan spun after contact with Elliott Sadler, inciting the eleventh alert; none of the pioneers made pit stops. Johnson drove at the lap-361 restart, in front of Earnhardt and Hamlin. The twelfth alert turned out two laps later when Kurt Busch attempted to pass Riggs and the drivers reached falling off turn four. Kurt Busch was spun while crossing the begin complete line and hit within divider, requiring a pit stop for fixes. Johnson kept up his lead at the lap-371 restart and was trailed by Earnhardt, Hamlin, Kurt Busch and Gordon (who made a pit stop for a pneumatic stress alteration amid the alert). Hamlin passed Earnhardt for second spot ten laps later. The thirteenth alert was provoked on lap 399 when Bobby Labonte reached Jamie McMurray thusly two, sending him turning sideways yet keeping away from the divider. The majority of the pioneers, including Johnson, made pit stops. Johnson balanced his pneumatic force, and Hamlin's pit team expelled a front bumper. 

Labonte drove on the lap-406 restart, trailed by Mears and Gordon. Elliott Sadler went to his carport with engine issues on lap 411. By lap 437, Johnson had moved into second position. Seven laps later he passed Labonte for the lead, and Hamlin passed Gordon for fourth a lap later. Lap 447 saw the fourteenth alert; Ragan spun sideways at turn four and Kyle Busch crashed into the divider to maintain a strategic distance from him, supporting minor harm to his vehicle's correct side. One lap later, Kyle Busch went to pit street for fixes. The race restarted on lap 453, with Johnson driving Labonte and Hamlin. On the 460th lap Gilliand caused Mears to turn sideways leaving turn four, provoking the fifteenth alert; Johnson kept up his lead at the restart. On lap 468, Bowyer set off the sixteenth alert subsequent to turning sideways at turn three. Four laps later, Martin headed to pit street for motor investigating. 

The race restarted on lap 476, when a seventeenth alert was issued in light of the fact that Earnhardt reached Kahne in the wake of endeavoring to pass him; Earnhardt spun at turn three. Martin again went to pit street in light of water issues, and Johnson kept up the lead at the restart. On lap 484, Hamlin passed Labonte for second spot. Five laps later Wallace spun leaving turn two in the wake of being hit by McMurray, inciting the race's eighteenth (and last) alert, yet had the capacity to proceed. Johnson remained the pioneer at the lap-495 restart, with Hamlin not far behind. Hamlin knock Johnson leaving turn two, making Johnson move to the outside path, and went to within path to draw nearby him on the back stretch. They stayed one next to the other for one lap, when Johnson drew in front of Hamlin at turn four. He pulled away, holding the lead for the staying six laps to win the race. Hamlin completed second, in front of Labonte in third, Stewart in fourth and Gordon in fifth. Mears, Kahne, Green, Harvick and Petty adjusted the main ten finishers. The race had an aggregate of 18 alerts and 16 lead changes by five drivers. Johnson drove multiple times for a sum of 245 laps, more than some other contender. The success was the 23rd of Johnson's Cup Career, just as his last of five triumphs he posted in the 2006 season. 

Johnson showed up in Victory Lane after his triumph lap to praise his fifth win of the period before the group; the success earned him $191,886. He was satisfied with the outcome, saying he was glad to have taken the triumph: "We've been running in advance the last three of four races and haven't had the capacity to let the big dog eat. Today we did." Hamlin was baffled with his completion as he believed he had a quicker vehicle after the race's last restart yet conceded Johnson would not be beaten: "It was my solitary shot to get around him. I wasn't going to get under him totally. There was no chance conceivable. I was doing as well as could be expected to win the race." He later conceded that he reached Johnson and that it was deliberately. Labonte said about his third-place complete, "I have a feeling that I stole something." Jeff Burton was philosophical about his retirement from the race: "These things occur. Everyone has had an issue in this Chase, and we had our own today. This thing isn't over for us using any and all means." Kenseth, who completed eleventh, was hopeful about his odds of winning the Drivers' Championship: "It's extraordinary to be the pioneer, however we must begin running great, It's still truly wide open. It will be entirely energizing, I think, coming down to the last race." 

Earnhardt conceded that he was to be faulted for the crash with Kahne on lap 476. He said was on edge to pass him and was underneath him when he made the move yet his back brakes bolted which made him turn. Kahne thought Earnhardt was driving excessively hard thusly three: "I surmise I have to get someone on [the radio] to lecture me to have more tolerance since I unquestionably can't assume responsibility for myself." After resigning from the race, Schrader said of his crash with Ragan, "I moved him prior in light of the fact that you can't run like that two laps down. Got back around him and he paid me back for moving him, yet he was two laps down." Ragan denied deliberately destroying Schrader, saying that he over-drove his vehicle going into the main corner and his brakes bolted. Stewart saw Ragan's lap-447 turn (which caused Kyle Busch to slam into the divider), and trusted that NASCAR ought to have precluded Ragan from the race. 

As indicated by Mears, who was engaged with an occurrence with Newman on the 64th lap, "[Newman] was somewhat holding everybody up. When I got up to him, he attempted to stop me in the focal point of the corner. [He] just jumped on the brakes and I got into the back of him. Got him somewhat free. He didn't wreck, yet he came around the following lap and destroyed me." Although Mears was additionally irate about the episode with Gilliland 396 laps later, he adulated his vehicle's dealing with and said it was the first run through a vehicle had worked to support him. Three days after the race, NASCAR reported that Waltrip-Jasper Racing team boss Tommy Baldwin Jr. was fined $5,000 for disregarding four NASCAR rules. The fines were for "activities hindering to stock vehicle hustling", vehicle, vehicle parts, segments or potentially gear utilized in the race that was not agreeable to NASCAR rules and for entering the vehicle adjusting territory without a fireproof uniform or protective cap. 

The outcome left Kenseth driving the Drivers' Championship with 5,848, in front of Harvick with 5,812. Johnson moved into third with 5,807, six points in front of Hamlin. After the race, Jeff Burton (who tumbled to fifth) was as yet energetic about his title possibilities: "We have as great a shot as anyone. We've run all around ok to win the title; we just got the chance to put the following four races together." Earnhardt, Martin, Kahne, Gordon and Kyle Busch adjusted the main ten. In the Manufacturers' Championship, Chevrolet kept up the lead with 246. Avoid stayed in second with 185, eight points in front of Ford. The race took three hours and forty-four minutes to finish, and the edge of triumph was 0.544 seconds.