CMLL World Middleweight Championship 

The CMLL World Middleweight Championship (Spanish: "Campeonato Mundial de Peso Medio del CMLL") is an expert wrestling big showdown advanced by the Mexican wrestling advancement Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL). While lighter weight classes are routinely overlooked in wrestling advancements in the United States, with most accentuation put on "heavyweights", more accentuation is put on the lighter classes in Mexican organizations. The official meaning of the middleweight division in Mexico is an individual between and , yet as far as possible are not carefully clung to. As it is an expert wrestling title, it isn't won by means of authentic challenge; it is rather won through a scripted consummation of a match or now and again granted to a wrestler in light of a storyline. 

El Cuatrero is the prevailing victor, having vanquished Ángel de Oro for the title on January 19, 2018, at "Fantastica Mania", a joint show held by CMLL and New Japan Pro Wrestling. Dragón Rojo Jr. is the longest supreme victor ever of title. Since its creation in 1991, there have been 19 singular title rules shared between 15 wrestlers. El Dandy is the main three-time champion; he additionally has the most brief rule of any boss at 63 days. 

The middleweight division was one of the principal weight divisions in Mexican "lucha libre" to have a particular title as the Mexican National Middleweight Championship was made in 1933. At the point when the Mexican expert wrestling advancement Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre ("Mexican Wrestling Enterprise"; EMLL) was established in September 1933, they ended up one of a few Mexican advancements to advance the title. EMLL later made the World Middleweight Championship to speak to the most abnormal amount prize of the middleweight division, higher than the Mexican National Middleweight Championship. In 1952, EMLL joined the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and changed the title to the NWA World Middleweight Championship. 

In the late 1980s, EMLL left the NWA over inward legislative issues, and by 1991 they had changed their name to Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre ("World Wrestling Council"; CMLL) to separate themselves from the NWA. At first, they kept on utilizing the name "NWA World Middleweight Championship" as the name had begun with EMLL, yet they before long made a progression of CMLL-marked big showdowns, including the CMLL World Middleweight Championship, which turned into the third middleweight title in the organization. CMLL held a one-night, eight-man competition to decide the main middleweight champion on December 18, 1991. The competition last observed Blue Panther rout El Satánico to turn into the primary new titleholder. 

In June 1992, numerous wrestlers left CMLL to join the recently framed Asistencia Asesoría y Administración ("Assistance, Assessment, and Administration"; AAA), which fundamentally influenced CMLL's middleweight titles. The Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission enabled AAA to expect control of the Mexican National Middleweight Championship as the supreme boss Octagón had joined AAA. In the mean time, the CMLL World Middleweight Championship was cleared after the takeoff of the boss, Blue Panther. CMLL held a 16-man fight imperial match to diminish the field to two finalists. El Dandy and Negro Casas endure the match, and after seven days El Dandy crushed Casas to turn into the second CMLL World Middleweight Champion. The title has not been empty from that point forward. 

The departure from CMLL to AAA additionally implied that CMLL lost control of the Mexican National Middleweight Championship as then-ruling hero Octagón was among the wrestlers that left the advancement. The Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission enabled AAA to assume responsibility for the Mexican National Middleweight Championship by then. On August 12, 2010, CMLL restored the NWA World Middleweight Championship to the NWA, however promptly supplanted it with the NWA World Historic Middleweight Championship to keep two "world" level titles in the middleweight division. 

On May 3, 2010, Jushin Thunder Liger crushed Negro Casas to win the CMLL World Middleweight Championship. The match occurred in Fukuoka, Japan, which was the first run through the title changed hands outside of Mexico and furthermore denoted the first run through a non-Mexican wrestler held the title. 

El Cuatrero is the present boss, having won the title on January 19, 2018, from Ángel de Oro. This is El Cuatrero's first rule as middleweight champion; he is the nineteenth in general hero. Dragón Rojo Jr. is the wrestler who has held the title the longest, an aggregate of . El Dandy holds the record for most CMLL World Middleweight Championship rules with three and is one of just three wrestlers to hold the title more than once, the others being Negro Casas and Emilio Charles Jr. El Dandy likewise held the record for the most limited reignhis second kept going just 63 days. 

The official meaning of the middleweight division in Mexico is from to . In the twentieth century, CMLL was commonly reliable and exacting about authorizing the genuine weight limits, however in the 21st century the official definitions have on occasion been neglected for specific heroes. One case of this was when Mephisto, authoritatively recorded as , won the CMLL World Welterweight Championship, a weight class with a maximum cutoff. 

With twelve CMLL-advanced titles marked as "World" titles, the limited time center movements from title to title after some time with no single title reliably advanced as the "fundamental" title; rather CMLL's different significant shows include distinctive weight divisions and are regularly featured by a "Lucha de Apuestas" ("Bet coordinate") rather than a title coordinate. From 2013 until June 2016, just two noteworthy CMLL indicates have highlighted title matches: "Sin Salida" in 2013 and the 2014 "Juicio Final" show including the NWA World Historic Welterweight Championship. Title coordinates typically occur under best two-out-of-three falls rules. Every so often, single-fall title matches have occurred, particularly while advancing CMLL title coordinates in Japan, adjusting to the customs of the neighborhood advancement, represented by Jushin Thunder Liger winning the title amid New Japan Pro's "Wrestling Dontaku 2010" in a solitary fall coordinate. 

In 1991, CMLL held an eight-man, one-night competition to crown the first ever CMLL World Middleweight Champion. At last, Blue Panther won the title by vanquishing El Satánico. 

Because of a substantial number of wrestlers leaving the organization in the late spring of 1992, the middleweight title was emptied, compelling CMLL to hold a competition. They selected to begin with a 16-man fight regal end coordinate as a way to meet all requirements for the last match the next week. Negro Casas and El Dandy outlived a field of wrestlers that comprised of Guerrero Maya, Águila Solitaria, Ponzona, Guerrero del Futuro, Plata, Espectro de Ultratumba, Espectro Jr., Oro, Javier Cruz, Kung Fu, Kato Kung Lee, Ringo Mendoza, Bestia Salvaje and Último Dragón. The next week El Dandy crushed Casas to begin his first of three title rules.