Dan Leno 

George Wild Galvin (20 December 1860 – 31 October 1904), better known by the stage name Dan Leno, was a main English music corridor humorist and melodic theater performing artist amid the late Victorian period. He was best known, beside his music corridor act, for his woman jobs in the yearly emulates that were prevalent at London's Theater Royal, Drury Lane, from 1888 to 1904. 

Leno was conceived in St Pancras, London, and started to engage as a tyke. In 1864, he joined his folks in front of an audience in their music corridor act, and he showed up, matured nine, at the Britannia Music Hall in Coventry. As a young, he was well known for his stop up moving, and in his high schooler years, he turned into the star of his family's demonstration. He received the stage name Dan Leno and, in 1884, made his first execution under that name in London. As a performance craftsman, he turned out to be progressively well known amid the late 1890s, when he was one of the most generously compensated entertainers on the planet. He built up a music corridor demonstration of discussing life's ordinary subjects, blended with comic melodies and strange perceptions, and made a large group of generally regular workers characters to delineate his accounts. In 1901, still at the pinnacle of his profession, he played out his "Huntsman" sketch for Edward VII at Sandringham. The ruler was impressed to the point that Leno turned out to be openly known as "the lord's jokester". 

Leno likewise showed up in vaudeville and, consistently from 1888 to 1904, in the Drury Lane Theater's Christmas emulate displays. He was liberal and dynamic in magnanimous causes, particularly to profit entertainers in need. Leno kept on showing up in melodic comedies and his very own music lobby schedules until 1902, in spite of the fact that he experienced progressively liquor addiction. This, together with his long relationship with woman and low parody jobs, kept him from being paid attention to as an emotional on-screen character, and he was turned down for Shakespearean jobs. Leno started to carry on in a flighty and incensed way by 1902, and he endured a psychological breakdown in mid 1903. He was focused on a psychological haven, however was released soon thereafter. After one more show, his wellbeing declined, and he passed on matured 43. 

Leno was conceived in St Pancras, London. He was the most youthful of six kids, including two senior siblings, John and Henry, and a senior sister, Frances. Two different kin kicked the bucket in earliest stages. His folks, John Galvin (1826– 1864) and his better half Louisa ("née" Dutton; 1831– 1891), performed together in a music corridor twofold act called "The Singing and Acting Duettists". Referred to expertly as Mr. what's more, Mrs. Johnny Wild, they didn't make much progress, and the family battled in neediness. 

Having had next to no tutoring, and being raised by entertainers, Leno figured out how to engage as a tyke. In 1862, Leno's folks and senior siblings showed up at the Surrey Music Hall in Sheffield, at that point performed in northern urban areas later in the year. In 1864, at four years old, Leno joined his folks in front of an audience out of the blue, at the Cosmotheca Music Hall in Paddington, under the charging "Little George, the Infant Wonder, Contortionist, and Posturer". 

At the point when Leno was four years of age, his alcoholic dad kicked the bucket, matured 37. The family moved to Liverpool a couple of months after the fact, where his mom wedded William Grant (1837– 1896), on 7 March 1866. Allow was a humorist of Lancastrian and Irish plummet, who performed in music corridors all through the British regions under the stage name of William Leno. He was a prepared performer and had recently been utilized by Charles Kean in his venue organization at the Princess' Theater in London. In 1866, the family home in Marylebone was pulverized to clear path for St Pancras railroad station and, thus, Leno's sister Frances was sent to live with an uncle, while his sibling John, who performed every so often with his folks, took all day business. Leno, his mom, stepfather and sibling Henry moved north and settled in Liverpool, where they performed in different corridors and theaters, including the Star Music Hall, yet they frequently came back to London to perform in the capital's music lobbies. 

In 1865, Leno and his sibling Henry, who previously instructed Leno to move, shaped a stop up moving twofold act known as "The Great Little Lenos". This was the first occasion when that Leno utilized his stepfather's stage name, "Leno", which he never enrolled lawfully. That year, Leno additionally showed up in his first emulate, in Liverpool, where he had a supporting part as an adolescent jokester in "Fortunatus; or, The Magic Wishing Cap" close by his folks, who showed up as "Mr and Mrs Leno – Comic Duettists". On 18 July 1866, Leno, Henry and their folks showed up on the premiere night of the Cambridge Music Hall in Toxteth, Liverpool, under the charging "Mr. also, Mrs. Leno, the Great, Sensational, Dramatic and Comic Duettists and The Brothers Leno, Lancashire Clog, Boot and Pump Dancers". The next year, the siblings showed up without their folks at the Britannia music corridor in Hoxton. Albeit at first effective, the pair would encounter numerous episodes of joblessness and regularly busked outside London bars to bring home the bacon. Tired of making due on practically zero cash, Henry left the obstruct moving act to take up an exchange London, compelling Leno to think about a future as a performance entertainer. Henry later established a move school. Before long, in any case, Henry was supplanted discontinuously in the demonstration by the young men's uncle, Johnny Danvers, who was seven days more seasoned than Leno. Leno and Danvers were close since the beginning. 

Leno made his introduction as a performance entertainer in 1869, coming back to the Britannia music corridor in Hoxton, where he wound up known as "The Great Little Leno, the Quintessence of Irish Comedians". The name was recommended by his stepfather, William, who figured the Irish association would engage gatherings of people on their up and coming visit to Dublin. Touching base in Ireland that year, the Lenos were battling monetarily and remained with William's relatives. Notwithstanding his exhibitions as a major aspect of the family demonstration, youthful Leno showed up as a performance demonstration under an Irish-sounding stage name, "Dan Patrick". This enabled him to procure a different charge of 23 shillings for every execution in addition to everyday costs. The name "Dan" was picked to respect Dan Lowery, a northern music lobby humorist and music corridor owner whom the Lenos had met a couple of months sooner. Amid this voyage through Ireland, the Lenos showed up in Dublin in an emulate composed by Leno's dad: "Old King Humpty; or, Harlequin Emerald Isle and Katty of Killarney" (1869), in which Leno got acclaim from Charles Dickens, who was in the group of onlookers and let him know: "Great little man, you'll make progress!" 

In 1870, the Lenos showed up in another emulate by Leno's dad, "Jack the Giant Killer; or, Harlequin Grim Gosling, or the Good Fairy Queen of the Golden Pine Grove", in which Leno played the title character and furthermore included in the assortment stimulation that went before the emulate. This was his last dramatic job until 1886. All through the 1870s, Leno and his folks executed as "The Comic Trio (Mr. and Mrs. Leno and Dan Patrick) In Their Really Funny Entertainments, Songs and Dances". In the family demonstration with his folks and Danvers, youthful Leno frequently played the main job in such outlines as his stepfather's "The Wicklow Wedding". Another of their representations was "Torpedo Bill", in which Leno assumed the title job, a designer of hazardous gadgets. His folks played a "washerwoman" and a "funny shoemaker". This was trailed by another sketch, "Pongo the Monkey". Opening at Pullan's Theater of Varieties in Bradford on 20 May 1878, this vaudeville included Leno as a got away monkey; it turned into his most loved sketch of the period. 

The young Leno's developing fame prompted appointments at, among others, the Varieties Theater in Sheffield and the Star Music Hall in Manchester. In the meantime, Leno's stop up moving kept on being good to the point that in 1880 he won the big showdown at the Princess' Music Hall in Leeds, for which he got a gold and silver belt weighing 44.5 oz (1.26 kg). His biographer, the emulate librettist J. Hickory Wood, portrayed his demonstration: "He moved on the stage; he moved on a platform; he moved on a piece of slate; he was encored again and again; yet all through his execution, he never articulated a word". 

In 1878, Leno and his family moved to Manchester. There, he met Lydia Reynolds, who, in 1883, joined the Leno family theater organization, which previously comprised of his folks, Danvers and Leno. The next year, Leno and Reynolds wedded; around this time, he embraced the stage name "Dan Leno". On 10 March 1884, the Leno family assumed control over the running of the Grand Varieties Theater in Sheffield. The Lenos felt alright with their common laborers Sheffield gatherings of people. On their premiere night, more than 4,000 benefactors entered the theater, paying sixpence to see Dan Leno star in "Specialist Cut Them Up". In October 1884, confronting intense challenge, the Lenos surrendered the rent on the theater. 

In 1885, Leno and his significant other moved to Clapham Park, London, and Leno increased new accomplishment with a performance demonstration that included parody patter, moving and melody. The evening of his London debut, he showed up in three music corridors: the Foresters' Music Hall in Mile End, Middlesex Music Hall in Drury Lane and Gatti's-in-the-Road, where he earned £5 per week altogether (£ in 2019 balanced for swelling). Albeit charged as "The Great Irish Comic Vocalist and Clog Champion" at first, he gradually eliminated his moving for character ponders, for example, "Going to Buy Milk for the Twins", "When Rafferty Raffled his Watch" and "The Railway Guard". His moving had earned him ubiquity in the regions, yet Leno found that his London gatherings of people favored these portrayals and his comic melodies. Leno's other London settings in the late 1880s incorporated the Collins Music Hall in Islington, the Queen's Theater in Poplar and the Standard in Pimlico. 

Leno was a substitution in the job of Leontes in the 1888 melodic vaudeville of the antiquated Greek character "Atalanta" at the Strand Theater, coordinated by Charles Hawtrey. It was composed by Hawtrey's sibling, George P. Hawtrey, and it featured Frank Wyatt, Willie Warde and William Hawtrey. The "Delineated Sporting and Dramatic News" lauded Leno's singing and moving and detailed that: "He brings a decent arrangement of fun and curiosity to the not critical piece of Leontes." Leno acknowledged the job at short notice, with no chance to get familiar with the content. However, his ad libbed parody broadened the life of the show. Whenever Leno and another driving on-screen character left a couple of months after the fact, the generation shut. 

Amid the 1890s, Leno was the main entertainer on the music corridor arrange, matched just by Albert Chevalier, who moved into music lobby from the authentic theater. Their styles and offer were altogether different: Leno's characters were coarse common laborers pragmatists, while Chevalier's were flooding in sentimentalism, and his demonstration portrayed a rich perspective. The two spoke to the contrary posts of cockney parody. 

For his music corridor acts, Leno made characters that depended on perceptions about existence in London, including shopwalkers, merchant's partners, beefeaters, huntsmen, racegoers, fire fighters, fathers, henpecked spouses, chatty wives, emulate women, a cop, a Spanish marauder, a fire fighter and a beautician. One such character was Mrs. Kelly, a tattle. Leno would sing a refrain of a melody, at that point start a monolog, regularly his "You know Mrs. Kelly?" schedule, which turned into an outstanding catchphrase: "You see we had a column once, and it was all through Mrs. Kelly. You know Mrs. Kelly, of course. ... Goodness, you should know Mrs. Kelly; everyone knows Mrs. Kelly." 

For his London demonstrations, Leno acquired tunes from the premier music lobby scholars and writers. One such arranger was Harry King, who composed huge numbers of Leno's initial victories. Other surely understood writers of the day who provided Leno with numbers included Harry Dacre and Joseph Tabrar. From 1890, Leno appointed George Le Brunn to make the coincidental music to a considerable lot of his melodies, including "The Detective", "My Old Man", "Smokestack on Fire", "The Fasting Man", "The Jap", "All Through A Little Piece of Bacon" and "The Detective Camera". Le Brunn likewise gave the coincidental music to three of Leno's best-known melodies that delineated life in ordinary occupations: "The Railway Guard" (1890), "The Shopwalker" and "The Waiter" (both from 1891). The melodies in each piece turned out to be in a flash unmistakable and commonplace to Leno's gatherings of people, yet his periodic changes to the characterisations kept the representations crisp and topical. 

"The Railway Guard" included Leno in a distraught characterisation of a railroad station watch wearing an evil fitting uniform, with an unkempt whiskers and a whistle. The character was made by misrepresenting the conduct that Leno found in a genuine worker at Brixton station who concerned himself in other individuals' the same old thing while, in the meantime, not doing any work. "The Shopwalker" was brimming with comic jokes and was vigorously impacted by emulate. Leno filled the role of a shop aide, again of hyper disposition, alluring nonexistent customer base into the shop before propelling into a mad selling procedure sung in refrain. Leno's delineation of "The Waiter", wearing a larger than usual supper coat and baggy white dickey, which would fold up and hit his face, was of a man devoured in self indulgence and anger. Exhausted, weary and overpowered by the quantity of his clients, the server gave out reasons for the awful administration quicker than the clients could whine: 

Leno's first London appearance in emulate was as Dame Durden in "Jack and the Beanstalk", which he performed at London's Surrey Theater in 1886, having been spotted singing "Going to Buy Milk" by the Surrey Theater director, George Conquest. Success additionally enlisted Leno's better half to star in the creation. The emulate was a triumph, and Leno got rave audits; accordingly, he was reserved to star as Tinpanz the Tinker in the next year's emulate, which had the special title of "Sinbad and the Little Old Man of the Sea; or, The Tinker, the Tailor, the Soldier, the Sailor, Apothecary, Ploughboy, Gentleman Thief". 

After these emulate exhibitions demonstrated famous with crowds, Leno was procured in 1888 by Augustus Harris, supervisor at the Theater Royal, Drury Lane, to show up in that year's Christmas emulate, "Darlings in the Wood". Harris' emulate creations at the immense venue were known for their indulgence and quality. Every one had a cast of over a hundred entertainers, ballet performers, stunt-devils, dolls and creatures, and incorporated a detailed change scene and an enthusiastic harlequinade. Frequently they were incompletely composed by Harris. Herbert Campbell and Harry Nicholls featured with Leno in the following fifteen Christmas preparations at Drury Lane. Campbell had showed up in the auditorium's past five emulates and was a most loved of the author of those creations, E. L. Blanchard. Blanchard left the theater when Leno was contracted, trusting that music corridor entertainers were inadmissible for his Christmas emulates. This was not a view shared by groups of onlookers or the faultfinders, one of whom composed: 

"Darlings in the Wood" was a triumph: the venue revealed record participation, and the run was reached out until 27 April 1889. Leno impressively decreased his music-corridor commitment as an outcome. All things considered, among April and October 1889, Leno showed up all the while at the Empire Theater and the Oxford Music Hall, playing out his small time appear. At this point, Leno was much popular and had appointments for the following three years. On 9 May 1889 he featured for George P. Hawtrey in an early show of "Penelope", a melodic rendition of a popular joke "The Area Belle", to profit the Holborn Lodge for Shop Girls. In this advantage, he assumed the job of Pitcher inverse the prepared Gilbert and Sullivan entertainer Rutland Barrington. "The Times" thought about that his execution treated the piece "a lot in the way of emulate". Amid Leno's long relationship with the Drury Lane emulates, he seemed primarily as the woman. After Harris passed on in 1896, Arthur Collins turned into the chief of the theater and supervised (and regularly composed) the mimes. 

In their mimes, the modest Leno and the monstrous Campbell were an outwardly funny team. They would regularly veer off from the content, ad libbing unreservedly. This was met with some wariness by makers, who expected that the scenes would not be entertaining to groups of onlookers and saw that, in any occasion, they were infrequently taking care of business until a couple of evenings subsequent to opening. George Bernard Shaw composed of one appearance: "I trust I never again need to suffer much else bleakly useless", and the English writer and caricaturist Max Beerbohm expressed that "Leno does not do himself equity working together with general society". He noted, notwithstanding, that Leno "was excellent in giving every one of his women her very own identity, from indulgent ruler to unsophisticated tattle". In "Dozing Beauty", Leno and Campbell made the group of onlookers chuckle notwithstanding when they couldn't see them: they would touch base in front of an audience in shut palanquins and trade the lines, "Make them anything to do this evening, my dear?" – "No, I have nothing on", before being taken away once more. Leno and Campbell's mimes from 1889 were "Jack and the Beanstalk" (1889 and 1899), "Excellence and the Beast" (1890 and 1900), "Humpty Dumpty" (1891 and 1903), "Little Bo-Peep" (1892), "Robinson Crusoe" (1893), "Dick Whittington and His Cat" (1894), "Cinderella" (1895), "Aladdin" (1896), "Darlings in the Wood" (1897) and the "Forty Thieves" (1898). 

Leno considered the woman jobs in two of his last emulates, "Bluebeard" (1901) and "Mother Goose" (1902), composed by J. Hickory Wood, to be his top choices. He was paid £200 (£ in 2019 balanced for expansion) for every one of the emulate seasons. Leno showed up at Drury Lane as Sister Anne in "Bluebeard", a character portrayed by Wood as "a buoyant, to some degree underneath moderately aged individual who was of a going ahead air and who had not yet surrendered expectation" "The Times" dramatization commentator noted: "It is a very exceptional and unique Sister Anne, who moves breakdowns and sings odd melodies to a still more odd harp and plays ping-pong with a skillet and potatoes and vaudevilles Sherlock Holmes and wears the most bizarre of pieces of clothing and dresses her hair like Miss Morleena Kenwigs, and talks in a funneling voice – in short it is none other than Dan Leno whom we as a whole know". "Mother Goose" gave Leno a standout amongst the most testing jobs of his profession, in which he was required to depict a similar lady in a few distinct appearances. Wood's thought, that neither fortune nor magnificence would bring joy, was delineated by a progression of mysterious character changes. Poor people, unkempt and by and large terrible Mother Goose in the end turned into a rich and delightful however bland parvenu, scanning for a suitor. The creation was one of Drury Lane's best emulates, running until 28 March 1903. 

In 1896, the manager Milton Bode drew closer Leno with a proposition for a ludicrous melodic satire vehicle formulated for him called "Orlando Dando, the Volunteer", by Basil Hood with music by Walter Slaughter. Leno's specialist declined the offer, as his customer was emphatically reserved for a long time. Bode offered Leno £625 (£ in 2019 balanced for expansion) for a six-week appearance in 1898. After hearing this, the entertainer abrogated his operator and acknowledged the offer. Leno visited the regions in the piece and was a prompt achievement. So well known was his execution that Bode reconnected him for a further two shows: the melodic sham "In Gay Piccadilly!" (1899), by George R. Sims, in which Leno's uncle, Johnny Danvers showed up ("The Era" said that Leno was "pulling in immense houses" and called him "agonizingly entertaining"); and the melodic parody "Mr. Wix of Wickham" (1902). Both visited after their unique runs. In 1897, Leno went to America and made his presentation on 12 April of that year at Hammerstein's Olympia Music Hall on Broadway, where he was charged as "The Funniest Man on Earth". Surveys were blended: one paper revealed that the house thundered its endorsement, while another griped that Leno's English cleverness was outdated. His American commitment reached an end a month later, and Leno said that it was "the crown of my profession". Regardless of his celebration, Leno was aware of the few negative surveys he had gotten and dismissed every single later idea to visit the United States and Australia. 

That year, the entertainer loaned his name and composing abilities to "Dan Leno's Comic Journal". The paper was basically gone for youthful grown-ups and highlighted a mythologised form of Leno – the principal comic paper to take its name from, and base a focal character on, a living individual. Distributed by C. Arthur Pearson, Issue No. 1 showed up on 26 February 1898, and the paper sold 350,000 duplicates per year. Leno composed a large portion of the paper's comic stories and jokes, and Tom Browne contributed a considerable lot of the representations. The humorist held publication control of the paper, choosing which things to overlook. The Journal was known for its trademarks, including "One Touch of Leno Makes the Whole World Grin" and "Won't wash garments yet will ruin despairing". The spread dependably demonstrated a personification of Leno and his publication staff at work and play. Inside, the highlights notwithstanding "Daniel's Diary", "Groans from the Martyr", two yarns, two or three dozen kid's shows and "Leno's Latest – Fresh Jokes and Wheezes Made on the Premises". After a keep running of almost two years the curiosity wore off, and Leno lost intrigue. The paper shut down on 2 December 1899. 

A writer composed, in the late 1890s, that Leno was "presumably the most generously compensated entertaining man on the planet". In 1898, Leno, Herbert Campbell and Johnny Danvers shaped a consortium to fabricate the Granville Theater in Fulham, which was destroyed in 1971. Leno distributed a collection of memoirs, "Dan Leno: Hys Booke", in 1899, secretly composed by T. C. Senior. Leno's biographer J. Hickory Wood remarked: "I can sincerely say that I never observed him completely very still. He was continually accomplishing something, and had another thing to do subsequently; or he had quite recently been some place, was going elsewhere, and had a few different arrangements to pursue." That year, Leno played out the job of "waxi omo" (a slang appearance for a dark face entertainer) in the Doo-da-Day Minstrels, a demonstration that included Danvers, Campbell, Bransby Williams, Joe Elvin and Eugene Stratton. The troupe's solitary execution was at the London Pavilion on 29 May 1899 as a component of an advantage. Leno's melody "The Funny Little Nigger" enormously interested the gathering of people. His biographer Barry Anthony believed the execution to be "pretty much, the last heave of dark face minstrelsy in Britain". 

Somewhere in the range of 1901 and 1903, Leno recorded more than twenty-five tunes and monologs on the Gramophone and Typewriter Company name. He likewise made 14 short movies towards an amazing finish, in which he depicted a blundering joker who battles to complete ordinary undertakings, for example, riding a bike or opening a jug of champagne. On 26 November 1901, Leno, alongside Seymour Hicks and his better half, the performer Ellaline Terriss, was welcome to Sandringham House to partake in a Royal Command Performance to engage King Edward VII, Queen Alexandra, their child George and his significant other, Mary, the Prince and Princess of Wales. Leno played out a thirty-five-minute solo act that included two of his best-known tunes: "How to Buy a House" and "The Huntsman". After the execution, Leno revealed, "The King, the Queen and the Prince of Wales all around compassionately shook hands with me and disclosed to me the amount they had delighted in it. The Princess of Wales was simply going to shake hands with me, when she took a gander at my face, and couldn't do it for quite a while, in light of the fact that she chuckled to such an extent. I wasn't expecting to look funny – I was truly attempting to look stately and elegant; however I guess I couldn't support myself." As a token, the ruler gave Leno a gem encrusted regal tie stick, and from there on, Leno wound up known as "the King's Jester". Leno was the principal music corridor entertainer to give a Royal Command Performance amid the ruler's rule. 

In 1883, Leno met Sarah Lydia Reynolds (1866– 1942), a youthful artist and satire vocalist from Birmingham, while both were showing up at King Ohmy's Circus of Varieties, Rochdale. The little girl of a phase craftsman, Lydia, as she was known expertly, was at that point a cultivated on-screen character as a youngster: of her execution in "Sinbad the Sailor" in 1881, one faultfinder composed that she "played Zorlida great for a youthful artiste. She is outstanding at this theater and with legitimate preparing will demonstrate an exceptionally astute performing artist." She and Leno wedded in 1884 of every an attentive function at St. George's Church, in Hulme, Manchester, not long after the introduction of their first little girl, Georgina. A second youngster kicked the bucket in early stages, and John was conceived in 1888. Their three most youthful children – Ernest (b. 1889), Sidney (b. 1891) and May (b. 1896) – all pursued their dad onto the stage. Sidney later executed as Dan Leno, Jr. After Leno's mom and stepfather resigned from performing, Leno bolstered them monetarily until their demises. 

Leno possessed of land at the back of his home in Clapham Park, and was independent, creating cabbages, potatoes, poultry, spread and eggs. He would likewise send these as presents to loved ones at Christmas. In 1898, Leno and his family moved to 56 Akerman Road, Lambeth, where they lived for quite a while. A blue plaque was raised there in 1962 by the London County Council. 

The Terriers Association was built up in 1890 to help resigned craftsmen needing money related help. Leno was a functioning pledge drive in this and in the Music Hall Benevolent Fund, of which he progressed toward becoming President. He was an early individual from the stimulation philanthropy Grand Order of Water Rats, which helps entertainers who are in monetary need, and filled in as its pioneer, the King Rat, in 1891, 1892 and 1897. Close to an amazing finish, Leno helped to establish The Music Hall Artistes Railway Association, which entered an organization with the Water Rats to frame music lobby's first worker's guild. A portion of Leno's philanthropy was tactful and unpublicised. 

In the late 1890s, Leno shaped a cricket group called the "Dainties", for which he enlisted a large number of the day's driving comics and music corridor stars. They played for philanthropy against an assortment of novice groups willing to endure their comedic commotion, for example, London's Metropolitan Police Force; Leno's and his colleagues' clowning around on the green diverted the huge groups that they drew. From 1898 to 1903, the Dainties kept on playing matches crosswise over London. Two movies of activity from the matches were delivered in 1900 for gatherings of people of the new mode of film. In September 1901, at a noteworthy philanthropy coordinate, the press noticed the festival climate. The humorists wore senseless costumes – Leno was dressed as a funeral director and later as a student riding a camel. Groups played, and jokesters coursed through the group. The opponent group of expert Surrey cricketers were convinced to wear tall caps amid the match. 18,000 onlookers visited, contributing assets for music lobby and cricketers' foundations, among others. 

Leno started to drink vigorously after exhibitions, and, by 1901, similar to his dad and stepfather before him, he had turned into a heavy drinker. He step by step declined physically and rationally and showed visit episodes of whimsical conduct that started to influence his work. By 1902, Leno's furious and fierce conduct coordinated at individual cast individuals, loved ones had turned out to be visit. When made, he would end up contrite and remorseful. His sporadic conduct was frequently an aftereffect of his reducing capacity to recall his lines and unintelligibility in execution. Leno additionally endured expanding deafness, which in the end caused issues on and off stage. In 1901, amid a generation of "Bluebeard", Leno missed his verbal sign and, thus, was left stuck up a pinnacle for over twenty minutes. Toward the finish of the keep running of "Mother Goose" in 1903, maker Arthur Collins gave a tribute to Leno and displayed him, in the interest of the Drury Lane Theater's administration, with a costly silver supper administration. Leno rose to his feet and stated: "Senator, it's a brilliant present! I praise you and you merit it!" 

Disappointed at not being acknowledged as a genuine performing artist, Leno ended up fixated on playing "Richard III" and other incredible Shakespearean jobs, immersing the actor– chief Herbert Beerbohm Tree with his recommendations. After his last keep running of "Mother Goose" at the Drury Lane Theater in mid 1903, Leno's daydreams overpowered him. On the end evening, and again soon subsequently, he made a trip to the home of Constance Collier, who was Beerbohm Tree's driving woman at His Majesty's Theater, and furthermore pursued her to practice there. He endeavored to influence her to demonstration close by him in a Shakespearean season that Leno was happy to subsidize. On the second visit to her home, Leno presented to Collier an adornments box holding a precious stone encrusted plaque. Perceiving that Leno was having a psychological breakdown, she tragically and tenderly rejected his offer, and Leno left upset. 

After two days, he was conceded into a haven for the crazy. Leno went through a while in Camberwell House Asylum, London, under the consideration of Dr. Savage, who treated Leno with "harmony and calm and a little water shading". On his second day, Leno told a medical caretaker that the clock wasn't right. When she expressed that it was correct, Leno commented, "Well in the event that it's correct, at that point what's it doing here?" Leno made a few endeavors to leave the refuge, twice being fruitful. He was discovered each time and immediately returned. 

Upon Leno's discharge from the organization in October 1903, the press offered much inviting analysis and hypothesized about whether he would give the idea that year in the Drury Lane emulate, booked to be "Humpty Dumpty". Worried that Leno may endure a backslide, Arthur Collins utilized Marie Lloyd to have his spot. When of practices, in any case, Leno influenced Collins that he was all around ok to participate, and the cast was reshuffled to suit him. Leno showed up with progress. After hearing his mark melody, the group of onlookers apparently gave him an overwhelming applause that endured five minutes. He got a message from the King praising him on his execution. 

Leno's stage accomplice Herbert Campbell passed on in July 1904, soon after the emulate, following a mishap at the age of fifty-seven. The passing influenced Leno profoundly, and he went into a decrease. Around then, he was showing up at the London Pavilion, however the show must be dropped inferable from his failure to recall his lines. So unforgiving were the commentators that Leno composed an announcement, distributed in "The Era", to guard the show's creativity. On 20 October 1904, Leno gave his last execution in the show. Thereafter, he halted at the Belgrave Hospital for Children in Kennington to leave a gift of £625 (£ in 2019 balanced for expansion). 

Leno kicked the bucket at his home in London on 31 October 1904, matured 43, and was covered at Lambeth Cemetery, Tooting. The reason for death isn't known. His demise and burial service were national news. The "Every day Telegraph" wrote in its eulogy: "There was just a single Dan. His strategies were incomparable; his face was surely his fortune ... Who has seen him in any of his camouflages and has neglected to chuckle?" Max Beerbohm later said of Leno's demise: "So little and delicate a lamp couldn't long harbor so huge a fire".