Bill Denny 

William Joseph "Bill" Denny, (6 December 1872 – 2 May 1946) was a South Australian writer, legal advisor, government official and enlivened officer who held the South Australian House of Assembly seats of West Adelaide from 1900 to 1902 and after that Adelaide from 1902 to 1905 and again from 1906 to 1933. After a fruitless application as a United Labor Party (ULP) part in 1899, he was chosen as a "free liberal" in a by-decision in 1900. He was re-chosen in 1902, however crushed in 1905. The next year, he was chosen as a ULP hopeful, and held his seat for that party (the Australian Labor Party from 1917) until 1931. Alongside the remainder of the bureau, he was shot out from the Australian Labor Party in 1931, and was an individual from the Parliamentary Labor Party until his appointive thrashing on account of a Lang Labor Party hopeful in 1933. 

Denny was the Attorney-General of South Australia and Minister for the Northern Territory in the administration driven by John Verran (1910– 12). In August 1915, Denny enrolled in the First Australian Imperial Force to serve in World War I, at first as a trooper in the ninth Light Horse Regiment. Subsequent to being appointed in 1916, he served in the fifth Division Artillery and first Divisional Artillery on the Western Front. He was granted the Military Cross in September 1917 when he was injured while driving a guard into forward territories close Ypres, and finished the war as a skipper. 

He was again Attorney-General in the Labor governments driven by John Gunn (1924– 26), Lionel Hill (1930– 33) and Robert Richards (1933), and held different portfolios in those administrations, including lodging, water system and repatriation. Denny distributed two diaries of his military administration, and when he kicked the bucket in 1946 matured 73, he was concurred a state burial service. 

William Joseph Denny was conceived in Adelaide, South Australia, on 6 December 1872, one of three offspring of Thomas Joseph Denny, a publican, and his significant other Annie ( Dwyer). He went to Christian Brothers College, Adelaide, at that point functioned as a climate assistant at the General Post Office, Adelaide under the Postmaster General, Sir Charles Todd. As indicated by a contemporary source, in 1893 he turned into the editorial manager of the Catholic "The Southern Cross" paper, which distributed news about and for the Catholic people group of South Australia. A later source states he started as manager of "The Southern Cross" in 1896. He supplanted James O'Loghlin, who later turned into a United Labor Party (ULP) congressperson for South Australia. Denny was a councilor of the Adelaide City Council from 1898, speaking to Gray Ward. Amid his mid twenties he was dynamic in the scholarly and discussing social orders of Adelaide, was Chairman of the Christian Brothers Old Collegians Association, and skipper of two city paddling clubs. He ineffectively challenged the two-part seat of West Adelaide in the 1899 South Australian frontier decision as a ULP hopeful, increasing 27.7 percent of the vote. 

At the point when a by-race was held for West Adelaide on 17 March 1900, Denny was chosen to the single opening made by the acquiescence of the previous Premier of South Australia, Charles Kingston. He kept running as a "free liberal" hopeful, increasing 66.8 percent of the vote. Before the 1902 state race the appointive region of West Adelaide was canceled. Denny challenged the new four-part constituent locale of Adelaide, and was chosen second in the tally with 14.3 percent of the votes cast. He was crushed at the 1905 state race, increasing just 9.9 percent of the votes. The next year, having deserted his previous progressivism, he challenged the seat of Adelaide at the state race as a ULP applicant, and was chosen first, accepting 19.3 percent of the votes cast. He was again returned first at the 1910 state race, after which the ULP driven by John Verran shaped the primary Labor administration of South Australia on 3 June. Having started considering law at the University of Adelaide in 1903, Denny was articled to J.R. Anderson , and was conceded as a specialist in the Supreme Court of South Australia in 1908. 

Denny was delegated Attorney-General of South Australia and Minister controlling the Northern Territory on 3 June 1910. In the wake of leading exchanges with the Commonwealth Government, he surrendered his ecclesiastical obligation regarding the Northern Territory on 31 December 1910, when its organization was exchanged to the Commonwealth. Amid his time as Attorney-General, Denny drafted and drove a few imperative administrative changes. These incorporated the "Advances for Homes Act 1910", which took into consideration 80 percent of the estimation of a property to be progressed to a specialist at 4.5 percent enthusiasm over 36.5 years. In his discourses Denny featured that numerous laborers were looked with high leases and poor conditions. He likewise supported the "Female Law Practitioners Act 1911", which empowered ladies to specialize in legal matters in South Australia out of the blue. Tall, with "long, spindly legs", Denny was a most loved of visual artists. 

Verran called a race in February 1912, and the ULP were vanquished by the Liberal Union, despite the fact that Denny was again returned first in the seat of Adelaide with 15.8 percent of votes cast. He turned into an individual from the University of Adelaide Council in April 1912, as a delegate of the Parliament. In 1913, a submission to fix the end time of authorized premises was proposed by the ULP. Indeed, even after the administering Liberal Union consented to the lead of the submission at the following state decision, Denny assaulted them, asserting that they had no aim of actualizing the result of the choice in the event that they were re-chosen. Denny was returned unopposed at the March 1915 state race. 

Denny enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) on 17 August 1915 at 43 years old, at first as a trooper. Before leaving abroad, Denny had dependably been a promoter of induction. He was later charged as a second lieutenant in the ninth Light Horse Regiment. While in Egypt, he exchanged to the divisional gunnery of the fifth Division, which at that point delivered to France, and he was elevated to lieutenant in June 1916. In January 1917, notwithstanding his past position on induction, Denny denied solicitations to embrace it, rather expressing that he didn't imagine that intercession would be good with his obligations as an officer. He likewise thought about that most of fighters casted a ballot against it, and lamented the split in the Labor Party that induction had made. In mid-1917 he was joined to the divisional big guns of the first Division. The evening of 15 September 1917, he was driving a caravan conveying water to advance zones when it was hit by an overwhelming big guns flood, and he was injured. His proposal for the Military Cross read: 

For obvious chivalry and commitment to obligation while occupied with pack transport work close HOGGE the evening of 15 September 1917. Lieutenant DENNY indicated extraordinary coolness and activity all through, particularly when his guard went under overwhelming torrent in the region of CLAPHAM JUNCTION. Albeit injured himself, Lieut. DENNY by and by got help for two of his men who were injured. He at that point rearranged his direction and prevailing with regards to achieving his goal. Lieut. DENNY in the wake of conveying this water at that point went to the dressing station where he managed a report to D.H.Q. before being emptied. 

He was contributed with the Military Cross by King George V at Buckingham Palace in November 1917. Subsequent to recuperating from his injuries, he was connected to the repatriation segment of AIF Administrative Headquarters in London from January 1918. He was elevated to chief in September that year. He surrendered his bonus in the AIF in 1919 and distributed a diary titled "The Diggers", the foreword of which was composed by General Sir William Birdwood, who had instructed the AIF from 1915 until the finish of the war. 

As yet serving abroad at the season of the 1918 state decision, Denny was returned first of three in Adelaide with 30.2 percent of the tickets cast. He was repatriated to Australia by means of the United States on 2 August 1919, coming back to his seat. While in the United States, he had been routinely distributed in the "New York Herald". He wedded Winefride Mary Leahy, a piano player and artist, on 15 January 1920 at St. Ignatius Church, Norwood. His sibling, the Reverend Richard Denny, directed at their wedding. He was chosen second of two out of 1921 and second of three out of 1924 with comparable extents of the vote. He was delegated Attorney-General in the Labor legislature of John Gunn in April 1924, and was additionally Minister for Housing, and at first, Assistant Minister for Repatriation. In January 1925 he was designated as Minister for Irrigation and Minister for Repatriation, while holding his Attorney-General and lodging portfolios. 

Amid this period he did a few noteworthy administrative changes. In 1924, as Minister for Housing, Denny was intently connected with the Thousand Homes Scheme, which expected to give moderate lodging, especially for returned warriors and their families, and lower salary gatherings. The land utilized for this advancement was the site of the Mitcham military camp at which Denny had prepared before leaving for administration abroad. Denny's work on the Scheme brought about a conflict with previous Premier Sir Henry Barwell, whom he sued for criticism after Barwell made articulations recommending that Denny had owned false expressions to prompt shippers to give products and ventures. Barwell later apologized for his remarks. 

Another change was the progress to the utilization of judges as the discretionary returning officer for South Australia. This was done to force state control on a framework which had viably consolidated the organization of the national and state constituent rolls. On 27 May 1925, Denny organized the arrangement of Judge Herbert Kingsley Paine of the Insolvency Court to be named as Electoral Officer for the state, supplanting Charles Mathews, a state local official who had held the situation since 1907. Denny had recently worked for Paine as a lawful partner. 

As a returned fighter, Denny was a special case among Labor government officials at both state and bureaucratic dimension during the 1920s. Willing and ready to talk about his own war encounters, he was one of only a handful couple of Labor legislators welcomed to divulge dedications. He played out this job for the Soldiers' Memorial Hall at Lameroo in 1926, where his "address was punctuated with commendation". At the point when his political adversaries constantly questioned the conditions under which he was granted the Military Cross, he distributed the reference accordingly. Regardless of Labor's misfortune in the 1927 state race, Denny was returned first of three in the seat of Adelaide, with more than 25 percent of the vote. At the April 1930 state decision, he was returned first of three with about 82 percent of the votes cast. Designated Attorney-General in the Labor legislature of Lionel Hill, Denny was likewise Minister of Railways, and for the initial a half year he was additionally Minister of Local Government. On Anzac Day 1931, going about as Premier in Hill's nonappearance, he administered at the divulging of the National War Memorial at the edge of North Terrace and Kintore Avenue, Adelaide, before a horde of around 75,000. Denny is one of just a couple of South Australian priests to have at any point had military experience. 

In 1931, Denny was ousted from the Labor Party, alongside Hill and the remainder of the bureau, for supporting the "Premiers' Plan", which tried to force severity measures because of the poor financial conditions. The bureau shaped the Parliamentary Labor Party which kept on administering the state, driven by Hill and after that by Robert Richards, with the help of the restriction until the 1933 state decision. At the 1933 decision, Denny lost his seat to a Lang Labor Party competitor. 

In September 1936, Bill's sibling, the Catholic cleric Reverend Denny, and his sister, Mary Catherine Denny, were associated with a vehicle mishap in which Mary got deadly wounds. Reverend Denny experienced an ailment that came about because of the mishap which added to his demise in June 1941. Denny composed a further self-portraying book, "A Digger at Home and Abroad", which was distributed in 1941. He kept on specializing in legal matters until his passing, in spite of challenges related with rheumatoid joint inflammation. He kicked the bucket on 2 May 1946 of a heart assault which created at his home on Osmond Terrace, Norwood, after he came back from his office in Adelaide. He was made due by his better half, one child and three little girls. He was agreed a state memorial service, and was covered at West Terrace Cemetery. 

Denny was the supporter of the West Adelaide Football Club for a long time finishing in 1930. He delighted in plunging for crawfish under the stones at the back of Rosetta Head close Victor Harbor on Encounter Bay, and was frequently joined by Ephriam "Brownie" Tripp, an Aboriginal man from the Point McLeay Aboriginal Mission. As per his entrance in the "Australian Dictionary of Biography", "his favored perusing was Shakespeare and the Bible and he cited generously from both. His trustworthiness, adaptability and wide information were unchallenged, and he was pleased with the popularity based enactment he had supported."