Cincinnati Musical Center half dollar 

The Cincinnati Musical Center half dollar or Cincinnati Music Center half dollar is a memorial 50-penny piece struck by the United States Bureau of the Mint in 1936. Delivered with the expressed reason for honoring the fiftieth commemoration of Cincinnati, Ohio as a focal point of music, it was brought about by Thomas G. Melish, a coin lover who controlled the gathering which was permitted to purchase the whole issue from the administration, and who exchanged the pieces at high costs. 

Congress endorsed enactment for the coin on March 31, 1936, approving 15,000 pieces to be struck at the three mints then in task. Melish had procured artist Constance Ortmayer to plan the coin, yet the Commission of Fine Arts wouldn't suggest the structures. Individuals protested the delineation of Stephen Foster on the front-side, finding no association between Foster, who passed on in 1864, and the alleged commemoration. By the by, the structures were affirmed by the Bureau of the Mint, and 5,000 sets from the three mints were issued and sold to Melish's gathering, the main approved buyer. 

Melish likely kept down a significant part of the issue for later resale, and with few pieces accessible, costs for the set spiked, ascending to more than multiple times the issue cost. The esteem dropped to some degree when the blast in dedicatory coins burst in late 1936, however immediately recuperated and the coins are important today. Melish has been pounced upon by numismatic journalists for covetousness. 

Started by low-mintage issues which acknowledged in esteem, the market for United States dedicatory coins spiked in 1936. Until 1954, the whole mintage of such issues was sold by the administration without needing any proof to a gathering approved by Congress, who at that point endeavored to pitch the coins at a benefit to general society. The new pieces at that point made advances on the optional market, and in mid 1936 every single prior dedicatory sold including some built-in costs to their issue costs. The clear simple benefits to be made by buying and holding commemoratives pulled in numerous to the mint piece gathering pastime, where they looked to buy the new issues. Among the pieces which had as of late been struck and had acknowledged in esteem was the 1935 Old Spanish Trail half dollar. This piece had been issued at the command of L. W. Hoffecker, a Texas business visionary and coin vendor, who set aside a fifth of the 10,000 mintage for himself and sold them well into the 1940s, by which time he had filled in as leader of the American Numismatic Association (ANA). Congress approved a blast of memorial coins in 1936; no less than fifteen were issued out of the blue. In line with the gatherings approved to buy them, a few coins printed in earlier years were delivered once more, dated 1936, senior among them the Oregon Trail Memorial half dollar, first struck in 1926. 

Thomas G. Melish, a currency authority and business visionary from Cincinnati, thought of a thought for a memorial coin that he would control and from which he could benefit. Melish was a noticeable specialist who had acquired the Bromwell Wire Company. He shaped the Cincinnati Musical Center Commemorative Coin Association, and verified the presentation of H.R. 10264 on January 31, 1936. This bill would have accommodated 10,000 coins from the Philadelphia Mint, 2,000 coins from Denver, and 3,000 from the San Francisco Mint. Such a low mintage would have made the Denver coin a critical irregularity, expanding Melish's benefit. On February 17, the House Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures prescribed that it be changed to accommodate an aggregate of 15,000 coins without managing at what mint or mints they ought to be struck. That advisory group, in its report going with the bill, noticed that the piece was "in recognition of the fiftieth (brilliant) commemoration of Cincinnati, Ohio, as a focal point of music, and its commitment of the yearly May celebration to the craft of music for as far back as 50 years." Melish, through political impact, had the capacity to hold the arrangement that they ought to be struck "at the mints", permitting coinage at all three mints. This denoted the last time that a coinage bill would pass Congress during the 1930s with that expressing—later issues were constrained to a solitary mint. 

The bill passed Congress, and was marked by President Franklin Roosevelt on March 31, 1936. The pieces were to respect "the 50th commemoration of Cincinnati, Ohio, as a focal point of music, and its commitment to the craft of music for as far back as 50 years". Anthony Swiatek and Walter Breen, in their volume on memorial coins, presumed that "weight from the above-named Association on Congress instigated section of the Act". 

Melish connected with Constance Ortmayer to plan the coin. Ortmayer later recollected that, "I was prescribed by them, somebody came through Cincinnati ... they were simply searching for someone so they prescribed me". Ortmayer obviously arranged a structure before the bill passed Congress, for Melish kept in touch with Assistant Director of the Mint Mary Margaret O'Reilly on April 4, 1936, that the first "needed qualification and aesthetic legitimacy" and that Ortmayer would upgrade the coin. He composed again on May 7, inquiring as to whether Ortmayer's new plan was attractive. The models were submitted to the Commission of Fine Arts, accused since 1921 of exhorting on coin plan, however the legislature was will undoubtedly pursue its suggestions. On May 13, the administrator, Charles Moore, wrote to Mint Director Nellie Tayloe Ross, retaining endorsement. 

Moore presented the expressed motivation behind the coin, to celebrate the 50th commemoration of Cincinnati as a focal point of music, at that point noticed that the front-side delineated Stephen Foster, the author and lyricist—who kicked the bucket in 1864, though Cincinnati was not remarkable as a focal point of music until somewhere around 1873. "The Commission is at a misfortune to interface a fiftieth commemoration in 1936 with a development that started in 1873." Foster did live in Cincinnati, Moore conceded, yet just for a concise period while filling in as an accountant, and his primary commitments to American music came later, when he lived in Pittsburgh and in New York City. Further, the coin was to remember Cincinnati's commitments to the specialty of music, and Foster "was an American troubadour, however to music as a craftsmanship he made no commitment". Moore felt that on the off chance that anybody ought to be portrayed, it ought to be Theodore Thomas, who led the Cincinnati May Festival from its start in 1873 and in 1878 moved toward becoming executive of the Cincinnati College of Music. He expressed that "Theodore Thomas was, aesthetically, the originator of Cincinnati as a melodic focus. His picture ought to show up on any coin memorial of Cincinnati 'as a focal point of music'". 

On May 16, "The Cincinnati Enquirer" revealed that Thomas would show up on the coin, not Foster. The paper additionally revealed the debate before the Commission of Fine Arts, that Melish had ventured out to Washington the earlier day, and had reported he had no protest to the change. Likewise on May 16, Melish called Lee Lawrie, stone carver individual from the Commission. Melish's notes demonstrate that Moore's complaint was for the benefit of Alice Roosevelt Longworth and the Longworth family, who had utilized Thomas to lead the May Festival, and who needed Thomas on the coin, in spite of the fact that, (according to Melish) Lawrie put it, "Thomas resembles a walrus and would be a hard head to make". Melish was insubordinate, expressing that he additionally knew Alice Longworth well, and Foster stayed on the coin. Ortmayer recalled that the "supervisor" of the Bureau of the Mint (apparently Ross) questioned the turn around, disliking the situation of the goddess' legs. Swiatek, in his later volume, asserted that Melish's affiliation put weight on the Department of the Treasury to support Ortmayer's plan. 

The Philadelphia Mint got the models from Ortmayer. On May 23 its director, Edwin Dressel, sent O'Reilly an update from Chief Engraver John R. Sinnock, expressing that the artist's models were in too high help, and proposing that Ortmayer go to the mint to talk about the issue. A letter from O'Reilly to Melish on June 18 reports that after some adjustment, Sinnock composed that the coin was at the very furthest reaches of high alleviation that the mint could coin, and that passes on for the Cincinnati piece were relied upon to be tried by begetting preliminary strikes toward the beginning of July. 

The front of the Cincinnati Musical Center half dollar shows a bust of Stephen Foster, looking to the watcher's correct, and beneath it, the words "". This expression was taken from a life story of Foster distributed before during the 1930s. The craftsman's initials, "CO", are to one side of Foster. The name of the nation, and the division, show up close to the edge. The invert demonstrates a bowing figure, planned to be the goddess of music. In the upper left bit of the field, or foundation, is the date 1886, in the lower right 1936, and underneath the last the mint imprint (except if struck at Philadelphia, which did not then utilize one). The goddess stoops on the maxims required by law to show up, and close to the edge is "". 

The plan pulled in remarks from those intrigued by coins. Blunt Duffield, supervisor of the ANA's diary "The Numismatist", noted in the October 1936 issue that the coin had been anticipated with expectation by specialists in light of a declaration that it would bear the similarity of Foster, yet "when it at long last seemed numerous statements of endorsement of the plans were heard and a couple criticisms ... Encourage merited a superior bust than the one the craftsman has given us ...the toy four-string lyre [the goddess] grasps isn't with regards to the occasions or the occasion ... After such a long time, Music merited something better." Coin vendor B. Max Mehl, in his monograph on memorial coins distributed in 1937, concurred with the analysis of the switch, "obviously this lyre more likely than not been purchased at a 5¢ and 10¢ store as it is by all accounts just a toy". 

Craftsmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule, in his 1971 volume on American coins and awards, "Numismatic Art in America", scrutinized Ortmayer's structure: 

The mintage of 15,000 was struck in July 1936. At the Philadelphia and Denver mints, 5,005 pieces were created, and 5,006 at San Francisco, with the abundance from the even thousands held for assessment and testing at the 1937 gathering of the United States Assay Commission. The initial 200 pieces from each mint were gathered in sets of three, with an authenticated letter from Melish vouching for what number coins they were. A few of these uncommon sets were sent by Melish to government authorities. 

Melish had been handling request from gatherers since Roosevelt marked the enactment, yet from mid-May, the individuals who composed got just postcards expressing the new issue was oversubscribed. The late spring of 1936 was the pinnacle of the memorial coin blast, and Melish reported the new pieces would be sold in sets of three by mint imprint for $7.75 (a high cost around then). Request spaces were sent to the individuals who had composed early, and soon these spaces were selling for $10. However couple of gatherers were fruitful in having their requests filled, with most having their installment returned as the coins had apparently sold out. The sets immediately bounced in cost to $40. At this abnormal state, numerous coins demonstrated accessible. Numismatist Q. David Bowers expressed that these were in all probability secretly sold by Melish and different insiders. Melish additionally permitted the backers of the York County, Maine Tercentenary half dollar to buy, at the first issue value, a few sets—individuals from the open could arrange at most one set at that cost. Consequently, he looked to buy that and other dedicatory coins in amounts past the typical request limit. All things considered, when the Oregon Trail Memorial Association, guarantor of the enduring half dollar respecting the trail, attempted to buy a set, Melish answered that they were sold out. 

By December, the base had dropped out of the memorial coin market, and sellers who had bought amounts gotten themselves unfit to discard them at a benefit. By 1940 the coin sets were selling for $15 per set. They from that point recouped, and by the mid 1960s had come to $100 a set, and by 1975 $550 per set of three. At the tallness of the second memorial coin blast in 1980, they sold for $2,250 a set. R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins", distributed in 2015, records the sets at somewhere in the range of $875 and $2,700 relying upon condition. Singular coins are inventoried at about 33% of the set costs. 

The conditions of the issuance were not clear at first: Mehl composed that the coin was to respect the 50th commemoration of the "Cincinnati Musical Center" which was "established in 1886" and that "either through great appropriation or an incredible interest, the sets did not head over to every one of the individuals who needed them". Later numismatic scholars have been cruel to Melish; Swiatek considered the coin issued due to "false cases" on its sake. Kevin Flynn, in his volume on commemoratives, expressed that the Cincinnati piece "was made for unadulterated benefit and voracity". Swiatek and Breen, in their 1988 book, propose that Melish's gathering "had just a single thought at the top of the priority list: advancing themselves by publicizing and appropriating a constrained issue which could be valued into space by examiners". 

With the accomplishment of the issue, Melish attempted to get Congress to approve 1937-dated pieces; he was not effective. He had figured out how to get Congress to permit another dedicatory under his control, the 1936 Cleveland Centennial half dollar. In 1942, when the ANA held its yearly tradition in Cincinnati, Melish facilitated a neighborliness suite. Named the "Privateer's Den", it included works of art he had dispatched, delineating coin sellers and other numismatic identities in piratical garments. As indicated by Bowers, "Neglected was the way that the best privateer of all was doubtlessly Melish himself, who without a doubt treated huge numbers of his visitors with cash taken from them a couple of years sooner in the closeout of Cincinnati sets!"