Hebron Church (Intermont, West Virginia) 

Hebron Church (additionally verifiably known as Great Capon Church, Hebron Lutheran Church, and Hebron Evangelical Lutheran Church) is a mid-nineteenth century Lutheran church in Intermont, Hampshire County, in the U.S. territory of West Virginia. Hebron Church was established in 1786 by German pioneers in the Cacapon River Valley, making it the primary Lutheran church west of the Shenandoah Valley. The assembly revered in a log church, which at first served both Lutheran and Reformed divisions. Its assembly was initially German-talking; the congregation's reports and religious administrations were in German until 1821, when records and messages changed to English. 

The congregation's gathering fabricated the present Greek Revival-style - story church working in 1849, when it was renamed Hebron on the Cacapon. The first log church was moved over the street and accordingly utilized as a sexton's home, Sunday school study hall, and open school building (gone to by future West Virginia representative Herman G. Kump). 

To commend the assembly's 175th commemoration in 1961, Hebron Church built a block network and religious training building intended to be compositionally perfect with the 1849 block church. As of October 2015, the congregation keeps on being utilized by the West Virginia-Western Maryland Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. Hebron Church was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on December 16, 2014, for its design qualification as a nearby case of vernacular Greek Revival church engineering in the Potomac Highlands. 

Hebron Church and its burial ground are found east of Carpers Pike (West Virginia Route 259) in the unincorporated network of Intermont, about southwest of Yellow Spring, and upper east of the town of Wardensville. Capon Lake and the Capon Lake Whipple Truss Bridge are upper east of the congregation. The congregation and its burial ground are on a great deal. 

Hebron Church is on the plain of a dominatingly provincial farming and forested region of southeastern Hampshire County, in the Cacapon River Valley. Bread cook Mountain, a forested, thin anticlinal mountain edge, rises west of the congregation, and the western moving lower regions of the anticlinal Great North Mountain rise east of the valley. The Cacapon River, only southeast of the congregation, is escaped the congregation and graveyard by develop foliage. George Washington National Forest, incorporating the forested zone east of the Cacapon River, is east of the congregation. 

The National Register of Historic Places posting for Hebron Church incorporates the block church and burial ground. They are available from WV 259 by a half circle black-top garage, isolated from the congregation and graveyard by a created iron fence and fixed with vast, old-development maple trees along the property's northwestern edge. A cleared block walkway leads from the door toward the northwestern façade and two fundamental doorways of the congregation. The congregation is encompassed on its northeastern, southeastern, and southwestern sides by a burial ground which is still being used. The burial ground contains more than 600 tombstones, a few yuccas, a hemlock tree, and a boxwood. A cutting edge block network working, inside the notable limit south of the congregation and graveyard, is utilized for chapel exercises. 

The land whereupon Hebron Church and its graveyard are found was initially part of the Northern Neck Proprietary, a land give that the ousted Charles II granted to seven of his supporters in 1649 amid the English Interregnum. Following the Restoration in 1660, Charles II at long last climbed to the English position of royalty. Charles II restored the Northern Neck Proprietary concede in 1662, reexamined it in 1669, and again reestablished the first give favoring unique grantee Thomas Colepeper, second Baron Colepeper and Henry Bennet, first Earl of Arlington in 1672. In 1681, Bennet sold his offer to Lord Colepeper, and Lord Colepeper got another sanction for the whole land give from James II in 1688. Following the passings of Lord Colepeper, his significant other Margaret, and his little girl Katherine, the Northern Neck Proprietary go to Katherine's child Thomas Fairfax, sixth Lord Fairfax of Cameron in 1719. 

Under Lord Fairfax's proprietorship, the Cacapon River Valley was overwhelmingly possessed by English-talking pilgrims as ahead of schedule as the late 1730s; most originated from Pennsylvania and New Jersey. As settlement advanced amid the second 50% of the eighteenth century, the rich place where there is Hampshire County (counting the Cacapon River Valley) likewise pulled in German pilgrims from Pennsylvania and somewhere else in Virginia when the American Revolutionary War (1775– 1783). 

As the number of inhabitants in German pioneers in the district started to expand, the longing for Lutheran religious administrations and instruction likewise developed. Pastors, including Henry Muhlenberg supporter Christian Streit, started to build up assemblies in the biggest networks of western Virginia. Muhlenberg was a German minister, mentioned by pilgrims in Pennsylvania, who filled in as a preacher there from 1742 until his passing in 1787; he is viewed as the patriarch of the Lutheran Church in the United States. Johannes Schwarback and Muhlenberg's child, Peter, supposedly visited the Cacapon River Valley somewhere in the range of 1763 and 1776 (preceding Hebron Church's establishing). Streit, accused of serving a Lutheran assembly in Winchester, settled there on July 19, 1785. 

Hebron Church, initially known as the Great Capon Church, was built up by early German pilgrims in 1786 as a unified German assembly of the Reformed and Lutheran categories. The assemblage was otherwise called the German Churches, since it served the two divisions. In its most punctual days, the congregation was served by ministers associated with assemblages in the Shenandoah Valley. Streit fused the congregation into his circuit not long after its establishing, consistently heading out to the Cacapon River Valley for submersions and weddings, yet his service did not expand west of Cooper Mountain. As indicated by the most established surviving church record, six individuals were affirmed in the Lutheran Synod and nine affirmed in the German Reformed Church in November 1786. On September 23, 1787, seven additional individuals were affirmed in the Lutheran Synod; the congregation's enlistment at that point started to increment. 

Early religious administrations were held in the log church ashore deeded to Reformed trustee Jacob Huber and Lutheran trustee John Nicholas Schweitzer, both of whom were church seniors in 1786. The deed passing on the land to the trustees indicated that it was to be utilized for a German church and internment yard. The assembled assemblage progressed toward becoming Hebron Church, the primary Lutheran church west of the Shenandoah Valley. 

While the Reformed and Lutheran gatherings utilized the log church, they were served by two ministers. Abraham Gottlieb Deschler served the Lutherans, and Jacob Rebas (or Repass) tended to the Reformed assemblage until the last broke up around 1813. In spite of the fact that the congregation served the two sections, it was later served by one clergyman (Reformed or Lutheran). Initially a German-talking assemblage, its records and religious administrations were in German until 1821 (an early change to English for a German group in the United States). At that point, under the pastorship of Abraham Reck (1812– 21), the gathering was known as Capon Church. 

The assembly of Great Capon Church fabricated the present one-and-a-half-story Lutheran church working in 1849, when it was quickly renamed Hebron on the Cacapon after the Scriptural Hebron (the city related with Judah, Abraham, and Isaac). The congregation was later referred to just as Hebron Church. 

The block church was built east of the first log structure, which was situated toward the west of the present network building. The 1849 church was initially beaten by a wooden shake rooftop, and its windows had twofold hung wooden scarves. Its seats were worked by Alfred Brill, Jacob Himmelwright and Frederick Secrist with wood processed by Brill. The congregation was built under the service of H. J. Richardson (1848– 53). 

The log church was moved from its unique area in the south corner of the burial ground to a slope over the street from the block church. It was utilized as a sexton's home for the congregation, and was a Sunday school study hall for around 30 years. Notwithstanding religious guidance, the log building was an open school building. Future West Virginia representative Herman G. Kump and his sibling, the judge Garnett Kerr Kump, got some portion of their essential instruction in the school building. By 1885, a Mr. Mill operator was showing business standards at the school. The log building capitulated to the components, and never again exists. 

Subside Miller tended to the assemblage at Hebron Church multiple times, for a sum of 25 years, somewhere in the range of 1858 and 1918. Authorized in 1858 and appointed in 1860, Miller occupied with evangelist work for rustic believers in the Capon and North River Parish of Hampshire and Hardy regions for a long time. He built up a significant number of the region's Lutheran places of worship and, as per the North Carolina Synod of the Lutheran Church in America, was "an exceptional figure in this expansive, hilly, daintily populated region, who for a long time persistently was perceived as everyone's minister". By 1867, the congregation participation was 106, its biggest assemblage to date. 

On October 13, 1879, a mail station was built up close Hebron Church to serve the adjoining network (at that point known as Mutton Run). In December 1884, the congregation rooftop burst into flames from a neighboring pipe, consuming the haven's roof which was before long fixed. On August 11– 15, 1886, Hebron Church commended its centennial. Amid the festival, Miller read a total history of the German places of worship in the area. The centennial was allegedly the first of any Lutheran gathering in the southern United States. 

The fashioned iron fence along the congregation carport was introduced in April 1895, supplanting a picket fence. In 1905, the congregation's wood rooftop was supplanted with a metal one, the present recolored glass windows were introduced, its inside and woodwork were painted, and new lights were introduced for better enlightenment. The recolored glass windows were provided by Madison Alling of Newark, New Jersey in memory of his dad, who summered at adjacent Capon Springs Resort. Alling additionally given four hanging lights and calcimine for the inside dividers and paint for the inside woodwork. Anton Reymann of Wheeling, West Virginia financed the metal rooftop and the asylum's canvas and enrichment. 

On June 11, 1915, the mail station changed its name to Intermont (after the Intermountain Construction Company), working until its conclusion on January 29, 1972. The unincorporated network around Hebron Church keeps on being known as Intermont, after the previous mail station. By 1921, the Winchester and Western Railroad had been built toward the east of Hebron Church by the Intermountain Construction Company to interface Wardensville with Winchester and build up the region's timber, mining, and natural product businesses. 

In 1932, the congregation's piano was given by George E. Brill of Baltimore. Hebron Church praised its 150th commemoration in 1936, amid the pastorate of Lawrence P. Williamson (1930– 37). On October 29, 1961, in festivity of the congregation's 175th commemoration, the gathering committed another block network and religious-training building intended to be structurally good with the 1849 block church. The new structure, which facilitated network social occasions, occasions and Sunday school, was assembled only south of the block church at the edge of the burial ground (where the old log church was initially found). Walter A. Sigman (1960– 65) was minister when the network building was devoted. 

In 2008, a review of notable properties in the region was attempted by the State Historic Preservation Office of the West Virginia Division of Culture and History. Following this overview, the Hampshire County Historic Landmarks Commission and the Hampshire County Commission started an activity to put these distinguished structures and regions on the National Register of Historic Places. Readiness of the essential documentation for Hebron Church, French's Mill, Yellow Spring Mill, and the Nathaniel and Isaac Kuykendall House started in April 2013, when Governor Earl Ray Tomblin granted $10,500 to the Hampshire County Commission. The expense of the commission's documentation of the history and essentialness of the four properties was $15,000, of which the district paid $4,500. 

Every one of the four properties were acknowledged for the NRHP on December 16, 2014, with Hebron Church an interesting neighborhood case of Greek Revival church design in the Potomac Highlands. Since the congregation's unique engineering structure, workmanship, and building materials are surviving, design student of history Sandra Scaffidi evaluated the congregation as giving "knowledge into the development systems of a mid-nineteenth century religious structure". Hebron Church is one of six surviving, provincial pre-Civil War church structures in Hampshire County; the other five are Bloomery Presbyterian Church (1825), Mount Bethel Church (1837), Old Pine Church (1838), Capon Chapel (c. 1852), and North River Mills United Methodist Church (1860). 

As of October 2015, the congregation's assembly is a piece of the Potomac Conference in the West Virginia-Western Maryland Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. Served by David A. Twedt, Hebron Church has 22 purified through water individuals, 19 affirmed individuals and a normal participation of six. 

Since the congregation's establishing in 1786, the accompanying ministers have helped the gathering at Hebron Church: 

As indicated by Sandra Scaffidi, Hebron Church's design embodies a "neighborhood translation" of the Greek Revival compositional style, which was well known at the season of its development. With its straightforward wooden entryways, returning overhang and symmetrical front peak plan, Hebron Church is illustrative of a vernacular understanding of Greek Revival engineering. Just a single other church working in eastern Hampshire County, Timber Ridge Christian Church in High View, was worked of block. The general arrangement of Hebron Church epitomizes customary Lutheranism, with the haven's one-room floor plan empowering the gathering to be close to its priest and effectively take an interest in love. Scaffidi expressed, "The Greek Revival front-peak type of the Hebron Church mirrors the early pilgrims' longing to revere in an unassuming, uncluttered style." 

The 1849 church is a little, one-and-a-half-story, front-peak building. The primary façade (northwestern height) has two fundamental passageways, encased by white-painted wood, recessed board entryways, and topped by white-painted stone lintels with two stone corner squares. The congregation's outside is brickwork, laid in Flemish bond on the principle façade and a five-course American bond on the northeastern, southeastern and southwestern rises. Two blue-dim recolored glass windows (introduced in 1905) are symmetrically put over the principle passages, each topped by stone lintels with two stone corner squares. The fundamental façade is delegated by a white painted entablature shaping with two cornice returns, embodying Greek Revival engineering structure. In the highest point of the peak, a square date stone engraved "1849" is implanted in the brickwork over a gooseneck light apparatus. In spite of the fact that the congregation is presently beaten by a metal standing-crease rooftop, it was initially sheathed by wooden shakes. 

On the congregation's northeastern rise there are three huge, symmetrical recolored glass windows, each with a fixed upper scarf and a lower container band. Like the primary façade's entryways and windows, the ledges, lintels and lintel corner squares of the recolored glass windows are white-painted stone. Beneath the windows is an uncovered coursed-stone establishment with five tie-bar workmanship grapple plates. A little block fireplace is available on this height. The congregation's southwestern rise likewise has a coursed-stone establishment, with five tie-pole grapple plates, banked into the ground beneath three symmetrical recolored glass windows with fixed upper bands and lower container scarves and encased with white-painted stone ledges, lintels and lintel corner squares. On this rise are a little block stack in the rooftop slant and metal seasonal travelers along the rooftop line. Downspouts are situated at the southern corners of the northeastern and southwestern rises. The congregation's southeastern (back) height has an uncovered coursed-stone establishment high, because of its area on slanting ground. At the focal point of this height is a jutting, gabled block augmentation for the inside raised area, with symmetrical recolored glass windows on the two sides. The gabled projection is topped by aluminum blazing. A 1895 created iron fence encases the property's northwestern edge, and a cleared block walkway gives passerby access from the garage to the two primary passageways. 

The congregation inside has an open floor plan, with an asylum estimating wide and long. The floor plan is an open nave, with two passageways parceling three segments of rectangular wooden seats. In spite of the fact that the seats had been painted white, they have been reestablished to their unique wood wrap up. The asylum's inside dividers are mortar, and the floors are sheathed in wide wooden boards. The nave is bested by a roof created on tongue and depression wooden boards painted white. Three substantial recolored glass windows, encircled by wooden trim and recessed roughly , are symmetrically situated on the northeastern and southwestern dividers. The lower bit of every window contains a commemoration commitment, which opens into its lower container band. On the northwestern side of the inside are the two fundamental section entryways, which get to an unadorned narthex. Two decreased square pilasters bolster an upper display space, perhaps utilized by slaves amid religious administrations. The exhibition is fronted by a strong balustrade, emphasized with dentil shaping and recessed wooden boards. 

At the southeastern end of the asylum, the special stepped area is on a decagonal stage about over the floor and available by a couple of four-advance staircases. On the raised stage is likewise a table holding a Bible. A recessed rectangular apse, flanked by a couple of fluted, connected with segments, is behind the special raised area. A work of art of Jesus hangs in the focal point of the apse, with an American banner to its prompt north. An organ and a piano are north of the special stepped area, with a baptismal text style south of it. The special stepped area stage and paths are covered red. The asylum's northern and southern rises uncovered block fireplaces associated with gas warming units, which were introduced around 1970. A metal ceiling fixture with clear glass tropical storm globes is suspended in the focal point of the asylum; on the northern and southern rises, two metal electric lights are adjoining the recolored glass windows. 

The upper display on the northwestern side of the congregation is gotten to by a twelve-advance wooden winding staircase, and has an incomplete wooden floor. Four wooden seats have white-painted sides and incomplete seats and rails. The exhibition's roof stature is about at its tallest and about at its most brief, because of the slanting wooden floor. Two recolored glass windows, which can't be opened, are along the northwest divider. A little storage room, available through a wooden entryway with two parallel vertical boards and unique lock equipment, is at the base of the staircase. The congregation's unique plasterwork and a vertically cut wooden board, recommending half-timbering, are unmistakable in the storage room. 

The congregation's locale fabricating, a non-contributing structure inside the notable limit, is southwest of the congregation. The structure is a scene for Sunday school classes and network social occasions. The front peak building, finished in 1961, is sheathed in brickwork. Like the congregation, the structure is incorporated with a tenderly inclining save money with its one-story height at evaluation confronting west toward WV 259. Its two-story eastern rise is at the foot of the slope. 

The structure's western façade has a focal portal with swinging doors, bested by a six-light transom and flanked by connected pilasters. Its peak, sheathed in aluminum siding, joins a gabled pediment and the structure's edge is encompassed by a wide, level frieze. The structure's southern rise has wooden windows with 12-more than 12 twofold draped scarves on block window ledges. Its cellar level has one passageway, flanked by wooden twofold hung band windows and four casement windows. The northeastern rise has three recolored glass windows on the primary dimension, with three wooden eight-more than eight twofold hung band windows; a solitary wooden six-more than six twofold hung scarf window is in the peak. The structure is roofed with black-top shingles, and a block smokestack is along the slant of the northern height's rooftop line. Its northeastern height has five wooden 16-more than 16 twofold hung band windows on the fundamental dimension and four on the lower level, notwithstanding two wooden four-more than four scarf windows. 

Hebron Church is encompassed on three sides by a burial ground, comprising of around 700 stone, marble, slate and wooden gravestones laid in semi-ordinary lines running upper east to southeast. The memorial park additionally adjoins the northeastern rise of the network building. Its interments date from around 1806 to the present; early tombstones have decayed to the point of being unrecognizable, and might be more established than 1806. Slaves and other ethnic minorities are entombed in a little territory of the burial ground's southeastern segment, with less complex markers than the graveyard's different tombstones. Despite the fact that its tombstones are commonly rectangular rock stones and vast pillars, the cemetery's most punctual gravestones were basic wooden sheets. A few tombstones are luxuriously cut, including one demonstrated on a tree stump. The memorial park is dynamic, with the latest entombments at the property's northern end. Dr. William Blum, Sr., an electrochemist at the National Bureau of Standards who designed a chrome plating system utilized in banknote printing, is entombed at the graveyard.