CMLL World Heavyweight Championship 

The CMLL World Heavyweight Championship () is an expert wrestling world heavyweight title set up in 1991 and advanced by Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL). CMLL acquainted the title with flag their freedom from the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA), whose titles they had kept on advancing in the wake of leaving the collusion in the late 1980s. As a feature of the move far from the NWA, CMLL built up titles assigned as "CMLL World Championships" for a few weight divisions. The Heavyweight Championship was the first CMLL title to be made, and the debut champion was Konnan el Bárbaro, who won the title on June 9, 1991. The present victor is Último Guerrero, who is in his second rule. He vanquished Diamante Azul in the finals of a competition to win the empty title on October 16, 2018. Sixteen distinct wrestlers have held the title, split more than twenty separate title rules. 

In most expert wrestling advancements around the globe, the "world heavyweight" assignment is utilized to show the most elevated positioning title rather than a real weight division. Generally, be that as it may, "lucha libre" has utilized various weight divisions, regularly with the lower weight classes accepting more consideration from the advertisers. CMLL carries on this convention. As it is an expert wrestling title, it is won not by real challenge, yet by a scripted consummation of a match. 

The Mexican expert wrestling advancement Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre (EMLL) was established in 1933 and at first perceived a progression of "Mexican National" wrestling titles, supported by the "Comisión de Box y Lucha Libre Mexico D.F." (Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission). The Mexican National Heavyweight Championship was made in 1926, and after some time, EMLL started advancing counterparts for that title with the endorsement and oversight of the wrestling commission. 

In the late 1980s, EMLL left the NWA to keep away from their legislative issues and would later rebrand themselves as "Consejo Mundal de Lucha Libre" (CMLL). In spite of the fact that they had left the NWA, they were all the while advancing the NWA's titles. By the beginning of the 1990s, CMLL started to make light of the Mexican National Heavyweight Championship sessions, highlighting them less habitually on CMLL appears, and in the long run quit advancing them through and through. In 1991, CMLL started making a progression of CMLL-marked big showdowns, the first was for the heavyweight division.} The main boss was delegated in the finals of a 16-man competition that saw Konnan el Bárbaro rout Cien Caras. Konnan lost the title to Cien Caras in his first title resistance on August 18, 1991, making him one of three victors without a solitary fruitful title safeguard. 

On April 18, 1997, Steel turned into the principal Canadian to win the title by overcoming then-champion Rayo de Jalisco Jr. to turn into the eighth by and large boss. In September 1997, Steel marked an agreement with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, presently WWE) constraining CMLL to clear the title for the second time. Rather than holding a conventional competition to crown another hero, CMLL had the new boss chosen in a triple danger coordinate between the best three heavyweight contenders, Universo 2000, Rayo de Jalisco Jr., and Cien Caras. On October 19, 1997, Universo 2000 won the title, beginning the first of his three rules, more than some other wrestler. Universo 2000 lost the title to and recovered the title from Rayo de Jalisco Jr. Universo 2000's second rule as hero kept going 1,225 days, the title's longest rule. This record-breaking run finished on April 18, 2003, when Mr. Niebla won the title. Mr. Niebla was champion for 543 days before Universo 2000 recaptured the title for his record-setting third rule. 

On July 8, 2007, Dos Caras Jr. turned into the fourteenth by and large victor. His rule endured 533 days, yet just observed him guard the title a couple of times, crushing Lizmark Jr. what's more, Último Guerrero. On December 22, 2008, Último Guerrero won the title from Dos Caras Jr., who in a matter of seconds a short time later left CMLL to work for WWE. On April 2, 2009, Último Guerrero effectively protected the title against Rey Mendoza Jr. on an autonomous wrestling advancement appear in Gomez Palacio, denoting the first run through the CMLL World Heavyweight Championship was protected on a non-CMLL advanced show. Following a 963-day rule and 17 fruitful resistances, Guerrero lost the title to Héctor Garza on August 12, 2011. The title was abandoned on November 11, 2011, after Garza left CMLL for "Perros del Mal Producciones", a gathering of previous CMLL wrestlers who split far from the advancement in late 2011. On January 1, 2012, El Terrible turned into the new boss when he crushed CMLL World Light Heavyweight Champion Rush in a choice match. The two had won a "torneo cibernetico" coordinate seven days sooner to win spots in the match. 

Máximo Sexy won the title on January 30, 2015, by crushing El Terrible. On May 22, 2017, at that point ruling hero Máximo Sexy was terminated by CMLL for his contribution in a demonstration of vandalism and the title was cleared. On June 6, 2017 Marco Corleone won a 10-man "torneo cibernetico" disposal match to turn into the new CMLL World Heavyweight Champion. 

The present boss is Último Guerrero; who won the title on October 16, 2018, in the wake of overcoming Diamante Azul in the finals of a competition for the beforehand empty title. 

Universo 2000 holds the record for the most rules at three. His second reign is the longest in the title's history at 1,225 days, and he additionally holds the record for the longest consolidated rule with 2,555 days. Konnan, who was the debut champion, holds the record for the most limited rule at 70 days. Three heroes never had a fruitful title safeguard: both Garza and Steel left CMLL before they could guard the title, and Konnan lost the title in his first barrier. 

CMLL has been compelled to announce the title empty multiple times. Each time, the authoritative boss left CMLL without losing a match and the title to whichever successor CMLL picked. Under typical conditions, wrestlers pull out, or their agreement isn't restored, and the title changes to an alternate wrestler. On account of Cien Caras, Steel, and Héctor Garza, their takeoffs from the organization were so abrupt and sudden that no plans were set up and CMLL needed to sort out a competition to decide the following hero. In Máximo Sexy's case he was terminated from the organization while still the hero, making the title be cleared accordingly. 

The title is assigned as a heavyweight title, which implies that the title can authoritatively just be gone after by wrestlers gauging or more. In the twentieth century, Mexican wrestling upheld the weight divisions all the more carefully, however in the 21st century, the standards were every so often overlooked for the different weight divisions. The Heavyweight Championship was no special case as a few bosses were under as far as possible, including Héctor Garza, who was charged as weighing when he won the title and was along these lines thought about a Junior Light Heavyweight. While the "world heavyweight" title is customarily viewed as the most lofty weight division in most expert wrestling advancements, CMLL puts more accentuation on the lower weight divisions, and the CMLL World Heavyweight title isn't viewed as the top CMLL title. 

With an aggregate of twelve CMLL titles being named as "World" titles, the limited time center moves after some time with no single title being advanced as the "principle" one. Title matches are typically chosen by two-out-of-three falls. Once in a while, single-fall title matches have occurred, particularly while advancing CMLL title coordinates in Japan, adjusting to the customs of the nearby advancement. 

The competition to crown the debut CMLL World Heavyweight Champion kept running from May 24 to June 9, 1991, and included 16 contenders. The first round of the competition saw two eight-man fight royals, each consummation when four wrestlers were left in the ring. This was utilized to slice the field down the middle with the last four outstanding wrestlers from each match progressing to the following round. Konnan, Rayo de Jalisco Jr., Black Magic, and Mascara Ano 2000 progressed in the primary fight imperial, while Brazo de Plata, Vampiro Canadiense, Universo 2000, and El Egipcio were disposed of. In the second fight imperial, Nitron, Pierroth Jr., Pirata Morgan, and Cien Caras progressed while Fabulous Blondie, Gran Markus Jr., Máscara Sagrada, and El Egipcio were wiped out. The second round observed another pair of fight royals with four men in each, finishing when two wrestlers were left in the ring. This limited the competition down to the last four wrestlers, who went head to head in customary semi-finals matches, before the last match to crown the debut champion. 

After Cien Caras left CMLL for AAA in 1992, CMLL chose to hold a customary 16-man single-disposal competition to crown another World Heavyweight Champion. The competition kept running from October 30 to November 20, 1992. On the main night of the competition, every one of the sixteen contenders contended in a fight illustrious where the request of disposal decided the pairings for the first round. The last two wrestlers were Vampiro and El Egipico, who went head to head in the remainder of the first round matches. The initial two matches of the first round were hung on November 3, at CMLL's week by week ""Martes de Coliseo"" show where Rayo de Jalisco Jr. also, Rick Patterson both won their matches, trailed by Jalisco Jr. winning his quarterfinal coordinate that night. On November 6, at the week after week "CMLL Super Viernes" appear, King Haku and Brazo de Plata progressed in the first round with King Haku fitting the bill for the semi-last match with another triumph. On November 8, an extra competition coordinate was held with Pirata Morgan progressing to the second round. The November 10 show saw Black Magic and Kahoz advance to confront one another, with Black Magic moving to the semi-finals. On November 11, CMLL held the last initially round and quarterfinal coordinate, which Vampiro won, and afterward held both of the semi-finals on that night. Before the night's over, Black Magic and Jalisco Jr. met all requirements for the last. The next week, at the November 20 "Super Viernes", Black Magic won the finals and turned into the third CMLL World Heavyweight Champion. 

On December 18, 2011, CMLL declared that their World Heavyweight Champion Héctor Garza had chosen to leave CMLL to work for "Perros del Mal Producciones", abandoning the title. They likewise declared that the next week there would be a competition to decide another boss. The headliner of the December 25 "Domigos Arena México" show was a 10-man "torneo cibernetico" disposal coordinate intended to lessen the field of title contenders from ten to two. The match finished when El Terrible stuck Marco Corleone to dispose of him, leaving El Terrible and Rush to go head to head the next week. On January 1, 2012, El Terrible vanquished Rush in two-out-of-three tumbles to turn into the seventeenth by and large hero. 

At that point ruling CMLL World Heavyweight Champion Máximo Sexy was terminated by CMLL on May 22, 2017 and the title was announced empty. The organization declared that they were holding a 10-man "torneo cibernetico" on June 6, 2017 in Guadalajara, Jalisco to decide the following hero. The "torneo ciberntico" sides set Gran Guerrero, Euforia, El Terrible, Rush and Pierroth against Marco Corleone, Dragón Rojo Jr., Kráneo, Mr. Niebla and Rey Bucanero. The match boiled down to previous boss El Terrible and Corleone, with Corleone picking up the choosing pinfall and the title. With the triumph, he turned into the nineteenth generally speaking hero.