1804 dollar 

The 1804 dollar or Bowed Liberty Dollar was a dollar coin struck by the Mint of the United States, of which fifteen examples are as of now known to exist. In spite of the fact that dated 1804, none were struck in that year; all were stamped during the 1830s or later. They were first made for use in exceptional evidence coin sets utilized as strategic blessings amid Edmund Roberts' treks to Siam and Muscat. 

Edmund Roberts dispersed the coins in 1834 and 1835. Two extra sets were requested for government authorities in Japan and Cochinchina, yet Roberts kicked the bucket in Macau before they could be conveyed. Other than those 1804 dollars delivered for consideration in the discretionary sets, the Mint struck a few precedents which were utilized to exchange with gatherers for pieces wanted for the Mint's coin bureau. Numismatists previously wound up mindful of the 1804 dollar in 1842, when a representation of one precedent showed up in a distribution wrote by two Mint workers. An authority along these lines gained one model from the Mint in 1843. In light of numismatic request, a few models were clandestinely created by Mint authorities. In contrast to the first coins, these later restrikes came up short on the right edge lettering, albeit later precedents discharged from the Mint bore the right lettering. The mint pieces created for the discretionary mission, those struck clandestinely without edge lettering and those with lettering are referred to on the whole as "Class I", "Class II" and "Class III" dollars, separately. 

From their disclosure by numismatists, 1804 dollars have told high costs. Closeout costs came to $1,000 by 1885, and in the mid-twentieth century, the coins acknowledged over $30,000. In 1999, a Class I model sold for $4.14 million, at that point the most noteworthy cost paid for any coin. Their high esteem has made 1804 dollars be a continuous focus of forging and different strategies for misdirection. 

The Coinage Act of 1792, the enactment which accommodated the foundation of the Mint of the United States (today the United States Mint), approved coinage of different categories of gold, silver and copper coins. As indicated by the demonstration, the dollar, or "unit", was to "be of the estimation of a Spanish processed dollar as the equivalent is presently current, and to contain three hundred and seventy-one grains and four sixteenth pieces of a grain of unadulterated, or four hundred and sixteen grains of standard silver". The demonstration proceeded to express that the coin would be struck in an amalgam comprising of 89.2 percent silver and 10.8 percent copper. The virtue and weight principles sketched out in the Act depended on the mean of a few tests led on Spanish processed dollars. In any case, the dollars were ordered by Spanish law to contain 90.2 percent silver, and a large portion of the unworn precedents available for use in the United States at the time contained roughly more than the silver dollars approved by the Act. In 1793, President George Washington marked into law a bill which pronounced Spanish processed dollars legitimate delicate, gave that they gauged no not exactly , which implied that at the most minimal weight permitted by law, the Spanish dollars would contain around 0.5 percent less silver than the United States dollar coins. Therefore, the United States silver dollars and unworn Spanish dollars were generally constrained unavailable for general use as per Gresham's law; the lighter Spanish dollars were delivered in amount for flow in the United States, while the heavier pieces would be swung in to the Philadelphia Mint to be recoined into United States coinage to exploit the error in weight. Around then, silver bullion was provided to the Mint only by private contributors, who, as per the Coinage Act of 1792, reserved the privilege to have their bullion begat for nothing out of pocket. As huge silver coins were a favored technique for trade all through the world, particularly China, an impressive number of the United States dollars mentioned by silver contributors were sent out to fulfill that request. 

The principal dollar coins, known as Flowing Hair dollars, were issued by the Mint start in 1794. By 1800, a dominant part of investors mentioned their bullion be struck as silver dollars, which were then using the Draped Bust plan. This added to a lack of little change available for use, and subsequently, the open turned out to be progressively disparaging of the Mint. Mint Director Elias Boudinot started urging contributors to acknowledge fragmentary coins, and the creation of dollars started to diminish in connection to the littler coins. Dollar coin generation stopped in March 1804, despite the fact that those pieces bore the date of 1803. In his 1805 report, Mint Director Robert Patterson expressed that "[t]he striking of little coins is a measure which has been received to suit the banks and different contributors, and at their specific solicitation, both with a perspective on outfitting a supply of little change, and to keep the exportation of the specie of the United States to outside nations." Though none had been struck for more than two years, Secretary of State James Madison authoritatively suspended silver dollar coinage on May 1, 1806, tending to a letter to Patterson: Sir: In Consequence of a portrayal from the chief of the Bank of the United States that extensive buys have been made of dollars instituted at the mint to export them, and as it is likely further buys and exportations will be made the President guides that all the silver to be begat at the mint will be of little divisions, so the estimation of the biggest pieces will not surpass a large portion of a dollar. 

In 1832, business shipper Edmund Roberts started going about as an agent to Asia for the benefit of the United States government, with the expectation of arranging economic accords in the district. Amid his main goal, he achieved bargains both with Said container Sultan, the Sultan of Muscat and Oman, and the Phra Khlang of Siam (present day Thailand), an imperative budgetary clergyman of that country. Roberts was given things which were to be exhibited as endowments to the authorities with whom he was arranging, however portrayed them as being of "mean quality, and of unimportant esteem". After the bargains were confirmed in the United States, Roberts needed to come back to Siam and Muscat to get endorsement from the agents of those countries. In a letter to the Department of State dated October 8, 1834, Roberts censured the endowments of his past voyage as deficient and offending to his hosts in the Orient. Notwithstanding a few different things, he mentioned a lot of coins as a proper offering to Said receptacle Sultan: I am fairly at a misfortune to recognize what articles will be most satisfactory to the Sultan, however I guess a total arrangement of new gold and silver and copper coins of the U.S. flawlessly organized in a morocco case and then to have an outward covering would be legitimate to send not exclusively to the sultan, however to different Asiatics. In a November 11, 1834, letter sent to Mint Director Samuel Moore, Secretary of State John Forsyth affirmed Roberts' proposal, composing: The President <nowiki>[</nowiki>Andrew Jackson<nowiki>]</nowiki> has coordinated that a total arrangement of the coins of the United States be sent to the King of Siam, and another to the Sultan of Muscat. You are mentioned, hence, to advance to the Department for that reason, copy examples of every caring presently being used, regardless of whether of gold, silver, or copper. He likewise guided Moore to have two Morocco calfskin boxes made to house the coins. He expressed that one ought to be yellow in shading, and the other red, and that assets could be drawn from the Treasury for the estimation of the crates and coins. Afterward, in a letter dated December 2, 1834, Forsyth guided Moore to incorporate "national insignias" (counting a bird and stars) on the outside of the cases. 

In their book "The Fantastic 1804 Dollar", numismatic antiquarians Eric P. Newman and Kenneth E. Bressett state that an issue emerged at the Mint regarding how to decipher Forsyth's structure. As his underlying correspondence showed that the sets were to incorporate coins of each kind at that point being used, Mint authorities included both the silver dollar and gold falcon. The ban on silver dollar coinage had been lifted in 1831, yet none had been instituted since those issued in March 1804. Two arrangements of coins, stamped in confirmation complete, were finished and conveyed alongside their cases to Roberts right away preceding his flight on the USS "Peacock" on April 27, 1835. The dollars incorporated the sets bore the Draped Bust plan, delineating a figurative portrayal of Liberty on the front-side and a heraldic bird on the turn around. A rundown of conciliatory blessings was likewise proposed for missions to Japan and Cochin-China (today part of Vietnam), which included two extra arrangements of coins. 

Roberts conveyed the primary arrangement of coins to Said receptacle Sultan on October 1, 1835. He conveyed the following set to King Rama III of Siam the next year, on April 6. Roberts passed on in Macau on June 12, 1836, preceding he could start contact with some other countries. On June 30, Edmund P. Kennedy, commodore of the discretionary armada, kept in touch with the State Department that he had "coordinated that the presents [which remained awkward because of Roberts' death] be sent to the United States". The confirmation sets implied for Cochin-China and Japan were likely incorporated into the shipment of returned presents. All dollars struck for consideration in the conciliatory blessing sets were likely dated 1804. It is obscure why that date was picked for the dollars, yet numismatic antiquarian R.W. Julian recommends that it could have been done to forestall irritated authorities who might not have had the capacity to gain the 1834-dated mint piece for their accumulations; Chief Coiner Adam Eckfeldt, in the wake of counseling with Moore, erroneously established that 19,570 dollars bearing the date 1804 were struck in that year. The dollars printed for the discretionary blessing sets, just as different models hit with similar bites the dust, are all things considered known as "Class I" 1804 dollars. Altogether, eight examples of this sort are known today. 

Amid the nineteenth century, Mint workers delivered unapproved duplicates of awards and coins, now and then antedated. In spite of the fact that coin restrikes were made straightforwardly at the Philadelphia Mint from the 1830s, the training ended up secret before the finish of the 1850s. In the decades after the initial 1804 dollars were created, gatherers ended up mindful of their reality and wanted to acquire them. A few were struck at the Mint in 1858. Those coins, which ended up known as "Class II" 1804 dollars, had plain, unlettered edges, rather than standard issue Draped Bust dollars and those struck as political blessings, all of which had edge lettering connected by the Castaing machine. In 1859, James Ross Snowden fruitlessly mentioned consent from the Treasury Secretary to make examples and restrikes of uncommon mint pieces available to be purchased to authorities, and in that year, vendors started offering plain edge 1804 dollars to general society. Somewhere around three were offered available to be purchased by different sellers in 1859, and coin vendor Ebenezer Locke Mason guaranteed that he was offered three by Theodore Eckfeldt, a Mint representative and nephew of Adam Eckfeldt (who had passed on in 1852). After the open wound up mindful that Mint authorities had allowed restrikes, there was a minor embarrassment which brought about a Congressional examination and the devastation of obsolete coinage bites the dust. The discussion provoked William E. DuBois, Mint Assayer, to attempt, in 1860, to review the instances of the 1804 dollar in private hands. As indicated by DuBois, five coins were known to be exclusive, of which four were recouped. He expressed that three were annihilated in his quality, and one was added to the Mint's currency bureau (of which he was custodian, and which is today the National Numismatic Collection), where it remains today. The coin, which is the sole known Class II example in presence, was struck over a 1857 Swiss shooting thaler printed for a shooting celebration in the Canton of Bern. The fifth coin, suggested by DuBois, isn't as of now represented, despite the fact that its edge may have been lettered after its recuperation trying to pass it as a unique. Coins with included lettering are known as "Class III" 1804 dollars. The front-side coinage pass on used to strike the Class II and Class III 1804 dollars was saved in protection in 1860, and the turn around kick the bucket was devastated in that year. The front-side kick the bucket was damaged in 1869. 

Class III dollars are indistinguishable to the Class II dollar, aside from lettering like that on the Class I dollars was connected to the edge of the coins. In light of the somewhat sunken appearance of the Class III dollars, all things considered, all were given edge lettering sooner or later subsequent to striking; as the Castaing machine was intended to be utilized preceding striking, its ill-advised use brought about a disfigurement of the coin surface. Newman and Bressett affirm that they were struck at roughly a similar time as the Class II dollars, and that the edges were lettered and the currencies disguised by Mint workers until 1869, when one was offered to a currency authority, who rejected it as a restrike. In any case, numismatist S. Hudson Chapman trusted that some Class III dollars were struck as late as 1876. In 1875, a few were sold by Philadelphia coin vendor John W. Haseltine. Six examples of the Class III dollar are known today. 

Gatherers initially wound up mindful of the presence of the 1804 dollar in 1842, when a pantograph proliferation of one example was included in "A Manual of Gold and Silver Coins of All Nations", a work composed by Mint representatives Jacob R. Eckfeldt and William DuBois. The primary private gatherer to acquire a precedent was Matthew A. Stickney, who gained the currency from the Mint on May 9, 1843, by exchanging certain uncommon mint pieces from his accumulation, including a one of a kind early United States Immune Columbia coin struck in gold. Enthusiasm for mint piece gathering and the 1804 dollars started expanding, and by 1860, the dollars saw broad inclusion by numismatists. In 1885, barker W.E. Woodward portrayed the 1804 dollar as "the lord of coins", a moniker which it looks after today. Numismatic student of history Q. David Bowers affirms that the 1804 dollar has pulled in more consideration than some other coin. Each of the fifteen surviving examples are recognized and contemplated by numismatists. They are recognized by monikers dependent on noticeable proprietors, or the main people known to have had the coins. 

At the 1962 American Numismatic Association tradition, British numismatist David B. Spink declared that he was in control of a to that point obscure 1804 dollar example. The coin was housed in a yellow calfskin case decorated with a falcon and other ornamentation, complying with the portrayal of that made for the King of Siam. The set comprised of a half penny, penny, dime, quarter, half dollar, dollar, quarter falcon, half bird and hawk. As the majority of the coins in the set were dated 1834 except for the dollar and bird, it gave the principal authoritative confirmation that a 1804 dollar was incorporated into the discretionary introduction sets. As indicated by Spink, the set was offered to him by two ladies whom he accepted were relatives of Anna Leonowens, guide of the offspring of Rama IV (stepbrother and beneficiary of Rama III) and fictionalized hero of the Rodgers and Hammerstein melodic "The King and I". 

The way that no 1804 dollars were struck in 1804 was not generally acknowledged by numismatists until the mid twentieth century. Prior to such time, the real year in which they were struck stayed petulant among numismatists. From the get-go, authorities accepted that the 1804 dollars were struck in 1804, and their irregularity was clarified by different speculations. The main part of the mintage was differently supposed to have been paid to Barbary privateers as payment, lost adrift on the way to China, and softened before leaving the Philadelphia Mint. In 1867, numismatist W. Elliot Woodward recognized that 1804 dollars were struck as strategic endowments in 1834, yet he likewise trusted that others were struck in 1804. Numismatists Lyman H. Low and William T. R. Marvin, composing for the "American Journal of Numismatics" in 1899, expressed that "the diary unquestionably affirms that there is no dollar dated 1804 which was struck in that year by the U.S. Mint." In 1891, numismatist John A. Nexsen composed that the Class I 1804 dollars were "without uncertainty instituted in 1804". In 1905, he retracted his prior declarations, expressing that "nobody currently trusts that they were instituted in 1804." 

As indicated by Newman and Bressett, the way in which the 1804 dollars were created is confirmation that none were struck in 1804. They note that the Castaing machine's edging kicks the bucket used a 'H' that was undersized in connection to different letters, equivalent to those utilized on Draped Bust dollars all through the standard creation of those coins. Be that as it may, the edge lettering on all Class I 1804 dollars is disfigured and in part devastated, implying that they were not struck in a buttoned down coinage press as was utilized in 1804, however one which utilized a steel neckline that was not acquainted with the Mint until 1833. The disfigurement of the edge lettering was brought about by weight pushing the coinage metal against the steel neckline containing the coin clear. Furthermore, numerous 1804 dollars were struck in confirmation complete, a procedure which was first utilized at the Mint in 1817. 

From the time numismatists wound up mindful of 1804 dollars, they have instructed high costs, both in connection to their presumptive worth and the numismatic estimation of other silver dollars. Some early models were kept up in the Mint's coin bureau for use in exchanges, and in 1859, vendors started offering Class II dollars valued at $75, while Theodore Eckfeldt supposedly offered a Philadelphia coin seller three coins for $70 each. In 1883, a Class III dollar was allegedly bought in Vienna for $740, and a Class I example was unloaded for $1,000 in 1885 by Henry and Samuel H. Chapman. In 1903, a model sold for $1,800, and a similar coin apparently sold for $4,250 in 1941. In 1960, a Class III dollar got $28,000 at a bartering directed by Stack's, a coin firm, and a similar coin came to $36,000 at another Stack's deal in 1963. A Class I example brought $77,500 at a 1970 Stack's sale, and amid a 1980 ascent in coin costs, a Class III model sold for $400,000 by Bowers and Ruddy Galleries. A Class I model came to $990,000 at a Superior Galleries closeout in 1990, and a precedent once possessed by mint piece gatherer Louis Eliasberg turned into the initial 1804 dollar to outperform $1 million at sale, selling for $1,815,000 at a deal led by Bowers and Merena, Inc., in 1997. 

The cost achieved an untouched high in 1999, when the best known example, evaluated Proof-68 by the Professional Coin Grading Service, which is accepted to have been the precedent introduced to Said receptacle Sultan, was sold by Bowers and Merena for $4,140,000. At the season of the deal, this was the most noteworthy cost paid for any coin. In 2008, a Class I model was sold by Heritage Auctions for $3,737,500, and a Class III was sold by a similar firm for $2,300,000 in 2009. 

Fakes and fake proliferations of the 1804 dollar have been made since numismatists wound up mindful of the coins' high esteem. James A. Bolen, a medallist and mint piece authority who made duplicates of significant coins somewhere in the range of 1862 and 1869, created a 1804 dollar by changing the last digit in the date of an authentic 1803 model. Despite the fact that Bolen added his name to the edge of the coin, different counterfeiters made changed date coins with the goal to swindle. Nineteenth-century arrange performing artist John T. Raymond bought an example of the coin, which was later uncovered to be a falsification, for $300. Every single silver dollar dated somewhere in the range of 1800 and 1803 were liable to change to 1804 dollars, yet 1801 was the date most normally utilized for that reason. 

Notwithstanding adjusted dates, electrotypes of the 1804 dollar were made, both for the motivations behind investigation and extortion. One such currency in the gathering of the San Francisco Mint was portrayed by them as certifiable from 1887 to 1927. Electrotypes were additionally made by Mint workers, and one was utilized as the reason for the pantograph proliferations which showed up in Eckfeldt and DuBois' 1842 "A Manual of Gold and Silver Coins of All Nations". 

Increasingly present day reproductions, known as "Saigon duplicates", were normally offered as unique at low costs to American warriors amid the Vietnam War. In Saigon and other South Vietnamese urban areas, also in close-by Thailand, military work force were offered the duplicates by merchants who here and there guaranteed that they were family treasures. In 2012, Professional Coin Grading Service organizer David Hall expressed that fake 1804 dollars had been accessible in Hong Kong for a considerable length of time.