Helmut Lent 

Helmut Lent (13 June 1918 – 7 October 1944) was a German night-contender expert in World War II. Loaned shot down 110 flying machine, 102 of them around evening time. Naturally introduced to a sincerely religious family, he demonstrated an early energy for lightweight plane flying; against his dad's desires, he joined the Luftwaffe in 1936. Subsequent to finishing his preparation, he was appointed to the 1. Squadron, or "Staffel", of "Zerstörergeschwader" 76 (ZG 76), a wing flying the Messerschmitt Bf 110 twin-motor overwhelming contender. Loaned guaranteed his first ethereal triumphs at the beginning of World War II in the attack of Poland and over the North Sea. Amid the attack of Norway he flew ground bolster missions before he was exchanged to the recently settled "Nachtjagdgeschwader" 1 (NJG 1), a night-warrior wing. 

Loaned guaranteed his first nighttime triumph on 12 May 1941 and on 30 August 1941 was granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross for 22 triumphs. His unfaltering aggregation of aeronautical triumphs brought about standard advancements and grants. The evening of 15 June 1944, "Noteworthy" Lent was the primary night military pilot to guarantee 100 nighttime flying triumphs, an accomplishment which earned him the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves, Swords and Diamonds on 31 July 1944. 

On 5 October 1944, Lent flew a Junkers Ju 88 on a normal travel departure from Stade to Nordborchen, south of Paderborn. On the arrival approach one of the motors cut out and the air ship slammed into electrical cables. Each of the four individuals from the team were mortally harmed. Three men kicked the bucket not long after the accident and Lent surrendered to his wounds two days after the fact on 7 October 1944. 

Loaned was conceived on 13 June 1918 in Pyrehne, region of Landsberg a der Warthe, Province of Brandenburg, Germany (presently Pyrzany, Lubusz Province, western Poland) and dedicated Helmut Johannes Siegfried Lent. He was the fifth offspring of Johannes Lent, a Lutheran pastor and Marie Elisabeth, née Braune. Helmut Lent had two more established siblings, Werner and Joachim, and two more seasoned sisters, Käthe and Ursula. His family was profoundly religious; notwithstanding his dad, both of his siblings and the two granddads were additionally Lutheran pastors. 

From Easter 1924 until Easter 1928, Lent went to the neighborhood open grade school at Pyrehne. His dad and most seasoned sibling Werner then mentored him at home in anticipation of the placement test at the open optional school at Landsberg. In February 1933, Helmut joined the "Jungvolk", the lesser part of the Hitler Youth. From March 1933, he went about as an adolescent unit pioneer, or "Jungzugführer" (1 March 1933 – 1 April 1935) and banner conveyor, or "Fähnleinführer" (1 April 1935 – 9 November 1935) until he left the "Jungvolk" to get ready for his "certificate" examination. Helmut passed his graduation examinations at seventeen years old on 12 December 1935. On 2 February 1936, he started the eight-week mandatory National Labor Service (Reichsarbeitsdienst) at Mohrin. He joined the military administration in the Luftwaffe as a "Fahnenjunker" on 1 April 1936, against the desires of his dad. 

His military preparing started on 6 April 1936 at the second Air Warfare School ("Luftkriegsschule 2") at Gatow, on the south-western edges of Berlin. He swore the National Socialist promise of loyalty on 21 April 1936. Flight preparing started on Monday, 7 August 1936 at Gatow. His first flight was in a Heinkel He 72 "Kadet" D-EYZA single motor biplane. Loaned logged his first solo trip on 15 September 1936 of every a Focke-Wulf Fw 44 "Stieglitz". At this point, Lent had gathered 63 flights in his logbook. Related to flight preparing, the understudies additionally figured out how to drive cruisers and vehicles and amid one of these preparation works out, Lent was associated with a street mishap, breaking his upper leg seriously enough to keep him from flying for five months. This did not antagonistically influence his homeroom preparing and on 1 April 1937, subsequent to taking his bonus examination, he was elevated to "Fähnrich". On 19 October 1937 Lent finished his flight preparing and was granted the A/B License. He earned his wings on 15 November 1937. On 1 February 1938, he was elevated to "Oberfähnrich" (first ensign), and on 1 March 1938 to "Leutnant". At this point, he had made 434 flights in eight unique kinds of flying machine and had collected 112 hours and 48 minutes flying time, for the most part in sunlight flights, in single motor preparing flying machine. 

In the wake of leaving Gatow, Helmut Lent was presented on the Heavy Bomber Crew School, or "Große Kampffliegerschule" at Tutow, in upper east Germany. He went through three months preparing as a spectator (1 March 1938 – 30 May 1938). Before finishing this course, Lent was kept running over by a vehicle, bringing about a broken lower jaw, blackout, and inside dying. On 1 July 1938, Lent was presented on the third Group of "Jagdgeschwader" 132 "Richthofen" (III./JG 132), flying on 19 July 1938 out of the blue after his wounds. 

Toward the start of September, Lent's squadron, 7./JG 132, moved to Großenhain close Dresden, in arrangement and backing of the extension of Czechoslovakia. Loaned flew various operational watches in this contention until his "Staffel" migrated again to Rangsdorf on 29 September 1938. After the pressure over the control of the Sudeten domains facilitated, Lent's unit started a change to the Messerschmitt Bf 108 "Taifun". On 1 November 1938 III./JG 132 moved to Fürstenwalde, among Berlin and Frankfurt a der Oder, and was renamed II./JG 141, and Lent was presented on the sixth Squadron. 

II./JG 141 changed its assignment to I./"Zerstörergeschwader" 76 (I./ZG 76) on 1 May 1939 in the meantime migrating to a landing strip at Olmütz, Czechoslovakia. The gathering was being re-outfitted with the Messerschmitt Bf 110, and Lent made his first trip in the Bf 110 on 7 June 1939. Loaned was conceded his Luftwaffe Advanced Pilot's Certificate ("Erweiterter Luftwaffen-Flugzeugführerschein"), otherwise called 'C'- Certificate, affirming capability on multi-motor flying machine, on 12 May 1939. While changing over to the Bf 110, Lent did not have a standard remote administrator ("Funker") in the back heavy armament specialist's seat, however on 14 August 1939 he was went with in M8+AH out of the blue by "Gefreiter" Walter Kubisch. Amid the prelude of World War II on 25 August 1939 I./ZG 76 sent to a runway at Ohlau toward the southeast of Breslau. 

World War II started at 04:45 on Friday 1 September 1939 when German powers crossed the Polish outskirt. Helmut Lent, flying a Bf 110 stamped M8-DH, took off from Ohlau, at 04:44 to escort Heinkel He 111 planes on a mission over Krakow. 

The German designs for the attack of Poland were considered under the codename "Fall Weiss" (Case White). This task called for concurrent assaults on Poland from three headings, the north, the west and the south, start at 04:45 on the early morning of 1 September 1939. On at the beginning of today Helmut Lent, with Kubisch as his remote administrator and back heavy weapons specialist, escorted a development of Heinkel 111 planes of I. what's more, III./"Kampfgeschwader" 4 (KG 4) assaulting the runways at Krakow in help of the southern prong of the German assault. At 16:30 on 2 September 1939, the second day of the German assault, Lent took off toward Łódź and asserted his first airborne triumph of the war, shooting down a PZL P.11. 

Now of the battle the Bf 110s changed from aircraft escort to ground-assault since the Polish Air Force was everything except vanquished. In this limit Lent and Kubisch obliterated a twin-engined monoplane on the ground on 5 September and another flying machine, a PZL P.24, on 9 September. On 12 September 1939 he was assaulted by a Polish airplane which shot out his starboard motor. Loaned made a constrained arriving behind German lines. He flew five additional missions amid the Polish battle, pulverizing one enemy of flying machine battery. For his activities in the Polish crusade Lent was granted one of the primary Iron Cross second Class () of World War II on 21 September 1939. I./ZG 76 migrated to the Stuttgart region on 29 September 1939 to guard the western fringe against the French and British, who had been at war with Germany since 3 September 1939. From early October to center December I./ZG 76 worked from various landing strips in the Stuttgart and Ruhr territories before moving north to Jever on 16 December 1939. 

Amid the primary month of the war the Royal Air Force (RAF) for the most part centered its aircraft assaults against hostile to delivery activities on the German Bight. RAF planes mounted a substantial assault against transportation off Wilhelmshaven on 18 December 1939 in what progressed toward becoming to be known as the Battle of the Heligoland Bight. Twenty-four twin-motor Vickers Wellington from No. 9 Squadron, No. 37 Squadron and No. 149 Squadron framed up over Norfolk heading for the island of Heligoland. Two flying machine prematurely ended the mission because of mechanical deformities, yet the rest of the 22 sought after the assault and were spotted by a Freya radar on the East Frisian Islands. 

Helmut Lent was requested to block and connect with the assaulting aircraft drive and in the wake of refueling—Lent had quite recently arrived at Jever from an equipped watch—asserted three Wellingtons, two of which, shot down at 14:30 and 14:45, were later affirmed. The two air ship were both from No. 37 Squadron, captained by Flying Officer P.A. Wimberley and Flying Officer O.J.T. Lewis individually, and both slammed in the shallow ocean off Borkum. Almost certainly, his third case may have been No. 37 Squadron Wellington 1A N2396, LF-J, guided by Sergeant H. Stratagem, which crash-arrived on the sand hills of Borkum. Loaned was denied the triumph over Wimberley, as the Wellington was assaulted by Lent after it had just been gravely harmed and was going to crash. The Wellington was credited to guide Carl-August Schumacher. 

His prosperity as a military pilot over the North Sea had made him a minor national saint. Endeavors, for example, those at Heligoland made uplifting news stories for German publicity machine. Therefore, he pulled in fan mail—chiefly from young ladies and ladies—among them Elisabeth Petersen. Loaned answered to her letter, and he and Elisabeth met on an arranged meet up at the "Reichshof" lodging in Hamburg, after which they delighted in a skiing occasion in Hirschegg in February 1940. 

On 8 April 1940 eight air ship of 1./ZG 76, under the order of "Staffelkapitän" Werner Hansen, conveyed northward from Jever to Westerland on Sylt in anticipation of activity "Weserübung", the attack of Norway. The German arrangement for the assault required a land and/or water capable strike on the Norwegian capital, Oslo, and six noteworthy ports from Kristiansand in the south to Narvik in the north. All the while, Junkers 52 (Ju 52) transport flying machine would drop parachute troops to verify Oslo's Fornebu air terminal. Extra Ju 52s were planned to touch base at Fornebu twenty minutes after the parachute drop, by which time the runway must be in German hands. 1./ZG 76 was to give air spread and ground-assault support for the two waves. Eight Bf 110 "Zerstörer" of 1./ZG 76 took off at 7:00 in the first part of the day, wanting to synchronize their landing in Fornebu with the parachute drop at 8:45. The separation from Westerland to Fornebu implied this was a single direction activity; the Bf 110s couldn't hold enough fuel for the arrival trip. Their fuel was determined to give them 20 minutes flying time over Fornebu, and the pilots would need to arrive at Fornebu once the runway had been seized. 

On the early morning trip to Fornebu, Lent connected with and shot down a Norwegian Gloster Gladiator. While the Ju 52s transporting the German paratroops went under substantial flame, Lent's "Rotte" connected with the adversary ground positions. Loaned's starboard motor burst into flames, constraining him to arrive right away. With Kubisch keeping an eye on the mobile automatic weapon, Lent arranged the capitulation with the Norwegian ground powers and the runway was in German hands. 

At 18:50 that day, Lent and his "Staffelkapitän" Werner Hansen took off again from Fornebu in whole Bf 110s. Amid the 40-minute flight, they ran over a RAF Short Sunderland flying watercraft, sequential number "L2167", from No. 210 Squadron RAF which they shot down together; Hansen got acknowledgment for the "murder". Helmut Lent was granted the Iron Cross first Class () on 13 May 1940 preceding he was exchanged to Trondheim on 18 May. He asserted his second aeronautical triumph of the Norwegian battle on 27 May over a RAF Gloster Gladiator from No. 263 Squadron RAF, guided by Flight Lieutenant Caesar Hull. On 2 June 1940 Lent and his wingman Thönes guaranteed a Gladiator each. The flight kept going 46 minutes and their adversaries were again from No. 263 Squadron, air ship sequential number "N5893" directed by Pilot Officer J.L. Wilkie, and "N5681" directed by Pilot Officer L.R. Jacobsen. He asserted his seventh triumph by and large and last of the Norwegian auditorium of activities on 15 June 1940 over a No. 254 Squadron RAF Bristol Blenheim, steered by Pilot Officer P.C. Gaylord. On 1 July 1940 Lent was elevated to "Oberleutnant" and on 13 July 1./ZG 76 was moved to Stavanger/Forus. 

Helmut Lent quickly took an interest in the Battle of Britain when on 15 August 1940 twenty-one Bf 110s from I./ZG 76 escorted He 111 aircraft from "Kampfgeschwader" 26 (KG 26) on their assault on Yorkshire and the Newcastle/Sunderland territory. I./ZG 76 lost seven air ship on this mission and it was Helmut Lent's 98th and last mission as a "Zerstörer" pilot. 

By June 1940 RAF Bomber Command infiltrations of German airspace had expanded to the dimension at which Hermann Göring announced that a night-contender power ought to be shaped. The officer entrusted with its creation was Wolfgang Falck, "Gruppenkommandeur" of the I./"Zerstörergeschwader" 1 (ZG 1). The night-warrior constrain started to extend quickly, with existing units being isolated to shape the core of new units. By October 1940 "Nachtjagdgeschwader" 1 (NJG 1) contained three "Gruppen", while "Nachtjagdgeschwader" 2 (NJG 2) and "Nachtjagdgeschwader" 3 (NJG 3), were all the while framing. It was amid this period that Helmut Lent reluctantly turned into an individual from the night-warrior drive. Toward the finish of August Lent thought of home, "We are at present changing over to night battling. We are not energetic. We would sooner set out legitimately toward England." 

Loaned finished night contender preparing at Ingolstadt in south-western Germany, and was delegated squadron pioneer, or "Staffelkapitän", of the recently shaped 6./NJG 1 on 1 October 1940. The squadron was based at Fliegerhorst Deelen, found north of Arnhem in the Netherlands. On the night 11– 12 May 1941, Lent asserted his first nighttime elevated triumphs against two Wellington IC aircraft from No. 40 Squadron RAF on a mission against Hamburg. BL-H (sequential number "R1330)" was shot down at 01:40 close Süderstapel and BL-Z ("R1461") at 02:49 close Nordstrand. 

On 1 July 1941, he took order of 4./NJG 1, positioned in the Netherlands at "Fliegerhorst" (runway) Leeuwarden, north of Arnheim, on the Friesland coast, where he stayed until his passing. From this situation in the purported German Bight, the squadron watched the North Sea coast, and could capture Allied evening time shelling missions, what Nazi purposeful publicity called fear assaults, based out of England. Before the finish of the war, the 4./NJG 1 was a standout amongst the best "Nachtjagdstaffel"— a squadron of a night contender wing—of the Luftwaffe. Different individuals included such night military pilots as "Oberleutnant" Helmut Woltersdorf, "Leutnant" Ludwig Becker (44 triumphs, KIA February 1943), "Leutnant" Egmont Prinz zur Lippe-Weißenfeld (51 triumphs, executed in a flying mishap in the Netherlands in March 1944), "Leutnant" Leopold Fellerer (41 triumphs), "Oberfeldwebel" Paul Gildner (46 triumphs, murdered in a flying mishap at Fliegerhorst Gilze-Rijen in the Netherlands in February 1943), and "Unteroffizier" Siegfried Ney (12 triumphs, KIA February 1943). On 30 August 1941, Lent got the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross () for seven daytime and 14 night triumphs. 

On 1 November 1941, Lent ended up acting Group Commander "Gruppenkommandeur" of the recently framed II./NJG 2. Loaned's first flying triumph as a "Gruppenkommandeur", his twentieth evening time, and his toward the end in 1941, came amid the evening of Friday 7 November to Saturday 8 November. He shot down a Wellington 1C heading for Berlin, which descended close Akkrum. The six-man group of the aircraft, "X9976" of No. 75 (New Zealand) Squadron, was executed in real life. This accomplishment earned Lent a reference in the "Wehrmachtbericht" (his first of six altogether), a data release issued by the central station of the Wehrmacht. To be singled out independently in the "Wehrmachtbericht" was a respect and was entered in the Orders and Decorations' segment of one's Service Record Book. 

Loaned was elevated to "Hauptmann" on 1 January 1942. Soon thereafter, he was granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves () on 6 June 1942, at which time his complete remained at 34 nighttime triumphs in addition to multi day-time triumphs. The honor was introduced at the "Führerhauptquartier" on 28 and 29 June, his count standing then at 39 nighttime and multi day-time triumphs. Loaned additionally held the refinement of accomplishing the principal Lichtenstein radar-helped air triumph in a Dornier Do 215B-5 night contender. Loaned flew Dornier Do 215B-5 code R4+DC consistently on Himmelbett missions as a result of its five-hour perseverance. Loaned guaranteed something like four triumphs in this machine. 

Before the finish of 1942, Lent had 56 triumphs and was the top German night-contender expert. He was elevated to "Major" on 1 January 1943 and delegated "Geschwaderkommodore" of "Nachtjagdgeschwader" 3 (NJG 3) on 1 August 1943. After 73 executes, of which 65 were guaranteed around evening time, he was granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords () on 2 August 1943 and advised by wire on 4 August. The Swords were displayed to him at the "Führerhauptquartier" at Rastenburg on 10/11 August 1943. 

In January 1944, Lent brought down three supposed "heavies"— four-engined key planes—in one night, however his air ship was harmed by return fire, requiring a constrained landing. He utilized just 22 gun shells to down two aircraft the evening of the 22– 23 March 1944, and discharged just 57 adjusts in seven minutes against three Avro Lancasters on 15– 16 June. Elevated to "Oberstleutnant", he was granted the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves, Swords and Diamonds () in acknowledgment of his 110 affirmed air murders, the first of two night-military pilots to be granted the enrichment. The second was Heinz-Wolfgang Schnaufer, who, with 121 airborne triumphs, moved toward becoming flying history's driving night-military pilot. 

Every German officer were required to acquire official authorization to wed; be that as it may, this was normally a bureaucratic custom. At the point when Lent chose to wed Elizabeth Petersen, his admirer from Hamburg whom he had met on an arranged meet up, his case was increasingly entangled. 'Elisabeth Petersen' was in actuality Helene (Lena) Senokosnikova, who had been conceived in Moscow in April 1914. She had been hesitant to uncover her actual personality, since Russians were not prevalent in the Third Reich, however after a careful examination concerning her experience and racial family, she got her German citizenship on 15 March 1941. They were hitched on 10 September 1941 in Wellingsbüttel, Hamburg. The marriage created two little girls. Christina was conceived on 6 June 1942; the second, Helma, was conceived on 6 October 1944, not long after her dad's deadly accident. 

Both of Helmut's more established siblings, Joachim and Werner, as individuals from the Confessing Church (German: "Bekennende Kirche"), experienced issue with the Nazi Party. The Confessing Church, driven by Pastor Martin Niemöller, was a dissident Protestant church which restricted the Reich's endeavors to "Nazify" Germany's Protestant holy places. It remained in straightforward resistance to National Socialist standards, especially those typified in the Aryan Paragraph. Through the Barmen Declaration, the congregation censured the national German Evangelical Church as sinful. Werner Lent, a disciple of the Confessing church, was captured without precedent for 1937 in the wake of lecturing an enemy of Nazi message. In June 1942, his sibling Joachim was captured by the Gestapo subsequent to perusing the purported Mölders letter from the podium. The Mölders letter was a promulgation piece brought about by Sefton Delmer, the head of the British dark publicity in the Political Warfare Executive (PWE) to benefit from the passing of Germany's contender expert Werner Mölders; this letter, apparently composed by Mölders, validated the preeminent significance of his Catholic confidence in his life—by suggestion, setting confidence over his devotion to the National Socialist Party. 

On 5 October 1944, Lent flew his Junkers Ju-88 G– 6, coded D5+AA, from Stade to Paderborn. His team incorporated his long-lasting radio administrator "Oberfeldwebel" Walter Kubisch, the individual from a "Propagandakompanie" (Wehrmacht Propaganda Troops) "Leutnant" Werner Kark in the aeronautical heavy armament specialist position, and "Oberleutnant" Hermann Klöss, second radio administrator. Loaned was en route to visit the "Geschwaderkommodore" of the "Nachtjagdgeschwader" 1, "Oberstleutnant" Hans-Joachim Jabs, to talk about operational issues. In a matter of seconds before the landing in Paderborn/Nordborchen, the landing strip had gone under assault by the United States Army Air Forces, leaving pits on the runway. A crisis improvised runway was gotten and set apart out for Lent, however an overhead electrical link was disregarded. Amid the arrival approach, the left motor of the plane fizzled, making the wing plunge. Loaned was unfit to keep the plane relentless and it struck high-voltage links and smashed. Every one of the four individuals from the group supported genuine wounds yet were safeguarded alive. Kubisch and Klöss capitulated to their wounds around the same time, Kark on the following morning and Lent himself kicked the bucket two days after the fact on 7 October 1944. 

Loaned's state burial service was held in the Reich Chancellery, Berlin, on Wednesday 11 October 1944. "Reichsmarschall" Hermann Göring took the salute at Lent's pine box, which was hung in the national banner of the Nazi Germany. In front of the casket, conveying Lent's distinctions and improvements on a velvet pad, walked "Oberstleutnant" Werner Streib, the Inspector of Night Fighters. Six steel-helmeted officers, all beneficiaries of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross, escorted the casket on its caisson and remained as watchman of respect amid the service: "Oberstleutnant" Günther Radusch, "Oberstleutnant" Hans-Joachim Jabs, "Major" Rudolf Schoenert, "Hauptmann" Heinz Strüning, "Hauptmann" Karl Hadeball and "Hauptmann" Paul Zorner. On 12 October 1944 Lent and his team were buried in a solitary grave in the military graveyard at Stade. 

Various Helmut Lent's honors were sold at Sotheby's, London, on 18 July 1966. The things were purchased in one part by an unknown bidder for the all out aggregate of £500. The buyer was Adolf Galland, the previous "General der Jagdflieger", following up for the benefit of the West German Ministry of Defense. The honors were sold by Helmut Lent's senior little girl Christina after conference with her mom, Lena, who was in critical requirement for cash to pay for an activity. The Federal Ministry of Defense displayed the accumulation to the Wehrgeschichtliches Museum Rastatt, Germany. 

In 1964, West German Army Aviation Corps establishment in Rotenburg (Wümme), Lower Saxony was named the Lent Barracks, or "Loaned Kaserne", on a suggestion of Lent's previous unrivaled. In 2014, the Bundeswehr chose to rename the office as Lent was never again viewed as a suitable namesake. The procedure, which is relied upon to finish in end 2015, includes 1,500 troopers and 250 common workers of the site and was started by the leader "Oberstleutnant" Edmund Vogel in mid 2015. In September 2016 the area overseer Herrmann Luttmann, individual from the moderate conservative Party CDU expressed "No considerable proof has been discovered that surely Helmut Lent was a supporter of the Nazi routine". Luttmann will accordingly prescribe to hold the name to the neighborhood government. Lars Klingbeil, individual from the Bundestag and of the Defense Committee has flagged that the German furnished constrained would hold fast to the choice made on neighborhood level regardless all things considered. 

"It's long past due to rename the last sleeping shelter named after Wehrmacht officers," Prof Johannes Tuchel, leader of the German Resistance Memorial, told Bild am Sonntag. "Officers like Schulz, Lent and Marseille battled in Hitler's war and were a piece of Nazi purposeful publicity." The military quarters ought to be renamed after warriors who opposed the Nazi routine, he said. "The individuals who battled for human rights and the standard of law can't be sufficiently recognized." Historian Wolfram Wette agrees with this, citig the custom order of 1982. Student of history Sönke Neitzel opines that the Bundeswehr should keep the name of Lent, who was not a Nazi but rather just an esteem situated individual who pursued his Christian picture of mankind (christlichen Menschenbild), regardless of whether no Wehrmacht warrior left the war totally spotless. In spite of this, Neitzel conceives that with the exception of the instance of Erwin Rommel, in multi year no Bundeswehr dormitory will hold the name of a Wehrmacht man any longer, since officers would prefer not to chance their professions to protect names undesirable by the Ministry of Defense. 

Loaned is formally credited with 111 triumphs in 507 flights. The complete incorporates 103 triumphs during the evening, amid which he demolished 59 four-motor planes and one Mosquito, among different kinds. Loaned got an after death advancement to "Oberst" (Colonel). Matthews and Foreman, creators of "Luftwaffe Aces — Biographies and Victory Claims", inquired about the German Federal Archives and discovered documentation for 111 airborne triumph claims, including seven as a "Zerstörer" pilot and 104 as a night military pilot, in addition to three further unsubstantiated cases. 

Most of his triumphs were asserted with point by point land areas. Be that as it may, two of his triumphs were asserted in a "Planquadrat" (lattice reference), for instance "QE-PE". The Luftwaffe network map () was made out of square shapes estimating 15 minutes of scope by 30 minutes of longitude, a region of about .