Alexander of Lincoln 

Alexander of Lincoln (kicked the bucket February 1148) was a medieval English Bishop of Lincoln, an individual from a critical regulatory and clerical family. He was the nephew of Roger of Salisbury, a Bishop of Salisbury and Chancellor of England under King Henry I, and he was additionally identified with Nigel, Bishop of Ely. Taught at Laon, Alexander served in his uncle's ward as an archdeacon in the mid 1120s. In contrast to his relatives, he held no office in the administration before his arrangement as Bishop of Lincoln in 1123. Alexander turned into an incessant guest to King Henry's court after his rise to the episcopate, regularly seeing regal reports, and he filled in as an illustrious equity in Lincolnshire. 

In spite of the fact that Alexander was known for his conspicuous and rich way of life, he established various religious houses in his see and was a functioning manufacturer and scholarly benefactor. He additionally gone to chapel committees and revamped his ward by expanding the quantity of archdeaconries and setting up prebends to help his house of God ministry. Under Henry's successor, King Stephen, Alexander was gotten up to speed in the tumble from support of his family, and was detained together with his uncle Roger in 1139. He in this way quickly bolstered Stephen's adversary, Matilda, yet by the late 1140s Alexander was indeed working with Stephen. He spent a great part of the late 1140s at the ecclesiastical court in Rome, however passed on in England in mid 1148. Amid his episcopate he started the modifying of his house of God, which had been pulverized by flame. Alexander was the supporter of medieval recorders Henry of Huntingdon and Geoffrey of Monmouth, and furthermore filled in as a ministerial benefactor of the medieval recluse Christina of Markyate and Gilbert of Sempringham, organizer of the Gilbertines. 

Alexander was a nephew of Roger, Bishop of Salisbury, likely the child of Roger's sibling Humphrey. His mom's name, Ada, is known from the Lincoln Cathedral "libri memoriales", or tribute books. Alexander's sibling David was archdeacon of Buckingham in the bishopric of Lincoln. Different relatives included Nigel, another nephew of Roger's; and Adelelm, later Treasurer of England, who was recorded as Roger's nephew yet maybe was his child. It is conceivable, albeit doubtful, that Nigel was extremely Alexander's sibling as opposed to his cousin. Roger's child Roger le Poer, who later moved toward becoming Chancellor of England, was likewise a cousin. Alexander's cousin Nigel had a child, Richard FitzNeal, who later progressed toward becoming Treasurer of England and Bishop of London. Alexander likewise had a nephew William, who turned into an archdeacon, and an extraordinary nephew named Robert de Alvers. 

Alexander's birthdate is obscure. Together with his cousin Nigel he was taught at Laon, under the schoolmaster Anselm of Laon, and came back to England at some obscure date. The student of history Martin Brett feels that Alexander likely filled in as a regal pastor from the get-go in his profession, albeit no sources bolster this guess. Alexander was an archdeacon in the see of Salisbury by 1121, under his uncle. While involving that office he was credited with a composition a glossary of Old English lawful terms in the Anglo Norman language, entitled the "Expositiones Vocabulorum". Not at all like his cousin Nigel, Alexander does not seem to have entered the lord's family unit or organization before his arrangement as a religious administrator, and just authenticated, or saw, one imperial contract before his rise to the episcopate in 1123. 

Alexander was named to the see of Lincoln in April 1123 and was sanctified minister on 22 July 1123, at a service held in Canterbury. He owed his arrangement to his uncle's impact with King Henry I; the Peterborough rendition of the "Old English Saxon Chronicle" noticed that Alexander's height to the episcopate was done totally for the love of Roger. 

Amid his time as diocesan Alexander verified the accommodation of St Albans Abbey to his see and established various cloisters, including Haverholme Priory (a Gilbertine house), Dorchester on Thames (an Arrouaisian Order house), Louth Park, and Thame; Louth was one of the main Cistercian houses established in England, and Dorchester was the refoundation of a previous university church. Amid Alexander's episcopate 13 Cistercian convents and seven cloisters were established in his see. Alexander himself blessed the congregation at Markyate utilized by the medieval spiritualist Christina of Markyate and her nuns, and it was he who sanctified her as a loner at St Albans Abbey. Alexander additionally established a medical clinic for pariahs at Newark-on-Trent. 

In spite of the fact that Alexander was a regular observer to illustrious contracts and records, there is no proof that he held an official government position after his arrangement as priest, dissimilar to his relatives Roger and Nigel. By and by, Alexander in this manner seems to have turned into a customary nearness at the regal court. He habitually bore witness to imperial contracts after 1123, and most likely went about as a regal equity in Lincolnshire and the town of Lincoln. He additionally held the illustrious strongholds at Newark, Sleaford and Banbury, and gave affirmations of stipends to the congregation at Godstow. 

Alexander was presumably at the 1125 church gathering held at Westminster by the ecclesiastical legate John of Crema, and in a matter of seconds subsequently went with the legate on his voyage back to Rome. He was still in Rome in 1126, and may have acquired an ecclesiastical affirmation of his uncle's ownership of Malmesbury Abbey, Abbotsbury Abbey, and Horton. Sooner or later amid his episcopate, an eighth archdeaconry was built up in his bishopric, for the West Riding territory of Lindsey. Other than these rearrangements, Alexander had various priests in his own family unit, including Gilbert of Sempringham, who later established the Gilbertine request. Different individuals from the religious administrator's family unit were Ralph Gubion, who progressed toward becoming abbot of St Albans, and an Italian Bible researcher named Guido or Wido, who instructed that subject while serving Alexander. 

Alexander directed the association of his see into prebends to help the house of God pastorate; he set up no less than one new prebend and enlarged two others. He additionally went to the congregation gatherings in 1127 and 1129 that were assembled by William de Corbeil, the Archbishop of Canterbury. Afterward, amid 1133 and 1134, he and the diocese supervisor fought, yet the careful idea of their question is obscure. William and Alexander made a trip to Normandy in 1134 to search out King Henry to settle their question. 

After Henry's demise in 1135 the progression was debated between the ruler's nephews—Stephen and his senior sibling Theobald II, Count of Champagne—and Henry's enduring real kid Matilda, typically known as the Empress Matilda in view of her first marriage to the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry V. Lord Henry's solitary genuine child, William, had passed on in 1120. After Matilda was bereft in 1125 she come back to her dad, who wedded her to Geoffrey, Count of Anjou. Every one of the magnates of England and Normandy were required to proclaim fealty to Matilda as Henry's beneficiary, however after Henry I's passing in 1135 Stephen hurried to England and had himself delegated, before Theobald or Matilda could respond. The Norman nobles acknowledged Stephen as Duke of Normandy, and Theobald mollified himself with his assets in France. However, Matilda was less cheery and verified the help of the Scottish lord, David, her maternal uncle, and in 1138 that of her stepbrother, Robert, Earl of Gloucester, an ill-conceived child of Henry I. 

The race of Theobald of Bec to the Archbishopric of Canterbury was reported at the Council of Westminster in 1138. The medieval writer Gervase of Canterbury composes that 17 bishops went to the chamber, which infers that Alexander was available. After a fizzled campaign to Normandy in 1137, the impact of Alexander's uncle, Roger of Salisbury, wound down at the court of King Stephen, however the ruler made no move against the family that may induce them to revolt. In mid 1139 Stephen may have named William d'Aubigny as Earl of Lincoln, maybe with an end goal to restrain Alexander's impact in Lincolnshire. 

In June 1139 a knight was executed amid a battle in Oxford between a gathering of Roger of Salisbury's men and a gathering of aristocrats. The lord requested Roger to go to his court to clarify the conditions of the occurrence and to surrender authority of his strongholds, which Roger wouldn't do, bringing about his and Alexander's capture; Roger's other nephew, Nigel, avoided catch. Another conceivable clarification for the captures is offered by the "Gesta Stephani", a contemporary annal, which revealed the ruler's dread that Roger and his nephews were plotting to hand their mansions to the Empress Matilda. Stephen may then again have been endeavoring to state his rights over the strongholds, and exhibit his position over incredible subjects. Alexander was detained in Oxford, in conditions depicted by some medieval recorders as awful. 

Since crafted by Henry of Huntingdon, who wrote in the years prior to 1154 and who viewed Stephen's activities as bad form against the ministry that earned him discipline from God, Alexander's capture has been seen by numerous history specialists as a defining moment in Stephen's rule. Writing during the 1870s, the student of history William Stubbs felt that the capture demolished the illustrious organization, however present day antiquarians have progressed varying clarifications for the inconveniences that pursued, not which are all identified with the cleric's capture. 

After Roger and Alexander's captures Nigel opposed the lord. The religious administrators' strongholds would not surrender to the lord, along these lines Stephen took steps to starve Alexander and Roger until they did. Sleaford and Newark surrendered and were surrendered to the authority of Robert, the Earl of Leicester. Duke Robert likewise caught a portion of Lincoln's episcopal domains that had been debated between the lord and the minister. Alexander in this manner suspended Earl Robert when the lord would not restore the mansion to Alexander's care. Alexander at that point effectively connected to Pope Innocent II in 1139 for help in his endeavors to recuperate Newark stronghold from Earl Robert. 

Stephen's sibling, Henry of Blois, Bishop of Winchester and one of the lord's primary supporters, had as of late been named ecclesiastical legate. Henry protested Stephen's activities in capturing the ministers and taking their property, as they were in repudiation of group law. Henry called a legatine gathering, a congregation chamber met by an ecclesiastical legate, at Winchester to talk about the issue, which finished in nothing being done, albeit the two sides undermined suspension and expressed they would speak to Rome and the papacy for help. Alexander did not go to the chamber of Winchester, however his uncle did. He appears to have borne Stephen no malevolence over the capture, and worked with the ruler amid Stephen's later rule. 

In 1141 Alexander and the natives of the town of Lincoln mentioned that Stephen come to Lincoln and intervene with Ranulf de Gernon, the Earl of Chester, who was endeavoring to uphold what he viewed as his rights to Lincoln Castle. Stephen arrived and blockaded Ranulf's significant other and stepbrother in the stronghold, however the baron got away and looked for help from Robert of Gloucester, Matilda's relative and driving supporter. Following Robert's landing in Lincoln a fight occurred there on 2 February 1141, amid which Stephen was caught by Matilda's powers. Alexander was available at Oxford in July 1141, when the Empress Matilda held court and endeavored to combine her hang on England. The natives of London questioned Matilda's standard when she touched base in their city, and pushed her away; Robert of Gloucester was caught right away subsequently. This inversion of the Empress' fortunes brought about Stephen's discharge, after he was traded for Robert. The following couple of years, until 1148, saw a time of common war in England, frequently called The Anarchy, when neither Matilda nor Stephen controlled the nation. 

Alexander was a supporter of Gilbert of Sempringham's new devout request of the Gilbertines, and he was otherwise called a benefactor of writing. He appointed Geoffrey of Monmouth to create the "Predictions of Merlin", which Geoffrey committed to him. Alexander was a benefactor of the medieval recorder Henry of Huntingdon, and mentioned that Henry compose his verifiable work. 

Alexander remade Lincoln Cathedral after it had been devastated by flame at an obscure date. He had the rooftop finished with stone vaulting and started development of the west front of the church building, which was done under his successor. The main staying real hints of Alexander's work on the west end are the cut entryways and the frieze on the west front. The creator of the "Gesta Stephani" asserted that Alexander's increases made Lincoln Cathedral "more wonderful than previously and top notch in the domain". Customarily, Alexander has been credited with the charging of the baptismal text style in Lincoln Cathedral, made of Tournai marble. Ongoing grant, nonetheless, has provided reason to feel ambiguous about uncertainty this hypothesis and proposes that the textual style was cut on the requests of Alexander's successor, Robert de Chesney. 

Stephen allowed to Alexander the arrive on which the Old Palace of the ministers remains in Lincoln, in spite of the fact that it is hazy whether it was Alexander or his successor as priest who started the development of the current structure. Stephen's concede added to a before one by King Henry, of the Eastgate in Lincoln as an episcopal home. Work appointed by Alexander has made due at the three strongholds he worked at Newark-on-Trent, Sleaford, and likely Banbury. 

Alexander's moniker, "the Magnificent", mirrored his garish and extravagant way of life. Henry of Huntingdon records this was a contemporary epithet. Alexander was censured by Bernard of Clairvaux for his way of life. He may have been in charge of the instruction of an ill-conceived child of King Henry's, as two sanctions of Alexander's are seen by a William, who is depicted as a child of the lord. He likewise propelled the professions of his family, naming his relative Adelelm as Dean of Lincoln amid his episcopate. Another individual from his family unit was Robert Gubion, who later moved toward becoming abbot of St Albans Abbey. 

The medieval writer William of Newburgh composed that Alexander established various religious communities, "to evacuate the enmity" that he had acquired in light of his château building. Alexander himself expressed unequivocally that his establishment of Louth was planned to verify the abatement of his transgressions, just as the salvation of King Henry I, his uncle Roger of Salisbury, and his folks. Alexander additionally had an influence in the establishing of Newhouse Abbey in around 1143. Despite the fact that the genuine establishment was by Peter of Goxhill, Alexander and his successor issued affirmation sanctions and brought the new religious community into their security. 

Alexander burned through the greater part of 1145 and 1146 at the ecclesiastical court in Rome, albeit some time amid that period he was in England as one of the observers to the harmony accord marked between the dukes of Chester and Leicester. He came back to the ecclesiastical court, at that point at Auxerre, in 1147, however he was back in England when of his passing the next year. Henry of Huntingdon says that Alexander got his last ailment while voyaging. Alexander passed on in February 1148, presumably on the twentieth, as that was the date on which his demise was celebrated at Lincoln Cathedral, and he was covered at Lincoln on 25 February 1148. No tomb remains, yet twelfth century reports record that Alexander left the house of God various books, generally scriptural works.