No. 450 Squadron RAAF 

No. 450 Squadron was a unit of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) that worked amid World War II. Built up at RAAF Station Williamtown, New South Wales, in February 1941, it was the primary Australian Article XV squadron framed under the Empire Air Training Scheme. 

The squadron set out for the Middle East in April 1941; its staff at first comprised exclusively of ground team, who joined the pilots of No. 260 Squadron RAF to frame No. 260/450 Squadron, which quickly worked Hawker Hurricane contenders in Syria. It was not until February 1942 that No. 450 Squadron, presently with its very own pilots and outfitted with Curtiss P-40 Kittyhawk warriors, initiated activities decisively. Throughout the following 15 months, it battled in the North African and Tunisian Campaigns in both contender and warrior plane jobs, asserting 49 German and Italian flying machine decimated noticeable all around and gaining the moniker "The Desert Harassers". 

Starting in July 1943, No. 450 Squadron partook in the Allied intrusion of Sicily and the Italian battle, essentially in the nearby help job. Its air ship assaulted focuses in Yugoslavia just as in Sicily and Italy. The squadron started changing over from Kittyhawks to North American P-51 Mustang warriors in May 1945, yet never observed activity with its new air ship. It was disbanded in August 1945 after the finish of threats, having endured 63 deadly losses amid the war. Today, by concurrence with the RAAF, the squadron's number is conveyed by a Royal Canadian Air Force unit, 450 Tactical Helicopter Squadron. 

No. 450 Squadron was framed at RAAF Station Williamtown, close Newcastle, New South Wales, on 7 February 1941. Raised seven days before No. 451 Squadron, it was the primary Australian squadron built up for administration with the British military under the Article XV of the Empire Air Training Scheme (EATS). No. 450 Squadron was proposed to be an "invasion" squadron, which would comprise at first just of ground team and would get a core of experienced pilots subsequent to touching base in its assigned performance center of activities. 

Initiated at Ottawa, Canada, in October 1939, EATS was an arrangement to extend the Royal Air Force's (RAF) ability to prepare aircrews by making a pool of staff from different Commonwealth nations—Australia, Canada, Britain and New Zealand—through the foundation of a typical preparing framework comprising of a progression of beginning, rudimentary, and propelled preparing schools. At the finish of cutting edge preparing, faculty were presented as required on RAF-controlled squadrons in Britain or the Middle East. These squadrons were assigned as either RAF, RAAF, Royal Canadian Air Force or Royal New Zealand Air Force squadrons, however were paid for and regulated by the British government, and faculty could be drawn from any Commonwealth country. Seventeen RAAF squadrons were shaped amid the war under Article XV of the understanding. 

Under the transitory direction of Flight Lieutenant Bruce Shepherd, No. 450 Squadron left Australia on 11 April 1941, leaving on the troopship "Ruler Elizabeth" at Sydney, and touching base in Egypt on 3 May. At RAF Abu Sueir, Squadron Leader Gordon Steege took order of the squadron before it was joined with the pilots and Hawker Hurricanes of No. 260 Squadron RAF, which had been built up without ground group, to shape an operational squadron. The consolidated unit, known as No. 260/450 (Hurricane) Squadron, at that point migrated to Amman in Transjordan. Its first task was on 29 June 1941, when the Hurricanes assaulted Vichy French runways and foundation amid the intrusion of Syria. No. 260/450 Squadron worked for ten days just and flew 61 fights against landing strips, 20 on hostile watches and six on plane escort obligations amid the Syrian battle. 

In August 1941, No. 450 Squadron work force were isolated from No. 260 Squadron, when the last gotten its own ground team. No. 450 Squadron moved to Rayak runway, Lebanon, where it was dispensed Hurricanes and Miles Magister mentors. A group of 20 student Australian, British and Canadian pilots—the greater part being Australian—were presented on the squadron toward the beginning of October, and it started obligations as an Operational Training Unit. A fortnight later these pilots were posted out and, lacking prepared pilots, the squadron's air ship were re-apportioned. On 20 October, the squadron moved to Burg El Arab, Egypt, and started working as a propelled fix, rescue and administration unit, partaking in the North African Campaign. 

By December 1941, the squadron was getting pilots and it started taking conveyance of Curtiss P-40 Kittyhawk contenders. On 19 December, RAF Middle East Command issued a regulatory guidance pronouncing that albeit kept an eye on essentially by Australians, Nos. 450 and 451 Squadrons were "paid by and credited to the Royal Air Force under the Empire Air Training Scheme and for every single pragmatic reason they ought to be viewed as R.A.F. squadrons inside and out". Disarray ruled for a period, yet after mediation by the British Air Ministry, a further report on 23 January 1942 declared that "450 and 451 E.A.T.S. Squadrons are to be viewed as R.A.A.F. squadrons". Preparing started that month, and No. 450 Squadron started activities from RAF Gambut on 19 February 1942, with an uneventful watch close Tobruk. After three days Sergeant Raymond Shaw turned into the primary pilot from the squadron to guarantee an airborne triumph, after he caught a Junkers Ju 88 close Gazala. 

The squadron turned out to be a piece of the Desert Air Force's recently shaped No. 239 Wing on 1 March 1942, serving close by one Australian squadron, No. 3, and two RAF squadrons, Nos. 112 and 250 Squadrons. No. 450 Squadron's primary jobs—escorting sunshine strikes by Douglas Boston planes, and ground-assault missions in help of the Eighth Army—were unsafe and brought about generally substantial misfortunes. From 26 May, as Rommel propelled an attack on the Gazala– Bir Hacheim line, all Kittyhawk units started to concentrate on the contender plane job instead of aerial battle, to help withdrawing Commonwealth powers. On 29 May, No. 450 Squadron guaranteed two Junkers Ju 87s and a Messerschmitt Bf 109, for the loss of three pilots executed, including Shaw. Flight Sergeant Don McBurnie, the squadron's most noteworthy scoring pilot with five solo triumphs and one shared, guaranteed his last "slaughter" on 4 July 1942 when he shot a Messerschmitt Bf 110 into the ocean following a besieging mission on runways west of Daba. 

No. 450 Squadron participated in the definitive Second Battle of El Alamein, amid October and November 1942, assaulting foe landing strips and asserting three German and Italian contenders devastated noticeable all around. It endured a few misfortunes amid this time, including one of its driving scorers, Squadron Leader John Williams, who was shot down and taken prisoner on 31 October 1942, three days after he had been named boss. The squadron was every now and again moving as the Allies propelled following Second El Alamein, changing areas multiple times amid November. It frequently ended up utilizing caught or hurriedly built runways; one Kittyhawk was wrecked and a few ground work force murdered or injured via land mines at Marble Arch, Libya, in December 1942. 

From late 1942, No. 450 Squadron was occupied with the Tunisian Campaign. By March 1943, as the Allied powers propelled, the squadron was working from Medinne along the Mareth Line. That month it flew more than 300 fights. Further moves happened, and by mid-April it was based at Karouan. All through April and early May, 350 forays were flown, including assaults on Axis transporting in Cape Bon and in the Gulf of Tunis. The battle arrived at an end in mid-May, yet the squadron proceeded with guarded watches into June. Between February 1942 and May 1943, it asserted 49 German and Italian airplane pulverized in elevated battle, for the loss of 31 pilots, four to mishaps. Because of its contribution in the North African battling, the squadron got the moniker, "The Desert Harassers", and received the aphorism, "Hassle", the two of which were gotten from a remark by the Nazi purposeful publicity supporter "Master Haw", who depicted the unit as "Australian hired fighters whose annoying strategies were effectively beaten off by the "Luftwaffe"." 

Following the finish of the battling in the desert, No. 450 Squadron was dispensed a ground-assault job amid the Allied attack of Sicily. Moving to Malta on 13 July 1943, the squadron organized out of RAF Luqa, and attempted its first assault in Sicily against Carlentini. After four days, on 17 July, No. 450 Squadron migrated to Pachino, Sicily, from where it proceeded with ground-assault missions. A further move went ahead 1 August, when Nos. 450 and 3 Squadrons moved to Agnone, close Catania, where they initiated close air bolster activities on 11 August, working intimately with Allied ground units around Mount Etna. The evening of 11 August, the landing strip was assaulted by Ju 88 aircraft, which dropped ignitable, people killing and high-unstable bombs for over 60 minutes. No. 450 Squadron's work force had been found some separation from the landing strip and just a single Australian was injured, in spite of the fact that setbacks among different units added up to twelve slaughtered and 60 injured. Eighteen RAAF Kittyhawks were obliterated, including eleven having a place with No. 450 Squadron. In spite of this, the two RAAF squadrons flew 22 forays the next day. 

Amid the beginning periods of the Allied battle on the Italian terrain, which started toward the beginning of September 1943, the squadron embraced aircraft escort missions in help of the Eighth Army's arrivals. Amidst September, it returned to the nearby air bolster job, working from Grottaglie, despite the fact that it additionally embraced enemy of delivery tasks, including an assault on Manfredonia on 21 September, amid which its flying machine sunk two vessels. The next month, No. 450 Squadron was exchanged to Foggia, and afterward to Mileni, where it was quickly pulled back from tasks to change over to more up to date demonstrate Kittyhawk IVs before rejoining the battle in late November. In December, the squadron moved to Cutella, close Termoli, on the focal Adriatic shoreline of Italy. There it experienced issues with extreme winter climate limiting activities. Cutella landing strip was found near the shoreline; overwhelming downpours caused a tempest flood on 1 January 1944 and overflowed the runway, harming some flying machine. 

In the interim, Williams and another wartime captive from No. 450 Squadron, Flight Lieutenant Reginald Kierath, were imprisoned with other Allied POWs at "Stalag Luft III", in eastern Germany. In March 1944, both partook in "The Great Escape" and were among 50 POWs killed by the "Gestapo", in the wake of being recovered. Williams, who was 27 years of age and from Sydney, was authoritatively a RAF officer, as he had joined the British administration under a short administration commission in 1938. Kierath, who was 29 and from Narromine, New South Wales, was a RAAF officer. 

All through January 1944, No. 450 Squadron attempted enemy of delivery activities just as ground bolster assignments. It flew missions against focuses off Dalmatia and in the harbor at Sibenik, just as around the ports of Velaluka and Zera. In March, the squadron's consideration came back to Italy, propelling strikes against moving stock; the next month saw it vigorously entrusted, flying a sum of 430 forays. On 29 April 1944, a USAAF Republic P-47 Thunderbolt pilot strafed Cutella unintentionally. No. 450 Squadron endured no fatalities or flying machine crushed however the pilot of a buoy plane having a place with an air-ocean salvage unit was slaughtered, some ground work force were injured, a Kittyhawk of No. 3 Squadron was demolished and a few others were harmed. The next month, No. 450 Squadron moved to San Angelo, mounting a progression of assaults against a 200-vehicle guard close Subiaco working together with other Kittyhawk squadrons that guaranteed 123 vehicles devastated or harmed. No. 450 Squadron later worked from a few runways in focal and northern Italy, under the "taxi rank" framework, whereby watching contender planes would assault as mentioned by armed force air contact officers. It flew more than 1,100 fights in June and July. The Australian Kittyhawk units were normally commended for the precision of their attacks; following a mission by No. 450 Squadron on 12 July, the Eighth Army wired No. 239 Wing home office: "Amazing shelling. Great show and bless your heart. No further assaults required." 

No. 450 Squadron participated in the real hostile against the Gothic Line in August– September 1944. Its first assault toward the beginning of August was a strike on a mounted guns battery, amid which three Kittyhawks were shot down; consequent assaults all through the next months were made against different targets including moving stock, reinforcement, and troop focuses. From November, after it had moved to Fano on the Italian north-east coast, the squadron likewise started assaulting German powers in Yugoslavia. Its normal supplement of pilots amid the second 50% of 1944 was 25 from the RAAF, seven from the RAF and five from the South African Air Force. No. 450 Squadron started tasks from Cervia in February 1945; that month, it lost three pilots to rashly exploding bombs. On 21 March, it partook in Operation Bowler, a noteworthy air assault on Venice harbor. The assault brought about the sinking of a trader send, a torpedo watercraft, and a waterfront steamer, just as the pulverization of five distribution centers and other harbor foundation. 

In May 1945, after the finish of the war in Europe, No. 450 Squadron exchanged to Lavariano, a couple of miles south of Udine in north-eastern Italy. It additionally started supplanting its Kittyhawks with North American P-51 Mustangs. The squadron was disbanded at Lavariano on 20 August 1945. Amid the war, it had lost 63 work force murdered in real life, of whom 49 were Australian. 

The squadron was not re-raised by the RAAF after the war, in spite of the fact that the numerical assignment of "450" was accepted by a Canadian helicopter unit, 450 Tactical Helicopter Squadron, in March 1968. The utilization of the "450" assignment was the aftereffect of a managerial mistake, as the Canadian 400 arrangement squadrons framed amid World War II had been numbered somewhere in the range of 400 and 449. An understanding was thusly come to between the RCAF and RAAF and the squadron kept the assignment. It is based at Petawawa, in Ontario, and works Boeing CH-47 Chinook helicopters. 

Gordon Steege, No. 450 Squadron RAAF's first leader, moved toward becoming benefactor of the squadron relationship in April 2008; he kicked the bucket in September 2013, matured 95. 

No. 450 Squadron worked the accompanying air ship: 

No. 450 Squadron worked from the accompanying bases and landing strips: 

No. 450 Squadron was instructed by the accompanying officers: