200 (Stargate SG-1) 

"200" is the 6th scene of the sci-fi TV arrangement "Stargate SG-1"s tenth season, and the 200th scene of the arrangement generally speaking. Dissimilar to the more genuine nature of the period's story circular segment, "200" is a happy spoof of both "Stargate SG-1" and other science fiction appears, just as mainstream culture like "The Wizard of Oz". 

"200" won the 2007 Constellation Award for "Best Overall 2006 Science Fiction Film or Television Script", and was selected for the 2007 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form. The scene likewise denotes the first run through unique SG-1 part Jack O'Neill (Richard Dean Anderson) is seen since the start of Season 9. 

The scene got a 1.9 normal family unit rating, one of only a handful couple of scenes of the period that outperformed the normal rating of "Stargate SG-1"s past season. "200" additionally gotten close general commendation for its funniness and composing. Notwithstanding the solid execution of the scene, the Sci-Fi Channel reported not long after the scene's airing it would not be restoring the arrangement for another season. 

Martin Lloyd (Willie Garson), an extraterrestrial turned Hollywood author, comes back to Stargate Command searching for help from SG-1 with his content for the motion picture adjustment of the TV program "Wormhole X-Treme", first highlighted prior in the arrangement in the scene "Wormhole X-Treme!". The group, particularly Lt. Colonel Mitchell (Ben Browder), is hesitant to help. Mitchell is amped up for his next off-world mission since it denotes his 200th trek through the Stargate. In any case, when specialized glitches keep the group from setting off on their central goal, they are stuck in the preparation room compelled of General Landry (Beau Bridges), on the grounds that the Pentagon trusts an effective sci-fi film about intergalactic wormhole travel will fill in as a decent main story to keep the genuine Stargate program a mystery. 

The notes session rapidly decays into the colleagues pitching their own forms of an effective science fiction film, including a zombie attack (from Mitchell), a formerly inconspicuous mission where O'Neill ended up undetectable (from Carter), "tributes" to "The Wizard of Oz" and "Farscape" (from Vala), and Teal'c as a private agent (from Teal'c himself). Likewise included are a vignette of the group's psychological picture of a "more youthful and edgier" SG-1 (started by the studio's proposal to supplant the first "Wormhole X-Treme" cast), a recommended scene by Martin that ends up being both logically erroneous and very subordinate of "Star Trek", a reconsidered rendition of the SG-1 pilot scene where every one of the characters are puppets in the style of the TV arrangement "Thunderbirds", and an envisioned wedding that includes the arrival of General O'Neill (Richard Dean Anderson). 

At last, the arranging session is totally supportive of nothing, as the studio chooses to drop the motion picture for restoring the arrangement. Toward the finish of the scene, the center movements ten years into the future, where the "Wormhole X-Treme" cast and team are praising their 200th scene, just as reestablished plans for a film. 

Official maker Robert C. Cooper initially proposed they compose an ordinary content for the 200th scene. Anyway it before long turned out to be certain that choosing who might have the benefit of composing the 200th scene would be dangerous. This prompted the plan to make a sketch scene in the way of "Saturday Night Live", with every author making a vignette. The scene came to fruition when the scholars thought to bring back "Wormhole X-Treme" and the character of Martin, and edge the entire scene as a notes session. Before the finish of the composition procedure the scene had transformed into "a respect to the cast, group, and stalwart fans." 

"Stargate" makers didn't know on-screen character Richard Dean Anderson would return for the scene, so they formulated numerous scenes where Anderson was "in" the scene however not really appeared. Be that as it may, Anderson was happy to return and showed up in a few scenes. In the DVD uncommon "Stargate SG-1: Behind the 200th" Cooper stated, "it was a major ordeal for us to have [him] back for the 200th scene. We clearly didn't figure we could do it without him." 

Regardless of the particularly extraordinary substance of the scene, "200" took never again to shoot than an ordinary scene, basically in light of the fact that a great part of the taping occurred on the preparation room set. Then again, the scene was considerably more costly than a run of the mill one, because of the strange arrangements. For instance, the dolls utilized in a detailed parody of the arrangement were made by the Chiodo siblings, who likewise made the manikins for ""; every manikin cost about US$25,000, and the wires dismantling every manikin must be readded by CGI in after generation since they didn't appear alright. A few existing sets were utilized as stand-ins; for instance, the extension of the "Odyssey" was utilized for a "" parody, while a set from the sister creation "" was utilized as the assembly of the Wizard of Oz. 

In a meeting about the tenth period of "Stargate", Cooper and arrangement co-maker Brad Wright expressed that there was a scarcely discernible difference between the amusingness of normal scenes transforming into camp. While jokes for the good of the joke are typically restricted in ordinary scenes, the line among funniness and camp is intentionally crossed much of the time in "200". The makers even discussed reproducing a piece of "Bursting Saddles" that breaks the fourth divider, yet they couldn't bear the cost of the ponies. 

The makers ensured that the scene was very much exposed, dropping clues that Anderson's character O'Neill would return for the scene. Joe Mallozzi, official maker for the arrangement, likewise implied that arrangement fans would at last meet the Furlings, a mysterious race referenced in the second-season scene "The Fifth Race" however never observed. In spite of the freakish scenes shot for the scene, a significant number of the essayists' most loved minutes did not make it to generation because of time limitations. For instance, Cooper noticed that a "Gilligan's Island" play was cut from the content. 

The majority of the scene is dedicated to references and implications to different works, just as the show itself. The title arrangement is purposely shorter than most different scenes, making jokes about shows like "Lost" just as the Sci-Fi Channel itself, which had abbreviated SG-1's Season 9 opening yet transformed it back after fans requested it. At the point when Martin discovers that his fundamental on-screen character has pulled out of the film, the SG-1 group offers different proposals for how to supplant him or work around his non-accessibility—a reference to Michael Shanks' nonappearance from the 6th period of "Stargate SG-1". Anderson himself likewise makes jokes about the closure of the eighth-season scene "Moebius", which was expected to be the arrangement finale before the ninth season was declared. The last scene of "200", which highlights interviews with the "Wormhole X-Treme" cast, was included as a reconsideration, and contains remarks from the genuine cast which were utilized outside of any relevant connection to the subject at hand as an inside joke. 

The scene likewise riffs on other sci-fi appears. Right off the bat in the scene, Dr. Jackson inquires as to why anybody would make a motion picture variant of a TV arrangement that kept going just three scenes—Teal'c reacts that it had solid DVD deals. This is a reference to the arrangement "Firefly", which Fox administrators chose to drop subsequent to airing just three scenes (in spite of the fact that 14 scenes had been taped, and 11 of them were really broadcast—8 increasingly after the dropping declaration had been made). The high number of DVDs of these scenes that sold subsequently supported making an element film dependent on the arrangement, "Peacefulness". ("Firefly" is again referenced when Lloyd will not utilize film from the "Wormhole X-Treme" arrangement for the motion picture, saying that "it's a motion picture, not a clasp appear." This is a suggestion to Joss Whedon's request that the motion picture "Quietness" would not utilize film from the first arrangement since it is "not a clasp appear".) moreover, one of the successions is a farce of the first "Star Trek" arrangement, with SG-1 remaining in for the team of the "Venture". Brad Wright, the co-maker of the arrangement, fills in as the designer Montgomery Scott. The scene additionally makes agreeable jokes about the arrangement "Farscape", including its propensity for creating swear words. The "Farscape" grouping itself is an in-joke, since the Stargate: SG-1 performing artists Ben Browder and Claudia Black had both featured in the before arrangement (and in reality Black repeats her unique job of Aeryn Sun, however Browder plays an alternate character, Stark, while Michael Shanks depicts Browder's Farscape character, John Crichton). A few different shows and motion pictures are satirize, including "The Wizard of Oz" (the story is re-told with the individuals from the SG-1 group as the swashbucklers in Oz. The journalists put together the farce with respect to a fan painting they had hanging in their office). The scene likewise ridicules "24's" "ticking clock of risk", and a whole succession is instituted with every one of the characters played by dolls, in the style of "Thunderbirds" and "". 

The scene won the 2007 Constellation Award for "Best Overall 2006 Science Fiction Film or Television Script", and was assigned for the 2007 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form. Richard Dean Anderson likewise won a SyFy Genre Award for his visitor appearance in the scene. 

The scene was commonly generally welcomed. IGN announced the scene "one of the most brilliant and most amusing long periods of TV to effortlessness the little screen yet this season." They proceeded to praise the choice not exclusively to spoof different works yet the show itself. Maureen Ryan of the "Chicago Tribune" concurred, yet additionally noticed that "you don't should be a long-lasting devotee of the long-running project to make the most of its corresponds at science fiction banalities or practical composition." "Shroud Magazine" noticed that in spite of the fact that the scene was "not a work of comic virtuoso", "200" was the best satire scene of the arrangement. 

The very announced presentation of the scene collected a 1.9 normal family unit rating, a 36% bounce from the past scene, and the main scene of the tenth season to reach or surpass the past season's evaluating of 1.8; "Stargate SG-1" by then was averaging about 3.3 million watchers for every ordinary scene in the United States. 

Not long after this scene was disclosed, Gateworld reported that the Sci-Fi Channel had chosen not restore "Stargate SG-1" for the coming year. The Channel later affirmed this choice, in the meantime declaring that "Stargate Atlantis" had been gotten for another season. Numerous fans upbraided Gateworld's undoing declaration, both its planning (evidently it had been made while the cast and group were praising the scene's airing)— and the choice itself, on the ground that, while evaluations were not as high as they had been in past seasons, the arrangement was all the while drawing a crowd of people of a good size. (For instance, it had a season normal of 2 million watchers in Australia, half of them in the 18– 49 statistic.) Sci Fi reacted that the wiping out choice had but rather been founded on evaluations an inclination the arrangement had run its course. A portion of the primary characters in "SG-1" re-seem later in scenes of "Atlantis" and "Universe" and in the direct-to-DVD spin-off movies, "" and "".