Penelope Rosemont 

Penelope Rosemont (brought into the world 1942 in Chicago, Illinois) a visual craftsman, essayist, distributer, and social dissident went to Lake Forest College. She has been a member in the Surrealist aggregate established by Andre Breton since 1965. With Franklin Rosemont, Bernard Marszalek, Robert Green and Tor 

Faegre, she set up the Chicago Surrealist Group in 1966. She was in 1964-1966 an individual from the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), regularly known as the Wobblies, and was a piece of the national staff of Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in 1967-68. Her persuasions incorporate Andre Breton and Guy Debord of the Situationist International, Emma Goldman and Lucy Parsons. 

In 1986, Penelope Rosemont's artistic creation the "Marriage of Heaven and Hell" was incorporated into the Venice Biennale, chosen by Arturo Schwartz to be in the Art and Alchemy area. A painter, picture taker, and collagist, Rosemont is credited with having designed various surrealist composition techniques including the "landscapade" and "creepy crawly music" [in which cut-out shapes are put on the foundation of a melodic score]. Rosemont is an essayist and visual architect for Arsenal/Surrealist Subversion and different distributions. Her canvas "The Night Time is the Right Time" "was chosen by the Chicago Jazz Institute for the 2000 Chicago Jazz Festival T-shirt". Some of Rosemont's illustrations and work of art show up in her books and are especially plenteous in "Surrealist Experiences: 1001 Dawns, 221 Midnights". 

The Rosemonts compose with eagerness about their gathering with Andre Breton and Surrealist assemble individuals amid a stay in Paris in December 1965-May 1966. Penelope expounds on this vital period in her life in the books "Surrealist Experiences: 1001 Dawns, 221 Midnights" and in her self-portraying work "Dreams and Everyday Life: Andre Breton, Surrealism, Rebel Worker, SDS, and the Seven Cities of Cibola, A 1960s Notebook" while Franklin talks about it in his book, "An Open Entrance into the Shut Palace of Wrong Numbers". In the " Surrealist Experiences", Penelope Rosemont expounds on an early gathering of Surrealists that had officially framed in Chicago, the Rebel Worker gathering, before they met Breton and truth be told, this was the driving force to go to Paris, to meet the Surrealists they had been comparing with. She composes that the underlying arrangement was to go to London first and after that to Paris. She expresses "on account of a dastardly British movement administrator," they were expelled to Paris. That occasion was random on the grounds that the surrealist presentation L'Ecart absolu was occurring at the time; she went to a New Years Eve party sorted out by surrealists;and she had the capacity to converse with Breton before he "turned out to be genuinely sick a couple of months after the fact." 

The Rosemonts are referenced in Helena Lewis' 1988 book on Surrealism and Politics, Dada Turns Red.. There, Lewis composed: 

"There was additionally a gathering of youngsters in Chicago in the late 1960s who made an association among Surrealism and the old IWW, The Rebel Worker in which interpretations of Surrealist composing showed up . . . furthermore, they additionally distributed a craftsmanship collection of Surrealist political writings, in which the editorial manager, Franklin Rosemont, clarified how Surrealism was applicable to his development." 

The Chicago Surrealist gathering, under their engraving Black Swan Press, distributed the diary Arsenal/Surrealist Subversion sporadically from 1970 to 1989 which included crafted by Richard Huelsenbeck, Andre Breton, Georges Bataille, Ted Joans Jayne Cortez and numerous different Surrealists, understood and lesser known. Franklin and Penelope Rosemont were on the publication board, alongside (for issue 4), co-editors Paul Garon, Joseph Jablonski and Philip Lamantia. 

Penelope Rosemont is the supervisor and composed broad presentations for her book "" (University of Texas, 1998), a book of more than 500 pages of composing and workmanship by ladies in the Surrealist development, at various times, going back to the beginnings of Surrealism during the 1920s. It highlights Meret Oppenheim, Mary Low, Leonora Carrington, Nancy Cunard, Frida Kahlo, Dorothea Tanning, Elisa Breton, Kay Sage, Jayne Cortez, Rikki Ducornet and more than one hundred more.6 

Her most recent book is "Have intercourse, Not War: Surrealism 1968!" With Don LaCoss and Michael Lowy (Kerr Publishing, Chicago 2018) 

She is the writer of "Surrealist Experiences: 1001 Dawns, 221 Midnights" (Black Swan Press, 2000), and books of verse, including "Be careful with the Ice", and "Athanor" (1971). 

In 1997, Black Swan Press discharged the book "The Forecast is Hot!, and Other Collective Declarations of the Surrealist Movement in the United States", which Penelope co-wrote with Franklin Rosemont and individual Chicago Surrealist Paul Garon. 

She additionally altered "The Story of Mary MacLane and Other Writings" by Mary MacLane in 1998, which was re-discharged by Charles H. Kerr, having initially been distributed in 1902. MacLane has been "hailed as the main 'New Woman' in writing, the primary flapper and a forerunner of surrealism." 

In 2008 her diary turned out, "Dreams and Everyday Life, André Breton, Surrealism, Rebel Worker, SDS and the Seven Cities of Cibola", about her life during the 1960s from moving to Chicago to meeting Andre Breton in Paris, to London and back again to Chicago in 1968. 

An accumulation of genuine Chicago stories, "Armitage Avenue Transcendentalists" altered by Rosemont and Janina Ciezadlo turned out in 2009. She likewise composed a forward to "Wrongdoing and Criminals: Address to the Prisoners in the Cook County Jail and Other Writings on Crime" by Clarence Darrow. 

Notwithstanding altering the treasury Surrealist Women, Rosemont has composed widely about ladies, including Toyen, explicitly, just as numerous Surrealist ladies, who are regularly excluded from the historical backdrop of Surrealism, in her book Surrealist Experiences 

In 1983 she and Franklin Rosemont progressed toward becoming chiefs of Charles H. Kerr and Company, a distributer of books on history and Chicago history 

The Alternatives in Publication Task Force of the Social Responsibilities Round Table of the American Library Association grants the Jackie Eubanks Memorial Award, which "perceives exceptional accomplishment in advancing the securing and utilization of elective materials in libraries.". In 2001, the Rosemonts and Carlos Cortez got the honor for their work "safeguarding and re-charging" Charles H. Kerr Publishing." 

Penelope Rosemont was an individual from the IWW (Wobblies) and SDS during the 1960s. With Franklin Rosemont she arranged an accumulation of flyers, divider notices, and periodicals concentrating on the IWW procured by the Newberry Library in 2008<ref>Newberry Library Collection theoretical, https://mms.newberry.org/detail.asp?recordid=1435</> Her book "Armitage Avenue Transcendentalists" subtleties stories in the lives of various activists, including celebrated Chicagoan Studs Terkel. 

In 1977, proceeding with the Surrealist custom of dissenting middle class craftsmanship, Penelope Rosemont and different surrealists were captured for giving out flyers as a major aspect of a Surrealist activity challenging the "goliath billy club" called the "bat segment" on which Chicago burned through $100,000 to erect the Claes Oldenberg Batcolumn.<ref>Hyde Park Herald, https://newspaperarchive.com/us/illinois/chicago/chicago-hyde-park-envoy/1977/04-20/page-14?tag=penelope+rosemont&rtserp=tags/?pc=5196&psi=37&pci=7&pf=penelope&pl=rosemont/