Banner of Lithuania 

The banner of Lithuania () comprises of a level tricolor of yellow, green, and red. It was received on 25 April 1918 amid Lithuania's first time of autonomy (in the twentieth century) from 1918 to 1940, which stopped with the occupation first by Soviet Russia and Lithuania's extension into the Soviet Union, and after that by Nazi Germany (1941– 1944). Amid the post-World War II Soviet occupation, from 1945 until 1989, the Soviet Lithuanian banner comprised first of a conventional red Soviet banner with the name of the republic, at that point changed to the warning with white and green bars at the base. 

The banner was then re-embraced on 20 March 1989, right around a year prior to the re-foundation of Lithuania's autonomy and very nearly three years before the breakdown of the Soviet Union. The last modification to the present banner happened in 2004, when the viewpoint proportion changed from 1:2 to 3:5. 

The most punctual known banners with a Lithuanian personality were recorded in the fifteenth century "Banderia Prutenorum", composed by Jan Długosz. At the Battle of Grunwald in 1410, two particular banners were available. Most of the 40 regiments conveyed a red pennant portraying a mounted knight in interest. This banner, known as the "Vytis", would in the long run be utilized as the Lithuanian war banner, and again in 2004 as the state banner. 

The rest of the regiments conveyed a red standard showing the Columns of Gediminas. Those that drag the Vytis, otherwise called the Pahonia, were armed forces from the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, while the individuals who bore the Columns of Gediminas were from honorable groups of Lithuania. Until the finish of the eighteenth century, when it was added by the Russian Empire, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania utilized the Vytis as its banner. 

The introduction of the yellow, green, and red tricolor happened amid a drive by other European republics to change their banners. One precedent that offered life to the possibility of the tricolor was the French blue, white, and warning received after the French Revolution. The main tricolor that existed for Lithuania before the yellow, green, and warning was a green, white, and warning used to speak to Lithuania Minor. 

It isn't realized who initially recommended the yellow, green, and red hues, however the thought is typically credited to Lithuanian outcasts living somewhere else in Europe or in the United States amid the nineteenth century. These three hues were much of the time utilized in society weavings and conventional dress. At the Great Seimas of Vilnius of 1905, this banner was supported over the Vytis standard as the banner of the Lithuanian country. The Vytis, firmly supported by Jonas Basanavičius, was not picked for three reasons: the first was that as a component of the drive for national character, the Seimas wished to separate itself to some degree from the banner of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, which likewise incorporated now-particular countries, for example, Belarus and Ukraine. The second issue was the decision of the shading red by progressives who adjusted themselves to Marxist or Communist causes. Lastly, the banner with Vytis would be excessively confounded and couldn't be effectively sewn. 

Discussions about the national banner happened again in 1917 amid the Vilnius Conference. Two hues, green and red, were picked dependent on their pervasiveness in society craftsmanship. Craftsman Antanas Žmuidzinavičius enlivened the gathering corridor with little red and green banners. In any case, the agents disliked the plan as it was excessively dim and bleak. At that point Tadas Daugirdas recommended including a restricted piece of yellow (to symbolize the rising sun) in the middle of the red (mists lit up by the morning sun) and green (fields and woods). Notwithstanding, the representatives chose that the issue ought to be settled by an exceptional commission, made out of Basanavičius, Žmuidzinavičius, and Daugirdas. On 19 April 1918, they presented their last convention to the Council of Lithuania. The banner should be a tri-shading (yellow at the top, green in the center, and red at the base) with Vytis in the upper left corner or in the center. The Council acknowledged the proposition, yet the 1922 Constitution of Lithuania did exclude any notice of the crest. It embraced the national banner that is utilized today. Any of the discussions neglected to create a recorded banner. Exchanges of the national banner proceeded; its rivals thought about gold as an improper shading, since the mix of yellow, green, and red did not pursue the current standards of heraldry. Be that as it may, no progressions were made amid the between war period. 

Amid World War II, Lithuania was involved by the Soviet Union (1940– 1941, 1944– 1990) and Nazi Germany (1941– 1944). The utilization of the national banner amid this period was denied and arraigned. Two banners were utilized amid the time of Soviet occupation (1944– 1989): following the war, the banner comprised of a red field, brilliant sledge and sickle with the Latin characters "LIETUVOS TSR" (Lithuanian SSR in the Lithuanian language) above them in gold sans-serif lettering. That banner was supplanted in 1953 by the last banner utilized by the Lithuanian Soviet Socialist Republic—a warning, with the mallet and sickle and star in the derrick. At the base of the banner, a white and green flat bar was put. The red part of the banner took of the banner's width, the white and the green . 

Amid 1988, when the Lithuanian development towards autonomy was picking up quality, the Lithuanian Supreme Soviet again perceived the tricolor as the national banner, by changing article 168 of the Constitution (Fundamental Law) of the Lithuanian SSR. The banner was characterized as rectangular tricolor which comprises of three similarly estimated even stripes: the upper is yellow, the center is green, the lower is red; the banner proportion was to be 1:2 (as that of Soviet banners). This banner was affirmed by the Provisional Constitution of 11 March 1990 № I-10. 

After autonomy from the Soviet Union, the tricolor banner was composed into the new Constitution of Lithuania, which was received by a submission in 1992. This constitution has not indicated the banner viewpoint proportion and consequently it stayed 1:2 until 2004, when 1991 law "On the national banner and different banners" was amended by 8 July 2004 law no. IX-2331, making the banner proportion 3:5. 

Passed on 26 June 1991, the Law of the Republic of Lithuania on the Lithuanian State Flag (Law No. I-1497) oversees the structure, sizes and utilization of the state banner. The law was revised on 8 July 2004, (Law No. IX-2331) with the most eminent changes including the exchanging of the national banner proportion from 1:2 to 3:5 and the official selection of a chronicled banner as the state (government) banner. The change came into power on 1 September 2004, after it was endorsed by President Valdas Adamkus. 

The yellow in the banner is intended to symbolize the sun and flourishing, the green is for the backwoods, the farmland, freedom, and trust, and the red speaks to the blood and valiance of the individuals who have passed on for Lithuania. The correct shades of both the national and state banner are made by the Pantone Matching System, explicitly Pantone material paper (TP). The proportion of both the national and state banner must be 3:5, with the standard banner size to be . Diverse sizes of the banner can be made, yet they should comply with the shading codes and proportion necessities set in the law. The authority Pantone hues have been distributed since 2004; the rundown beneath demonstrates the official hues and their recommended counterparts: 

In 2004, alongside the law approving the difference in the banner proportion, a state banner was received. This banner shows the national token in a pennant structure. The proportion of the banner is equivalent to that of the national banner, for example 3:5. The state banner, called the "chronicled national (armorial) banner" in law, was proposed by Česlovas Juršėnas, the bad habit speaker of the Seimas, and by Edmundas Rimša, the director of the Commission of Heraldry. This banner was additionally proposed in the meantime as the great ensign; both were intended to respect the 750th commemoration of the crowning ceremony of Mindaugas in 1253. The originator of the State (notable) banner and escutcheon was Arvydas Každailis. Verifiably, this banner was utilized amid the Battle of Grunwald, and has filled in as the administration banner for Central Lithuania from 1922 until 1939. This was one of only a handful couple of banners considered to turn into the national banner amid the drive for national autonomy. A few different nations, including Finland, Spain, Venezuela, Germany and Thailand, have an official national banner for non military personnel use and a state banner for government use. 

Under the National Flag Law, the state banner is for all time raised at three areas: the Royal Palace of Lithuania, Trakai Island Castle, and the grounds of the Vytautas the Great War Museum in Kaunas. Furthermore, the banner is lifted at the accompanying areas on nowadays: 

The banner can be flown vertically or on a level plane from open structures, private homes, organizations, ships, town squares, or amid authority functions. On the off chance that the banner is flown on a level plane, the yellow stripe must be at top; when flown vertically, the yellow stripe must face Left with the red stripe confronting Right. While the banner ought to be flown from dawn to dusk, government workplaces in Lithuania and abroad should fly the banner on a 24-hour premise. The banners must fit in with the legitimate models, and can't be dirty or harmed in any capacity. 

For grieving exercises, the banner can be flown in both of the accompanying ways. The principal strategy, ordinarily known as half-staffing, is performed when the banner is lifted to the highest point of the flagpole, at that point brought down to the post's 33% position. The other technique is to connect a dark strip to a banner that is for all time attached to a staff. The strip itself is ten centimeters wide and it is connected to the pole with the goal that the finishes of the lace achieve the base of the banner. Amid a burial service function, the banner might be utilized to cover the pine boxes of government authorities, officers, signatories of the Act of the Re-Establishment of the State of Lithuania, and people assigned by a demonstration of the President; these banners are later collapsed and exhibited to the closest relative before interment. 

When flying the Lithuanian banner with different banners, coming up next is the right request of priority: The national banner, the authentic (state) banner, banners of remote expresses, the banner of the European Union, global NGOs, the presidential standard, military and government measures, region banners, city banners and any others. At the point when outside banners are utilized close by the Lithuanian banner, the banners are arranged by their nations' names in the Lithuanian language. The main special case is the point at which the congress or meeting held in Lithuanian manages an alternate language to be utilized for arranging. The European Union banner has been raised since Lithuania turned into an individual from the association. While not referenced by name in the law, the banner of NATO can be utilized in Lithuania, since it has a place with that association too. It is likewise normal to fly the banners of Estonia and Latvia amid specific events, principally the festival of freedom of the three Baltic states. The Law of the Republic of Lithuania on the National Flag and Other Flags oversees the guidelines, use, convention and assembling of the national and different banners utilized inside the nation. 

As a component of the banner convention, the day by day show of the Lithuanian banner is empowered, yet is unequivocally energized or legitimately required on the next days: 

Aside from nowadays, the banner is flown at race surveying locales. The national government, under Article 4, Section 7 of the banner law, is given the expert to require the presentation of the national banner and to decide uncommon conditions, for example, checking for grieving. 

A maritime ensign has been utilized by Lithuania beginning in 1992. The ensign has a white foundation accused of a blue cross, with the national banner in the canton. The width of each cross is 1/seventh of the complete width of the ensign, with the proportion being 1:2. Generally, this banner was utilized as the ensign of the Kaunas Yacht Club, however with an alternate proportion of 2:3. The maritime jack is indistinguishable to the recorded state banner of Lithuania. A masthead flag have been received by the Lithuanian Navy to use on their boats. 

The President of Lithuania was authoritatively given a standard by the Seimas in 1993. The standard is the State Emblem of Lithuania charged in the middle on a solitary shading foundation. Under state law, the foundation shading is expressed as purple, yet the shading utilized by and by is dull red. The proportion of the standard is 1:1.2. 

Every province of Lithuania has embraced a banner, every one of them adjusting to an example: a blue square shape, with ten cases of the Cross of Vytis (betray or) showing up in gold, goes about as a periphery to the focal component of the banner, which is picked by the area itself. The vast majority of the focal structures were adjusted from the regions' emblem.