Dim Angel (2000 TV arrangement) 

Dim Angel is an American cyberpunk TV arrangement that debuted on the Fox organize on October 3, 2000. Made by James Cameron and Charles H. Eglee, it featured Jessica Alba in her achievement job. Set in 2019, the arrangement accounts the life of Max Guevara (Alba), a hereditarily upgraded super-warrior who escapes from a secret military office as a youngster. In a dystopian Seattle, she endeavors to have an ordinary existence while evading catch by government specialists and looking for her siblings and sisters dispersed in the fallout of their getaway. "Dull Angel" was the solitary arrangement delivered by the organization Cameron/Eglee Productions, and was shot in Vancouver at Lions Gate Studios. 

The high-spending pilot scene denoted Cameron's TV debut and was vigorously advanced by Fox, achieving 17.4 million watchers. The primary season, which was appeared on Tuesday evenings in the U.S., got chiefly constructive audits and won a few honors, including the People's Choice Award for Favorite New TV Drama. Alba's depiction of Max additionally got for the most part positive surveys and a few honors. For the second season, the show was moved to the less attractive broadcast appointment of Friday night and got some analysis for new plot components. It experienced a drop in evaluations, averaging 6 million watchers for every scene, and was dropped. 

A progression of books proceeded with the storyline, and a computer game adjustment was likewise discharged. "Dim Angel" is considered to have gothic and female strengthening subjects; Max pursued a long queue of solid female characters in Cameron's work, including Sarah Connor and Ellen Ripley. "Dim Angel" is viewed as a component of a flood of shows in the late 1990s and mid 2000s that include solid female characters, close by "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "", and "La Femme Nikita." 

In 2009, a hereditarily upgraded nine-year-old female supersoldier assigned as X5-452 (Geneva Locke) escapes alongside eleven others from a mystery U.S. government establishment codenamed Manticore where they were conceived, raised, and prepared to be troopers and professional killers. On June 1, 2009, months after X5-452's departure, fear based oppressors explode an electromagnetic heartbeat weapon in the environment over the U.S., which pulverizes most by far of PC and correspondence frameworks, tossing the nation into bedlam. 

After ten years in 2019, the now 19-year-old X5-452 (Jessica Alba), who calls herself Max Guevara, battles to scan for her Manticore siblings and sisters. In the recuperating United States which is presently scarcely in excess of a creating nation she endeavors to carry on with a generally ordinary life and sidestep catch by Manticore, who wishes to recoup their lost resource. 

Logan Cale (Michael Weatherly), an underground digital writer with the nom de plume Eyes Only, endeavors to enlist her to help battle defilement in the post-Pulse world. She at first won't however acknowledges after Cale is rendered a paraplegic endeavoring the task he was enlisting her for. A sentimental intrigue buds between the two. While helping Cale, Max likewise brings home the bacon as a bike flag-bearer at Jam Pony, a messenger organization, alongside her companions Original Cindy (Valarie Rae Miller), Herbal Thought (Alimi Ballard), and Sketchy (Richard Gunn). Different X5s are intermittently presented, most fundamentally the unit head Zack (William Gregory Lee). The Manticore chase for the got away X5s is driven by Colonel Donald Lydecker (John Savage). Close to the finish of the period, Lydecker is sold out by his prevalent, the considerably progressively savage Elizabeth Renfro (Nana Visitor), and he absconds from Manticore. He helps Max and Zack in an attack on Manticore base camp. Max is seriously injured and caught. Zack, who has likewise been caught, ends it all to furnish Max with his heart, as she needs a X5 heart transplant to endure. 

Cale opens Manticore to the world. Renfro chooses to consume the office to cover the proof and is executed all the while. Helped by Joshua (Kevin Durand), a transgenic with canine DNA, Max gets away from the office and liberates the different transgenics including Alec (Jensen Ackles), an individual X5, who later joins Jam Pony. At the point when Max is brought together with Cale he promptly turns out to be sick and nearly kicks the bucket. Max finds that Manticore has tainted her with an infection explicitly intended to slaughter Cale, and the two must maintain a strategic distance from all physical contact to keep him alive. Max discovers that Joshua was the first transgenic made by Sandeman, Manticore's originator. Through the span of the period, it is uncovered that a centuries old rearing clique has reproduced their own super-fighters who rival the Manticore-delivered transgenics. Ames White (Martin Cummins), an administration specialist entrusted with dispensing with the liberated transgenics, is uncovered to be an individual from the faction. At the point when a peculiar message written in Max's hereditary code shows up on her skin it is uncovered that Sandeman is a rebel from the rearing religion and Ames White is his child. White is as yet faithful to the clique and despises his dad's transgenic manifestations with an enthusiasm. Trusting that Max is a risk to the rearing religion's arrangements they endeavor to execute her, yet she gets away to Terminal City, a surrendered piece of Seattle where several untouchable transgenics have been covering up. At the point when the police start to encompass Terminal City Max persuades the different transgenics to hold fast as opposed to run. The arrangement closes with the military encompassing Terminal City as the inhabitants raise their recently planned banner from one of the structures, and hang tight for a conceivable attack. 

The principal season presented Jessica Alba as the primary character Max Guevara (X5-452), a hereditarily upgraded transgenic super-trooper who got away from an administration office named Manticore. She fills in as a bicycle emissary for the messenger organization Jam Pony amid the day and as a feline criminal during the evening. Michael Weatherly played Logan Cale, the show's second most unmistakable character. Cale is an affluent digital writer and vigilante who works under the pseudonym Eyes Only. He selects Max to help with his battle against defilement and wrongdoing as a byproduct of helping her discover data on her kindred Manticore escapees. Fundamental jobs were given to a few of the messengers at Jam Pony, including Valarie Rae Miller as Cynthia "Unique Cindy" McEachin, Richard Gunn as Calvin "Crude" Theodore, and Alimi Ballard as Herbal Thought. J. C. MacKenzie played Reagan "Ordinary" Ronald, the organization's supervisor, and Jennifer Blanc played Kendra Maibaum, Max's first flat mate, and John Savage played the primary enemy, Col. Donald Lydecker, who is attempting to recover Max and the other Manticore escapees. 

The Lydecker character is worked out of the arrangement right off the bat in the second season, and Herbal Thought and Kendra Maibaum don't show up by any stretch of the imagination. Season two presented Kevin Durand as Joshua, an exploratory animal from Manticore who has particular canine facial highlights. It additionally presents Jensen Ackles as Alec McDowell (X5-494), a X5 who has a sentimental enthusiasm for Max, and Ashley Scott as Asha Barlow, an opposition warrior who has a sentimental enthusiasm for Cale. Martin Cummins depicted the season's principle foe Ames White, a National Security Agency operator entrusted with wrecking the Manticore escapees. 

Following his prosperity with the movie "Titanic", executive James Cameron collaborated with Charles H. Eglee with whom he had recently chipped away at ventures including "". The two shaped a creation organization, Cameron/Eglee Productions, and started chipping away at thoughts for a TV arrangement. They thought about a few alternatives, including a family dramatization, before settling on the possibility of "Dim Angel". Cameron said they started with the possibility that Max would be a hereditary build who "looked typical outwardly yet was diverse on the cell, hereditary dimension. We investigate what that could mean." Cameron was impacted by the manga "Fight Angel Alita", which he was initially aiming to subsequent to finishing "Dim Angel". 

"Dim Angel" would be the sole work by Cameron/Eglee Productions. Max pursued a long queue of solid female characters in Cameron's work, including Sarah Connor and Ellen Ripley. Cameron said "it's a success/win circumstance" as "ladies react to characters who seem solid and able" and youthful male gatherings of people "need to see young ladies kick ass". Later they chose to set the arrangement in a post-social breakdown world, saying that the delirium encompassing Y2K filled in as motivation; in the arrangement, an electromagnetic heartbeat recently pulverized each PC in the United States. Working titles for the arrangement included "Exploratory Girl" and "Most extreme Girl". The task denoted Cameron's TV debut; he worked for the most part as an author and official maker for the arrangement. 

In excess of a thousand youthful on-screen characters were considered for the piece of Max. Cameron began checking on tryout tapes when the field had been limited to twenty or thirty candidates. He was at first not inspired with Alba's tryout tape, saying "she had her head down, she was perusing out of the script ... she didn't present herself such well. Be that as it may, there was something about the manner in which she read the content that copped a disposition that I enjoyed." Cameron persistently looked into the tryout tapes yet continued returning to Alba's, in the end concluding that he expected to meet her. Alba was contracted for the job before the content was composed. Eglee stated: "We had the advantage of having the capacity to compose a content sort of in reverse, we were composing for this on-screen character, with her rhythms and her rhythms and her sensibilities and her mentality and her slang." To prepare for the job, Alba went through a year doing hand to hand fighting and tumbling and riding bikes. 

The two-hour debut scene cost up to $10 million to create, and Cameron supposedly "got the pilot on schedule and on spending plan". Consequent scenes had an impressively littler spending plan. Fox spent vigorously on the special battle for the debut, paying for dramatic trailers, bulletins, and guerilla advertising. Cameron took an "exceptionally fundamental view" of the show's shot of accomplishment, saying: "On the off chance that it flies, it flies. In the event that it doesn't, it doesn't ... In the event that individuals interface with it, which I trust they will, fine. On the off chance that we don't discover a group of people, we have the right to be off the air. It's that basic." Eglee conceded the arrangement had been "routinely over spending plan" in the main season, and expected this would be a factor in whether the show was reestablished for a second season, however Cameron made light of these worries. 

Fox "marginally" restored the arrangement for a second season. The financial plan for scenes in season two was $1.3 million each. After the expected chief of the last scene did not work out, Cameron chose to venture in and fill the position. He did this in part for the experience yet in addition to demonstrate the system the potential for a third season. It was his first experience coordinating a TV show. 

The makers were at first told a third season had been endorsed, however after two days Fox educated them that the arrangement had been dropped. 

"Dim Angel" was set in Seattle, and shot in Vancouver, British Columbia, at Lions Gate Studios. Other shooting areas incorporated the Vancouver Art Gallery, just as Buntzen Lake and Riverview Hospital, additionally in British Columbia. 

In the DVD analysis for "Monstrosity Nation", the arrangement finale, Charles H. Eglee clarified what had been gotten ready for season three. The aim was to unite the storylines of seasons one ("Manticore") and two ("Breeding Cult") and uncover the folklore of "Dull Angel". The season would uncover that a huge number of years back, Earth went through a comet's tail which stored viral material that slaughtered 97% of mankind. The reproducing clique saved the survivors' hereditary insusceptibility with the goal that when the comet returned, just individuals from the religion would endure. Sandeman, a religion part, and Max's maker double-crossed the faction and chose to give this hereditary insusceptibility to the remainder of mankind through Max, who might be the guardian angel of humankind. There were numerous thoughts on the most proficient method to spread Max's resistance, including an air burst that would scatter the counter acting agent through the air, or connecting the invulnerability to a typical cold infection (Eglee itemized how a scene would demonstrate Original Cindy wheezing as a major aspect of the start of the insusceptibility spread). This storyline is developed in the last "Dull Angel" novel "After the Dark" however when the comet returns no one becomes sick, and it is trusted that the religion just had a bogus forecast. 

The main season debuted in the United States on Tuesday, October 3, 2000, from 9:00 pm until 11:00 pm. Fox needed to acquire understandings from its partners to communicate past 10:00 pm, as a large portion of them air neighborhood news programs as of now. In resulting weeks the show disclosed from 9:00 pm till 10:00 pm Tuesdays. Amid its first season, the show was seized on a few events, including by the 2000 World Series, the Billboard Music Awards and inclusion of the presidential race. The regular appropriations turned into a running joke on the set. "Dim Angel's" planned broadcast appointment place it in direct challenge with "Blessed messenger" on The WB. Commentators discussed which of the comparably named shows would overwhelm the schedule vacancy. Jonathon Storm from "Philadelphia Media Network" trusted that "Dull Angel" would demonstrate triumphant, while Brad Adgate, an exploration executive at "Skyline Media", anticipated that "Dim Angel" would just at first lead the pack in the appraisals, as "Angel's" solid fanbase would win over the long haul. Brad Turrell, official VP of Network Communication for the "WB" yielded that the overwhelming advancement for "Dim Angel" would give it higher beginning evaluations at first however trusted that as "Holy messenger" was a "superior show" it would not be influenced long haul. Worried that there may be disarray between the two shows, the "WB" took out a full page promotion in "television Guide", which read "There is just ONE. David Boreanaz is ANGEL." "Blessed messenger" won the vacancy when Fox moved the communicate time of "Dull Angel" to 8:00 pm on Fridays for its second season, where it went before the new arrangement "Pasadena". 

The last scene of the arrangement broadcast on May 3, 2002, as an uncommon hour and a half scene. "Dim Angel" has been syndicated on Syfy and the El Rey Network in the United States and on E4 and the Horror Channel in the UK. 

The score for the "Dull Angel" pilot was made and led by Joel McNeely. The pilot score track "Bike Ride" was utilized at last credits for the span of the arrangement. The pilot score was discharged in full as a component of the first exposure press pack, titled "Dull Angel: Complete Score from the Dark Angel Pilot". The 37-track CD was for limited time utilize just and not for resale. McNeely came back to score the whole arrangement, utilizing "protesting timpani moves, bass rhythms and ear-splitting metal and violin crescendos that recognizably sketch the activity circular segments of the account." Traditional symphonic components are incorporated with inventive electronic sounds and female vocals to make a feeling of Max's "supernatural quality", "frequenting wind rings, pseudo-Orientalist abstains and palliated shrill scary sounds" bring out Max's super-human capacities, and "driving hip bounce bass beats with substantial percussive impacts [and] sharp input and resonation" pass on Max's battles with savagery and her recollections of Manticore. The signature tune for the arrangement was made by Chuck D and Gary G-Wiz. Both McNeely and G-Wiz refered to "Dim Angel" as a chance to push sonic limits; G-Wiz expressed that Eglee and music boss Randy Gerston continued calling him and guiding him to make the signature tune "crazier". McNeely said scoring the arrangement was "like the contrast among jazz and traditional music. I'm a jazz player, so "Dull Angel" is as free structure and as peculiar as we need to get." 

A soundtrack collection comprising of hip bounce and R&B tunes was discharged on April 23, 2002, through Artemis Records. Eglee clarified that he and Cameron started with the possibility that they could complete a "hip bounce youth group thing", taking note of that "hip jump had turned into the overwhelming impact in the nation [and] on the planet" and that they saw a chance to give the eventual fate of "Dull Angel" the soundtrack of contemporary American mainstream culture. In the soundtrack's liner notes, Eglee writes:Reminiscent of some other time and place ... that piece of the Bronx in the late 1970s known as Fort Apache: a spot that for white America, characterized need and confinement, viciousness and misery. What white Americans couldn't see or hear then was the lovely thing being birthed there, which, years after the fact, would come to be known as Hip Hop. ... This collection recollects the establishments of Hip Hop as it thinks about its future. Randy Gerston said that as a result of the not so distant future setting of the arrangement, he kept away from any significant hit melodies as these would not sound cutting edge. This allowed them the chance to find new ability. The collection includes predominately female hip bounce and neo soul craftsmen whose verses ordinarily "center around the declaration of female organization and power – especially with respect to sexuality." It crested at No. 50 on the Top Independent Albums graph. Jason Birchmeier of AllMusic gave the soundtrack three out of five stars. He noticed the absence of real craftsmen on the collection and remarked that it "is by all accounts a female-orientated soundtrack, maybe on account of the show's female lead character". Birchmeier said a large number of the tunes were "very great" and that it "surpasses your desires for a TV program soundtrack". 

"Dim Angel" is viewed as in the cyberpunk classification. Writing in "Reproduction: Studies in Contemporary Culture", Lorna Jowett considered "Dull Angel" to be a "half breed of sci-fi, Gothic, and activity" which fused structures and topics from every one of the three kinds. Jowett looked at "Dull Angel" to the Gothic tale "Frankenstein", saying that Max's hereditary designing makes her a "postmodern Frankenstein's beast, obscuring limits among human and beast". Kathleen McConnell in "Gothic Studies" additionally contrasted Max's eccentric origination with Frankenstein's beast, and refered to a few other Gothic subjects in the arrangement. She expresses that Max fits the model of a Gothic courageous woman who "apparently appear[s] to acclimate their acknowledged job inside the male controlled society however who really subvert the dad's capacity at each conceivable event." In her book "Post-women's activist Impasses in Popular Heroine Television", Alison Horbury guesses that "Dim Angel", alongside the shows "False name", "La Femme Nikita", and "Dollhouse" have subjects of kidnapping, physical and emblematic assault, motherlessness, and the disclosure of a sister. 

A few scholastics have considered "Dull Angel" to be a piece of a rush of shows in the late 90s and mid 2000s including "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "", and "La Femme Nikita" that highlight solid female characters. Writing in "Sci-fi Film and Television", Clarice Butkus noted Max has been viewed as an "unmistakably millennial post-third-wave women's activist warrior. She additionally felt that Max's relationship and exchange with Original Cindy, an African American lesbian, passed on female strengthening. For instance, Cindy urges Max not to feel coerce over her sexual conduct and rather to grasp a generally manly way to deal with sex. McConnell and Jowett additionally refered to Max for instance of female strengthening; Jowett believed Max to be the "standard postmodern, postfeminist portrayal of the female activity legend with [at least] an inversion or [at most] a blend of customary sexual orientation attributes." 

Butkus expressed that "Dim Angel" more than once paid tribute to the film "Cutting edge Runner". Lydecker, the "defective foe" of "Dim Angel" is said to be a transposition of Deckard, the "imperfect legend" of "Edge Runner". Alec McDowell/X5-494's affection intrigue is named Rachel, accepted to be a reference to the replicant Rachael, however in "Dull Angel" it is McDowell and not Rachel who is bio-designed. His flashbacks of this horrible relationship utilize piano music like that utilized in "Sharp edge Runner" to mean recollections and a longing for previous occasions. Alec's hereditary memory improvements empower him, with just a couple of hours practice, to play a point by point piano piece by Frédéric Chopin, the writer initially scripted for the scene in "Edge Runner" where Rachael mysteriously gets herself ready to play the piano; the two characters are viewed as pre-modified by state powers to ace superhuman abilities. 

Beginning response to the arrangement and Max's character was for the most part positive, with ideal audits in "Moving Stone" and "Time". Hal Boedeker of the "Orlando Sentinel" stated: "TV's most current warrior lady has aptitudes deserving of Catwoman, Xena, Emma Peel, and Wonder Woman." Howard Rosenberg stated: "If pouty faces and attractive strolls could wreck, the very capturing Max would clear out the whole planet." However Joyce Millman said Max was "minimal more than lips and ass" and believed the arrangement to be a costly Britney Spears music video. "Individuals" ran a negative audit of the Pilot scene in October 2000, however in December they recorded Alba's depiction of Max as among the "leap forward" exhibitions of 2000. 

The main scene was behind just "" as the most observed new show of the week, though in seven days with less new shows due to the presidential discussion inclusion. Fox appeared "Dim Angel" rather than airing the primary presidential discussion, a move which TV investigator Marc Berman commended, saying: "The general population who watch the discussions aren't the general population who'll tune into "Dull Angel" at any rate", however he anticipated that the debut's high appraisals would not hold up as the show went up against progressively differed challenge in ensuing weeks. It was the tenth most prevalent show generally speaking that week, pulling in 17.4 million watchers. Cameron said he didn't have the foggiest idea if the communicate time change for the second season would have a positive or negative impact on the show's appraisals, however R. D. Heldenfels of the "Sun Journal" noticed the poor appraisals of Friday night TV, particularly the low review rates among 18 to 24-year-olds, the age-bunch that "Dim Angel" was most famous with. The new schedule vacancy saw an appraisals drop; for the 2001– 02 season "Dim Angel" arrived at the midpoint of 6 million watchers, positioning number 114 in the Nielsen evaluations. 

Remarking on the arrival of the second season, Cynthia Fuchs of "PopMatters" said the principal period of "Dim Angel" was one of the "couple of straight-up victories, an evaluations hit among the pined for 'youth' statistic." She applauded the arrangement however elucidated: "I'm not escaping: Jim Cameron won't be making progressive workmanship at any point in the near future." Michael Sauter of "Amusement Weekly" gave the primary season a B+ and talked profoundly of Alba, saying that "for some time [she was] TV's most sultry kick-butt courageous woman". Elka Karl of Common Sense Media gave the whole arrangement 3 out of 5 stars, saying: "While the discourse now and then crashes and burns, by and large the show is very much scripted and all around acted, and Alba works admirably of conveying the arrangement. Dull Angel isn't flawless by any stretch of the creative energy, however it is convincing TV that high schooler science fiction fans will appreciate." While lauding the main season, Randy Dankievitch of "TVOvermind" marked the second season "senseless", reprimanding "idiotic stories" like Max's fantasy scene "Boo", the infection that counteracts Logan and Max having physical contact, and the different half-creature Manticore explores that are uncovered. 

Writing in his book "The Encyclopedia of Superheroes on Film and Television", John Kenneth Muir said it was essential for Cameron to set "Dim Angel" later on the grounds that the thriving of the U.S. in 2000 "offered little probability for wrongdoing, dinginess and other societal issues". While reprimanding certain plot components in the second season as adding to the show's ruin, Muir said that bigger factors in appraisals dropping were the September 11 assaults, the Enron outrage, and the exhaustion of the U.S. government's overflow, which changed "Dim Angel's" "advanced vision of retreat in a Third-World America" from an intriguing, implausible reason to a "discouraging update that things could at present deteriorate". 

In 2004, Max was positioned number 17 on "television Guide"s rundown of the 25 Greatest Sci-Fi Legends, and in 2012, Dave Golder of GamesRadar positioned her number 49 on his rundown of the 100 hottest ladies in science fiction. In 2009, AfterEllen positioned Original Cindy number 6 on their rundown of the Top 11 Lesbian/Bi Sidekicks. In 2015, Kayti Burt of "Lair of Geek" included "Dull Angel" at the highest priority on her rundown of "10 Sci-Fi Shows That Don't Get Enough Love". In 2016, it was perceived that "Dull Angel" was the main American TV arrangement to include a transparently transgender on-screen character playing a transgender character. In the season one scene "Out", transgender on-screen character Jessica Crockett depicted "Louise", a young lady out on the town with Normal. 

The 2007 film "Hired gunman" re-utilized film of Max and other Manticore kids in preparing from "Dim Angel". It was utilized to depict the Hitman hero Agent 47, a cloned professional killer who, similar to the Manticore kids, has a scanner tag on the back of his head. 

In its first season "Dull Angel" won the Favorite Television New Dramatic Series grant at the 27th People's Choice Awards, and was selected for Best Television by the International Horror Guild Awards. The creation group was named for the Excellence in Production Design Award by the Art Directors Guild. Editorial manager Stephen Mark won Best Edited Motion Picture for Commercial Television at the Eddie Awards for the pilot scene, and the pilot was additionally named for Outstanding Special Visual Effects for the 53rd Primetime Emmy Awards and "Best Visual Effects: Dramatic Series" by the Leo Awards. 

Jessica Alba won Best Actress on Television at the 27th Saturn Awards, Breakout Star of the Year at the TV Guide Awards, Outstanding Actress in a New Television Series at the ALMA Awards, and Choice Actress at the 2001 Teen Choice Awards. She additionally gotten designations for Best Actress – Television Series Drama for the 58th Golden Globe Awards and Best Performance in a TV Drama Series – Leading Young Actress for the 22nd Young Artist Awards. 

"Dull Angel" was assigned for less honors in its second season. It was named for Choice Drama/Action Adventure for the 2002 Teen Choice Awards, where Alba was additionally selected for Choice Actress, Drama. Alba was likewise designated for Outstanding Actress in a Television Series for the ALMA Awards. At the Leo Awards the scene "Boo" got a selection for Best Visual Effects: Dramatic Series, and David Geddes won Best Cinematography: Dramatic Series for the scene "Two". 

twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment discharged seasons 1 and 2 of "Dull Angel" on DVD in district 1 (R1), just as a double coded area 2 and 4 (R2/4) set in 2003, as six-plate sets bundled in cardboard sleeves containing three DVD cases every one of two circles. Season 1 was discharged in R2/4 in February and R1 in May, and season 2 was discharged in R2/4 in June and R1 in October. 

The R1 discharges contain a few exceptional highlights, incorporating four scenes with discretionary editorial in each season, bloopers, erased scenes, and featurettes. The R2/4 discharges contain no analyses and less other extraordinary highlights, however the scenes are displayed in anamorphic widescreen, while R1 discharges are fullscreen. Adam Tyner of "DVD Talk" gave the R1 first season three out of five stars for sound and video, and three and a half stars for extraordinary highlights. Shannon Nutt of "DVD Talk" gave the R1 second season three stars out of five for sound and video, and more than two stars for additional items, expressing: "it shows up [to have] an OK number of highlights, however then you find the length of every one and truly feel duped by Fox". She likewise noticed the scene's editorial was basically by scholars and makers, and did not include James Cameron or any of the performing artists. 

The two seasons were re-discharged in R1 on June 5, 2007, with thin bundling comprising of one plastic case containing every one of the six plates (which were unaltered in substance and makeup). 

A computer game of a similar name dependent on the arrangement was created by Radical Entertainment, distributed by Sierra Entertainment and discharged for PlayStation 2 on November 18, 2002, and later on Xbox. Alba and Weatherly voiced their particular characters in the diversion. Advancement of the amusement began before the arrangement was dropped, and the diversion was met with blended to negative gathering upon discharge. Brett Todd of GameSpot gave the amusement 3.8 out of 10, saying: "Despite the fact that it's difficult to state whether the designers' assurance was influenced by the wiping out of the arrangement, this third-individual activity experience plays like it was turned out to satisfy an agreement" and finished up "the advancement of this diversion presumably ought to have been dropped in the meantime as the TV arrangement". Duke Ferris from Game Revolution gave the amusement a 'D+', saying that while fanatics of "Dull Angel" would appreciate it as it "reflects a scene of the show precisely", any other person was probably going to think that its exhausting. 

Three unique books composed by Max Allan Collins develop the "Dim Angel" TV arrangement, with two getting straightforwardly where the arrangement finished, and another filling in as a prequel. A sidekick book, "Dull Angel: The Eyes Only Dossier", was composed by D.A. Stern. 

The buddy book, "Dim Angel: The Eyes Only Dossier", starts with a letter composed by Logan Cale amid the remain off at Terminal City. It is routed to Detective Matt Sung, a common character from the arrangement who assistants Logan, teaching him that the bundle he is sending him contains archives relating to the four most basic Eyes Only examinations. On the off chance that he is executed by the potential attack of Terminal City, Logan needs Sung to carry on the examinations. The remainder of the book contains the archives identifying with the four examinations. 

Book reference