Panama– Pacific dedicatory coins 

The five Panama– Pacific dedicatory coins were created regarding the 1915 Panama– Pacific International Exposition in San Francisco. Struck at that city's mint, the issue included round and octagonal $50 pieces. But present day bullion coins, these two gold pieces are the most elevated category ever issued and the biggest coins at any point struck by the United States Mint. The octagonal $50 piece is the main U.S. coin to be issued that isn't round. 

In January 1915, Congress passed enactment for a silver half dollar, just as a gold dollar, quarter bird ($2.50 piece), and two $50 pieces: one round and one octagonal. The Mint had just counseled craftsmen. Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo at first rejected every one of their plans. Two of them, Robert I. Aitken for the $50 pieces and Charles Keck for the gold dollar, persisted, and their entries were utilized. The half dollar and quarter falcon were structured by Chief Engraver Charles E. Hair stylist, perhaps with the interest of his long-lasting collaborator, George T. Morgan. 

The coins were distributed at the Exposition by noticeable numismatist Farran Zerbe. They didn't sell well, and a considerable lot of every group were returned for dissolving. Just a couple of hundred of each of the $50 pieces were dispersed, making them the most reduced mintage dedicatory coins. They index for up to $200,000, contingent upon condition. 

Private gold pieces, here and there named "pioneer gold", were struck a few times amid the nineteenth century from privately delivered bullion in regions where government coins were rare. These informal coins originated from destinations going from Georgia to Oregon. Many, extending in group from 25 pennies to 50 dollars, are relics of the California Gold Rush and its consequence. The fifty-dollar section was struck by private minters, for example, Kellogg and Co. The private $50 pieces were round in structure, however those struck by Augustus Humbert for the U.S. Examine Office at San Francisco, before the foundation of the San Francisco Mint in 1854, were octagonal. Humbert's pieces were not cash in a legitimate sense, as Congress had not approved them as lawful delicate, and were authoritatively esteemed ingots. By and by, they contained their full an incentive in gold. Bearing the section "Fifty Dollars", they were classified "slugs" or "quintuple falcons" by people in general. They circled broadly in California and somewhere else in the Far West, and were acknowledged keeping pace with government gold coins. 

These $50 pieces, open or private, are uncommon and significant today: One of Humbert's octagonal pieces, dated 1851 and with a lettered edge, sold at closeout in 2010 for $546,250. The main $50 piece delivered by the United States Bureau of the Mint before 1915 was the 1877 example half association, created tentatively at the Philadelphia Mint, however it was not endorsed as a coursing coin. 

In 1904, San Francisco dealer Rueben Hale proposed a composition in his home city for 1915, both to recognize the opening of the Panama Canal and to stamp the 400th commemoration of Vasco Núñez de Balboa turning into the principal European known to see the Pacific Ocean from the Americas: in stating then ebb and flow, he found the Pacific. In spite of the fact that the 1906 San Francisco quake and flame made a transient difficulty these plans, it really started extra gathering pledges. A considerable lot of the wealthiest in California gave money related help, the state coordinated private gifts dollar for dollar, and in 1911, President William Howard Taft chose San Francisco over its rival, New Orleans, to have the reasonable. 

The Panama– Pacific International Exposition, built in San Francisco by the Golden Gate at an expense of $50 million, was open from February 20, 1915, to December 4, 1915. Around 19,000,000 individuals visited, and the composition was an incredible achievement, creating enough benefit to manufacture the San Francisco Civic Auditorium with about $1 million remaining. The Palace of Fine Arts is the main structure from the reasonable which stays on the site. 

Dedicatory coins were not then sold to the general population by the Mint, as they hence have been. Rather, a dedicatory's approving enactment would assign a gathering or association to buy the coins from the Mint without needing any proof, and pitch them to the general population as a pledge drive. Among the individuals who had pushed for dedicatory enactment before, and had been engaged with the closeout of the subsequent currencies, was Farran Zerbe, an authority and numismatic advertiser who had by 1914 filled in as leader of the American Numismatic Association. Zerbe was a disputable figure—some felt the coins with which he had been included had been sold at swelled costs—yet he advanced the leisure activity with his show, "Cash of the World", which later turned out to be a piece of the Chase Manhattan Money Museum. 

A few recommendations for dedicatory coins had been presented by mid-1914, however none had been issued by the Mint since 1905. One, supported by New York Senator Elihu Root, required a dedicatory quarter dollar denoting a time of harmony, just as the August 1914 opening of the Panama Canal. Two bills were acquainted calling for coins with remember and advantage the Panama– Pacific Exposition; H.R. 16902 was presented by California Congressman Julius Kahn on June 3, 1914. Senate charge (S.) 6309 was presented in that body by New Jersey Senator James E. Martine on July 6. This bill called for two $50 pieces (one cycle, one octagonal), a quarter bird or $2.50 in gold, a memorial gold dollar, and a half dollar. The octagonal pieces were expected to review the informal $50 coins struck amid the Gold Rush 

Martine's bill passed the Senate on August 3, having been endorsed by the Committee on Industrial Expositions, to which it had been alluded. The main complaint was procedural, by Utah's Reed Smoot: that the bill ought to have rather been alluded to and endorsed by the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency, or its Committee on Finance. Neither Smoot nor some other congressperson questioned the charge itself, which Martine demonstrated had the help of Treasury Secretary William G. McAdoo. S. 6309 was the next day sent to the House of Representatives, where it was alluded to the Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures. It rose up out of that council on September 1, 1914, with a few corrections, one of which expanded the joined approved mintage of the two $50 pieces from 2,000 to 3,000. S. 6309 was quickly considered by the House of Representatives on January 4, 1915, and go after Kahn effectively proposed a minor correction to strike out the dollar sign from the expression "silver coins of the section of $50 pennies each". The Senate agreed in the House corrections two days after the fact, passing the bill undoubtedly, change, or restriction, and President Woodrow Wilson marked it into law on January 16. 

When Kahn's bill was presented in the House, Mint Director George E. Roberts started to make casual courses of action to get ready for the memorial issue. The bill called for four distinct structures (the two $50 pieces would vary essentially fit as a fiddle), in addition to a memorial decoration to be sold to fairgoers, with an honor award to be given to prizewinning exhibitors. These pieces were to be struck by the Bureau of the Mint, and Roberts solicited the Commission from Fine Arts to prescribe craftsmen. Among those suggested were Adolph A. Weinman (who might structure the Mercury dime and Walking Liberty half dollar in 1916), and Bela L. Pratt (maker of the 1908 Indian Head gold pieces). Others included stone workers Evelyn Longman, Robert I. Aitken, Charles Keck, and Paul Manship. 

Roberts kept in touch with a few of the stone carvers, and discovered Aitken keen on making the $50 pieces. The Mint Director's provisional arrangements with Aitken for the huge gold coins and with Buffalo nickel planner James Earl Fraser for the honor decoration finished when Roberts surrendered in November to take a financial activity; McAdoo designated Dr. Frederic Dewey as Acting Director of the Mint. Dewey and McAdoo did small with respect to the Panama– Pacific coins until Congress started to pass the approving enactment toward the beginning of January 1915. When it had passed the two houses, and was anticipating Wilson's mark, Dewey orchestrated a gathering in New York with Aitken, Keck, Longman, and Manship. The approving demonstration required the Mint to start conveying coins by the opening date of the reasonable, February 20, 1915, and in spite of the fact that this demonstrated illogical, the Mint still acted rapidly. McAdoo endorsed the decisions of Aitken for the $50 pieces, Longman for the quarter hawk, Keck for the dollar, and Manship for the half dollar on January 21. Every one of the four craftsmen were at that point at work, and Aitken reacted to the notice of his employing by submitting plans, which were like the genuine coins. 

By January 29, each of the four specialists had submitted bronze throws of their proposition. Dewey sent them to McAdoo, who requested guidance from the Commission of Fine Arts (which enjoyed them), his Assistant Secretary, William Malburn (who did not), and Chief Engraver Charles E. Hair stylist and others at the Philadelphia Mint (who offered proposals). McAdoo had asked that the Mint get ready elective structures for every one of the coins, and Barber did as such, beginning with the half dollar. Dismissals to every one of the four of the outside specialists were sent on February 5 over McAdoo's mark. The purposes behind this are dubious, as the dismissals are terse– Anthony Swiatek and Walter Breen, in their volume on commemoratives, state that Malburn's resistance was conclusive. 

Each of the four outside craftsmen challenged. Manship's complaints were without much of any result; McAdoo chose the plan presented by Barber for the half dollar. Longman requested a clarification, submitted new plans, and came to Washington to talk about the issue. As per a letter a while later from Dewey, she became sick there and was unfit to take an interest further; numismatic student of history Roger Burdette finds the clarification odd and proposes that there may have been some other reason. Hairdresser was chosen to structure the quarter hawk. Both Atiken and Keck questioned the Commission of Fine Arts and to McAdoo; Keck likewise presented extra structures. The two men met with McAdoo, Malburn and Dewey in Washington, and consented to changes to their proposed structures. With that done, the $50 and $1 pieces were endorsed on March 6, 1915. The half dollar was affirmed two days after the fact. Hair stylist presented his plans for the quarter bird on March 16. They met an excited gathering at the Treasury Department, and were endorsed. 

Whatever degree Mint Assistant Engraver (later Chief Engraver) George T. Morgan ought to be credited for work on the half dollar and quarter falcon is questionable; Mint authorities and representatives were not reliable on this point. Right hand Director Mary M. O'Reilly said in 1936 that the department's records showed that Barber was the originator. Later that year, she sent an announcement by an anonymous Philadelphia Mint worker expressing that by the very idea of Barber's and Morgan's long affiliation (Morgan was Barber's right hand for a long time), the two etchers would have presented much of the time, and that Morgan's system is "evident on the two sides of the two coins". The worker inferred that "no mix-up could be made, as I would see it, in acknowledging the two men for the execution of these two coins. I am sure this is right." Q. David Bowers, in his book on commemoratives, makes reference to the question, credits Barber on the front-sides of the two coins, and gives the two men credit on the turn around of the half dollar. He states Morgan made the turn around of the quarter hawk. 

The front-side of the half dollar delineates Liberty, who is dissipating products of the soil from a cornucopia held by a little, naked tyke. Behind them, the sun sets past San Francisco's Golden Gate, so far unadorned by its extension. Tom La Marre, in his 1987 article on the Panama– Pacific issue, brought up that excavators viewed the Golden Gate as an indication of good karma, and proposed it may have been exceptional to portray it on a gold coin. The cornucopia, as per Burdette, exhibits the headway in exchange brought by the waterway, however the 1915 "Report of the Director of the Mint" states it "signif[ies] the unfathomable assets of the West". The front depends on Barber's prior work, particularly his awards for the yearly Assay Commission. A portrayal of waves lies between the sun and the date, speaking to the sea subjects of the work. San Francisco's mint imprint, S, is to one side of the date. The turn around portrays a bird on a Union shield, flanked by parts of olive, symbolizing harmony, something Swiatek and Breen found unexpected given the coin's issuance amid World War I, and oak, the last a decision which they were at a misfortune to clarify. The 1915 Mint Director's report regarded the oak branch an "image of solidarity". Burdette takes note of that Barber's unique structure flanked the shield with two dolphins, speaking to the two seas joined by the channel, rather than branches, and guesses, "McAdoo either did not comprehend the purposeful anecdote, did not like it, or essentially disliked oceanic well evolved creatures on coins". McAdoo may likewise have been experiencing a surfeit of dolphins, as the dollar and octagonal $50 pieces bear them—the ones on the half dollar were expelled and supplanted by the branches. 

Craftsmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule esteemed the front of the half dollar "a midpoint between the plans on French silver pieces right off the bat in the new century and A. A. Weinman's 'Strolling Liberty' for the half dollar". The fifty-penny piece bears the witticism "In God We Trust", as do the $50 pieces, the main memorial coins to show it. That witticism was first utilized on U.S. coins in 1864. In the nineteenth century, it was not required that the proverb be utilized, however it in any case showed up on most divisions of U.S. coins by the turn of the twentieth century. In 1907 and 1908, there had been numerous complaints to the proverb's oversight on the gold ten dollar and twenty dollar pieces structured by Augustus Saint-Gaudens. Because of the open objection, Congress in 1908 passed enactment requiring its quality on any flowing coin which had already borne it, as both gold pieces had until 1907. The wording on the Panama– Pacific pieces was left to the tact of the Secretary of the Treasury, yet authorities may have recalled the fracas. Swiatek and Breen proposed that those engaged with making or favoring the structure may have moved to take off contention. 

Hairdresser's quarter falcon (the first of that division issued as a dedicatory) portrays, as indicated by the Mint Director's report, "Columbia, speaking to the United States, situated [on] the legendary ocean horse [a hippocampus], riding through the waters of the channel, with caduceus in handle, the image of exchange and trade, welcoming the countries of the world to utilize the new route from sea to sea. Invert: American falcon, laying on a standard bearing the maxim 'E Pluribus Unum' ". The mint imprint is on the front-side, to one side of the date. Swiatek and Breen recommended that the caduceus (in current use an image of prescription) is "said to speak to the restorative leaps forward of Col. William C. Gorgas' effective battle" to control intestinal sickness and yellow fever at the channel site. They composed that on the switch, the "resistant hawk presumably insinuates the need of keeping the Canal open amid World War I; the entire arrangement is intended to recommend a Roman legionary standard, which was a shaft surmounted by some such gadget". 

The front-side of the quarter falcon, Vermeule opined, got from coins of antiquated Greece delineating a "Nereid, maybe Thetis, who bears the shield of Achilles with on leg on each side of a hippocamp". He recommended that the quarter bird front-side "might be Barber's response to Theodore Roosevelt's and Augustus Saint-Gaudens' fuss for present day coins in the Greek way". The a large portion of dollar's invert, alongside that of the quarter hawk, "are great ensembles of old structures, themes that follow back to the birds and shields of [Charles Barber's forerunners as Chief Engraver] Longacre and William Barber overhauled into current structure." 

Keck's front-side for the dollar was one of the elective structures submitted to McAdoo, portraying the unadorned, topped leader of a Panama Canal development specialist—Keck's unique idea had highlighted Poseidon, divine force of the ocean in Greek folklore. The specialist, who speaks to the work important to construct the channel, is at times confused with a baseball player. Keck's invert contains the words "Panama– Pacific Exposition", "San Francisco", the group of the coin, and two dolphins, symbolizing the joining of the Atlantic and Pacific seas by the waterway. The mint imprint is underneath the letters D and O in "Dollar". 

Vermeule called Keck's dollar "a novel, brave utilization of the constrained zone managed by such a little, dainty coin. Contrasted and the before gold dollars, the coin is a gem." Numismatist Arlie Slabaugh, in his volume on commemoratives, noticed that the Panama– Pacific dollar "displays a strong American structure, totally not quite the same as the traditional styles utilized on different sections". 

Aitken clarified his plan for the $50 pieces: 

The goddess wears a peaked head protector, as her Greek equal, Pallas Athena, was ordinarily delineated on old coins; it is pushed back to connote her tranquil expectations. She wears mail, which Swiatek and Breen found an odd chronological error. She bears upon her shield the Roman numerals MCMXV for the year 1915, the second utilization of Roman numerals on U.S. coins after the early sorts of the 1907 Saint-Gaudens twofold bird. Despite the fact that Aitken had initially communicated the date as "1915" in his unique representations, he before long altered his opinion, "As these plans won't be utilized in some other year, there will be no compelling reason to change the year as we should on different coins." 

Kevin Flynn, in his book on memorial coins, depicted the branch on which the owl roosts as that of a ponderosa pine tree; a few cones are noticeable. The structure on the octagonal piece is littler than on the round, to permit space for the outskirt including the dolphins. The mint imprint is on the switch, nearby the furthest right pine cone and legitimately over the letter "O" in "San Francisco". 

The plan for the $50 got contemporary analysis; some proposed that the nearness of the dolphins on the octagonal coin suggested that the waterway had been developed for cetacean comfort. A 1916 section in the "American Journal of Numismatics" contained the end that "the analysis frequently heard that 'there is nothing American about the coin with the exception of the engraving' is completely justified." Swiatek and Breen rejected reactions as "various and for the most part superfluous, in view of all out misreading of the iconography. [McAdoo started it] with idiotic cases that Pallas Athena made no difference on a U.S. coin except if she could be related to Liberty, and that Athena's owl could never mean anything to us all". Vermeule considered the $50 coins "a visit de compel, dated certainly, yet sufficiently abnormal in all regards to be deserving of what American numismatic craftsmanship could accomplish". Later Chief Engraver Elizabeth Jones felt that the $50 pieces were "elaborately in venture with the period [and have] extensive creative benefits". Jeff Garrett and Ron Guth, in their book on U.S. gold coins, regarded the Panama– Pacific $50 pieces "a standout amongst the most shocking issues at any point created by the U.S. government". 

When the structures were endorsed, the craftsmen arranged bronze throws to be sent to the Medallic Art Company in New York. There, center points would be made that the Mint could use to create coinage bites the dust, as the organization could do it quicker than could the Mint. The Panama– Pacific issues are the primary American coins known to have been created from center points given by a privately owned business—the Medallic Art Company arranged center points for the 1913 Buffalo nickel, however it is unsure on the off chance that they were utilized. The Panama– Pacific centers were sent to the Philadelphia Mint, where the Engraving Department, headed by Barber, would create the vital kicks the bucket. In spite of the fact that the approving resolution necessitated that the coins be struck in San Francisco, all coinage bites the dust around then were created by Barber and his partners in Philadelphia. 

By April, Robert W. Woolley had been appointed as Director of the Mint, and he endorsed tests of the gold dollar, the first to have work finished, on April 22. He at that point headed out to San Francisco, and was there when the kicks the bucket for the dollar landed on the 27th. At the point when the San Francisco Mint's coiner inspected them, they turned out to be inadequate with regards to the mint imprint "S", standard on coins delivered there. Woolley didn't know whether this was deliberate, and wired to Philadelphia Mint Superintendent Adam M. Joyce on the 29th. After discovering that it was deliberate—Joyce contemplated that as the whole mintage of this, the main memorial issue to be struck outside Philadelphia, would be created at San Francisco, there was no compelling reason to utilize a mint imprint—Woolley requested that the bites the dust at San Francisco and in travel be come back to Philadelphia, and new ones delivered with the mint imprint. Woolley trusted that individuals would accept the coins were struck at Philadelphia, which did not then utilize a mint imprint. Burdette takes note of that the San Francisco Mint was a wellspring of nearby pride and the exclusion of the mint imprint would almost certainly have prompted across the board dissent, and perhaps to two assortments of every one of the new coins: with mint imprint, and without. New dollar kicks the bucket were sent from Philadelphia on May 3, and for the half dollar the next day. Bites the dust for the $50 pursued on May 14, and for the quarter hawk on May 27. 

Containing of gold and estimating crosswise over for the octagonal) and in breadth for the round, the $50 pieces were the biggest and heaviest U.S. coins issued until outperformed in 2010 by the America the Beautiful Silver Bullion Coins. The octagonal $50 piece is the main U.S. coin that isn't round. The offices at the San Francisco Mint were deficient to strike such expansive coins as the $50 pieces, and a water driven decoration press was sent from Philadelphia. This press was ceremoniously worked at that mint on June 15, 1915 for the underlying striking of $50 octagonal pieces; the first by San Francisco Mint Superintendent T. W. H. Shanahan, for introduction to the article's leader, Charles C. Moore. The following nine were struck by different dignitaries, including Congressman Kahn. Any other person present with the cost of $100 per coin was then permitted to strike their own piece, and no less than three individuals, including Dewey's significant other and the nearby postmaster, did as such. 

The Panama– Pacific Exposition Company contracted Farran Zerbe to sell the new coins at the reasonable. In spite of the arrangements of the law ordering a conveyance of coins before the reasonable's opening, the main government items Zerbe at first needed to distribute at his "Cash of the World" show were a trinket award, planned by Aitken and struck by a press working at the Mint's display, and prints delivered by the Bureau of Engraving and Printing, likewise on location. Offers of the decoration were moderate, and Zerbe did not have coins to sell until not long after May 8, 1915, when the half dollar and dollar kicks the bucket were gotten. Zerbe found the coins hard to sell; numerous potential buyers, looked with a plenty of decorations, proliferations of Gold Rush-period pioneer gold coins, and different products from an assortment of merchants, did not trust his coins were legitimate government items. Treasury authorities consented to permit him space for a salesman at the Mint's show, and the two lower divisions were sold there, with requests taken for the $50 pieces. Before long, however, Zerbe quit selling the gold dollar there, and the remainder of the reasonable's run was set apart by strife among him and Treasury agents. The full legitimate portion for every division had been struck, however Zerbe kept selling coins via mail after the reasonable shut on December 4, 1915, deals dropped however 1916. Zerbe kept on selling coins in the interest of the article until in any event November 1916, and eventually, he sold an obscure amount to himself to supply the future needs of his coin business. The rest of dissolved by the Treasury. 

The Mint struck 1,500 of every one of the two $50 pieces, in addition to nine additional of the octagonal and ten of the round, to be sent to Philadelphia to anticipate the 1916 gathering of the yearly Assay Commission, when they would be accessible for investigation and testing. Zerbe had masterminded unique showcase boxes and cases. A lot of four categories (with the buyer's decision of round or octagonal for the $50) cost $100; a lot of five expense $200. Copper show outlines with two of each coin were said by Slabaugh to have cost $400, however Swiatek, in his 2011 book on commemoratives, demonstrates that these sets may really have been given to dignitaries, as no business receipts or correspondence identifying with them are known. A lot of the three littler categories sold for $7, the half dollar at $1, the gold dollar at $2 or $2.25 (costs may have fluctuated), and the quarter hawk at $4 each. 

A greater amount of the octagonal $50 pieces were sold than of the round, as the previous demonstrated progressively prominent on account of the relationship with the Gold Rush, and on the grounds that individuals loved the dolphins. As half of the 3,000 approved mintage for the $50 pieces were of every assortment, this implied a greater amount of the cycle ones would be dissolved, leaving the round $50 with the most reduced dissemination of any U.S. memorial coin, around 483—the sprinter up being the octagonal with around 645, however sources shift on the precise numbers circulated. 

The $50 pieces remained as the most elevated division U.S. coins for a long time. In 1986, the Mint started delivering the American Gold Eagle, likewise with assumed worth $50. The record was outperformed with the American Platinum Eagle with a presumptive worth of $100, in 1997. 

R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins", distributed in 2018, records the Panama– Pacific half dollar at somewhere in the range of $375 and $2,500, contingent upon condition. The dollar records at somewhere in the range of $525 and $1,775 and the quarter falcon somewhere in the range of $1,550 and $6,000. The round $50 piece records for between about $55,000 and $240,000, and the octagonal for somewhere in the range of $55,000 and $245,000 relying upon condition.