250t-class torpedo watercraft 

The 250t class were high-oceans torpedo water crafts worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy somewhere in the range of 1913 and 1916. An aggregate of 27 water crafts were worked by three shipbuilding organizations, with the letter after the watercraft number showing the maker. There were little varieties between makers, primarily in the steam turbines utilized, and whether they had a couple of channels. The eight water crafts of the T-gathering, assigned "74 T" –  "81 T", were worked by Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino, situated at Trieste. The sixteen water crafts of the F-gathering, "82 F" –  "97 F", were worked by Ganz-Danubius at their shipyards at Fiume and Porto Re. The three M-aggregate water crafts, "98 M" –  "100 M", were produced by Cantiere Navale Triestino at Monfalcone. 

Every one of the 27 water crafts saw administration in World War I, undertaking hostile to submarine activities in the Adriatic Sea, shore assault missions along its Italian coastline, and guard, escort and minesweeping errands. Albeit broadly utilized amid the war, the class endured no misfortunes, notwithstanding enduring shots amid surface commitment and harm from mishaps. In 1917, one of the weapons on each watercraft was set on an enemy of flying machine mount. Under the terms of the post-war Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, the water crafts were exchanged to different nations, including seven to Romania, six to Portugal, six to Greece, and eight to the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia). By 1940, thirteen water crafts of the class had been lost or rejected, including each of the six Portuguese vessels. 

Amid World War II, the five staying Greek pontoons were sunk by Axis air ship amid the German-drove attack of Greece in April 1941. One Romanian vessel was lost amid the war, while the two staying Romanian water crafts performed escort assignments operating at a profit Sea before being taken over by the Soviet Navy, and serving operating at a profit Sea Fleet until the finish of the war; they were at long last stricken in late 1945. 

The six enduring Yugoslav pontoons were caught by the Italians amid the Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, and were worked by the "Regia Marina" in a beach front and second-line escort job. Promptly following the Italian capitulation in September 1943, one ex-Yugoslav watercraft was sunk by German flying machine, another was abandoned by its Italian team, and two increasingly fell again into Yugoslav hands a couple of months after the fact. The staying two were seized by the Germans. Of the two ex-Yugoslav pontoons taken over by the Germans, both were worked by Croatian groups or by the Navy of the Independent State of Croatia for quite a while before being recuperated by the Germans. One was pulverized by Royal Navy Motor Torpedo Boats in June 1944, and the other was sunk by Royal Air Force flying machine in 1945. The two enduring water crafts were charged by the Yugoslav Navy after the war, one proceeding in administration until the mid 1960s. 

In 1910, the Austria-Hungary Naval Technical Committee started the structure and advancement of a waterfront torpedo pontoon, determining that it ought to be equipped for supporting for 10 hours. This particular depended on a desire that in a future clash, the Strait of Otranto, where the Adriatic Sea meets the Ionian Sea, would be barred by unfriendly powers. In such conditions, there would be a requirement for a torpedo pontoon that could cruise from the southern Adriatic Austro-Hungarian Navy base at Cattaro to the Strait amid dimness, find and assault barricading boats, and come back to port before morning. Steam turbine control was chosen for impetus, as diesels with the vital power were not accessible, and the Austro-Hungarian Navy did not have the useful experience to run turbo-electric pontoons. 

Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino (STT) of Trieste was chosen for the agreement to manufacture eight vessels, in front of one other giver. In spite of the determinations of the agreement being near the necessities for the seaside torpedo watercraft, the STT pontoons were named maritime. The STT water crafts utilized Parsons turbines driving two propeller shafts. Another delicate was mentioned for four additional water crafts, however when Ganz-Danubius scaled down their cost by 10%, a sum of sixteen pontoons were requested from them. These water crafts were fueled by AEG-Curtiss turbines, and had two pipes as opposed to the single pipe of the STT vessels. The third contract went to Cantiere Navale Triestino (CNT), who utilized Melms-Pfenniger turbines, and their water crafts likewise had two pipes. The vessels of each of the three gatherings utilized steam created by two Yarrow water-tube boilers, one of which consumed fuel oil and the other coal. 

Whenever finished, every one of the 27 water crafts were furnished with two Škoda L/30 weapons, and four torpedo tubes. Every vessel could convey 10– 12 maritime mines. 

The T-aggregate were worked by STT at the Port of Trieste between April 1913 and December 1914. They had a waterline length of , a light emission and a typical draft of . While their planned removal was , they dislodged about completely stacked. The group comprised of 39 officers and enrolled men. Their Parsons turbines were evaluated at with a most extreme yield of and the water crafts were intended to achieve a top speed of . They conveyed of coal and of fuel oil, which gave them a scope of at . 

The T-gather vessels were initially to be outfitted with three L/30 weapons, and three torpedo tubes, however this was changed to two firearms and four torpedo tubes before the primary pontoon was finished, to institutionalize the combat hardware with the accompanying F-gathering. In 1914, one assault rifle was included. 

At the point when "74 T's" turbines were at first introduced, the issues with them were significant to the point that all her capacity and drive hardware must be revamped. She was propelled for a second time on 26 June 1914. 

The F-gather were worked by Ganz and Danubius at Fiume and close-by Porto Re between October 1913 and December 1916. They had a waterline length of , a light emission and an ordinary draft of . While their structured uprooting was , they dislodged about completely stacked. The group comprised of 38 officers and enrolled men. Their AEG-Curtiss turbines were appraised at with a greatest yield of , and the pontoons were intended to achieve a top speed of . Amid preliminaries, "93 F" delivered , and achieved a top speed of . They conveyed of coal and of fuel oil, which gave them a scope of at . 

At the point when Italy proclaimed war on Austria-Hungary in May 1915, five deficient F-aggregate water crafts were towed to be finished in wellbeing. "82 F", "83 F" and "84 F" were taken from Porto Re to Pola, and "90 F" and "91 F" were taken to Novigrad. This brought about postponements to the consummation of these water crafts. 

The M-amass were worked by CNT at Monfalcone between March 1914 and March 1916. They had a waterline length of , a light emission and a typical draft of . Their structured dislodging was , and they uprooted about completely stacked. The group comprised of 38 officers and enrolled men. Their Melms-Pfenniger turbines were evaluated at with a most extreme yield of , and the water crafts were intended to achieve a top speed of . They conveyed enough coal and fuel oil to give them a scope of at . 

At the episode of World War I, "74 T" – "77 T" included the first Torpedo Group of the third Torpedo Craft Division of the Austro-Hungarian first Torpedo Craft Flotilla. Each of the 27 pontoons saw administration, performing caravan, escort and minesweeping undertakings, hostile to submarine tasks, and shore barrage missions. They likewise led watches and upheld seaplane strikes against the Italian coast. Because of deficient subsidizing, the 250t class were basically seaside vessels, regardless of the first aim that they would be utilized for "high oceans" activities. On 24 May 1915, a few 250t-class vessels were engaged with the shelling of different Italian shore-based targets known as the Bombardment of Ancona. "74 T" – "77 T" were a piece of the activity against Ancona, and "78 T" – "81 T" were engaged with the shelling of Porto Corsini close Ravenna. In the last activity, an Italian shore battery returned fire, hitting the light cruiser and harming "80 T". On 23 July, "74 T" and "78 T" took an interest in a shore assault and landing activity driven by the scout cruiser against San Benedetto del Tronto, Ortona and Termoli on the focal Adriatic shoreline of Italy. In late November 1915, the Austro-Hungarian armada conveyed a power from its principle armada base at Pola to Cattaro in the southern Adriatic; this power included six of the T-aggregate torpedo pontoons. This power was entrusted to keep up a perpetual watch of the Albanian coastline and prohibit any troop transports crossing from Italy. 

On 3 February 1916, "83 F", "87 F" and "88 F" were engaged with another shore barrage activity against Ortona and San Vito Chietino, this time driven by the heavily clad cruiser . After three days, the scout cruiser , "74 T", "78 T", "80 T", "83 F", "87 F" and "88 F" were captured by the British light cruiser and French destroyer north of Durazzo in Albania, amid which the main harm was brought about by an impact somewhere in the range of "74 T" and "83 F". On 3 May, "76 T", "92 F", "93 F" and "98 M" – "100 M" were going with four destroyers when they were associated with a surface activity off Porto Corsini against an Italian power driven by the flotilla chiefs "Cesare Rossarol" and "Guglielmo Pepe". On this event the Austro-Hungarian power withdrew behind a minefield with no harm to the torpedo water crafts, and just chip harm to the . On 24 May, an Austro-Hungarian power that included "75 T", "89 F", "92 F", "98 M" – "100 M" and four destroyers was engaged with a short surface activity with two Italian torpedo pontoons off Chioggia in the northern Adriatic. Amid the activity, "75 T" was hit. The evening of 31 May – 1 June 1916, the s and , joined by "77 T", "79 T" and "81 T", assaulted the Otranto Barrage, the Allied maritime bar of the Strait of Otranto. "Orjen" sank one stray, however once the caution had been raised, the Austro-Hungarian power pulled back. 

On 9 July, "Novara" drove a power which included "87 F" and two s in one more night strike on the Otranto Barrage which brought about the sinking of two wanderers. On 2 August, the "Huszár"- class destroyers and were coming back from a shore barrage of Molfetta on the southern Adriatic bank of Italy when they were locked in by an Allied power which incorporated the and the British cruiser . The cruiser , "80 T" and "85 F" were sent to help the two destroyers, yet activity was severed before the contradicting cruisers got inside range. After nine days, "91 F", "94 F" and "98 M" were pursued and connected by Italian torpedo water crafts off Pola, bringing about fragment harm to one of the Italian pontoons. On 4 November, three Italian destroyers and three torpedo water crafts were engaged with a concise experience in the northern Adriatic with two Austro-Hungarian destroyers joined by "83 F", "87 F" and "88 F". The next day, a similar three torpedo pontoons directed a shore assault of Sant'Elpidio a Mare. 

Amid 1917, one of the weapons on each pontoon was set on an enemy of airplane mount. On 21 April, four Austro-Hungarian destroyers, joined by "84 F", "92 F", "94 F" and "100 M", led a night attack on the Otranto Barrage, sinking one wanderer. On 11 May, the British submarine stalked "78 T" off Pola, terminating two torpedoes at her. The British skipper had kept his submarine's periscope expanded excessively far and for a really long time, and the obvious "quill" cautioned the team of "78 T", enabling her to dodge the approaching torpedoes. That night, the destroyer "Csikós", joined by "78 T", "93 F" and "96 F", were sought after in the northern Adriatic by an Italian power of five destroyers, yet had the capacity to resign to wellbeing behind a minefield. On 14– 15 May 1917, a few 250t-class water crafts were a piece of the help powers for a noteworthy assault on the Otranto Barrage. At the point when the striking power withdrew, torpedo vessels and airplane verified the ways to deal with the Austro-Hungarian maritime base at Cattaro. When the assaulting power had left for the flood, "Sankt Georg", a destroyer, and "84 F", "88 F", "99 M" and "100 M" were to be set up to fight out to help the plunderers on their arrival voyage. The old beach front guard send and "86 F", "91 F" and "95 F" were additionally accessible at Cattaro if necessary. In spite of the fact that the assault was a triumph, sinking 14 strays, the striking power was then connected by Allied ships in the Battle of the Otranto Straits. Both care groups cruised to meet the returning Austro-Hungarian power, including the vigorously harmed "Novara", which was under tow. On wedding up with the assaulting power, the torpedo water crafts fanned out to screen the bigger warships, securing them as they came back to port. 

On 3 June, the destroyers "Wildfang" and "Csikós", alongside "93 F" and "96 F", quickly experienced three Italian MAS water crafts off the mouth of the Tagliamento waterway in the furthest north of the Adriatic. On 23 September, "77 T" and "78 T" were laying a minefield off Grado in the northern Adriatic when they had a concise experience with an Italian MAS vessel. The next night, "94 F" and three other torpedo vessels again had a short and uncertain commitment with Italian torpedo water crafts in the northern Adriatic. On 29 September, "90 F", "94 F" and "98 M" were going with a squadron of four destroyers supporting an air assault on the Italian landing strip at Ferrara by flying water crafts. Subsequent to obliterating an Italian carrier, the squadron pulled back at rapid in the obscurity, however was blocked by an Italian squadron of eight destroyers that had been sent to help an Italian air assault on Pola. In the resultant 45 minute pursue towards Parenzo, two Italian destroyers and three Austro-Hungarian destroyers were harmed, and "94 F" was hit by fragments. As the squadron withdrew through the minefields off Parenzo, "98 M" was additionally hit by Italian flame, bringing about one setback. 

On 14 November, "84 F", "92 F", "94 M", "99 M" and "100 M" experienced four Italian destroyers off the mouth of the Piave, yet the torpedo pontoons were again ready to escape their followers by cruising behind a minefield. After two days, the waterfront safeguard boats and "Budapest" cruised to draw in an Italian shore battery at Cortellazzo close to the mouth of the Piave, with an escort that included "84 F", "92 F", "94 F", "98 M" – "100 M" and a few minesweepers. Both "Wien" and "Budapest" were hit, yet none of the torpedo water crafts endured any harm. After an Italian power of seven destroyers and three MAS water crafts showed up, the shelling power pulled back. On 28 November, 250t-class pontoons were associated with two shore assault missions. In the primary mission, "79 T", "86 F" and "90 F" upheld the barrage of Senigallia by three destroyers, before they were joined by "78 T", "82 F", "87 F", "89 F" and "95 F" and another three destroyers for the siege of Porto Corsini, Marotta and Cesenatico. On 19 December, an expansive Austro-Hungarian power drew in the Italian shore battery at Cortellazzo. The power comprised of the pre-man of war ship , the light cruiser , "Budapest", six destroyers, ten torpedo water crafts including "84 F", "92 F", "94 F" and "98 M" – "100 M", and ten minesweepers. None of the boats of the besieging power endured harm amid the mission. 

Components of the Austro-Hungarian armada mutinied in Cattaro in February 1918, and in May, a plot was found to take over "80 T" at Pola. The intention gave off an impression of being patriotism. Two of the instigators, a Czech and a Dalmatian Croat, were attempted, indicted and executed by terminating squad. On 13 May, the destroyer , "84 F" and "98 M" were at Durazzo when two Italian MAS vessels constrained the harbor, sinking one Austro-Hungarian tanker. On 10 June, "76 T""79 T", "81 T" and "87 F" were a piece of the escort compel that neglected to shield the Austro-Hungarian man of war from the Italian MAS pontoons that sank her. Amid that activity, "76 T" terminated at the Italian vessels, however did not score a hit. On 1 July, the destroyers "Balaton" and "Csikós", alongside "83 F" and "88 F", were pursued seaward from Caorle by seven Italian destroyers. Every one of the four Austro-Hungarian boats were hit, with "83 F" hit multiple times, and "88 F" struck once. One of the Italian destroyers was hit multiple times, and another was marginally harmed by chips. On 6 September, "86 F" and two other torpedo vessels were locked in by three Italian destroyers in the Gulf of Drin. "86 F" was hit, and the Austro-Hungarian power pulled back. On 2 October, "87 F" was at Durazzo when the port was barraged by a global Allied maritime power. She got away with minor harm, in what was the last significant activity including the Austro-Hungarian Navy. 

Under the arrangements of the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, all Austro-Hungarian warships were surrendered to the Allies. The 250t-class torpedo vessels were circulated among Romania, Portugal, Greece, and the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later Yugoslavia), as pursues: 

By 1940, thirteen vessels of the class had been lost or rejected, including every one of the six Portuguese pontoons. At the season of the Axis attack of Yugoslavia in April 1941, the Yugoslav pontoons "T1" and "T3" were doled out toward the Southern Sector of Coastal Defense Command based at the Bay of Kotor, alongside a few minesweepers and other specialty. "T5"– "T8" contained the third Torpedo Division situated at Šibenik. On 8 April, the four water crafts of the third Torpedo Division, alongside different vessels, were entrusted to help an assault on the Italian enclave of Zadar on the Dalmatia coast. They were exposed to three Italian air assaults and, after the last one, cruised from the territory of Zaton into Lake Prokljan, where they stayed until 11 April. On 12 April, the third Torpedo Division landed at Milna on the island of Brač, and would not pursue requests to sail to the Bay of Kotor. Each of the six Yugoslav water crafts were then caught by the Italians. 

The five enduring Greek water crafts were altogether sunk via airplane amid the German intrusion of Greece, additionally in April 1941. The first was "Proussa", which was sunk off Corfu on 4 April by Italian Junkers Ju 87 "Picchiatellos" of the 239th Squadron, 97th Dive Bomber Group. Afterward, "Kios" was sunk off Athens on 22 April, "Kyzikos" at Salamis on 24 April, "Pergamos" off Salamis on 25 April, and "Kydoniai" south of the Peloponnese promontory on the next day, all by German flying machine. 

The three Romanian water crafts were at first sent against the Soviet Navy Black Sea Fleet after the dispatch of Operation Barbarossa in June 1941. "Năluca" participated in the sinking of one Soviet submarine close Mangalia on 9 July 1941, yet was herself sunk by Soviet flying machine at Constanța on 20 August 1944. "Sborul" and "Smeul" endure World War II, having been exchanged to the Soviet Black Sea Fleet in late August 1944 after Romania changed sides and joined the Allies, filling in as "Musson" and "Toros" individually. 

The Yugoslav water crafts served in a waterfront and second-line escort job with the Royal Italian Navy () in the Adriatic under their Yugoslav assignments, and were fitted with two L/30 hostile to air ship firearms instead of their 66 mm weapons, yet no other critical adjustments were made to them. After the Italians gave in September 1943, they exchanged "T1" back to the KJRM in a state of banishment in December of that year. "T3" was seized by the Germans at Rijeka on 16 September 1943 and was renamed "TA48". She was dispatched on 15 August 1944, and was utilized for watch and escort work in the northern Adriatic. The Germans added to her deadly implement, accommodating her with two single enemy of flying machine weapons notwithstanding the firearms fitted by the Italians, and evacuating two of her torpedo tubes. There are two forms of how "TA48" was utilized. The main rendition shows that she was manned only by Croatian officers and mariners, however stayed under German control, and the second expresses that she was given over to the Navy of the Independent State of Croatia, yet was repossessed by the Germans on 14 December 1944 in light of the fact that they considered the Croatians inconsistent. Her supplement was likewise expanded to 52 amid her German-Croatian administration. She was soaked in the port of Trieste by Allied airplane on 20 February 1945. 

"T5" was likewise come back to the KJRM estranged abroad in December 1943. "T6" was left by the Italians north of Rimini on 11 September as she had deficient fuel on board to achieve an Allied port. Once under German control, "T7" was additionally given over to the Navy of the Independent State of Croatia, and served under her Yugoslav assignment. Her group went under the impact of Yugoslav Partisan purposeful publicity, and were getting ready to uprising when the Germans interceded. On 24 June 1944, she and the S-vessels "S 154" and "S 157" of the seventh S-Boat Flotilla were cruising among Šibenik and Rijeka, ensuring German ocean supply courses along the Adriatic, when they were assaulted by the Royal Navy Fairmile D engine torpedo pontoons "MTB 659", "MTB 662" and "MTB 670" close to the island of Kukuljari, south of Murter Island. The MTBs shot two torpedoes at "T7", yet missed, so they shut and drew in her with their firearms, setting her burning. She was stranded, and 21 team were safeguarded by the MTBs. The British groups later analyzed the disaster area, catching five more team, at that point pulverized her with devastation charges. "T8" was sunk north-west of Dubrovnik by German air ship while emptying Italian troops from Dalmatia on 10 or 11 September 1943. 

Just four of the twenty-seven 250t-class torpedo water crafts endure World War II, two in Yugoslav administration and two in Soviet administration. "T1" was appointed by the Yugoslav Navy after the war as "Golešnica". She was re-outfitted with two firearms on single mounts and four weapons, and her torpedo tubes were expelled. She proceeded in Yugoslav administration under that name until October 1959. "T5" was likewise dispatched by the Yugoslav Navy after the war, and renamed "Cer". She was fitted with two weapons on single mounts and one firearm, and her torpedo tubes were likewise expelled. She served until 1962, when she was separated. "Musson" and "Toros" were come back to Romania in October 1945, and stricken the next month.