Teresa Sampsonia 

Teresa Sampsonia (conceived Sampsonia; after marriage Lady Teresa Sampsonia Shirley, 1589– 1668) was an aristocrat of the Safavid Empire of Iran. She was the spouse of Elizabethan English swashbuckler Robert Shirley, whom she went with on his movements and consulates crosswise over Europe for the sake of the Safavid King ("Shah") Abbas the Great (1588– 1629). 

Teresa was gotten by numerous individuals of the imperial places of Europe, for example, English crown sovereign Henry Frederick and Queen Anne (her tyke's godparents) and contemporary scholars and craftsmen, for example, Thomas Herbert and Anthony van Dyck. Herbert considered Robert Shirley "the best Traveler of his time", however appreciated the "steadfast Lady Teresa" considerably more. Following the demise of her significant other from looseness of the bowels in 1628, and because of hindrances from grandees at the court, and the experts, amid the rule of Abbas' successor and grandson Safi (1629– 1642), Teresa chose to leave Iran. She lived in a religious circle in Rome for a mind-blowing remainder, dedicating her an opportunity to philanthropy and religion. As a devout Christian, and due to her adoration for her better half, Teresa had Shirley's remaining parts transported to Rome from Isfahan and reburied; on the gravestone of their shared grave she specifies their movements and alludes to her respectable Circassian roots. 

Because of her endeavors, Teresa has been portrayed as somebody who subverted man centric sexual orientation jobs regular to the Muslim and Christian societies of her time. Because of their half and half characters and undertakings, Teresa and her significant other turned into the subject of a few contemporary artistic and visual works. In any case, the tale of Teresa as an essential lady of the seventeenth century has been to a great extent dominated and clouded by the story of her better half Robert and his siblings. 

The movements of Teresa and Robert Shirley were recorded in numerous contemporaneous English, Italian, Latin and Spanish sources, including observer accounts. As per Penelope Tuson, the fundamental sources that manage Teresa's life are the "typically semi-hagiographic" accounts put away in the chronicles of the Vatican and the Carmelite request. These Vatican and Carmelite sources were assembled, altered and distributed by Herbert Chick in 1939 in his "Account of the Carmelites in Persia". In spite of the fact that the "Annal of the Carmelites in Persia" clearly depicts a positive picture of Teresa, Tuson takes note of that the records are "inconsistent" and "opposing" on certain events. Moreover, the account is viewed as from the perspective of European Catholicism. Different sources that assistance make a cutting edge academic record of Teresa incorporate the main archive she is known to have written in English (a request to King James I of England 1603– 1625), depictions, and to a lesser degree, official letters marked by King ("Shah") Abbas the Great (1588– 1629). 

Teresa was conceived in 1589 into an honorable Orthodox Christian Circassian family in the Safavid Empire, ruled at the time by King Abbas the Great. She was named Sampsonia during childbirth. The girl of Ismail Khan, a brother by marriage of the King, she experienced childhood in Isfahan in the Iranian regal court as a purportedly delightful, achieved horsewoman who appreciated weaving and painting. 

Robert Shirley was an English explorer who was sent to the Safavids, after a Persian government office was sent to Europe, to manufacture a coalition against the neighboring Ottoman Empire, opponents of the Safavids. Amid his participation at court, Teresa met him and experienced passionate feelings for. On 2 February 1608, with the endorsement of her auntie and Abbas, Teresa wedded Robert Shirley in Iran. At about the season of their wedding, she was purified through water as a Roman Catholic by the Carmelites in Isfahan with the name Teresa. Her baptismal name gets from the organizer of the Discalced Carmelites, Teresa of Ávila. 

Teresa went with Robert on his strategic missions for King Abbas to England and other regal houses in Europe. When they set off on their first international safe haven trip, Robert was caught by his adversaries. Teresa supposedly figured out how to spare him and put to flight the aggressors; for this, the Carmelite records lauded her as "a genuine Amazon". Teresa and Shirley visited the Grand Duke of Muscovy, Pope Paul V in Rome and the King of Poland. In Poland, Teresa lived in a religious community in Kraków for quite a while her significant other visited Prague, where Emperor Rudolph II (1576– 1612) presented on him the title of Count Palatine. He touched base in Rome on 27 September 1609 and met Ali Qoli Beg, Abbas I's minister, with whom he had a group of people with the Pope. Shirley then left for Savoy, Florence, Milan, Genoa, France, Flanders and Spain (Barcelona and Madrid). Teresa rejoined him in Lisbon by means of Hamburg. They at that point went to Valladolid and Madrid where Teresa came to know the Carmelite nuns, especially Mother Beatrix de Jesus (the niece of Saint Teresa) from whom she got a relic of Teresa). 

Teresa and Shirley left for Holland and consequently cruised from Bayonne to England, where they touched base around the start of August 1611. Their single kid, a child named Henry, more then likely the primary English-conceived offspring of Iranian plummet as indicated by Sheila R. Canby, was conceived in November 1611 at the Shirley home in Sussex. His godparents were crown Prince Henry Frederick, for whom he was named, and Queen Anne. Teresa and Robert stayed in England barely a year. Before withdrawing from Gravesend to Safavid Iran in 1612– 1613, they chose to turn youthful Henry over to Robert's family in Sussex. He is accepted to have made due until something like 1622, yet to have kicked the bucket at a youthful age. Teresa and Shirley's over multi year return voyage to Iran ended up being incredibly troublesome. On one event, they were nearly slaughtered adrift. On another, amid their short stop in Mughal India to meet Emperor Jahangir (1605– 1627), unfriendly Portuguese attempted to kill the couple. The couple stayed in Iran for a couple of months, before landing on their second consulate. 

On their last mission, Teresa and Robert touched base in Lisbon through Goa on 27 September 1617. They headed towards Madrid, where they remained until March 1622, at that point went to Florence and Rome. Amid this last short visit to Rome between 22 July and 29 August 1622, Anthony van Dyck (at that point 23 years of age) painted their representations. The couple at that point went to Warsaw in Poland, and maybe Moscow thereafter, before visiting England in 1623 once and for all. They cruised for the Safavid Empire in 1627 on an East India Company dispatch with Dodmore Cotton, an agent from the King of England to Persia and different courts. Teresa and Robert came back to Isfahan through Surat and Bandar Abbas. The couple at that point moved to Qazvin (the previous capital of Safavid Iran) were the lord remunerated them with significant endowments. Shirley and Cotton turned out to be truly sick with fever (most likely loose bowels), not long after their entry. 

Shirley and Teresa were agitated by the envy of a few nobles and grandees at court, who spread talk that Teresa was a Muslim before she turned into a Christian. They disfavored her to the lord, and it was apparently distributed in the court that he proposed to execute her by consuming. Fifteen days in the wake of hearing the report, Robert passed on of fever on 13 July 1628 in Qazvin. As per his desires, he was covered in the Barefoot Carmelite church in Isfahan. The King called Teresa, asking her for what good reason the grandees were so contradicted to her. She stayed quiet to secure them; as indicated by contemporaneous records, the King exhorted her not to be apprehensive, "in light of the fact that it would be more earnestly for him to execute one lady than a hundred men". A portion of his degenerate authorities ravaged her riches. Teresa apparently turned out to be truly sick, and was moved to Isfahan to get the ceremonies from the ministers; she recouped and chose to move to a Christian land. 

In the Safavid Empire ladies were denied from voyaging abroad without authorization. So the Carmelites in Isfahan solicited the representative from Shiraz, Emamqoli Khan, child of the observed Allahverdi Khan (one of Abbas' nearest relates), for assent on Teresa's benefit. A most loved of Emamqoli Khan needed to wed Teresa, and helped the representative to remember the report that she had been a Muslim before she was a Christian. She was requested to show up before a mullah (a religious judge) in a mosque, who might scrutinize her about her past and her religion. This was inadmissible to the Carmelites, who requested that the senator have Teresa addressed in the congregation of the Carmelite dads. The mullah dismissed this, however an understanding was achieved that they would meet in the home of a steward of the legislative head of Shiraz, who was a companion of the Carmelite Fathers. She was addressed for an hour prior to she was permitted to return home. 

Safavid Iran was bothered by the demise of King Abbas a couple of months after Shirley's passing. Abbas' grandson, Safi (1629– 1642), succeeded him; he was less predictable than his granddad in his religious resistance. The most loved of Emamqoli Khan, who still needed to wed Teresa, sent his hirelings to the Carmelites in Isfahan to catch her. The clerics denied knowing her whereabouts, and prompted her to take shelter in the Church of Saint Augustine in New Julfa (the Armenian quarter in Isfahan). The ministers were conveyed to the most loved's home and apparently compromised with torment before they were discharged. 

The mullah approached Emamqoli Khan for authorization to address Teresa once more. Since he supported the Carmelite Fathers, and did not have any desire to affront the mullah, he said that the issue concerned Isfahan administrator ("darugha") Khosrow Mirza. The official, similar to the legislative head of Shiraz, was likewise a Georgian. He had Teresa captured and brought under the watchful eye of him; a judge interrogated her concerning her religion. She claimed her Christianity, supposedly saying that she would kick the bucket "a thousand times" for it. 

The judge blamed her for lying and took steps to consume her alive on the off chance that she didn't change over to Islam. At the point when Teresa won't, the judge took steps to have her tossed from a pinnacle; she apparently said that would suit her better, since she would pass on (and go to paradise) all the more rapidly. As per the Carmelites, the judge was disgraced by her notice of Shirley's administration. He finished the scrutinizing and answered to the official of Isfahan who enabled Teresa to come back to her home and had the mullah expelled. The Carmelite Fathers got the essential authorization from the legislative leader of Shiraz in September 1629. Teresa's flight was recorded in a letter from Father Dimas in the Carmelite files in Rome: 

Three years in the wake of coming back from her last excursion, Teresa left her nation of birth until the end of time. She lived in Constantinople for a long time, accepting a testament from the grocery store general of the Dominicans in the East on 21 June 1634 apparently bearing witness to her devout direct. Around that time, she chose to resign to a cloister in Rome, which was connected to the Carmelite Santa Maria della Scala church. 

On 27 December 1634 she touched base in Rome and was gotten merciful by Pope Urban VIII, who endowed her to the Carmelites. Teresa purchased a house alongside the congregation. In 1658 she had Robert's remaining parts transported from Isfahan to Rome, where he was reburied in the Santa Maria della Scala. In the Carmelite religious circle, she dedicated herself to philanthropy and religion until her passing at age 79 of every 1688. Teresa was covered in the congregation, where she had lived for a long time, in a similar grave where she had covered her better half Robert ten years sooner. 

She had the tombstone engraved: "Deo Optimo Maximo Roberto Sherleyo Anglo Nobilissimo Comiti Cesareo Equiti Aurato Rodulfi II Imperatori Legato Ad Scia Abbam Regem Persarum et Eiusdeum Regis Secundo Ad Romanos Pontifices Imperatores Reges Hispaniae Angliae Poloniae Moscoviae Mogorri Aliosque Europae Principes Inclito Oratori. Theresia Sampsonia Amazonites Samphuffi Circassiae Principes Filia Viro Amatissimo et Sibi Posuit Illius Ossibus Suisque Laribus In Urbem E Perside Pietatis Ergo Translatis Annos Nata LXXIX MDCLXVIII" 

As indicated by Bernadette Andrea (2017), the content shows that Teresa subverted the man centric sexual orientation jobs regular to the Muslim and Christian societies of her time. 

The undertakings of Teresa and her significant other, and what Andrea calls their "crossover characters", enlivened an assortment of abstract and visual works. As per Manoutchehr Eskandari-Qajar, Shirley and his "intriguing spouse with a significantly progressively fascinating biography" started a lot of interest and enthusiasm among their peers in the West. Amid her adventures among Persia and Europe, Teresa was commented upon by contemporary authors, specialists and European illustrious houses. Travel essayist Thomas Herbert portrayed Shirley as "the best Traveler of his time", however he respected the "fearless Lady Teresa" significantly more, as one whose "confidence was ever Christian". Teresa and her better half were constantly noted for their fascinating attire. In each abnormal state meeting, Shirley showed up in his high-status Persian clothing of silk and velvet. He was Persianized to such an extent, that contemporary writer and pamphleteer Thomas Middleton alluded to him as the "celebrated English "Persian"". 

Works roused by the couple incorporate two pictures by van Dyck, leaflets in numerous dialects, and Jacobean stage plays including "The Travels of the Three English Brothers". Woman Mary Wroth's "Urania" was mostly affected by Teresia Sampsonia's movements to England with her better half. Tuson contends that Teresa's story has been dominated by "the incompletely selfcreated fantasy of the Shirley's", who turned into the fundamental subject of a considerable lot of the contemporary "accounts just as consequent verifiable examinations". Carmen Nocentelli takes note of that the "figure of Teresa has been for the most part darkened by those of her male relatives". As indicated by Nocentelli: 

Nocentelli adds that the putting down of Teresa as a notable figure of significance was restricted to England. Outside England, "Teresa Sampsonia Sherley was a figure of note in and of her own right". Contemporaneous Italian voyager Pietro della Valle alluded to Teresa as an "Ambassadress of the King of Persia", which Nocentelli deciphers as putting Teresa on an "equivalent balance with her significant other". In 2009, in London, there were two concurrent presentations which highlighted Teresa and her significant other: "Shah 'Abbas: The Remaking of Iran" (British Museum, February to June 2009) and "Van Dyck and Britain" (Tate Britain, February to May 2009).