Bluff Clinkscales 

Clifford "Bluff" Clinkscales (conceived March 11, 1984) is an American expert b-ball player for the Halifax Hurricanes of the National Basketball League of Canada (NBL). A 6-foot-1-inch (1.85 m), 185-pound (84 kg) point protect, Clinkscales has been playing expertly since 2008, showing up in the NBA D-League, American Basketball League, and NBL Canada. Prior to joining the Hurricanes, he played for the Erie BayHawks, Rio Grande Valley Vipers, Panama City Breeze, and Halifax Rainmen. He was a NBL Canada All-Star in 2014, and in this way won the class title in 2016. 

A local of Jamaica, Queens in New York City, Clinkscales rose to noticeable quality as a ball player at a youthful age, drawing consideration from mentors around the nation. After his first year at Springfield Gardens High School, he exchanged to Shores Christian Academy in Ocala, Florida, where his group won the National Association of Christian Athletes title. Therefore, Clinkscales got enthusiasm from a few noteworthy school b-ball programs as a three-star enlist. He played with the DePaul Blue Demons from 2004 to 2008 and joined the BayHawks before long. For his whole school profession, Clinkscales had a restricted effect as a scorer regardless of his passing capacity, turning into the fifth green bean at DePaul to go for 100 helps. While the vast majority of his insights stagnated throughout the years, he drove NCAA Division I in help to-turnover proportion as a senior. After already reporting a break from the Hurricanes, Clinkscales confirmed in October 2016 that he would speak to the group in the 2016– 2017 season. 

Clinkscales was raised in Jamaica in Queens, New York City with three kin. He was raised by his mom and a family companion, Clarence Washington, instead of his natural dad. Washington acquainted a youthful Clinkscales with the sport of b-ball, with his sister, Kima, showing him how to spill. Washington respected Clinkscales' enthusiasm for the amusement, remarking, "He was brought into the world with an undeniable ability... With regards to b-ball, he has an IQ that is simply insane." 

Quickly before entering fifth grade, in the mid year of 1996, Clinkscales—standing 4 ft 8 in (1.42 m)— was seen in an ABCD b-ball camp in Teaneck, New Jersey. The camp was intended for school level ball hopefuls, yet Clinkscales spilled on the court in the middle of diversions and drew consideration from mentors. His execution at the camp prompted his national acknowledgment, after he was included by "Hammer", was named a "wonder" by the "New York Post", and showed up on the TV programs "The Oprah Winfrey Show" and "The Rosie O'Donnell Show". From that point, Clinkscales got school enlistment letters from the Kansas Jayhawks and USC Trojans. 

In spite of accomplishing refinement at a youthful age, Clinkscales before long dropped out of the general visibility. He went through one year in Springfield Gardens High School in Queens and did not play ball for the group because of terrible scores. While thinking about his inability to build up his potential at a beginning period, he mirrored: "All [of the expectations] would have worked out as expected on the off chance that I could have remained in New York and played secondary school b-ball." In the next year, he exchanged to Shores Christian Academy in Ocala, Florida. The choice to switch schools was made in light of the fact that he needed to improve his scholastic execution, and one of his companions knew the new school's ball mentor, Allan Adams. At Ocala, Clinkscales lived with Stephen and Nancy Davidson, who both worked at the foundation. Stephen was a minister and the head of the school, and Nancy was an office staff part. 

Clinkscales communicated laments over leaving Queens after Norm Roberts, who had demonstrated an enthusiasm for him, was enlisted by St. John's. While in Ocala, he endeavored to turn out to be better at b-ball by completing 200 push-ups each night. He additionally visited the place where he grew up amid school get-aways. In his time living in Florida, Clinkscales had a development spurt and stood about at 6 ft (1.83 m), boosting his execution on the court. Remarking on Clinkscales' choice to move to Florida, Clarence Washington stated, "Going down there was the best thing that at any point transpired." 

At Shores Christian Academy, Clinkscales turned into a top player on the b-ball crew, averaging 21 and 12 helps amid his senior year. On January 3, 2004, he recorded 24 points and eight helps, incorporating a layup with four seconds left in guideline, to vanquish Trinity Catholic by one point. In another challenge that month, Clinkscales scored 31 and 11 aids a triple-extra time misfortune to Gainesville High School, the top-positioned group at the Diamondback Challenge competition. In the Florida Christian Athletic League's south quarterfinals, he posted 40 and 14 helps to beat Ocala Word of Faith by a 100– 32 edge. In the region title challenge, he set up 26, 15 helps, six bounce back, and three takes. Clinkscales' group won the National Association of Christian Athletes title behind a 36-win season, and he was named the "Ocala Star-Banner" young men's b-ball player of the year. In spite of his prosperity at Ocala, the low challenge level kept him from illustration national consideration. Be that as it may, he was in the spotlight playing for the Atlanta Celtics, an Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) program made up of players, for example, Dwight Howard, Josh Smith, and Randolph Morris. He joined the group since they required a solid point monitor. The Celtics won the Adidas Big Time Tournament, starting mentors' enthusiasm for him by and by. Ball news site The Hoop Scoop named Clinkscales the 47th-best secondary school player in his class as he entered school. He was appraised a three-star enlist by both Rivals.com and 247Sports.com. 

Louisville, Florida, and Maryland were among the few schools that at first indicated enthusiasm for Clinkscales as he entered school. Florida State was his favored decision, and he made different informal visits to the school. In any case, the group would not offer him an athletic grant in view of his low test scores. When he improved his scores, Clinkscales grabbed the eye of more schools, including Baylor and St. John's. On May 7, 2004, he declared his choice to play for the DePaul Blue Demons, noticing that it would before long be a piece of the Big East Conference, implying that he could play at Madison Square Garden. The school's urban condition likewise incited him to settle on the choice. Blue Demons head mentor Dave Leitao commended the new underwriter, saying, "Bluff is a genuine point watch who brings speed, physicality, and speed that we will require in our program." Clinkscales entered school keeping in mind the desire of coming back to unmistakable quality in the diversion. 

On November 20, 2004, Clinkscales made his university debut with the Blue Demons by scoring one point and recording two aids 14 minutes against . He before long wound up prevalent among DePaul ball fans, and was nicknamed "The Colonel." On December 6, Clinkscales helped DePaul rout with seven and a group high 12 helps. The first year recruit remarked, "The best thing I can do is pass. I truly don't need to take a gander at them (my colleagues). I simply instruct them to be prepared." On December 18 he set up 13 helps, alongside seven and three takes, to help beat . It was Clinkscales' first vocation begin, as he substituted for Drake Diener. In a success over on January 2, 2005, he supplanted Sammy Mejía and scored nine points for his best scoring execution of the period. Clinkscales additionally recorded six helps and a season-high four bounce back in the challenge. He shut the season averaging 2.5 focuses, 3.4 helps, and 0.9 bounce back in 15 minutes for every diversion. Clinkscales completed the season with a help to-turnover proportion of 2.31, the third-best in Conference USA and the best in his group. He likewise turned into the fifth DePaul green bean ever to break the 100-help boundary. 

For Clinkscales' sophomore season, DePaul moved from Conference USA to the Big East Conference and furthermore employed Jerry Wainwright as head mentor. The group additionally invited approaching first year recruit, and the authoritative Mr. B-ball of Michigan, Wilson Chandler. Clinkscales appeared in a 60– 75 misfortune to Bradley on November 19, 2005. He scored three points and go for a group high six helps yet in addition had five turnovers. Clinkscales scored a then-vocation best 11 points, just as four helps and no turnovers, on December 31 versus . He made two three-pointers and five free-tosses in the amusement, the two of which would be season highs. Clinkscales fell off the seat to enable the group to expand their noteworthy lead with under eight minutes left in guideline to 12 points toward the finish of the diversion. On January 21, 2006, Clinkscales posted a season-best six aids a one-point misfortune to . Notwithstanding going through 38 minutes on the court, he just endeavored four field objectives. For the season, he found the middle value of 3.2 focuses, 2.5 helps, and 1.1 bounce back in 19.5 minutes per amusement. 

As a lesser, Clinkscales relapsed measurably. He played four minutes in DePaul's season-opening misfortune to Bradley on November 11, 2006 however recorded no insights. On November 17, in a success against , Clinkscales completed with a season-high three takes. He recorded his first point on November 20, posting two and three aids 13 minutes off the seat versus Kentucky at the Maui Invitational Tournament. In the accompanying round of the occasion, in a triumph over Chaminade, he had two takes and a season-best 13 helps. Clinkscales fell off the seat against at the Ryan Center to score six points, the most in the season, on December 16. He duplicated the scoring accomplishment on December 29 versus , alongside nine helps. His group wound up overcoming their rivals by 30 points, additionally pushed by a 40-point exhibition by Sammy Mejía. Following an early misfortune at the 2007 National Invitation Tournament (NIT), he topped the season playing 12 minutes for every amusement and averaging 1.4 focuses, 2.3 helps, and 1.2 bounce back per challenge. 

Heading into the accompanying season, the Blue Demons needed both administration and ability at the point watch position. Clinkscales would have liked to accept the job as a pioneer, saying, "I believe that is my activity. I will do that, in any case 40 minutes or two minutes. I'm going to attempt to help the folks out, from the seat or on the court." His improvement inspired Jerry Wainwright, who turned out to be increasingly OK with giving him all the more playing time. Clinkscales started his last season at DePaul with a 12-point misfortune to on November 9, 2007. In the wake of playing 21 minutes off the seat, he had five, two helps, two turnovers, and a season-high three takes. Heading into late December, amidst different wounds to his colleagues, Clinkscales started accepting expanded playing time and much of the time showed up in the Blue Demons' beginning lineup. On January 3, 2008, while playing a vocation high 39 minutes against Villanova, he scored a season-best 12 and included eight helps with two turnovers. Clinkscales was compelling indeed in his group's January 16 rematch with Villanova, as he completed with 11 helps – the most he would record as a senior. Regardless of his passing endeavors, the group was unfit to beat the Wildcats, and lost 69– 76. Against on February 23, Clinkscales drove his group with eight helps and two takes. He confronted Notre Dame on March 2, having eight helps, four bounce back, and one turnover. 

As his senior season finished, he was averaging 3.0 focuses, 1.2 bounce back, and 4.1 aids 25.9 minutes per diversion. He drove NCAA Division I with a help to-turnover proportion of 3.62. 

On November 7, 2008, Clinkscales was chosen as the seventh pick of the ninth round in the 2008 NBA Development League Draft by the Erie BayHawks. Afterward, he formally made his expert introduction with the BayHawks on November 28, including 12 points, four bounce back, and three aids a misfortune to the Fort Wayne Mad Ants. On December 11, Clinkscales recorded his first twofold with ten points and a group high 11 helps, helping his group rout the Iowa Energy. In a misfortune to the Sioux Falls Skyforce later in the season, he posted a profession high 13 helps. All through his underlying stretch with the BayHawks, Clinkscales rose as a solid passer and played in nine diversions. After 43 amusements, he found the middle value of 7.3 focuses and 5.3 helps, positioning eleventh in the class in the last classification. 

Towards the finish of the period, on March 30, 2009, Clinkscales was gained from the player pool by the Rio Grande Valley Vipers of the D-League. To account for him in their program, the Vipers needed to defer veteran Jeff Trepagnier. Head mentor Clay Moser portrayed Clinkscales' landing as an aid to the group, saying, "We like Cliff's capacity to get into the center of the path and make shots for other people." Clinkscales was relied upon to join the Vipers as the reinforcement guide watch toward Jared Jordan. He just played 12 minutes in his presentation with the group, with zero points and three helps against the Utah Flash on April 1. He topped the season with a twofold of 12 points and ten helps versus the Austin Spurs. Before the finish of the period, he was averaging 7.2 focuses, 5.3 helps, and 2.4 bounce back. 

Following his short spell with the BayHawks, and resulting marking by the Vipers, Clinkscales was in the long run named on the last's preparation camp program. Be that as it may, on November 17, 2009, he was cut from the list amid preseason. Therefore, he rejoined with the Erie BayHawks in mid-December. In his first appearance in the wake of rejoining the Bayhawks, he recorded nine, seven helps, and four bounce back in a misfortune to the Iowa Energy on December 19. In another striking execution versus Iowa Energy that month, Clinkscales scored 14 points and indented a season-best 16 helps. Notwithstanding his solid passing numbers, he was reprimanded for being a poor bounce shooter. After 39 amusements in the season, he arrived at the midpoint of 5.1 focuses, 5.1 helps, and 1.6 bounce back per diversion. That season, he completed six distinct diversions with at least ten helps. 

In the wake of leaving the D-League, Clinkscales marked in 2013 with the Panama City Breeze of the semi-proficient American Basketball League (ABL), with no sign that he joined some other group since his residency with the BayHawks. On February 16, 2013, he scored 12 points with two three-pointers in a misfortune to the Emerald Coast Knights. While with the Breeze, Clinkscales (and his partners) persevered through money related and local troubles. He lived with five different partners in a duplex house in Bay County, Florida. Due to budgetary issues, the class neglected to pay the players—with Clinkscales exclusively accepting a check of $400—and dropped a few amusements on its timetable. Later in the season, the players' duplex was evidently rented by Breeze's head mentor, Ty Fisher. A neighborhood agent recorded a common claim against Fisher to expel the players, and district sheriff appointees before long driven them out the house. While living in the zone, the players got help from a neighborhood occupant, Vonda Gainer, who they met at a Dollar Tree store. Gainer gave them nourishment and washed their garments. Regardless of their poor living conditions, the players neglected to get any guide by the group, with no contact or confirmation from class CEO Steve Haney. 

In February 2014, not long after his time with the Breeze, Clinkscales joined the Halifax Rainmen of the National Basketball League of Canada (NBL) for the rest of the 2013– 14 season. In his first amusement for the Rainmen on February 11, he had six, four bounce back, and nine helps against the Island Storm. Clinkscales scored a season-high 22 points alongside 11 aids a playoff prevail upon the Saint John Mill Rats on March 7. In the accompanying amusement versus the Mill Rats on March 9, he set the NBL Canada postseason record with 18 aids a solitary diversion. He completed the arrangement with a sum of 52 helps—the most in a four-amusement playoff arrangement allied history. In the accompanying round against the Storm, Clinkscales aggregated 68 helps, a NBL Canada record for a six-diversion arrangement. He completed the season averaging 11, 9.8 helps, and 3.3 bounce back. 

On April 20, 2014, Clinkscales spoke to the Atlantic Division at the NBL Canada All-Star Game in Charlottetown, Prince Edward Island. He completed with four, two bounce back, and an amusement high 15 helps, as his group vanquished the Central Division. 

On May 14, 2014, Clinkscales was declared as one of six secured players on the Rainmen list for the up and coming season, implying that he couldn't be drawn closer by some other NBL Canada group. On June 23, Clinkscales re-marked with the Rainmen for the 2014– 15 season. The group, which went separate ways with their head mentor Craig Hodges, expected to return huge numbers of its players from the past season. Rainmen proprietor Andre Levingston remarked, "We are incredibly eager to have our group chief and floor general back. Our fans cherished Cliff's enthusiasm for the diversion, and (he) is quick turning into the essence of our group's association." On November 7, the Rainmen lost their season opener to the Moncton Miracles, 113– 117, with Clinkscales representing nine points and eight helps. He posted a twofold in a success over their catch up with the Miracles on November 23, recording ten points and a group high ten helps off the seat. On November 29, he scored 14 points and eight helps versus the Island Storm. Thriving as a point-monitor, Clinkscales scored a season-best 16 points against the Storm on February 26, 2015. In a postseason triumph versus the Miracles on March 8, he had a season-high 12 helps. 

The Rainmen proceeded to fit the bill for the 2015 Finals against the Windsor Express. In their Game 1 rout, Clinkscales submitted three fouls inside the initial 12 minutes, yet figured out how to score 13 points. The arrangement highlighted a few physical and verbal quarrels, and after it was tied at three recreations each, the Rainmen relinquished the choosing seventh diversion. Preceding the challenge, a fight happened between individuals from the two sides. The association fined Clinkscales, alongside ten of his partners, $5,000 each for poor sportsmanship on the court. They were additionally suspended inconclusively from the NBL Canada amid the examination. Remarking on the episode, Clinkscales later clarified, "We practice hard against one another, we beat each other up, however there's a contrast between being physical and grimy and harming individuals." The class fined players, mentors, and groups an aggregate of $90,000, and the Rainmen at last fell in the wake of confronting insolvency. Clinkscales finished the season averaging 6.6 focuses, 5.9 helps, and 1.4 takes per diversion. 

For the 2015– 2016 season, the Rainmen transformed under new proprietorship as the Halifax Hurricanes. Levingston remained the group's general supervisor. Clinkscales came back to the Halifax group, however he needed to play with for the most part new colleagues and another mentor in Hugo López. Clinkscales in the long run took on the situation of group skipper amid the season. 

In the Hurricanes' standard season opener on Boxing Day 2015, Clinkscales added 13 points to help beat the Moncton Miracles. He proceeded to break the twofold digit scoring mark on January 23, 2016, in a triumph against the Island Storm, when he had ten points and a diversion high seven helps. On January 28, Clinkscales posted his first twofold of the period, with a season-best 18 and ten aids a misfortune to the Saint John Mill Rats. The Hurricanes were unfit to rally from a 15-point final quarter shortage. Clinkscales had another twofold on February 14 against the Orangeville A's, recording ten points and ten helps to push Halifax to a 125– 89 win. He likewise scored four takes, which would be a season high. On March 10, playing point protect, he scored 18 by and by, alongside ten helps, as the Hurricanes caught just their second win of the period, over the Mill Rats. Two recreations later, on March 18, Clinkscales recorded 10 points, 16 helps, and seven bounce back—season bests for the last two classifications. His group won in additional time against the A's. Halifax entered the playoffs with a class best 29– 11 record, and they in the end came back to the NBL Canada Finals. On June 14, the Hurricanes prevailed upon the title the London Lightning, winning in the arrangement 4– 3. Clinkscales scored nine points and passed a group high nine aids the triumph. His job as a pioneer inside the squad was confirm by his coordinating of the group at the Scotiabank Center. He commented, "It feels incredible to get it with this gathering of folks." Clinkscales completed the season averaging 6.9 focuses, 8.0 helps, 2.5 bounce back, and 1.4 takes per amusement. In mid-August 2016, he declared through his Twitter account that he would not come back to the Hurricanes amid the 2016– 17 season. He likewise viewed as starting a training profession. 

In spite of his past cases, Clinkscales re-marked with the Hurricanes for the 2016– 17 season on October 18, 2016, having been induced to settle on the choice by recently procured head mentor Kevin Keathley. Clinkscales stated, "I am eager to return Halifax. I adore the city and the majority of our supporters. I'm prepared to buckle down and manufacture a group to guard our title with Coach Keathley. Da General is back!" However, Keathley was supplanted by Mike Leslie by the beginning of the period. On December 26, in his season debut, Clinkscales scored six, got five bounce back, and go for a group high five helps to overcome the Moncton Miracles. He had another eminent execution on January 12, 2017 versus the Island Storm, scoring no focuses yet recording 13 helps. Clinkscales and the Hurricanes at last made it to the NBL Canada Finals before losing to the London Lightning in 6 amusements. Clinkscales was named to the All-NBL Canada Second Team toward the finish of the period with the association expressing "Nine Hurricanes had a larger number of focuses than Clinkscales this season, yet all can credit a lot of their scoring to the astute point monitor, who positioned second in NBLC with 300 helps while executing with a group driving 4.48 help to-turnover rate. He had 11 twofold digit help recreations." 

Clinkscales regularly plays streetball with the Sean Bell All-Stars against neighborhood groups in New York City, going about as the beginning stage monitor. The group was named after an unarmed New York local who was shot multiple times by three cops on November 25, 2006. The Sean Bell All-Stars won the Trayvon Martin Invitational in August 2013, with a group that included Clinkscales and Tobias Harris, in Harlem, New York. The occasion raised over $5,000 for the Trayvon Martin Foundation and was gone to by NBA players Kyrie Irving, Tyreke Evans, and future NBA chief Adam Silver. At the invitational, Clinkscales took a stand in opposition to police ruthlessness, saying, "Children wherever are getting shot and killed, regardless of whether it's in Jamaica, the Bronx, Chicago. It appears as though it never goes right with regards to the law, yet the message to the children is that on the off chance that you go hard on the court you need to go hard in the homeroom." In 2015, he sought the All-Stars at The Basketball Tournament, in a group that highlighted Delroy James and Zamal Nixon and was overseen by Raheem Wiggins. In a triumph against Team No Excuses in 2015, Clinkscales scored 11. Just as playing streetball, he mentors youth ball in South Jamaica, Queens.