Romney Literary Society 

The Romney Literary Society (otherwise called the Literary Society of Romney) existed from January 30, 1819, to February 15, 1886, in Romney, West Virginia. Built up as the Polemic Society of Romney, it turned into the principal association of its sort in the present-day territory of West Virginia, and one of the first in the United States. The general public was established by nine noticeable men of Romney with the targets of propelling writing and science, acquiring and keeping up a library, and improving instructive chances. 

The general public discussed a broad scope of logical and social points, frequently damaging its own standards which prohibited religious and political subjects. Despite the fact that its participation was moderately little, its discussions and exercises were as often as possible talked about all through the Potomac Highlands district, and the association extraordinarily impacted patterns of thought in the Romney people group and encompassing zones. 

The general public's library started in 1819 with the securing of two books; by 1861, it had developed to contain roughly 3,000 volumes on subjects, for example, writing, science, history, and craftsmanship. The association additionally looked to set up a foundation for "the advanced education of the adolescent of the network." In 1820, because of this activity, the instructing of the works of art was brought into the educational modules of Romney Academy, consequently making the organization the main school of advanced education in the Eastern Panhandle. In 1846, the general public developed a structure which housed the Romney Classical Institute and its library, the two of which fell under the general public's supervision. The organization was managed by noted Presbyterian Reverend William Henry Foote. Following a question with the general public, Foote established an adversary school in Romney, known as the Potomac Seminary, in 1850. 

The Romney Literary Society and the Romney Classical Institute kept on developing in impact until the beginning of the American Civil War in 1861. The substance of the general public's library were looted by Union Army powers, and just 400 of the library's volumes could be recouped following the war's end in 1865. Redesigned in 1869, the general public played a main job in Romney's respectful advancement amid Reconstruction. Somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1870, it finished development of Literary Hall, where the general public held gatherings and reassembled its library. The association utilized its impact to verify the West Virginia Schools for the Deaf and Blind for the town of Romney, and offered the school its previous Romney Classical Institute grounds. The schools opened on September 29, 1870. Enthusiasm for the general public melted away amid its last years, and its last recorded gathering was held in 1886. 

The Romney Literary Society was sorted out on January 30, 1819, by nine unmistakable men of Romney in the workplace of Dr. John Temple, a trustworthy doctor in the network. The general public was shaped with the reason "of thinking about the legitimacy of financing a Society, having for its article the progression of Literature and Science, the buy of a Library by and for the utilization of its individuals; and their further improvement by examining before the Society such inquiries as will be chosen under its chiefs." With its foundation, the Romney Literary Society turned into the main association of its sort in the present-day territory of West Virginia, and one of the first in the United States. The nine men at the general public's first gathering were Thomas Blair, David Gibson, James P. Jack, Samuel Kercheval, Jr., Nathaniel Kuykendall, Charles T. Magill, James M. Stephens, John Temple, and William C. Wodrow. As per student of history Hu Maxwell, these men chose Kuykendall as administrator and Magill as secretary of a board of trustees which was accused of the drafting of a constitution for the general public. 

On February 4, 1819, the advisory group conveyed its draft of the constitution and the general public received the record, which gave that the association ought to be known as the Polemic Society of Romney. The general public's constitution likewise determined that the officers should comprise of a president, secretary, and treasurer, every one of whom was to be chosen by a vote. The constitution further stipulated that every part was to pay duty of 50 pennies for every month, and that the general public had the expert to exact further money related commitments from its individuals as it regarded important. The assets gathered were to take care of the general public's working expenses, and the rest of the assets were to be utilized in obtaining books for the library. Under the constitution, the general public's gatherings were to be held week by week. Following each gathering's business session, a discussion or other artistic activities were to be held comprising of points of general enthusiasm of the individuals. No political or religious exchanges were to occur amid the discussions except if they were of a dynamic nature or as a rule terms. Profane language and "spirituous mixers" were additionally taboo from the general public's gatherings, with every offense being culpable with a fine of one dollar. The general public's previously chosen officers were Charles T. Magill as president, William C. Wodrow as secretary, and John Temple as treasurer. 

The general public's next gathering was hung on February 13, 1819, in the old Hampshire County Courthouse, where the principal matter for discussion was "Settled: That an agent ought to be administered by directions from his constituents." Following the discussion, the choice was rendered for the positive. The second gathering, which was hung on February 19 of that year at the Romney Academy, discussed the inquiry, "Is a training gained at the state funded school or [is] a private coach to be favored?" and the general public supported the government funded school. As of now meeting, the principal cash appropriated by the general public was paid to the doorkeeper for a whole of 25 pennies. Likewise as of now meeting, the treasurer was told to buy a book for use by the secretary, three candles, one sets of snuffers, and three pounds of candles. On February 26, the general public contended the inquiry, "Is an arrangement of banking favorable to a network?" The discussion finished under the choice that an arrangement of banking was invaluable. The accompanying gathering on March 6 discussed an inquiry unquestionably increasingly mental in nature, which was a dynamic inquiry of religion: "Can the human personality, by its own appearance, touch base at the end that the spirit is undying?" The general public chose in the pessimistic. The general public likewise discussed and chose in the negative the inquiry, "Is a defensive levy adverse to the interests of the nation?" 

One of the general public's increasingly lively discussions happened in May 1822 over the inquiry, "Is it to the enthusiasm of the general population of Hampshire to empower the canalling of the Potomac?" While no records of the contentions endure, the general public chose that the canalling of the Potomac River would be adverse to the interests of Hampshire County. The discussion occurred before the development of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal along the Maryland shore of the Potomac River toward the north of Hampshire County. The general public's agreement was that a channel on the Potomac would obliterate the matter of teamsters who pulled stock from the east along the Northwestern Turnpike. Consequently, the general public and neighborhood populace of Romney additionally protested the development of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad. To guarantee privacy, the general public passed a local law that authorized a fine of five dollars on any part who distributed either his own or another part's talks conveyed before the general public. Because of this local law, no addresses were ever distributed. The general public embraced another constitution in 1824. 

Over the initial ten years of the general public's presence, the association developed in participation and held gatherings no less than two times per month, and typically four times each month. The general public discussed a broad scope of subjects including logical, religious, political, and social themes, frequently damaging the constitution's tenets forbidding religious and political subjects. The general public's discussions were frequently caustic and normally spilled past the bounds of the gatherings and into the network. Between January 30, 1819 and January 22, 1830, the general public's participation rolls achieved 52 individuals; in spite of the fact that as few as 15 individuals went to the every other month gatherings, and close to 17 individuals were ever present at a gathering. 

Despite the fact that the Romney Literary Society's enrollment was generally little, its discussions and exercises were every now and again examined all through the Potomac Highlands area. Hence, the general public significantly impacted patterns of thought in the Romney people group and encompassing regions. No records of the general public's procedures, works, or participation enlistments traversing the period between January 22, 1830 and 1861 are surviving. Amid this period, the general public considered as a real part of its individuals Angus William McDonald, John Baker White, and Robert White. 

So as to satisfy one of its basic roles of setting up a library for its individuals, the Romney Literary Society step by step started to get volumes for such an utilization. The general public's library started with the April 23, 1819 allocation for the buy of two books: Plutarch's "Parallel Lives" and Emer de Vattel's "The Law of Nations". On July 2, 1819, the equalization of accessible assets in the treasurer's record was two dollars and forty-six pennies, however by October 23, there were adequate assets to buy the accompanying volumes: Charles Rollin's "Antiquated History", Lewis' "Roman History", and William Robertson's "History of the Reign of Charles the Fifth". 

No more volumes were obtained until the finish of 1820, when the general public procured crafted by Livy, Tacitus, and John Marshall's "Life of Washington". After three months, the general public acquired a bookshelf for its developing gathering. In April 1821, the general public further extended its library with the acquisitions of Nathaniel Hooke's "Roman History, from the Building of Rome to the Ruin of the Commonwealth", crafted by Herodotus, "Goes in Greece", "Current Europe", David Ramsay's "History of the United States", and crafted by Benjamin Franklin. 

In 1821, the Virginia General Assembly passed a demonstration joining the association as the "Library Society of Romney." The general public found the get together's contract inadmissible, as it determined a few changes to the association that the general public had not requested, incorporating the adjustment in its name. The individuals viewed their general public as an "artistic" culture and not a "library" one. The general public mentioned that the get together change its contract, and after a few deferrals and discussions over the new sanction, the Virginia General Assembly passed another follow up on February 4, 1823, in which the association was rebranded as "The Literary Society of Romney." The general public kept up this long structure name all through the length of its reality, despite the fact that it was privately known as the "Romney Literary Society." 

Inside the range of ten years, the general public's little library developed to contain roughly 3,000 volumes on writing, science, history, and craftsmanship. These were bound in calfskin and stepped with the seal of the general public. The minutes from the general public's every other month gatherings recorded the books bought and the techniques by which they were obtained. As per the Federal Writers' Project in their "Notable Romney 1762– 1937" (1937), the book determinations and their securing "show that these men had genuine abstract judgment and business capacity." 

By goals of the general public, the utilization of the library was for the general public's individuals, and was additionally reached out to "priests of the good news of all groups "free"." Certain natives of Romney were likewise allowed access to the library, and appreciated comparative benefits as its individuals. 

From the association's establishment, the Romney Literary Society continuously started to perceive that the neighborhood membership educational systems gave just basic and frequently fragmentary instruction and never again fulfilled the scholastic needs of the Romney people group. The general public intermittently occupied with protracted consultations on which hypotheses of instructive progression and prevalent training were best. Not long after its foundation, the general public started a development to set up an organization for "the advanced education of the adolescent of the network." In 1820, because of this activity, the instructing of the works of art was brought into the educational modules of Romney Academy, along these lines making the establishment the primary school of advanced education in the Eastern Panhandle. Under the direction, initiative, and exacting control of Dr. Henry Johnston, Romney Academy turned out to be generally famous for its courses in "higher works of art." His successor and society part William Henry Foote presented courses in religious philosophy, and the school's enlistment developed to incorporate understudies getting ready for service. As the school turned out to be progressively eminent in the South Branch Potomac River valley, understudies originated from further and further away. Thomas Mulledy and Samuel Mulledy were among the early teachers at the foundation, both of whom later filled in as leaders of Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. 

By 1831, Romney Academy had outgrown its offices in the old stone school working behind the Hampshire County Courthouse. To cure this, the general public founded a crusade to raise assets for another school building. On January 6, 1832, the Virginia General Assembly approved the general public to raise an enrichment of $20,000 in a lottery for instructive purposes. Following a ten-year slip by, the general public made game plans with James Gregory of Jersey City and Daniel McIntyre of Philadelphia to fund a lottery "for collecting an entirety of cash not surpassing twenty thousand dollars, to erect a reasonable structure for their settlement, the buy of library and Philosophical mechanical assembly." The lottery was to be led over a time of ten years, and totals of $750, $1,000, and $1,500 were to be brought up in semiannual portions. The general public was fruitful in raising assets, and in 1845 the general public requested offers for the development of another structure to house both the institute, the general public, and the general public's library. The general public likewise utilized the lottery assets to pay for books for the foundation. 

On February 12, 1844, the Virginia General Assembly passed a demonstration approving the general public to indicate the parity of the cash raised by the lottery to the Romney Academy. The get together additionally ordered another authoritative follow up on December 12, 1846, approving the Romney Literary Society to "set up at or close to the town of Romney a Seminary of Learning for the guidance of youth in different parts of science and writing; and the Society map suitable to the equivalent such segment of the property which it currently has or may procure, as it might regard convenient." That equivalent year, another block neoclassical structure was built east of Romney, and the general public, its library, and Romney Academy moved to the new office. The second story of the new structure was used by the general public, with one corridor for gatherings and the other lobby for the general public's library. As indicated by Maxwell, "few schools in the territory of Virginia around then approached better libraries." The new establishment building and grounds cost the general public about $8,000. Following its turn to the new structure, the foundation was redesigned as the Romney Classical Institute and its exercises fell under the supervision of the general public. The establishment was worked under the principalship of Foote from 1846 until 1849. 

In 1849, the general public displayed another code and arrangement of local laws for the administration of the Romney Classical Institute, which held to the general public the ability to delegate colleague instructors, fix the measure of compensations, and give the conditions and habits of installment and repayment. Foote varied with the general public over these issues, and he eventually declined to acknowledge the new local laws and surrendered his initiative position in October 1849; in 1850, he built up an adversary organization known as the Potomac Seminary. As opposed to falling under the support of the general public, Foote's new organization fell under the control of the Presbyterian church. Following Foote's flight, the general public chose Professor E. J. Meany to head the Romney Classical Institute. Notwithstanding the break, the general public additionally given money related help from the lottery to the Potomac Seminary. 

As indicated by a "list of the individuals and library" distributed on June 1, 1849, there were 20 enlisted individuals on the moves who paid $3 each every year to the general public's library subsidize; there were additionally eight library individuals who were conceded under specific guidelines of the general public and who paid similar charges. Individuals who had utilization of the library were given keys and were enabled access to the library whenever. The town's pastors and the vital of the Romney Classical Institute were the main non-individuals who were stretched out benefits to the library. The 1849 "inventory" recorded Alfred P. White as the general public's bookkeeper and E. J. Meany remained the chief of the foundation. After 1853, the general public had a lasting asset of $12,000, which yielded $720 every year, one portion of which was committed to the help of the Romney Classical Institute. 

The Romney Literary Society and the Romney Classical Institute prospered and kept on developing in significance and impact until the beginning of the American Civil War in 1861. Following the war's episode, a considerable lot of the general public's individuals and the establishment's educators and more seasoned understudies joined the Confederate States Army and walked to war. Amid the war, the general public endured broad misfortunes. The Romney Classical Institute building and its library were viewed as genuine loot by Union Army powers. The general public's library was exhausted and three-fourths of its volumes were either dissipated or annihilated. The most profitable of these volumes were never recuperated following the war's end. Its records of procedures somewhere in the range of 1830 and 1861, the period amid which the general public occupied with the majority of its eminent artistic and generous works, were additionally crushed amid the war. 

Following the war's end, just 400 out of the library's about 3,000 volumes could be recuperated, with just 200 of those books staying on the library's racks. Somewhere in the range of 10 and 20 of the library's recouped volumes just contained three to four of their unique books. The estimation of the recuperated volumes was corrupted, the same number of were harmed or broken. The general public individuals that returned home to Romney were too war-fatigued to resuscitate the general public when they found the vestiges of the Romney Classical Institute and its library, which had been a costly undertaking to collect and took just about 50 years of work to store up. The Romney Classical Institute was not reestablished and was as a result disestablished because of the war. 

Following the war, the occupants of Romney start fixing open structures and restoring the town's prior to the war establishments, including the Romney Literary Society. The general public stayed on a rest until May 15, 1869 when a gathering was held by nine individuals, as just nine unique individuals had reacted to the call for rearrangement. These nine individuals entrusted with remaking the general public were James L. Armstrong, David Entler, William Harper, John C. Heiskell, Andrew Wodrow Kercheval, Samuel R. Lupton, James Parsons, Alfred P. White, and Robert White. These men tried to gather what survived from the library's books and occupied with a crusade to select new individuals, which brought about the enlistment of 20 more youthful men over a time of a couple of years. A considerable lot of the men who had been individuals in 1861 had passed on amid the war, and the enrollment of new individuals was basic to the recovery of the general public. Among the new individuals chose somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1886 were John Collins Covell, Samuel Lightfoot Flournoy, Henry Bell Gilkeson, Howard Hille Johnson, and Christian Streit White. The general public, with reestablished force, played a lead job in Romney's thoughtful advancement amid the Reconstruction Era. 

Somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1870, the general public finished development of another two-story block expanding on Lot 56 at the side of West Main and North High Streets known as Literary Hall, where it could hold its gatherings and reassemble the rest of the volumes from its unique library. Scholarly Hall was based upon the previous area of the covered Bank of the South Branch of the Potomac. Notwithstanding the 400 volumes that were at first recouped following the war, the general public recuperated a few additional volumes from its unique library, and start acquiring new books; the reestablished library was revived with around 700 volumes. 

Around the season of the general public's revamping in 1869, the province of West Virginia thought about the foundation of a school for the hard of hearing and the visually impaired. The general public made plans to verify the new state establishment for Romney. On April 12, 1870, the general public passed a goals by which the individuals consented to deed, free of cost, the structures and grounds of the Romney Classical Institute. 

On April 20, 1870, the general public sent Andrew Wodrow Kercheval and Robert White as agents to the then-state capital Wheeling to exhibit their formal idea of "the grounds and structures of the Romney Classical Institute... to the Board of Regents, free of obligation, and in decent shape" depending on the prerequisite that the proposed school be situated in Romney. Clarksburg and Parkersburg additionally made ideas of potential grounds to the state. The offer was made to the Board of Regents of the West Virginia Institute for the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind, as it was then known, and the general public's proposition was acknowledged by the officials after a concise time of thought. The general public's offer was the special case that incorporated a structure upon the grounds. 

It was found by the general public that so as to finish their recommendation, it was important to raise more than $1,000, which was apparently a troublesome undertaking amid the Reconstruction Era in Romney. On July 11, 1870, the Board of Regents passed a goals requiring the membership of somewhere in the range of $1,200 and $1,300 to encourage the exchange. One hundred and eighteen people and firms reacted to the board's solicitation with an all out membership of $1,383.60. To follow through on its offer, the general public likewise made an apportionment of $320 on July 11 to repair and reestablishing the previous Romney Classical Institute and grounds with the goal that they were agreeable before they were exchanged to the officials. Presently, the old foundation building and of property were formally exchanged to the territory of West Virginia. 

On September 29, 1870, the foundation, which was later known as the West Virginia Schools for the Deaf and Blind, opened its entryways in the old Romney Classical Institute working with 25 hard of hearing and five visually impaired understudies. Following its disestablishment in 1916, the nearby Potomac Academy (some time ago Potomac Seminary) grounds were additionally fused into the grounds of the Schools for the Deaf and Blind. 

Amid a time of ten years spreading over from 1870 to 1880, a lot of Romney's scholarly life focused on Literary Hall. Amid this time, the general public met just once in a while and there were no records of gatherings between March 1872 and April 1878. The post-war time of recovery was brief, as the demise of the more seasoned individuals made enthusiasm for the general public melt away. The general public's gatherings happened less frequently, and the last recorded gathering of the general public was hung on February 15, 1886. Amid the general public's second presence, Literary Hall was utilized as a gathering space by the Freemasons and the Order of the Eastern Star, and the associations kept on occupying the corridor following the general public's disestablishment until its 1974 buy by lawyer Ralph Haines. Likewise a neighborhood history specialist, Haines reestablished Literary Hall and utilized it as his law office and historical center. Artistic Hall was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on May 29, 1979, and, starting at 2004, it is periodically open to general society. The general public's residual records, dating as right on time as 1819, stay in plain view there. 

In portraying the endeavors of the Romney Literary Society, student of history Hu Maxwell, in his "History of Hampshire County, West Virginia From Its Earliest Settlement to the Present" (1897), expressed that "the work achieved by these couple of enthusiastic residents of Romney is astounding." Maxwell further attested, "No other one thing in the historical backdrop of the town has had such enduring outcomes for good." The general public left many enduring effects upon the town of Romney amid its reality and past, which incorporated the establishment of a library; the scholarly and monetary help and support of the Romney Academy, Romney Classical Institute, and the Potomac Seminary; the urban administration amid the Reconstruction Era; and the impact and help with verifying the West Virginia Schools for the Deaf and Blind. As indicated by Maxwell, without the endeavors of the general public, the West Virginia Schools for the Deaf and Blind couldn't have been verified for Romney, and would have likely been found somewhere else in the state.