Xenu 

Xenu (), additionally called Xemu, was, as indicated by Scientology originator L. Ron Hubbard, the tyrant of the "Galactic Confederacy" who 75 million years back conveyed billions of his kin to Earth (at that point known as "Teegeeack") in DC-8-like shuttle, stacked them around volcanoes, and slaughtered them with nuclear bombs. Official Scientology sacred writings hold that the thetans (godlike spirits) of these outsiders cling to people, causing otherworldly damage. 

These occasions are referred to inside Scientology as "Episode II", and the horrendous recollections related with them as "The Wall of Fire" or "R6 embed". The account of Xenu is a piece of Scientologist lessons about extraterrestrial civic establishments and outsider mediations in natural occasions, by and large portrayed as "space musical drama" by Hubbard. Hubbard point by point the story in Operating Thetan level III (OT III) in 1967, cautioning that the "R6 embed" (past injury) was "determined to slaughter (by pneumonia, and so forth.) any individual who endeavors to fathom it". 

Inside the Church of Scientology, the Xenu story is a piece of the congregation's mystery "Trend setting innovation", considered a sacrosanct and obscure instructing, which is regularly just uncovered to individuals who have finished a long grouping of courses costing a lot of cash. The congregation keeps away from notice of Xenu in open articulations and has gone to impressive exertion to keep up the story's privacy, including legitimate activity on the grounds of copyright and exchange mystery. Authorities of the Church of Scientology generally deny or endeavor to shroud the Xenu story. Regardless of this, much material on Xenu has spilled to the open by means of court records, duplicates of Hubbard's notes, and the Internet. In editorial on the effect of the Xenu content, scholastic researchers have talked about and broke down the compositions by Hubbard and their place inside Scientology inside the settings of sci-fi, UFO religions, Gnosticism and creation fantasies. 

The account of Xenu is shrouded in OT III, some portion of Scientology's mystery "Cutting edge innovation" teachings instructed just to cutting edge individuals who have experienced numerous long stretches of reviewing and achieved the province of Clear pursued by Operating Thetan levels 1 and 2. It is portrayed in more detail in the going with classified "Helps" address of October 3, 1968, and is sensationalized in "Rebellion in the Stars" (a screen-story – as a novel – composed by L. Ron Hubbard in 1977). 

Hubbard composed that Xenu was the leader of a Galactic Confederacy 75 million years back, which comprised of 26 stars and 76 planets including Earth, which was then known as "Teegeeack". The planets were overpopulated, containing a normal populace of 178 billion. The Galactic Confederacy's human progress was practically identical to our own, with outsiders "strolling around in garments which looked in all respects astoundingly like the garments they wear right now" and utilizing vehicles, prepares and water crafts looking precisely equivalent to those "around 1950, 1960" on Earth. 

Xenu was going to be dismissed from power, so he conceived a plot to kill the abundance populace from his territories. With the help of therapists, he accumulated billions of his natives under the misrepresentation of salary charge assessments, at that point incapacitated them and solidified them in a blend of liquor and glycol to catch their spirits. The grabbed people was stacked into shuttle for transport to the site of annihilation, the planet of Teegeeack (Earth). The presence of these rocket would later be subliminally communicated in the structure of the Douglas DC-8, the main contrast being; "the DC8 had fans, propellers on it and the space plane didn't". When they had come to Teegeeack, the incapacitated natives were off-stacked, and set around the bases of volcanoes over the planet. Nuclear bombs were then brought down into the volcanoes and exploded at the same time, killing everything except a couple of outsiders. Hubbard depicted the scene in his film content, "Revolt in the Stars": 

The now-free unfortunate casualties' spirits, which Hubbard called "thetans", were passed up the impact. They were caught by Xenu's powers utilizing an "electronic lace" ("which additionally was a kind of standing wave") and sucked into "vacuum zones" the world over. The several billions of caught thetans were taken to a sort of film, where they were compelled to watch a "three-D, too goliath movie" for thirty-six days. This embedded what Hubbard named "different misdirecting information"' (all things considered named the R6 embed) into the recollections of the hapless thetans, "which has to do with God, the Devil, space musical show, etcetera". This incorporated every single world religion; Hubbard explicitly credited Roman Catholicism and the picture of the Crucifixion to the impact of Xenu. The two "embed stations" refered to by Hubbard were said to have been situated on Hawaii and Las Palmas in the Canary Islands. 

Notwithstanding embedding new convictions in the thetans, the pictures denied them of their feeling of individual personality. At the point when the thetans left the projection zones, they began to bunch together in gatherings of a couple of thousand, having lost the capacity to separate between one another. Each group of thetans accumulated into one of only a handful few outstanding bodies that endure the blast. These progressed toward becoming what are known as "body thetans", which are said to be as yet sticking to and antagonistically influencing everybody with the exception of Scientologists who have played out the fundamental strides to expel them. 

An administration group known as the Loyal Officers at long last toppled Xenu and his rebels, and secured him away "an electronic mountain trap" from which he has not gotten away. Despite the fact that the area of Xenu is some of the time said to be the Pyrenees on Earth, this is really the area Hubbard gave somewhere else for an antiquated "Martian report station". Teegeeack was thusly surrendered by the Galactic Confederacy and remains an outcast "jail planet" right up 'til today, in spite of the fact that it has experienced more than once attacks by outsider "Trespasser Forces" since that time. 

In 1988, the expense of taking in these privileged insights from the Church of Scientology was £3,830, or US$6,500. This is notwithstanding the expense of the earlier courses which are important to be qualified for OT III, which is frequently well over US$100,000 (generally £60,000). Confidence in Xenu and body thetans is a necessity for a Scientologist to advance further along the Bridge to Total Freedom. The individuals who don't encounter the advantages of the OT III course are relied upon to take it and pay for it once more. 

Inside Scientology, the Xenu story is alluded to as "The Wall of Fire" or "Occurrence II". Hubbard joined colossal significance to it, saying that it established "the privileged insights of a catastrophe which brought about the rot of life as we probably am aware it in this segment of the world". The wide blueprints of the story—that 75 million years prior an incredible fiasco occurred in this segment of the cosmic system which caused significantly negative impacts for everybody from that point forward—are advised to bring down dimension Scientologists; however the subtleties are kept carefully classified, inside Scientology. 

The OT III record portrays that Hubbard entered the Wall of Fire yet risen alive ("likely the just a single ever to do as such in 75,000,000 years"). He first openly declared his "leap forward" in "Ron's Journal 67" ("RJ67"), a taped address recorded on September 20, 1967, to be sent to all Scientologists. As indicated by Hubbard, his exploration was accomplished at the expense of a crushed spirit, knee, and arm. OT III contains a notice that the R6 embed is "determined to slaughter (by pneumonia and so on.) any individual who endeavors to tackle it". Hubbard guaranteed that his "tech improvement"— for example his OT materials—had killed this danger, making a sheltered way to reclamation. 

The Church of Scientology denied people from perusing the OT III Xenu cosmogony without first having taken essential courses. Scientologists caution that perusing the Xenu story without legitimate approval could cause pneumonia. 

In "RJ67", Hubbard at that point suggests the staggering impact of Xenu's massacre: 

OT III additionally manages "Episode I", set four quadrillion years back. In "Occurrence I", the clueless thetan was exposed to an uproarious snapping commotion pursued by a surge of glow, at that point saw a chariot pursued by a trumpeting angel. After a noisy arrangement of snaps, the thetan was overpowered by haziness. It is portrayed that these awful recollections alone separate thetans from their static (regular, supernatural) state. 

Hubbard utilizes the presence of body thetans to clarify a considerable lot of the physical and mental illnesses of humankind which, he says, keep individuals from accomplishing their most noteworthy otherworldly dimensions. OT III advises the Scientologist to find body thetans and discharge them from the impacts of Incidents I and II. This is practiced in solo inspecting, where the Scientologist holds the two jars of an E-meter in one hand and makes inquiries as an examiner. The Scientologist is coordinated to discover a bunch of body thetans, address it clairvoyantly as a group, and take first the group, at that point every individual part, through Incident II, at that point Incident I if necessary. Hubbard cautions this is a meticulous technique, and that OT levels IV to VII are important to keep managing one's body thetans. 

The Church of Scientology has questioned the Xenu story being utilized to paint Scientology as sci-fi dream (see Space musical show in Scientology precept). Hubbard's announcements concerning the R6 embed have been a wellspring of conflict. Pundits and a few Christians express that Hubbard's announcements in regards to R6 demonstrate that Scientology tenet is contradictory with Christianity, in spite of the Church's announcements despite what might be expected. In "Helps", Hubbard says: 

Hubbard composed OT III in late 1966 and mid 1967 in North Africa while on his approach to Las Palmas to join the "Conjurer", the primary vessel of his private Scientology armada (the "Ocean Org"). (OT III says "In December 1967 I knew somebody needed to dive in", yet the material was broadcasted a long time before this.) He underscored later that OT III was his very own revelation. 

Commentators of Scientology have recommended that different elements may have been grinding away. In a letter of the opportunity to his significant other Mary Sue, Hubbard said that, so as to help his exploration, he was drinking liquor and taking stimulants and depressants ("I'm drinking heaps of rum and popping pinks and grays"). His partner at the time, Virginia Downsborough, said that she needed to wean him off the eating regimen of medications to which he had turned out to be acclimated. Russell Miller sets in "Unabashed Messiah" that it was critical for Hubbard to be found in a weakened condition, in order to show OT III as "an exploration achievement of enormous greatness". 

Components of the Xenu story showed up in Scientology before OT III. Hubbard's depictions of extraterrestrial clashes were advanced as right on time as 1950 in his book "Have You Lived Before This Life?", and were excitedly embraced by Scientologists who recorded their previous existences on different planets. 

The 1968 and resulting reprints of "" have had covers portraying a detonating fountain of liquid magma, which is supposedly a reference to OT III. In a 1968 address, and in directions to his advertising staff, Hubbard clarified that these pictures would "key in" the submerged recollections of Incident II and prompt individuals to purchase the books. 

Since the 1980s, the fountain of liquid magma has additionally been portrayed in TV advertisements promoting "Dianetics". Scientology's "Ocean Org", a world class gather inside the congregation that began with Hubbard's own staff on board his armada of boats, takes a large number of its images from the account of Xenu and OT III. It is unequivocally proposed to be a recovery of the "Dedicated Officers" who toppled Xenu. Its logo, a wreath with 26 leaves, speaks to the 26 stars of Xenu's Galactic Confederacy. As indicated by an official Scientology lexicon, "the Sea Org image, embraced and utilized as the image of a Galactic Confederacy far back ever of segment, determines a lot of its capacity and expert from that affiliation". 

In the Advanced Orgs in Edinburgh and Los Angeles, Scientology staff were at one time requested to wear every single white uniform with silver boots, to mirror Xenu's Galactic Patrol as portrayed on the front of "". This was purportedly done based on Hubbard's affirmation in his Flag Order 652 that humankind would acknowledge guideline from that assemble which had last sold out it—consequently the impersonation of Xenu's associates. In Los Angeles, a nightwatch was requested to look for returning spaceships. 

The name has been spelled both as "Xenu" and "Xemu". The Class VIII course material incorporates a three-page content, written by hand by Hubbard, headed "Information", in which the Xenu story is given in detail. Hubbard's vague penmanship makes either spelling conceivable, especially as the utilization of the name on the primary page of OT III is the main known case of the name in his penmanship. In the "Helps" address, Hubbard talks about ""Xenu, ahhh, could be spelled X-E-M-U"" and plainly says "Xemu" a few times on the account. The treatment of "Revolt in the Stars"— which is typewritten—utilizes "Xenu" only. 

It is estimated that the name gets from Xemnu, an extraterrestrial comic book scalawag who initially showed up in the story "I Was a Slave of the Living Hulk!" in Journey into Mystery #62 (November 1960). He was made by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Xemnu is a goliath, shaggy intergalactic criminal who got away from a jail planet, ventured out to Earth, and mesmerized the whole human populace. Upon Xemnu's thrashing by circuit repairman Joe Harper, Xemnu is detained in a condition of persistent electric stun in circle around the sun, and mankind is left with no memory of Xemnu's presence. 

In its open proclamations, the Church of Scientology has been hesitant to permit any make reference to of Xenu. A passing notice by a preliminary judge in 1997 provoked the Church's legal counselors to have the decision fixed, in spite of the fact that this was switched. In the moderately few occasions in which it has recognized Xenu, Scientology has expressed the story's actual importance must be comprehended following quite a while of study. They whine of pundits utilizing it to paint the religion as a sci-fi dream. 

Senior individuals from the Church of Scientology have a few times openly denied or limited the significance of the Xenu story, however others have asserted its reality. In 1995, Scientology legal counselor Earl Cooley alluded to the significance of Xenu in Scientology regulation by expressing that "a great many articles are expounded on Coca-Cola, and they don't print the recipe for Coca-Cola". Scientology has many graduated dimensions through which one can advance. Numerous who stay at lower levels in the congregation are uninformed of a significant part of the Xenu story which is first uncovered on Operating Thetan level three, or "OT III". Since the data granted to individuals is to be stayed quiet from other people who have not accomplished that dimension, the part should freely deny its reality when inquired. OT III beneficiaries must consent to an arrangement promising never to uncover its substance they are given the manila envelope containing the Xenu information. It is information so hazardous, individuals are told, that anybody learning this material before he is prepared could wind up distressed with pneumonia. 

Religious Technology Center chief Warren McShane affirmed in a 1995 court case that the Church of Scientology gets a lot of its income from fixed gifts paid by Scientologists to think about the OT materials. McShane said that Hubbard's work "may appear to be peculiar" to those that have not yet finished the earlier dimensions of coursework in Scientology. McShane said the story had "never" been mystery, in spite of the fact that keeping up there were all things considered prized formulas contained in OT III. McShane talked about the subtleties of the story at some length and explicitly credited the origin of the story to Hubbard. 

At the point when John Carmichael, the leader of the Church of Scientology of New York, was gotten some information about the Xenu story, he stated, as detailed in the September 9, 2007, release of "The Daily Telegraph": "That is not what we accept". At the point when gotten some information about the Xenu story by Ted Koppel on ABC's "Nightline", Scientology pioneer David Miscavige said that he was taking things Hubbard said outside of any relevant connection to the issue at hand. Notwithstanding, in a 2006 meeting with "Moving Stone", Mike Rinder, the executive of the congregation's Office of Special Affairs, said that "It's anything but a "story", it is an inspecting level", when gotten some information about the legitimacy of the Xenu story. 

In a BBC "Scene" program that broadcast on May 14, 2007, senior Scientologist Tommy Davis hindered when big name individuals were gotten some information about Xenu, saying: "None of us hear what you're saying. It's crazy. It's strange." In March 2009, Davis was met by analytical writer Nathan Baca for KESQ-TV and was again gotten some information about the OT III writings. Davis told Baca "I know about the material", and called it "the private sacred texts of the Church". In a meeting on ABC News "Nightline", October 23, 2009, Davis strolled off the set when Martin Bashir got some information about Xenu. He told Bashir, "Martin, I am not going to examine the sickening corruptions of Scientology convictions that can be discovered now generally on the web and be placed in the situation of discussing things, discussing things that are so on a very basic level hostile to Scientologists to discuss. ... It is infringing upon my religious convictions to discuss them." When Bashir rehashed an inquiry concerning Xenu, Davis pulled off his receiver and left the set. 

In November 2009 the Church of Scientology's delegate in New Zealand, Mike Ferris, was gotten some information about Xenu. The radio host asked, "So what you're stating is, Xenu is a piece of the religion, however something that you would prefer not to discuss". Ferris reacted, "Beyond any doubt". Ferris recognized that Xenu "is a piece of the esoterica of Scientology". 

In spite of the Church of Scientology's endeavors to keep the story mystery, subtleties have been spilled throughout the years. OT III was first uncovered in Robert Kaufman's 1972 book "", in which Kaufman point by point his own encounters of OT III. It was later portrayed in a 1981 Clearwater "Sun" article, and came to more prominent open acclaim in a 1985 court body of evidence brought against Scientology by Lawrence Wollersheim. The congregation neglected to have the archives fixed and endeavored to keep the case document looked at by a peruser consistently, yet the story was outlined in the "Los Angeles Times" and point by point in William Poundstone's "Greater Secrets" (1986) from data displayed in the Wollersheim case. In 1987, a book by L. Ron Hubbard Jr., "" cited the main page of OT III and outlined the remainder of its substance. 

From that point forward, news media have referenced Xenu in inclusion of Scientology or its VIP defenders, for example, Tom Cruise. In 1987, the BBC's analytical news arrangement "Display" circulated a report titled "The Road to Total Freedom?" which highlighted a layout of the OT III story in animation structure. 

On December 24, 1994, the Xenu story was distributed on the Internet without precedent for a presenting on the Usenet newsgroup alt.religion.scientology, through an unknown remailer. This prompted an online fight between Church of Scientology legal counselors and depreciators. More seasoned variants of OT levels I to VII were conveyed as displays connected to a presentation by Steven Fishman on April 9, 1993, as a component of "Chapel of Scientology International v. Fishman and Geertz". The content of this presentation and its shows, by and large known as the Fishman Affidavit, were presented on the Internet newsgroup alt.religion.scientology in August 1995 by Arnie Lerma and on the World Wide Web by David S. Touretzky. This was a subject of extraordinary debate and fights in court for quite a long while. There was a copyright attack on Lerma's home (prompting monstrous reflecting of the reports) and a suit against Dutch author Karin Spaink—the Church expediting suit copyright infringement reason for imitating the source material, and furthermore asserting rewordings would uncover a competitive innovation. 

The Church of Scientology's endeavors to keep Xenu mystery have been refered to in court discoveries against it. In September 2003, a Dutch court, in a decision for the situation against Karin Spaink, expressed that one goal in keeping OT II and OT III mystery was to use control over individuals from the Church of Scientology and avoid exchange about its lessons and practices: 

Regardless of his cases that untimely disclosure of the OT III story was deadly, L. Ron Hubbard composed a screenplay form under the title "Revolt in the Stars" during the 1970s. This uncovered Xenu had been helped by creatures named Chi ("the Galactic Minister of Police") and Chu ("the Executive President of the Galactic Interplanetary Bank"). It has not been formally distributed, despite the fact that the treatment was coursed around Hollywood in the mid 1980s. Informal duplicates of the screenplay flow on the Internet. 

On March 10, 2001, a client posted the content of OT3 to the online network Slashdot. The site proprietors brought down the remark after the Church of Scientology issued a legitimate notice under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. Pundits of the Church of Scientology have utilized open dissents to spread the Xenu mystery. This has included making sites with "xenu" in the area name, and showing the name Xenu on flags, and dissent signs. 

Forms of the Xenu story have showed up in both TV programs and stage preparations. The Off-Broadway humorous melodic "A Very Merry Unauthorized Children's Scientology Pageant", first organized in 2003 and champ of an Obie Award in 2004, included kids in outsider outfits recounting to the tale of Xenu. 

The Xenu story was additionally parodied in a November 2005 scene of the Comedy Central vivified TV arrangement "South Park" titled "Caught in the Closet". The Emmy-named scene, which likewise satirized Scientologists Tom Cruise and John Travolta as closeted gay people, portrayed Xenu as a dubiously humanoid outsider with arms for arms, in a grouping that had the words "This Is What Scientologists Actually Believe" superimposed on screen. The scene turned into the subject of debate when performer Isaac Hayes, the voice of the character "Gourmet specialist" and a Scientologist, quit the show in March 2006, only preceding the scene's previously planned re-screening, refering to "South Park"s "improper mocking" of his religion. Hayes' announcement did not make reference to the scene specifically, however communicated his view that the show's propensity for ridiculing religion was a piece of a "developing lack of care toward individual profound convictions" in the media that was additionally reflected in the Muhammad kid's shows debate: "There is a spot in this world for parody, yet there is when parody closures and prejudice and fanaticism towards religious convictions of others starts." Responding to Hayes' announcement, "South Park" co-maker Matt Stone said his abdication had "nothing to do with narrow mindedness and dogmatism and everything to do with the way that Isaac Hayes is a Scientologist and that we as of late included Scientology in a scene of South Park ... In 10 years and more than 150 scenes of South Park, Isaac never had an issue with the show ridiculing Christians, Muslims, Mormons and Jews. He got an abrupt instance of religious affectability when it was his religion included on the show. Obviously we will discharge Isaac from his agreement and we wish him well." Comedy Central dropped the rehash at short notice, picking rather to screen two scenes highlighting Hayes. A representative said that "in light of the occasions of not long ago, we needed to give Chef a fitting tribute via airing two scenes he is most known for." It did in the end rebroadcast the scene on July 19, 2006. Stone and "South Park" co-maker Trey Parker felt that Comedy Central's proprietors Viacom had dropped the rehash on account of the forthcoming arrival of the Tom Cruise film "" by Paramount, another Viacom organization: "I just recognize what we were told, that individuals required with "MI3" needed the scene off the air and that is the reason Comedy Central needed to do it. I don't have a clue why else it would have been pulled." 

Writing in the book "Scientology" distributed by Oxford University Press, supporter Mikael Rothstein sees that, "as far as anyone is concerned no genuine investigation of Scientology's Xenu legend has showed up in academic productions. The most calm and illuminating content about the Xenu fantasy is likely the article on Wikipedia (English form) and, regardless of whether brief, Andreas Grünschloss' piece on Scientology in Lewis (2000: 266– 268)." Rothstein places the Xenu message by L. Ron Hubbard inside the setting of a creation fantasy inside the Scientology procedure, and portrays it as "one of Scientology's increasingly essential religious accounts, the content that clearly establishes the fundamental (once in a while certain) folklore of the development, the "Xenu legend", which is fundamentally an account of the root of man on Earth and the human condition." Rothstein depicts the wonder inside a conviction framework enlivened by sci-fi, and takes note of that the "fantasy about Xenu, ... in the state of a sci-fi roused anthropogony, "clarifies" the essential Scientological asserts about the human condition." 

Andreas Grünschloß dissects the Xenu message in "The Oxford Handbook of New Religious Movements", inside the setting of a dialog on UFO religions. He describes the content as "Scientology's mystery folklore (contained particularly in the OT III lessons)". Grünschloß calls attention to that L. Ron Hubbard, "additionally composed a sci-fi story called "Revolt in the Stars", where he shows this generally arcane anecdote about the antiquated ruler Xenu as a customary sci-fi novel". Grünschloß sets, "due to the associations between a few themes in Hubbard's books and explicit Scientology lessons, one may see Scientology as one of the uncommon occasions where sci-fi (or dream writing for the most part) is identified with the fruitful development of another otherworldly development." Comparing the combination between the two classifications of Hubbard's sci-fi composing and Scientology creation fantasy, Grünschloß expresses, "Despite the fact that the sci-fi books are of an unexpected sort in comparison to other 'techno-consistent' revelations of Hubbard, they are profoundly valued by members, and Hubbard's abstract yield in this domain (counting the most recent motion picture, "Front line Earth") is likewise all around advanced by the association." Writing in the book "UFO Religions" altered by Christopher Partridge, Grünschloß watches, "the eagerness for ufology and sci-fi was developed in the developmental period of Scientology. For sure, even the exceptionally arcane story of the intergalactic ruler Xenu ... is connected by Hubbard in the style of a straightforward sci-fi novel". 

A few creators have brought up basic likenesses between the Xenu story and the folklore of gnosticism. James A. Herrick, expounding on the Xenu message in "The Making of the New Spirituality: The Eclipse of the Western Religious Tradition", takes note of that "Hubbard's gnostic leanings are obvious in his record of human origins ... In Hubbard, thoughts originally communicated in sci-fi are flawlessly changed into an overall religion with affinities to gnosticism." Mary Farrell Bednarowski, writing in "America's Alternative Religions", correspondingly expresses that the diagram of the Xenu folklore is "not absolutely new to the history specialist familiar with old gnosticism", taking note of that numerous different religious conventions have the act of holding certain writings to abnormal state starts. All things considered, she composes, the Xenu story excites doubt in people in general about Scientology and adds fuel to "the cases that Hubbard's framework is the result of his innovativeness as a sci-fi essayist instead of a scholar." 

Writers Michael McDowell and Nathan Robert Brown talk about misinterpretations about the Xenu message in their book "World Religions at Your Fingertips", and watch, "Presumably the most questionable, misjudged, and every now and again distorted piece of the Scientology religion has to do with a Scientology fantasy ordinarily alluded to as the Legend of Xenu. While this story has now been without a doubt demonstrated a piece of the religion (in spite of the way that congregation agents regularly deny its reality), the story's actual job in Scientology is frequently distorted by its commentators as confirmation that they 'have faith in outsider parasites.' While the story may undoubtedly appear to be odd, this is basically not the situation." The writers compose that "The story is really intended to be a working fantasy, showing the Scientology conviction that people were at one time otherworldly creatures, existing on boundless dimensions of intergalactic and interdimensional substances. Sooner or later, the creatures that we used to be wound up caught in physical reality (where we stay right up 'til today). This should be the basic message of the Xenu story, not that people are "controlled by outsiders". McDowell and Brown presume that these unseemly misguided judgments about the Xenu content have had a negative effect, "Such brutal explanations are the reason numerous Scientologists presently become energetically insulted at even the notice of Xenu by nonmembers." 

Free discourse legal counselor Mike Godwin breaks down activities by the Scientology association to ensure and keep mystery the Xenu content, inside a talk in his book "Digital Rights" about the use of competitive innovation law on the Internet. Godwin clarifies, "competitive innovation law secures the data itself, not just its specific articulation. Competitive innovation law, in contrast to copyright, can secure thoughts and actualities legitimately." He advances the inquiry, "Yet did the material truly qualify as 'exchange insider facts'? Among the material the congregation has been endeavoring to smother is what may be known as a 'beginning legend of Scientology': an anecdote about a galactic autocrat named Xenu who chose 75 million years prior to murder a bundle of individuals by anchoring them to volcanoes and dropping atomic bombs on them." Godwin asks, "Does a 'congregation' regularly have 'contenders' in the competitive advantage sense? On the off chance that the Catholics got hold of the full certainties about Xenu, does this mean they'll get more piece of the overall industry?" He remarks on the capacity of the Scientology association to use such laws so as to contain its mystery writings, "It appears to be likely, given what we think about the case now, that even a mix of copyright and prized formula law wouldn't achieve what the congregation might want to achieve: the all out concealment of any spread of chapel reports or tenets." The writer finishes up, "Yet the way that the congregation was probably not going to increase any total legitimate triumphs in its cases didn't imply that they wouldn't dispute. It's unquestionable that the negligible danger of prosecution, or the expenses of real case, may achieve what the legitimate speculations alone don't: the compelling hushing of numerous pundits of the congregation."