Common Service Rifles War Memorial 

The Civil Service Rifles War Memorial is a First World War remembrance situated on the riverside patio at Somerset House in focal London, England. Planned by Sir Edwin Lutyens and uncovered in 1924, the remembrance celebrates the 1,240 individuals from the Prince of Wales' Own Civil Service Rifles regiment who were executed in the First World War. They were Territorial Force reservists, drawn to a great extent from the British Civil Service, which around then had many staff based at Somerset House. 

The two forces of the extended Civil Service Rifles were disbanded soon after the war; the regiment amalgamated with the Queen's Westminster Rifles, however previous individuals built up an Old Comrades Association to keep the regiment's customs alive. The affiliation started raising assets for a war dedication in 1920, and the Prince of Wales revealed the commemoration on 27 January 1924. It appears as a solitary rectangular segment surmounted by a model of a urn and flanked by painted stone banners, the Union Flag on one side and the regimental shading on the other. The base on which the section stands is recorded with the regiment's fight praises, while an engraving on the segment indicates that a parchment containing the names of the fallen was put inside. 

The remembrance originally remained in the quadrangle of Somerset House, which the Civil Service Rifles had utilized as a procession ground, yet the common administration started to abandon Somerset House towards the finish of the twentieth century. As the structure and its patio were re-purposed, the remembrance was moved to the riverside porch in the late 1990s. Individuals from the regiment kept on going to Remembrance Sunday functions until in any event the late 1980s, by which time numerous previous individuals were in their nineties; the last known enduring individual from the regiment went to a rededication service in 2002. The remembrance was assigned an evaluation II recorded structure in 1987, which was moved up to review II* in November 2015 when it turned out to be a piece of a national gathering of Lutyens' war dedications. 

In the fallout of the First World War and its remarkable setbacks, a great many war commemorations were worked crosswise over Britain. Among the most noticeable fashioners of remembrances was Sir Edwin Lutyens, portrayed by Historic England as "the main English modeler of his age". Lutyens set up his notoriety structuring nation houses for well off customers, yet the war profoundly affected him, and tailing it he gave a lot of his opportunity to memorializing its setbacks. He turned into an open figure through his plan for the Cenotaph on Whitehall, which turned into Britain's national war commemoration. This, alongside his work for the Imperial War Graves Commission, prompted commissions for war commemorations crosswise over Britain and the domain. Just as dedications for towns and urban communities, Lutyens was dispatched to plan remembrances for a few privately owned businesses and regimental affiliations, including the Civil Service Rifles. These were among the least disputable of Lutyens' war remembrances, as destinations and assets would in general be promptly accessible. 

The Civil Service Rifles—appropriately named the "fifteenth (County of London) Battalion, the London Regiment (the Prince of Wales' Own Civil Service Rifles)"— was a unit in the Territorial Force, low maintenance save component of the British Army. The regiment's individuals were drawn from the Civil Service, the perpetual managerial mechanical assembly of the British government. Numerous government workers were based at Somerset House, a critical government place of business, and the regiment utilized its quadrangle as a procession ground. 

Shaping piece of the fourth London Brigade, in the second London Division, the warriors were at their yearly camp on Salisbury Plain when Britain announced war on Germany on 4 August 1914. The contingent was assembled that day and sent for preparing in Hertfordshire, before being conveyed toward the Western Front in 1915. It landed at Le Havre on 18 March and went under the order of the 140th (fourth London) Brigade, some portion of the 47th (London) Division. It was in real life at the Battle of Loos in 1915, the Battle of the Somme in 1916, and the Battle of Passchendaele in 1917, and amid the Hundred Days Offensive in 1918. A second contingent was brought and served up in France, at that point Salonika and Palestine. The two units were disbanded after the war, having lost 1,240 officers and men out of roughly 7,000 who served abroad with the regiment. 

After the war, the grounded warriors shaped an Old Comrades Association, and dialog swung to honoring the regiment's dead. The affiliation framed a War Memorial Committee, led by Major W. H. Kirby, and set up an intrigue to raise £750 for the development of a commemoration. The assets were raised to a great extent from gifts from previous individuals from the regiment, supported by the returns from offers of a regimental history. 

The board of trustees previously appointed the planner Herbert Baker to create a structure, which was endorsed by the Office of Works in June 1919. Dough puncher proposed to site the remembrance in the north end of the quadrangle at Somerset House, behind the statue of King George III. Some time after the endorsement, the board of trustees supplanted Baker with Sir Edwin Lutyens, who was determined that the dedication should remain in the focal point of the quadrangle. To this the Office of Works questioned, worried about the impact a remembrance in such a conspicuous area would have on the encompassing eighteenth century engineering. The workplace in the end yielded after Lutyens analyzed Sir William Chambers' unique plans and contended that Chambers had planned to put a focal article in the quadrangle. 

The dedication is as a solitary rectangular section of Portland stone, which is improved with established moldings and stands roughly tall. At the top is a shallow cornice, on which stands a plinth supporting a figure of a urn at the top. The plinth is designed with shrub swags. The segment itself remains on a square, coved base which thusly lays on a stage of two square advances. Painted stone banners swing from either side of the segment—the regiment's hues on the east side (the right, when seen from the front) and the Union Flag on the west (left). The banners were initially copper yet were later supplanted with cut stone. No names are recorded on the commemoration, however a parchment containing the names of the regiment's dead from the First World War was set inside the section. Lutyens proposed his structure to be agreeable with the encompassing stone engineering of Somerset House, however the polychromy of the banners emerged. Painted stone banners are a repetitive element in Lutyens' war commemoration plans; he initially proposed them for the Cenotaph, where they were dismissed for texture, however they highlight on a few of his different structures. 

On the front (north) face is engraved the devotion , while the south face peruses: . The begin and end dates of the war are engraved in Roman numerals beneath the urn, "MCMXIV" on the north side and "MCMXIX" on the south. The regiment's fight respects are recorded around the base: Festubert, Loos, Somme, and Flers– Courcelette on the south side; Doiran, Lys/Kemmel, Gaza, Nebi Samwil, and Jerusalem on the west; St Quentin, Albert, Ancre, Bapaume, and Selle on the north; and Transloy, Messines, Ypres, and Cambrai on the east face. 

The dedication was made at Nine Elms Stone Masonry Works in Battersea, south London. It was uncovered by the regiment's privileged colonel, Edward, Prince of Wales (wearing the uniform of Welsh Guards colonel) and committed by the Reverend E. H. Beattie, the first Battalion's minister, at a service on 27 January 1924. Music was given by the regimental band and the choir from the close-by St Clement Danes church. The Last Post and the Reveille were sounded and the group sung the national song of devotion, God Save the King. Among others present was the Suffragan Bishop of Willesden, William Perrin, just as a few senior armed force officers, previous individuals from the regiment, their families, and relatives of expired individuals. When of the function, post-war redesigns had diminished the Civil Service Rifles in size to two organizations and amalgamated it with the Queen's Westminster Rifles to frame the sixteenth Battalion, the London Regiment (Queen's Westminster and Civil Service Rifles), however veterans were resolved to keep up the conventions of the old regiment. Individuals from the Civil Service organizations of the successor regiment framed a gatekeeper of respect amid the function. Preceding the commemoration's uncovering, HM Treasury approved the Office of Works to assume liability for its support. 

The lines in the engraving identifying with the cadet contingent were included 1926 after Major Kirby kept in touch with the Office of Works looking for authorization. The commemoration experienced harm German besieging amid the Second World War and experienced fix and rebuilding work during the 1950s. As previous individuals dieed, some because of wartime wounds, a convention rose of a widow laying the main wreath at the yearly function on Remembrance Sunday (the nearest Sunday to 11 November). Enduring individuals kept on meeting at the war remembrance until the late 1980s, by which time the participants were in their nineties. 

By the mid 1980s, couple of government workers stayed at Somerset House and the legislature was renting portions of the structure for different employments. At the point when the issue was brought up in the House of Lords, Lord Houghton of Sowerby—a previous individual from the regiment—enquired with regards to the administration's arrangements for the war remembrance. Ruler Skelmersdale answered for the benefit of the administration: "This regiment had a recognized record of administration amid the Great War and it is altogether fitting that the dedication ought to be arranged in the yard of the main reason fabricated government place of business. I can guarantee the house there has been no idea of moving it, nor will there be". In any case, the commemoration was moved in the late 1990s, when the patio was redeveloped to give an open show space. It experienced rebuilding work, including repainting of the banners, before being reinstalled before the Navy Treasurer's entryway on the Embankment side of Somerset House, on a patio alongside the River Thames. The Royal Green Jackets (the successor regiment coming about because of further amalgamations following the Second World War and consequent rebuilding of the military) sorted out a rededication function, which was hung on 25 July 2002 and managed by Richard Chartres, the Bishop of London. The executive of the leading body of the Inland Revenue, which was based at Somerset House and whose authorities were among the establishing individuals from the Civil Service Rifles, laid a wreath. Among those present were relatives of previous individuals, and Walter Humphrys, the last known enduring veteran of the regiment from the First World War. 

The commemoration was assigned an evaluation II recorded structure in 1987. Recorded status gives lawful security from decimation or adjustment; grade II is connected to about 92% of recorded structures of "uncommon enthusiasm, justifying each push to protect them". It was moved up to review II* (held for "especially critical structures of more than uncommon intrigue" and connected to about 5.5% of postings) in November 2015, when Historic England esteemed Lutyens' war dedications a national gathering as a component of remembrances for the centennial of the First World War. 

List of sources 

References