Theodore Komnenos Doukas 

Theodore Komnenos Doukas (, "Theodōros Komnēnos Doukas", Latinized as Theodore Comnenus Ducas, kicked the bucket 1253) was leader of Epirus and Thessaly from 1215 to 1230 and of Thessalonica and the majority of Macedonia and western Thrace from 1224 to 1230. He was likewise the power behind the standard of his children John and Demetrios over Thessalonica in 1237– 1246. 

Theodore was the scion of a separated Byzantine blue-blooded family identified with the royal Komnenos, Doukas, and Angelos administrations. In any case, nothing is thought about Theodore's life before the success of Constantinople and disintegration of the Byzantine Empire by the Fourth Crusade in 1204. Following the fall of Constantinople, he served Theodore I Laskaris, organizer of the Empire of Nicaea, for a couple of years before being called to Epirus, where his jerk relative Michael I Komnenos Doukas had established a free territory. At the point when Michael kicked the bucket in 1215, Theodore sidelined his sibling's underage and ill-conceived child Michael II and accepted the administration of the Epirote state. Theodore proceeded with his sibling's arrangement of regional development. Aligned with Serbia, he ventured into Macedonia, undermining the Latin Kingdom of Thessalonica. The catch of the Latin Emperor Peter II of Courtenay in 1217 opened the route to the slow envelopment of Thessalonica, coming full circle in the city's fall in 1224. 

As leader of Thessalonica, Theodore immediately announced himself ruler, testing the Nicaean sovereign John III Doukas Vatatzes' cases to the Byzantine supreme honored position. In 1225, he progressed to the edges of Constantinople, however his last assault against the seat of the much-decreased Latin Empire was postponed until 1230. In that year, Theodore amassed a military to attack Constantinople, however then redirected it against Bulgaria, an undecided partner which compromised his northern flank. Theodore was crushed and caught at the Battle of Klokotnitsa, and went through the following seven years in bondage. Meanwhile, he was prevailing by his sibling Manuel. Manuel rapidly lost Thrace, the majority of Macedonia, and Albania to the Bulgarian Tsar John II Asen. Thessalonica itself turned into a Bulgarian vassal, while in Epirus legitimate power was seized by Michael II, coming back from outcast. 

Theodore was discharged in 1237 when his girl Irene wedded John Asen, and immediately figured out how to recapture control of Thessalonica, expelling Manuel. Having been blinded amid his imprisonment and hence excluded from involving the honored position once more, he introduced his oldest child John as sovereign, yet remained the "true" official of the state. Manuel attempted to recover Thessalonica with Nicaean help, however an arranged settlement was achieved which gave him Thessaly and left Thessalonica and its environs to Theodore and John. In 1241, John III Vatatzes welcomed Theodore to visit Nicaea. He was invited and treated with significant privilege, however was viably kept there until the spring of one year from now, when Vatatzes walked on Thessalonica with Theodore close by. Theodore was sent in to consult with his child and persuade him to acknowledge downgrade to the position of Despot and to perceive the suzerainty of Nicaea. John passed on in 1244 and was prevailing by Theodore's more youthful child Demetrios. In 1246, Vatatzes toppled the disagreeable Demetrios and added Thessalonica. Theodore affected his nephew Michael II to dispatch an assault on Thessalonica in 1251, yet in 1252, Vatatzes battled against them and constrained Michael to settle. Theodore was brought detainee and sent into outcast in Nicaea, where he kicked the bucket around 1253. 

Conceived somewhere in the range of 1180 and 1185, Theodore was a child of the "sebastokrator" John Doukas and of Zoe Doukaina. His fatherly grandparents were Constantine Angelos and Theodora, a girl of the Byzantine head Alexios I Komnenos (). Theodore's uncle, Andronikos, was the dad of the rulers Isaac II Angelos () and Alexios III Angelos (), who were Theodore's first cousins. Likewise with most individuals from his family, he wanted to utilize the surname of "Doukas" or "Komnenos Doukas" (Κομνηνὸς ὁ Δούκας); peers differently called him "Doukas", "Komnenos", or even "Fantastic Komnenos" (μέγας Κομνηνός), a sobriquet all the more generally found among the decision group of the Empire of Trebizond. Theodore clearly liked to be related with the more effective traditions of the Doukai and the Komnenoi, instead of the unfortunate rule of the Angeloi; in fact the main medieval authors to call him "Angelos" were the later, unfriendly expert Palaiologos history specialists Nikephoros Gregoras and Theodore Skoutariotes, while George Akropolites alludes to him as "Komnenos" until his annihilation at Klokotnitsa in 1230 and as "Angelos" after. 

Theodore's initial life is dark. After the Fourth Crusade caught Constantinople in 1204, he pursued Theodore Laskaris to Asia Minor, where Laskaris established the Empire of Nicaea. Theodore's administration under Laskaris is moderately obscure with the exception of a concise reference in a letter composed by the Metropolitan of Corfu, George Bardanes, one of Theodore's defenders. Bardanes composes that Theodore "took numerous threats for the good of he and wrested numerous posts from the foes and quelled them to Laskaris' standard", separating himself through his valor and accepting numerous prizes from the Nicaean ruler. Some advanced researchers, for example, Karl Hopf and Antoine Bon, have distinguished a certain Theodore, who shows up as "ruler of Argos" and was the successor of Leo Sgouros in driving the obstruction against the Crusaders in the northwestern Peloponnese after Sgouros' demise in 1208, with Theodore Komnenos Doukas. This view has been addressed by Raymond-Joseph Loenertz, who contends that there is no proof for such a presumption, and that on the other hand it is entrenched that Theodore was in Nicaean administration at the time. 

Around 1210, Theodore was welcomed by his relative Michael I Komnenos Doukas to Epirus, where Michael had established a free Greek territory. Michael needed Theodore's guide, as his solitary child, the future Michael II Komnenos Doukas, was underage and ill-conceived, while Michael's other stepbrothers were considered to do not have the capacity to run the show. Laskaris permitted Theodore to leave, however bound him with a vow of devotion to himself and his beneficiaries. Prior to going to Epirus, Theodore had hitched Maria Petraliphaina, with whom he had four kids. 

From 1210 on, Michael I Komnenos Doukas was occupied with regional extension, primarily to the detriment of the Latin Kingdom of Thessalonica to his east; after introductory switches, a lot of Thessaly was prevailed. By 1214, Dyrrhachium and Corfu had been recuperated from the Latins too. The customary perspective on students of history is that these occasions checked Michael I's denial of the devotion he had promised to the Latin Empire, however antiquarian Philip Van Tricht contends that both Michael and later Theodore stayed, from a certain perspective, vassals of the Latin Empire until 1217. Michael was killed by a worker in late 1214 or in 1215. As Michael II was ill-conceived and excessively youthful, Theodore had no inconvenience in sidelining the kid. As indicated by the hagiography of St. Theodora of Arta, the kid and his mom spent the span of Theodore's reign ousted in the Peloponnese. 

Theodore was fit and amazingly driven. Despite his vow to Laskaris, he tried not exclusively to grow his state to the detriment of Thessalonica, yet to in the end recoup Constantinople and restore the Byzantine Empire with himself as its ruler. To verify his northern flank, Theodore aligned himself with Serbia and the Albanian families. The Principality of Arbanon had just come in the Epirote political circle under Michael I, and closer ties created when its ruler, Demetrios, kicked the bucket in 1215, leaving his realm to his widow, who immediately remarried the following year to a Greek head honcho, Gregory Kamonas. Against the Serbs, Theodore relinquished Michael I's endeavor to seek after a northward venture into Zeta, and rather sought after a coalition with the Serbian sovereign Stefan II Nemanjić () that was coordinated towards holding the Bulgarians within proper limits. The ties among Epirus and Serbia were hardened by the marriage of Theodore's sibling Manuel Komnenos Doukas to one of Stefan II's sisters . Stefan II at that point looked to marry one of his children—no doubt his oldest child and beneficiary, Stefan Radoslav—to Michael I's second little girl Theodora. The Archbishop of Ohrid, Demetrios Chomatianos, wouldn't endorse the marriage because of association—Theodora was a second cousin of Stefan Radoslav's mom, Eudokia Angelina, a little girl of Alexios III Angelos. In 1217, Stefan II endeavored to dodge this by presenting himself as the husband to be to Theodora's stepsister Maria, yet Chomatianos vetoed this proposition also on comparable grounds. At last, Stefan Radoslav wedded Theodore's firstborn little girl Anna in winter 1219/20. 

With his position along these lines fortified, Theodore extended his region into northern Macedonia, despite the fact that it is conceivable that in any event part of this area had just been caught by Michael I after the passing of the nearby Bulgarian ruler Strez in 1214. It is misty to what degree Theodore's development included direct clash with the Bulgarian Tsar Boril (), yet by 1217 he held Ohrid, Prilep, and a large portion of the plain of Pelagonia, at any rate up to Strez's old capital at Prosek, and likely past, moving toward the Strymon River. As the Greek student of history Konstantinos Varzos has noticed, the catch of Ohrid, seat of the eponymous archbishopric, was especially critical for the remaining of the Epirote state and Theodore's yearnings. Theodore supported the decision of the recognized canonist Chomatianos to the archiepiscopal royal position in 1217, and Chomatianos would reimburse that help with his immovable advocating of Epirote cases to the Byzantine royal legacy opposite the adversary cases of Nicaea. 

Following the Fourth Crusade, the Orthodox pastorate in the two primary Greek states, Epirus and Nicaea, had viably turned out to be isolated. In 1208, the Nicaeans had assembled a synod and chosen Michael Autoreianos as successor to the empty see of the Patriarch of Constantinople. The decision was uncanonical and along these lines of sketchy authenticity. This thus implied Laskaris' majestic title was additionally open to challenge, as he had been delegated by a similar Michael Autoreianos. Effectively under Michael I, two neighborhood synods of ministers had developed in the Epirote spaces to carry on organization of the Church, to a great extent free of the Patriarch, one at Naupaktos under John Apokaukos, and one at Ohrid under Chomatianos. The more yearning Chomatianos before long turned into the pre-famous "western" minister, and looked to reinforce the "true" Epirote self-rule in religious undertakings, including the arrangement of clerics for the neighborhood sees without the Patriarch's impedance. This strategy, which dovetailed with Theodore's very own aspirations of freedom from and contention towards Nicaea, brought the two parts of the Greek Church to an open fight, as the Nicaea-based patriarch Manuel I Sarantenos started designating diocesans of his own to Epirote sees, whom the Epirotes would not acknowledge. Regardless of his nearby connections to Epirus, Stefan II Nemanjić misused the Epirote– Nicaean contention further bolstering his good fortune to verify autocephaly for the Serbian Church, which generally had been under the locale of the Archbishop of Ohrid. Ignoring Chomatianos' eager protests, Stefan figured out how to have his sibling Rastko, renamed Sava, sanctified by Manuel Sarantenos as autocephalous diocese supervisor of Serbia in 1219. Theodore took care not to let the fights of the churchmen influence his genial relations with the Serbian ruler. 

Theodore's crash into Macedonia disturbed another neighborhood strongman, Alexius Slav, leader of Melnik. A sworn adversary of Boril, Alexius had been relinquished by his past partner, the Latin Emperor, Henry of Flanders (), who in 1213 aligned himself with Bulgaria. Confronting a conceivable assault by Theodore also, Alexius now wanted to make regular reason with him, and wedded a niece of Theodore's significant other. 

The Epirote achievements in Macedonia stressed the Latins, as they opened the path to another assault on Thessalonica. The Kingdom of Thessalonica had been tremendously debilitated after the demise of its organizer, Boniface of Montferrat, in 1207, since which it had been controlled by a rule for his underage child Demetrius (). Interfering with a battle against the Nicaeans in Asia Minor, Henry of Flanders rushed to Thessalonica. He took up contact with Boril and was getting ready to walk against Theodore when he all of a sudden passed on 11 June 1216, likely of intestinal sickness, in spite of the fact that harming by his second spouse Maria of Bulgaria has likewise been proposed. The demise of the warlike Henry, trailed by that of Pope Innocent III, the instigator of the Fourth Crusade, after a month, was a noteworthy stroke of favorable luck for Theodore as it evacuated two of his most famous and fit rivals. 

The aristocrats of the Latin Empire at that point chose Peter II of Courtenay, a cousin of King Philip II Augustus of France, as the new Latin Emperor. Getting updates on his race, Peter gathered a little armed force of 160 knights and 5,500 foot and steed, and set out from France. Subsequent to being delegated by Pope Honorius III in Rome, he set sail from Brindisi in April 1217. Diminish arrived at Dyrrhachium, which he had guaranteed to overcome and come back to Venice, while his significant other Yolanda of Flanders cruised on to Constantinople. As in the Norman intrusion of William II of Sicily () in 1185, Peter planned (in the wake of catching Dyrrhachium) to pursue the antiquated Via Egnatia to Thessalonica, wresting Albania and Macedonia from Epirote control all the while. 

The normally acknowledged variant of occasions is that Dyrrhachium opposed with progress, and as his setbacks mounted Peter was compelled to raise the attack and begin his walk towards Thessalonica. The walk demonstrated troublesome, because of both the cruel territory and the open threatening vibe of the nearby populace—the Western sources (the "Annales Ceccanenses", Richard of San Germano, Philippe Mouskes, and the continuator of Robert of Auxerre) likewise stress the dependability of the neighborhood Albanian populace to Theodore. Following a couple of days, Theodore with his military went up against Peter. Theodore mentioned chats with the ecclesiastical legate, Giovanni Colonna, whom he guaranteed of his altruism and backing. Western sources guarantee that Theodore offered to perceive the supremacy of the Catholic Church and the suzerainty of the Latin Empire—just as to help Peter in his arranged cooperation in the Fifth Crusade—and offered the Latins sustenance and aides through the mountains. Diminish was happy to get this sudden help, and an understanding between the two was closed. When the Latins let their watchman down, Theodore fell upon them. Dwindle of Courtenay, Colonna, the Latin Bishop of Salona, Count William I of Sancerre, and numerous Latin nobles were kidnapped, while Peter's military dissipated into little wandering groups endeavoring to endure. Akropolites, the recorder Ephraim, and some Western sources then again guarantee that Dyrrhachium was caught, and are trailed by some cutting edge researchers, including the Greek I. D. Romanos and the French Alain Ducellier. As indicated by this view, Theodore offered to recognize Peter's suzerainty after the city's fall, just to misleadingly trap and thrashing him. As the student of history John Van Antwerp Fine comments, "it isn't imperative which variant is right"; the result was the equivalent, and whenever lost, Dyrrhachium was immediately retaken after Peter's catch. 

As indicated by Philip Van Tricht, Theodore's activities were roused by a few components, which drove him to see Peter as a risk to himself and his realm. Subside's endeavor to return Dyrrhachium to Venice, regardless of whether it had flopped for the occasion, boded sick for what's to come. Subside's acknowledgment of the privileges of Demetrius' stepbrother William VI of Montferrat over Thessalonica opened the route for William to take control there, and Theodore was disinclined to see Thessalonica—whose rulers still asserted suzerainty over Epirus—fortified, especially given the nearness of his banished nephew Michael II in the court of the Latin Principality of Achaea. In the meantime, Theodore and his court detested the expanded ecclesiastical obstruction in Greek undertakings, particularly in the result of the mission of Cardinal Pelagius, the past ecclesiastical legate to Constantinople, whose activities had extended the crack among Greeks and Latins further. 

Whatever the genuine course of occasions, Theodore's sudden triumph resounded all through the Greek world, and significantly improved his standing; even the normally unfriendly Akropolites was compelled to concede in his history that this accomplishment was "of extraordinary help to the Romans". Then again it daunted Pope Honorius, who sent letters to the Latin rulers of Greece just as the Doge of Venice and Peter of Courtenay's child in-law King Andrew II of Hungary (), asking them to draw in themselves to verify the arrival of Peter and Colonna. He even kept in touch with Andrew and the French religious administrators to require a campaign against Theodore, with which he likewise compromised Theodore in a letter. With the primary contingents for the campaign collecting at Ancona in late 1217, and the Venetians anxious to benefit from the campaign to recoup Dyrrhachium, the weight proved to be fruitful: in March 1218, Colonna was discharged, with Theodore offering his expressions of remorse and affirmations of dependability to the Pope. Honorius then changed his strategy to the point of disallowing the Doge of Venice to hurt Theodore in the smallest, trusting accordingly to verify the arrival of more detainees. Albeit a portion of the lesser aristocrats were liberated, Peter and a significant number of the most senior masters stayed in imprisonment until their demise. It is obscure when Peter of Courtenay passed on, however this was most likely before September 1219. 

The catch of Peter of Courtenay left both real Latin states in northern Greece, Thessalonica and Constantinople, in the hands of female officials. Before landing in Constantinople, where she brought forth Peter's after death child, Baldwin II (), Yolanda had ceased at the Peloponnese. There she rapidly came to value the riches and quality of the Principality of Achaea, and organized the marriage of her girl Agnes to the realm's beneficiary, Geoffrey II of Villehardouin (). A politically clever ruler, Yolanda additionally verified her eastern outskirt by offering her girl Maria of Courtenay in marriage to Theodore Laskaris, who had recently been bereaved for the second time. 

Prior to propelling his last stroke against Thessalonica, Theodore additionally took consideration to verify his southern flank, by selecting his sibling Constantine Komnenos Doukas as senator in Aetolia and Acarnania. A fiery representative, Constantine not just viably protected the Epirote areas from the risk of the Duchy of Athens, however before long recuperated Neopatras and Lamia also. Theodore himself directed his concentration toward clearing Thessaly of any staying Latin nearness, coming full circle in the surrender of the incomparable Platamon Castle in 1218. Throughout the following couple of years, one by one, Theodore caught the fortifications around Thessalonica itself. Platamon controlled the passageway to the Thermaic Gulf, and with the surrender of Serres in late 1221, Theodore cut the land association among Constantinople and Thessalonica also. Thessalonica was left accordingly, in the expressions of John Fine, "pretty much an island amidst Theodore's assets". 

As the fall of Thessalonica seemed unavoidable, Pope Honorius banished Theodore, requested a ban on steeds, troops, and supplies from the Adriatic ports, and sent letters to Constantinople encouraging help to Demetrius. Demetrius himself went to Italy to look for help, being gotten by the Pope in Rome in March 1222 and by Emperor Frederick II () before long. A campaign was announced against Theodore, and troops started to assemble in Italy. Meanwhile, the Latin Empire, presently under Robert of Courtenay (), was afresh involved in fighting with Nicaea as it upheld Laskaris' siblings in their test against the new Nicaean ruler, John III Doukas Vatatzes (). The main separations of the gathering campaign, under Count Oberto II of Biandrate, touched base at Thessalonica in summer 1222 and joined the "true" official, Guy Pallavicini. Theodore now hurried his turn against Thessalonica. After fundamental activities in late 1222, in mid 1223 he laid attack to the city. Honorius banished him once more, and increased his push to advance the campaign, which had ground to a halt meanwhile. At the Pope's asking, Venice and Emperor Frederick guaranteed help. Robert of Courtenay likewise promised to help, while Honorius called upon the Latin sovereigns of southern Greece to participate in the exertion. The campaign at last gathered at Brindisi in March 1224. In his directions to his legate, in any case, Honorius did not discount the likelihood of Theodore grappling with the Crusaders. Consistent with his oath, in April 1224 Robert of Courtenay sent a military to assault Serres. Amid the attack, the Latin officers scholarly of the appalling annihilation of the primary Latin armed force on account of John III Doukas Vatatzes at the Battle of Poimanenon. They lifted the attack and hurried back to Constantinople, just to be blocked by Theodore's men; a large portion of the Latin armed force were executed or taken prisoner. 

This twofold debacle obliterated the Pope's arrangements for the campaign, as he had imagined it to arrive in Theodore's back while he was locked in with Robert's military. In the meantime, the imminent pioneer of the campaign, William VI of Montferrat, became sick. In November, the Pope was compelled to defer the campaign's takeoff for the following spring. With updates on the Latin annihilations and the deferment of the campaign, the depleted protectors of Thessalonica surrendered the city to Theodore at some point in December 1224. The campaign to mitigate it cruised in March 1225, and arrived in Thessaly at Halmyros. The Crusader armed force was before long crushed by looseness of the bowels, supposedly in light of the fact that the Greeks had harmed the neighborhood water supply. William of Montferrat himself surrendered to it, and the remainders of the military left Greece. Demetrius of Montferrat still would have liked to recoup his domain with the assistance of Frederick II, yet passed on in 1227. 

The catch of Thessalonica, customarily the second city of the Byzantine Empire after Constantinople, was a noteworthy stroke against the Latins and extraordinarily helped Theodore's standing, so much that he presently viewed himself as better than Vatatzes, and straightforwardly asserted the Byzantine magnificent title by putting on the purple boots held to the sovereign. To be sure, one of his significant supporters, the famous Metropolitan of Naupaktos, John Apokaukos, in a letter to the Patriarch in 1222 pronounced that the Epirotes previously viewed Theodore as their "God-sent official and ruler", and later wrote to Theodore's better half communicating the expectation that he may probably help at their majestic crowning ordinance at Thessalonica. 

As per Byzantine custom, the crowning ordinance of a sovereign could just happen in Constantinople and be performed by the Patriarch; yet Constantinople was still in Latin hands, and the Patriarch (presently Germanus II, 1223– 40) dwelled in Nicaea. Theodore accordingly swung to the Metropolitan of Thessalonica, Constantine Mesopotamites, whom he had quite recently reestablished to his see subsequent to evacuating the Latin prelate. Mesopotamites anyway perceived the Patriarch at Nicaea as real, and unfalteringly would not play out the ceremony, in spite of weight from Theodore, his sibling Constantine, and John Apokaukos. As opposed to submit, he wanted to come back to oust. Accordingly, in March 1225 Theodore gathered a committee of the priests of his areas at Arta, led by Apokaukos. The board affirmed an announcement, formed by Apokaukos, which praised Theodore's accomplishments against the Latins and Bulgarians, his freedom of Greek terrains, ousting of Catholic ministers and reclamation of Orthodox religious administrators, and his majestic plunge, and proclaimed that the gathering perceived just him as sovereign. Equipped with this affirmation, Theodore had the unwavering Archbishop of Ohrid, Demetrios Chomatianos, play out the crowning liturgy. 

In spite of the fact that Theodore seems to have accepted, and was tended to by, the magnificent title very quickly after the catch of Thessalonica, the date of his genuine crowning ordinance is obscure. The French researcher Lucien Stiernon places it in the period between June 1227 and April 1228, yet the Greek Apostolos D. Karpozilos rejects this, thinking Theodore had no conspicuous motivation to postpone his royal celebration for such a long time, and recommended that he was delegated in 1225, following the board of Arta. Eleni Bees-Seferli then again, in light of the letters of Apokaukos, proposes a date between 3 April and August 1227, while Alkmini Stavridou-Zafraka has limited the date down to 29 May 1227. 

As befitted a Byzantine ruler, Theodore started setting up a court at his new capital, and administered the typical court titles to his relatives and supporters. Very little is thought about the men that staffed Theodore's routine; the majority of the accessible data originates from the compositions of Chomatianos. Theodore's siblings Manuel and Constantine were raised to the position of Despot, the long-serving John Plytos progressed toward becoming "panhypersebastos" and "mesazon" (boss priest), and various scions of old Byzantine privileged families, who had looked for shelter in Epirus, were delegated as common governors nearby individuals from the neighborhood gentry. The title of "doux" was utilized, however not at all like prior occasions these were generally regular citizen governors with minimal military expert. Theodore granted titles with such largesse that once in the past selective titles, for example, "sebastos" or "megalodoxotatos" were downgraded and came to be held by city notables. His Nicaean adversaries, strikingly Akropolites, taunted him for the random manner by which the titles were utilized and granted, overlooking the old traditions of Constantinople, as though he were "a Bulgarian or rather a brute". To verify his new capital, Theodore organized a gatekeeper of "Tzakones" under a "kastrophylax". 

John Vatatzes at first responded to Theodore's announcement as head by offering to remember him as a kind of emissary in his properties, yet Theodore rejected this and freely expected the full titulature of the Byzantine rulers, as ""basileus" and "autokrator" of the Romans". Theodore's crowning ritual extended the break between the western Greeks and Nicaea, which indeed was communicated in the minister circle. At first, the Nicaeans endeavored to constrain the fault to Chomatianos: however composing consciously of Theodore himself, Patriarch Germanus II communicated his anger at the assumption of Chomatianos in usurping the man centric benefit of delegated a ruler, while Chomatianos asserted that, as the successor of the old see of Justiniana Prima, he was a free prelate and had the expert to do as such. 

In 1227, a synod of Epirote religious administrators in Arta endeavored to discover a trade off, recognizing the general specialist of the Patriarch at Nicaea however mentioning managerial self-sufficiency, for example the privilege for Theodore to delegate diocesans in his areas. They gave the Patriarch three months to answer, and recommended that on the off chance that he didn't notice their proposition, they may be compelled to perceive the amazingness of the Pope. Germanus answered by having the man centric synod censure Theodore's suspicion of the supreme title. The contention heightened when Germanus delegated his very own possibility to the empty see of Dyrrhachium. Theodore ousted the priest, and the Epirote synod rather chose a companion of Chomatianos, Constantine Kabasilas, as the religious administrator. Germanus now assaulted Theodore legitimately. Accordingly, George Bardanes formed a letter to Germanus, which demanded Epirote clerical self-governance and tested the very lawfulness of Germanus' cases to the patriarchate. The outcome was a full faction between the Nicaean and Epirote holy places that kept going until 1232/3. 

Following Theodore's crowning ordinance, there were four rulers who asserted the majestic title and competed for control of Constantinople: Theodore, the Latin Emperor, Robert of Courtenay, John III Doukas Vatatzes of Nicaea, and the youthful yet driven John II Asen (r. 1218– 41) of Bulgaria. The Latin Empire was a sad remnant of its previous quality: after Poimanenon, the Latins had lost the vast majority of their regions in Asia, while in Europe, it was before long diminished to the environs of Constantinople itself. As of now in 1224, or if nothing else in 1225, Theodore caught Chalcidice with Mount Athos, and in spring 1225, he progressed through eastern Macedonia and western Thrace, seizing Christopolis, Xanthi, Gratianopolis, Mosynopolis and Didymoteicho. While trying to pre-empt him and square his development onto Constantinople, the Nicaeans had addressed the request of the occupants of Adrianople and assumed control over the city from the Latins. Theodore anyway crossed the Evros River and barred the city, until it consented to surrender. The Nicaean armed force, under the "protostrator" John Ises and John Kammytzes, was permitted to pull back left alone to Asia with boats given by Theodore. 

The catch of Adrianople opened the way to Constantinople for Theodore. So as to verify his northern flank, he finished up a partnership with John Asen, fixed by the (second) marriage of his sibling Manuel to Maria, an ill-conceived girl of Asen. In the meantime, the Latins swung to Nicaea and closed a harmony arrangement in return for further regional concessions. This settlement also was fixed by a marriage, of Theodore Laskaris' little girl Eudokia to the Latin nobleman Anseau de Cayeux. In a similar summer of 1225, Theodore drove his military to the environs of Constantinople, achieving the towns of Bizye and Vrysis. Anseau de Cayeux, driving the Latin armed force, was intensely injured in the conflicts, yet Constantinople itself was not assaulted. Not exclusively was Theodore not ready for an attack against the compelling Theodosian Walls, yet updates on William of Montferrat's arrival at Thessaly constrained him to sever activities and return west. 

For reasons that are obscure, Theodore did not restore his assault on Constantinople in 1226 or the years from there on. Rather, he appears to have involved himself with local illicit relationships, just as taking consideration to improve relations with Frederick II amid the last's stop-over at Corfu and Cephallonia to lead the Sixth Crusade in 1228. In 1229, he even sent an organization of Greek troops to serve under Frederick in Italy. In the meantime, Theodore managed a break in relations with Venice, after his representative in Corfu sequestered the payload of a wrecked Venetian ship. Theodore issued an order on 19 August 1228 precluding Venetian dealers from rehearsing business in his domain. In January of that year, Robert of Courtenay kicked the bucket, leaving the position of royalty of the Latin Empire to his eleven-year-old sibling, Baldwin II. With a rule assuming control over the administration of the express, the Latin Empire stood additionally enfeebled. Right now, John Asen offered a collusion. Baldwin II would wed his little girl Helena, while John Asen would assume control over the rule and loan his help at repulsing Theodore's assaults. The Latin aristocrats saw the idea with question, as it would offer John Asen each chance to assume control over Constantinople himself; rather, they unstable arrangements, and in the end picked the 80-year-old however fiery John of Brienne () as official. In spite of the fact that the Bulgarian offer fizzled, it served to open a crack among Theodore and his ostensible partner. In a move obviously coordinated against John Asen, in September 1228, Theodore consented to a one-year ceasefire with the Latin Empire's official, Narjot of Toucy, with the outskirt between the two domains running along a line from Ainos to Vrysis. 

At long last, in late 1229, Theodore started gathering his powers at Thessalonica—including an unexpected of troops sent by Frederick II—for the anticipated last assault on Constantinople. As his troops walked east in spring 1230, he suddenly turned his military north and pursued the Evros valley into Bulgaria. Theodore's thought processes in this unexpected change are discussed. Contemporary and later history specialists like Akropolites upbraided this as an indication of Theodore's trickery and injustice. An almost certain proposal is that Theodore, heretofore undefeated in fight, wanted to check Bulgarian power and keep away from the likelihood of the Bulgarians striking in his back while he was occupied with blockading Constantinople. In spite of the fact that gotten off guard, Asen responded quickly. Supposedly appending the content of the broken bargain to one of his lances as a banner, he mobilized his troops and met Theodore fighting in April 1230. The resulting Battle of Klokotnitsa was a devastating triumph for the Bulgarian ruler, who took Theodore and a large number of his officers hostage. 

In the fallout of Klokotnitsa, Bulgaria developed as the mightiest power in the Balkans. Denied of its enthusiastic ruler, Theodore's domain fallen: inside a couple of months Thrace, the greater part of Macedonia, and Albania, fell under Bulgarian guideline. As John Asen bragged in an engraving in the Holy Forty Martyrs Church at his capital of Tarnovo, he "involved all the land from Adrianople to Dyrrhachium, Greek, Serbian, and Albanian alike", despite the fact that Dyrrhachium itself evidently stayed in Greek hands. The Latin Duchy of Philippopolis was likewise added, and Alexius Slav's territory in the Rhodope Mountains was quenched all the while, with Alexius spending an amazing remainder at Asen's court. 

Theodore's sibling Manuel, who figured out how to escape from Klokotnitsa, presently assumed control over the royal position in Thessalonica. His area was decreased to the environs of the city and his family's center domains in Epirus and Thessaly, just as Dyrrhachium and Corfu, while his sibling Constantine in Aetolia and Acarnania perceived his suzerainty. As a child in-law of John Asen, Manuel was permitted to keep up inner independence, yet to all goals and purposes he was a customer of the Bulgarian Tsar. At about a similar time, Michael I's charlatan child Michael II came back from outcast and immediately succeeded, clearly with the help of the neighborhood populace, in assuming control over control of Epirus. Manuel was compelled to perceive the "fait accompli" under the misrepresentation that Michael perceived his suzerainty, in token of which Manuel presented him the title of Despot. In all actuality Michael was completely free, and in all respects immediately stopped to recognize Manuel's suzerainty; by 1236, he had seized Corfu. So as to save some opportunity of move and counter Asen's endeavors to subordinate the Epirote Church to the Bulgarian Church of Tarnovo, Manuel swung to his sibling's past opponents in Nicaea and finished the religious faction by recognizing the authenticity and predominance of the Nicaea-based Patriarch. 

Theodore himself stayed in imprisonment at Tarnovo for a long time. At first he was treated with respect, however sooner or later amid his imprisonment he was blamed for plotting against John Asen and blinded thus. This was the standard Byzantine discipline for injustice and methods for sidelining potential political adversaries. As indicated by a contemporary letter written in Hebrew, Asen at first arranged two Jews to complete the deed, for Theodore had been abusing the Jews in his region and reallocating their riches to subsidize his battles. Theodore asked to be saved, and they wouldn't do the blinding, whereupon the rankled Tsar had them tossed from a bluff. At long last, in 1237 Theodore was discharged when Asen, as of late bereft, began to look all starry eyed at Theodore's sole unmarried girl, Irene. Following the marriage, Theodore was discharged and permitted to withdraw Tarnovo to wherever he wished. 

When he was without set, Theodore came back to Thessalonica. Coming up short on any escort or supporters, he camouflaged himself as a poor person so as to enter the city stealthily. There he reached old supporters and top choices, and sorted out a scheme that before long removed Manuel and assumed control over the city. As Byzantine uniquely banned him from re-accepting the magnificent office because of his blinding, Theodore introduced his child John Komnenos Doukas () as head (without a crowning ritual function), yet remained the genuine leader of the realm in his child's name. John himself seems to have been for the most part intrigued by religion, and more slanted to enter a cloister than to progress toward becoming ruler. Theodore needed to induce him that being named sovereign was a natural blessing, and that he was without a doubt the legitimate Emperor of the Romans because of his royal plummet. 

The removed Manuel was sent to banish at Attaleia in Asia Minor, while his significant other Maria was permitted to come back to her dad. Regardless of Theodore's activities and the topple of his little girl and child in-law, Akropolites reports that John Asen remained positively arranged towards Theodore because of his energetic love for Irene. Manuel did not stay quiet in a state of banishment; resolved to retaliate for himself, from Attaleia he verified entry through Turkish grounds to Nicaea. There John Vatatzes invited him and consented to help him, however not before he verified from Manuel pledges of dependability to himself. Therefore in mid 1239 Manuel with six Nicaean boats set sail for Greece, arriving close Demetrias in Thessaly. He got across the board support in the area, maybe even from the nearby senator, Michael I's child in-law Constantine Maliasenos, enabling him to bring a military and up in a brief timeframe possess Farsala, Larissa, and Platamon. Looked with the choice of open common war, Manuel and Theodore in the long run settled by separating the domains of Thessalonica among themselves. Manuel revoked his devotion to Vatatzes and got Thessaly, John and Theodore kept Thessalonica and the rest of the pieces of Macedonia as far west as Vodena and Ostrovo, and Constantine was affirmed in his appanage of Aetolia and Acarnania. To additionally verify their position, both Theodore and Michael finished up arrangements with the incredible Prince of Achaea, Geoffrey II of Villehardouin. 

Michael II in Epirus was not part of the siblings' understanding, and kept on pursueing his own strategies freely of his uncles. In 1241, when Manuel kicked the bucket, Michael moved rapidly to involve Thessaly. In June of that year, John Asen kicked the bucket, leaving the honored position to his seven-year-old child Kaliman (r. 1241– 46). Combined with the inexorably falling apart circumstance of the Latin Empire, this improvement left John Vatatzes of Nicaea as the pre-famous leader of the locale, and the undeniable possibility for the catch of Constantinople. 

Prior to undertaking any moves against Constantinople, Vatatzes understood the need to settle issues with Thessalonica, and specifically with Theodore, whose aspiration, ability, and ruses he dreaded. In 1240 or 1241 he in this manner issued a welcome, with affirmations of safe-direct, to Theodore to visit Nicaea. Theodore acknowledged, and was treated with amazing privileges by Vatatzes, who conceded to him as his "uncle" and ate with him at a similar table. Truly, Theodore was a detainee in Nicaea; he was not permitted to leave, and all through his stay in the Nicaean court, arrangements were going all out for a battle against Thessalonica. In spring 1242, Vatatzes traversed into Europe at the leader of his military, with Theodore going with him as a privileged detainee. Confronting no opposition, the Nicaean armed force and armada landed before Thessalonica. The city's battalion and occupants opposed with progress and the Nicaean armed force, lacking substantial attack gear, needed to make due with a drawn-out barricade. Before long, be that as it may, news touched base of a Mongol intrusion of Asia Minor, which constrained Vatatzes to sever the battle and come back to Nicaea. By the by, the Nicaean sovereign kept this news a mystery, and sent Theodore to his child to arrange. John himself supposedly was happy to surrender the city inside and out, however his dad persuaded him to wait for better terms. At last, following 40 days of arrangements, John was permitted to keep control of Thessalonica, yet repudiated his royal title and acknowledged Nicaean suzerainty and the title of Despot. Theodore was additionally permitted to stay at Thessalonica at his child's side. 

John governed as Despot in Thessalonica for a long time, until his passing in 1244. Theodore himself resigned to Vodena, from where he directed the undertakings of state. On John's demise he brought up his more youthful child Demetrios Komnenos Doukas () in his place, and sent a consulate to Nicaea to declare the progression, as befitted the terms of vassalage concurred in 1242. In the event that John was a religious parsimonious, Demetrios was a debauched adolescent who delighted in celebrating with his top picks and alluring wedded ladies. Despite the fact that Theodore stayed responsible for administration, Demetrios rapidly turned out to be unpopular to the point that many driving natives started seeing direct Nicaean principle with support. 

Things reached a crucial stage in pre-winter 1246, when Kaliman of Bulgaria kicked the bucket, leaving the nation in the hands of a rule for his more youthful sibling Michael Asen (). Vatatzes immediately assaulted Bulgaria, and inside three months caught the vast majority of Thrace and all of eastern and northern Macedonia, while Michael II of Epirus likewise exploited the chance to venture into Albania and northwestern Macedonia. At the end of this battle in November, as Vatatzes was settled at Melnik, he was educated of a scheme to oust Demetrios and convey Thessalonica to him in return for a chrysobull ensuring the conventional rights and benefits of the city. Vatatzes promptly conceded this, and sent emissaries to Demetrios calling for him to show up face to face at his camp. Demetrios, suspicious of Vatatzes' goals, cannot, and the Nicaeans walked on Thessalonica. Following a couple of days, the plotters paved the way for the Nicaean armed force, and the city was immediately caught. Demetrios was caught and banished to Lentiana in Bithynia, while Thessalonica and all of Macedonia were set under the administration of the Grand Domestic Andronikos Palaiologos. Theodore himself, disconnected and without power in his shelter at Vodena, evidently stayed uninvolved in these occasions. 

With Thessalonica verified, Vatatzes swung to Epirus, offering Michael II a marriage union between Michael's oldest child Nikephoros and his own granddaughter Maria. The offer was excitedly acknowledged by Michael's significant other, Theodora Petraliphaina (a niece of Theodore's own better half), and the youthful couple were locked in at Pegae. Michael, who had not relinquished his family's desire, stayed undecided about the Nicaean partnership, and Theodore utilized his impact over his nephew to turn him against it. In this way, in spring 1251, Michael propelled an unexpected assault on Thessalonica. The city opposed effectively, and in spring of the following year Vatatzes afresh crossed into Europe to battle against the Komnenoi Doukai. Theodore with Michael had swung toward the north, catching Prilep and Veles, and when they got updates on Vatatzes' entry, they pulled back to Epirus by means of Kastoria. Vatatzes assaulted and caught Theodore's fortification of Vodena, however before long moved toward becoming hindered in skirmishing in the region of Kastoria. The stalemate was broken when two Epirote commanders, John Glabas and Theodore Petraliphas, surrendered to the Nicaeans, pursued not long after by the leader of Kruja, Golem. This constrained Michael to grapple with Vatatzes, surrendering the fortifications he had caught just as his outstanding possessions in Macedonia, and reconfirming the marriage union with Nicaea. Moreover, Vatatzes expressly requested the giving over of Theodore. The Epirote represetatives met Vatatzes at Vodena, where they offered Theodore and the youthful Nikephoros as prisoners. The last was conceded the title of Despot and before long permitted to come back to Epirus, however Theodore was moved as a detainee to Asia Minor. He passed on not long after, around 1253. 

The advanced biographer of the Komnenoi, Konstantinos Varzos, portrayed Theodore as a "vigorous, creative, and exceedingly yearning statesman, who acquired from his progenitor Alexios I Komnenos his continuance and constancy, yet not the last's knowledge, strategy, and capacity to adjust". Varzos moreover brings up that in spite of his incredible capacity, Theodore's desire to be the one to recoup Constantinople and his beyond reconciliation competition with Nicaea really hampered and deferred the reclamation of the Byzantine Empire by a very long while. 

Theodore's inheritance left an enduring imprint on the political perspective of the western Greeks: Byzantinist Donald Nicol comments that "the memory of Theodore Doukas' triumphs and of his title to the Byzantine crown lived on in northern Greece and in the hearts of his relatives for a long time to come". Michael II proceeded with his uncle's contention with Nicaea, further postponing the recuperation of Constantinople, and even after the rebuilding of the Byzantine Empire by Nicaea in 1261, the leaders of Epirus would keep on testing the restored domain and maintain their own case to the Byzantine position of authority. 

By his significant other Maria Petraliphaina, Theodore had four kids: