Tyrone Garland 

Tyrone W. "Ty" Garland (brought into the world August 13, 1992) is an American expert b-ball player for Breiðablik of the First Division in Iceland. A local of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, he joined the Mississauga Power halfway in the 2014– 15 season, a couple of months subsequent to finishing his senior year at La Salle University. He had a few significant exhibitions with Mississauga in his newbie season and was granted a few begins. Festoon fundamentally plays the point monitor position, yet is known as an inside and out watchman. 

Festoon, whom Rivals.com and 247Sports.com evaluated a three-star select leaving secondary school, began his university vocation with Virginia Tech subsequent to being enlisted by various high significant school ball programs. Notwithstanding, in the wake of seeing constrained minutes from head mentor Seth Greenberg amid his initial two seasons there, he exchanged to La Salle and began going after the Explorers in late 2012. As a lesser with his new group, he broadly made a diversion winning shot named the "Southwest Philly Floater" in the 2013 NCAA Tournament. 

Prior to playing school ball, Garland featured for John Bartram High School in the place where he grew up and was a first-group All-State determination and one of the top scorers in the historical backdrop of the Philadelphia Public League (PPL). In his time, he scored the third-most focuses by any player in the Public League, just being surpassed by Maureece Rice and Wilt Chamberlain. Laurel is at present the fourth-best scorer in PPL history. 

Wreath was brought up in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, by his mom, Audrey Tyler. He experienced childhood with South Yewdall Street, close 54th Street and Greenway Avenue in Southwest Philadelphia's Kingsessing neighborhood. He went to center school at Richard Allen Preparatory Charter School in a similar territory. His cousin Bernard Tyler, a previous player at Overbrook High School in Philadelphia, helped him get familiar with a b-ball move known as the floater. Tyler advised Garland to "simply get it over the huge man and abandon it in God's grasp". 

At first, Garland was selected at Delaware Valley Charter School, which was found just a large portion of a mile from his future school, La Salle University. In any case, his cousin Donnel Feaster, a graduate of John Bartram High School, suggested that Garland go to his institute of matriculation. The group's head mentor, James Brown, stated, "I'm continually telling my ex-players, 'In the event that you see any great ones, send them my way'...Not that they tune in. Wear did, however. That is the manner by which I got Ty". 

Laurel at last enlisted at Bartram and played under Brown. A four-year letter victor, he was elevated to group commander in his senior season and accumulated a few Philadelphia Public League (PPL) awards. In the two his lesser and senior years, the "Philadelphia Daily News" named Garland first-group All-City and the "Related Press" named him a first-group All-State determination. He drove Bartram in his last two seasons there, averaging 28.5 focuses and 25.1 focuses per diversion as a lesser and senior individually. The group went 73– 35 in the years that Garland was with them, and he drove them to a PPL title appearance against Imhotep Institute Charter High School, where Bartram lost 48– 56. He scored 32 and 6 three-pointers, however his partners were 5-for-37 in their shot endeavors. 

In a prior 2009 Class AAAA playoff challenge versus Pocono Mountain East High School, Garland scored eight sequential focuses in the last 44 seconds of guideline. He topped the streak by making a 30-foot shot with 3.3 seconds remaining, and his 40 complete focuses helped Bartram win, 72– 67. Wreath scored an aggregate of 2,198, making him the top scorer in school history and the third-driving scorer in Public League history. Maureece Rice, who scored 2,681, and Wilt Chamberlain, who scored 2,206, were the main players who had aggregated more focuses in their secondary school professions in the alliance. Maurice Watson, from the Boys' Latin of Philadelphia Charter School, broke both Chamberlain's and Garland's records in 2012, pushing Garland to fourth on the rundown. 

While in secondary school, Garland likewise played Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) ball with the Philly Pride. Amauro Austin, an analyst for the "Philadelphia Daily News", coordinated the program while Garland was there. Austin remarked, "Everyone loved Ty. Not one individual didn't. He was faithful, fair; only a strong gold person. He didn't have a pernicious bone in his body". Laurel regularly dozed amid the day and remained wakeful during the evening, driving his companions to consider him a vampire. Prior to turning into a senior, he drove the Pride to 6th spot at the under-17 national AAU competition in Orlando, Florida. The group completed with a 8– 1 record due to a great extent to Garland's commitments. 

On July 9, 2009, Garland resolved to play school b-ball for the Hokies of Virginia Tech. He declared his choice to go to the school at a public interview at the Reebok All-American Camp. Laurel had additionally considered joining the projects at La Salle, Nebraska, Temple, St. Bonaventure, Maryland, Seton Hall, Providence, and Butler. La Salle University is situated in Garland's main residence of Philadelphia and its head mentor, John Giannini, enlisted him particularly hard out of secondary school. His old mentor at John Bartram High School, James Brown, bolstered his promise to Virginia Tech. Right hand mentor James Johnson was the man fundamentally in charge of enrolling Garland. Rivals.com appraised the point protect a three-star select, and ESPN positioned him as the 31st-best player of his situation in the Class of 2010. Wreath authoritatively marked a National Letter of Intent with the group on February 3, 2010 and selected at Virginia Tech on June 30. Laurel would play his first year recruit season for a Virginia Tech Hokies group that had an extensive piece of its scoring originating from Malcolm Delaney, Jeff Allen, and Dorenzo Hudson in the 2009– 10 season. Delaney, their driving scorer, pulled back from the 2010 NBA draft in May 2010 and returned for another season with the Hokies. Festoon weighed around 170 lbs (77 kg) entering school, and in view of his shooting protect characteristics, he was not as very evaluated as a portion of the group's other 2010 enlisted people, as Jarell Eddie. 

On November 12, 2010, Garland made his profession debut with Virginia Tech against the Campbell Fighting Camels, seeing one moment of playing time on the court and going 0-of-1 from the field. In any case, the Hokies effectively won, 70– 60. Laurel scored his first focuses as a Hokie on November 26, versus Oklahoma State, setting up 6 regardless of restricted playing time. He was permitted to play over 20 minutes without precedent for his university profession against Mount St. Mary's. The contradicting group was effectively crushed, 99– 34. Seven of the ten Hokies that showed up all through the challenge played over 20 minutes, and Garland– who recorded 16 points– was one of five to score twofold digits. It would be his season-elite and furthermore the main time he scored in excess of 10 as a green bean. On March 16, 2011, Garland played a vocation high 23 minutes versus Bethune-Cookman in the first round of the 2011 National Invitational Tournament (NIT), recording seven and having impeccable free toss shooting. In 6.8 minutes per amusement in his first season, he arrived at the midpoint of 2.8 focuses, 0.3 bounce back, and 0.5 helps. 

Entering the 2011– 12 season, the Hokies lost star Malcolm Delaney, who marked a contingent one-year contract with the French proficient ball crew Élan Chalon following his senior year. Festoon appeared as a sophomore on November 12, 2011 against East Tennessee State, making his first-since forever begin at the university level because of the nonappearance of Erick Green. He played 24 minutes all through the diversion, recording 13, 3 helps, and 2 takes. In Tech's next challenge with Monmouth, Garland scored a vocation high 18 off the seat, shooting 7-for-7 from the field. 

In any case, as the season advanced, head mentor Seth Greenberg started giving Garland less minutes. Following the recuperation of green bean Marquis Rankin from a torn meniscus, Garland played an aggregate of one moment in three recreations. He likewise scored a joined six after his underlying two exhibitions that season. On December 11, 2011, Garland did not evacuate his warm-up shirt in his group's amusement versus Norfolk State. At the point when Greenberg was gotten some information about Garland's playing time, the mentor stated, "Marquis [Rankin] is correct now a decent play-starter and great on ball safeguard. We must get different folks more minutes". At the point when made a comparable inquiry the day preceding, he said that "you can't play 13 folks". On December 16, 2011, Garland reported on Twitter that he was wanting to exchange out of Virginia Tech. Following his tests, he came back to the place where he grew up of Philadelphia. Wreath turned into the third men's b-ball player to exchange out of the Hokies' group in the past scholarly year, following the strides of Ben Boggs, who moved to Valparaiso, and Manny Atkins, who might finish up with Georgia State. Wreath completed his sophomore year at Virginia Tech averaging 4.6 focuses, 1.3 helps, and 1.3 turnovers in eight appearances. In late December 2011, he started going after La Salle. Wayfarers head mentor John Giannini stated, "We enlisted Tyrone incredibly hard out of secondary school. He is known as a scorer and can likewise be an extremely decent passer and protector. He is the kind of all-around watchman, ability and individual that will improve our group. He gives us an accomplished player to proceed with our development throughout the following 2 years. With his expansion we will have enormous group briskness and profundity." Several of the group's top scorers in 2011– 12 had experience playing secondary school ball in the Philadelphia Public and Catholic Leagues. 

Following his exchange, Garland opened his spell with La Salle on December 15, 2012 out of a street diversion against Bucknell, scoring 9 of every 22 minutes off the seat and recording 2 turnovers and 4 individual fouls. He didn't participate in the group's prior amusements since he was ineligible due to NCAA guidelines in regards to player exchanges. In the diversion that pursued, he posted a profession best 26 points as a seat player in a success over Iona. He additionally included 3 bounce back, a help, and a take in the 23 minutes he was on the court. In a seven-minute stretch in the second half, Garland scored 14 straight focuses. He said after the diversion, "I used to do it in secondary school. It sort of felt like secondary school when I was out there; it just felt better". Festoon, who drove the Explorers in scoring, additionally gotten acclaim from head mentor John Giannini. On December 22, 2012, he had another effective execution versus Sacred Heart, with six aids 31 minutes of play. This was additionally his first-historically speaking begin under Giannini. The mentor remarked about Garland, "He's a very misjudged passer. Individuals think since he scored every one of those focuses in secondary school he's a scorer as a matter of first importance. I believe he's a decent passer". Be that as it may, this would be his sole begin in his lesser year at La Salle. Laurel was powerful in the opening, First Four round of the 2013 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament against Boise State, completing with a group high 22 and, thus, scoring at least 20 for the second time as a lesser. After the amusement, Giannini told Garland, "This is the reason I pursued all of you over the spot, to win NCAA competition recreations and check whether you could be an extraordinary player". On March 23, 2014, against the Ole Miss Rebels, Garland made a scooping layup off the backboard with 2.5 seconds left in guideline to send La Salle into the Sweet 16 round of the 2013 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament. The diversion victor was known as the "Southwest Philly Floater," following Garland's post-amusement remarks, in which he stated, "That is the Southwest Philly Floater, man. Shoutout to my Cousin Bern, shoutout to my Mom". He made the shot regardless of cautious endeavors from the Rebels' 6 ft 9 in (2.06 m) focus Reginald Buckner, who had hindered the Explorer on numerous occasions in the diversion. Laurel reviewed the play, saying, "Time was running out, and I had an inclination that I could get the drive. When I cut, I just observed an opening and took the ball up...I went in there and knew whether I could get an open shot, I could make it". Following an annihilation to Wichita State that finished the group's competition run and their season, Garland was averaging 13.1 focuses, 2.1 bounce back, and 2 helps. 

Laurel entered the season as one of four seniors on La Salle's men's ball program. Ramon Galloway, who drove the group in scoring in 2012– 13, graduated the earlier year. Laurel appeared as a senior in a display amusement versus Indiana University of Pennsylvania on November 2, 2013, scoring 16 points on .500 shooting. He showed up in a twofold extra time home challenge against Manhattan. Wreath drove a 13– 3 run, featured by two key shots, that constrained additional time. He made a three-pointer with minutes left in the diversion, however his group came up short on time before they could rally. In any case, Garland scored a vocation high 28, hitting 12 free tosses. He had a powerful second amusement also. Against Quinnipiac at the ESPN Tip-Off Marathon, regardless of scoring far less focuses, his very late bounce back was instrumental to the Explorers' triumph. Head mentor John Giannini stated, "He had zero bounce back in 44 minutes against Manhattan. The bounce back that truly frosted the amusement today was a protective bounce back by Tyrone. Here and there you don't play well, you don't accomplish something, and after that you gain from it and improve, so I am satisfied with him". The watchman had another remarkable execution on November 22, 2013, against Morgan State, when he drove the two groups with 25 points. He additionally included four three-pointers. On January 25, 2014, Garland indented a profession best 30 points versus VCU. His group's 10-point 2014 Atlantic 10 Tournament misfortune to St. Bonaventure, in which he contributed 0 points in 30 minutes, denoted the finish of his university vocation. He completed the season averaging 12.6 focuses, 2.3 bounce back, 2.6 helps, and 0.7 takes. Festoon, Sam Mills, Tyreek Duren, and Taylor Dunn, recorded the most successes for a solitary senior class at La Salle in 22 years. 

Following his graduation from La Salle University, Garland marked with the games operator Gilad Berkowitz from Berkowitz Career Ventures. Berkowitz, a law understudy at Duke University, was affirmed with the National Basketball Players Association yet was just two years more established than his customer. The specialist stated, "What he needs to defeat is his size and range and I need to conquer my age. We are going to advertise ourselves to NBA groups". Wreath's associations with Berkowitz helped him become acquainted with coach Kendrick Williams and get an underwriting manage Under Armor. He had any desires for playing in the National Basketball Association (NBA), paying little respect to whether he needed to contend in Europe before achieving that dimension. In mid-October 2014, Garland anticipated entering the 2014 NBA Development League Draft. Be that as it may, on November 16, he consented to terms with Michelin Etha Engomis Nicosia of the Cyprus Basketball Division 1, however would not show up for them. 

On January 14, 2015, subsequent to putting one of their players, Mike Allison, on the damage hold list, the Mississauga Power of the National Basketball League of Canada (NBL) marked and initiated Garland. On January 15, 2015, he made his expert presentation for the Power against the Brampton A's, recording 18 points, 6 bounce back, and 6 helps and being named Peak Performer of the Game. The contradicting group won with a score of 101– 90. Wreath had another effect execution on January 22, 2015 against the Halifax Rainmen, as he scored 26 points, snatched 5 bounce back, and recorded 7 helps, driving Mississauga to a triumph. In an extra time misfortune to the Windsor Express on February 17, he scored at least 20 points for the second time that season, indenting 23. He made two key three-pointers in the end minutes. On February 28, in Mississauga's customary season finale versus the London Lightning, Garland recorded a season-high 31 points. He completed his youngster season averaging 12.9 focuses, 4.1 helps, and 1.3 takes. He began in 12 of his 16 appearances. In late June 2015, the Mississauga Power collapsed after the production of the NBA Development League partner for the Toronto Raptors, known as Raptors 905. The Power's rights were obtained by Maple Leaf Sports and Entertainment (MLSE) and their home court, the Hershey Center, turned into the scene for Raptors 905 recreations. The move finished Garland's stretch with Mississauga. He would not join Raptors 905, as it had no associations with the Power players and was simply an improvement group for the Toronto Raptors. Starting late 2015, Garland isn't marked to any group. 

On April 25, 2016, Garland marked with Breiðablik UBK of the First Division in Iceland. He scored 43 and recorded nine takes versus Valur on October 14. Festoon about had a fourfold twofold on October 27, setting up 37, 10 bounce back, 10 helps, and nine takes to beat FSu Selfoss. 

As a first year recruit at Virginia Tech, Garland was named to the 2011 All-Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) Academic Team alongside Kyle Singler, Mason Plumlee, Ryan Kelly, and Tyler Zeller. He earned an evaluation point normal of above 3.00 for the past semester and kept up it as a combined normal through his scholarly profession. He was additionally one of 2,835 understudy competitors perceived by the ACC on its 2010– 11 Academic Honor Roll. Wreath studied college learns at Virginia Tech, however studied humanism at La Salle University. He reviewed the last a very long time of his senior year at La Salle, saying, "I was truly centered around graduating school and securing my evaluations for graduation. I was centered around the subsequent stage, however I needed to graduate school. That degree is extremely enormous to me. I advised my mother I was going to graduate school and I simply needed to put that bless her face". 

In the mid year of 2015, Garland took an interest in The Basketball Tournament (TBT), a five-on-five, single-disposal ball competition in which the champ out of the 96 groups successes an aggregate of $1 million. He vied for a group made up of previous La Salle men's ball players, called twentieth and Olney, rejoining with Ramon Galloway, Steve Zack, and Tyreek Duren. Pilgrims video organizer Andrew McGlynn, who went about as the group's general administrator and mentor, stated, "The fundamental reason [for entering] is the manner by which close the program is here. [Coach Dr. John Giannini] has made such a decent showing with regards to of making it a family climate around here". Laurel was one of 50 players with NBL Canada experience that were playing in TBT. On July 18, 2015 at Philadelphia University, he appeared with 22 points in a success over Max's All Stars, a group driven by Dominique Jones. twentieth and Olney lost in the following round to Boeheim's Army, which was driven by Hakim Warrick and Olu Famutimi, as Garland scored 21 points. 

Villanova monitor Mikal Bridges is Garland's second cousin. Festoon is an aficionado of Villanova and roots for Bridges.