George I of Great Britain 

George I (George Louis; ; 28 May 1660 – 11 June 1727) was King of Great Britain and Ireland from 1 August 1714 and leader of the Duchy and Electorate of Brunswick-Lüneburg (Hanover) in the Holy Roman Empire from 1698 until his demise in 1727. 

George was conceived in Hanover and acquired the titles and terrains of the Duchy of Brunswick-Lüneburg from his dad and uncles. A progression of European wars extended his German spaces amid his lifetime, and in 1708 he was confirmed as sovereign voter of Hanover. At 54 years old, after the demise of his second cousin Anne, Queen of Great Britain, George rose the British royal position as the primary ruler of the House of Hanover. Albeit more than 50 Roman Catholics were nearer to Anne by primogeniture, the Act of Settlement 1701 precluded Catholics from acquiring the British royal position; George was Anne's nearest living Protestant relative. In response, Jacobites endeavored to oust George and supplant him with Anne's Catholic relative, James Francis Edward Stuart, yet their endeavors fizzled. 

Amid George's rule, the forces of the government reduced and Britain started a progress to the cutting edge arrangement of bureau government driven by a head administrator. Towards the finish of his rule, real political power was held by Robert Walpole, presently perceived as Britain's first "accepted" leader. George kicked the bucket of a stroke on an outing to his local Hanover, where he was covered. He was the last British ruler to be covered outside the United Kingdom. 

George was conceived on 28 May 1660 in the city of Hanover in the Duchy of Brunswick-Lüneburg in the Holy Roman Empire. He was the oldest child of Ernest Augustus, Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg, and his better half, Sophia of the Palatinate. Sophia was the granddaughter of King James I of England through her mom, Elizabeth of Bohemia. 

For the principal year of his life, George was the main beneficiary to the German domains of his dad and three childless uncles. George's sibling, Frederick Augustus, was conceived in 1661, and the two young men (known as "Görgen" and "Gustchen" by the family) were raised together. Their mom was missing for just about a year (1664– 65) amid a long gaining strength occasion in Italy, yet compared consistently with her children's tutor and took an extraordinary enthusiasm for their childhood, much more so upon her arrival. Sophia bore Ernest Augustus another four children and a little girl. In her letters, Sophia portrays George as a capable, upright youngster who set a guide to his more youthful siblings and sisters. 

By 1675 George's oldest uncle had kicked the bucket without issue, yet his staying two uncles had hitched, putting George's legacy in danger as his uncles' bequests may go to their very own children, should they have had any, rather than to George. George's dad took him chasing and riding, and acquainted him with military issues; aware of his dubious future, Ernest Augustus took the fifteen-year-old George on crusade in the Franco-Dutch War with the intentional motivation behind testing and preparing his child in fight. 

In 1679 another uncle passed on surprisingly without children, and Ernest Augustus ended up ruling Duke of Calenberg-Göttingen, with his capital at Hanover. George's enduring uncle, George William of Celle, had hitched his fancy woman so as to legitimize his solitary girl, Sophia Dorothea, yet looked far-fetched to have any further kids. Under Salic law, where legacy of domain was confined to the male line, the progression of George and his siblings to the regions of their dad and uncle currently appeared to be secure. In 1682, the family consented to receive the standard of primogeniture, which means George would acquire all the region and not need to impart it to his siblings. 

That year, George wedded his first cousin, Sophia Dorothea of Celle, consequently verifying extra livelihoods that would have been outside Salic laws. The marriage of state was orchestrated essentially as it guaranteed a solid yearly salary and helped the inevitable unification of Hanover and Celle. His mom was at first against the marriage since she looked down on Sophia Dorothea's mom (who was not of imperial birth), and in light of the fact that she was worried by Sophia Dorothea's legitimated status. She was in the end prevailed upon by the points of interest innate in the marriage. 

In 1683, George and his sibling, Frederick Augustus, served in the Great Turkish War at the Battle of Vienna, and Sophia Dorothea bore George a child, George Augustus. The next year, Frederick Augustus was educated of the selection of primogeniture, which means he would never again get some portion of his dad's region as he had anticipated. It prompted a break among dad and child, and between the siblings, that kept going until Frederick Augustus' passing fighting in 1690. With the up and coming arrangement of a solitary Hanoverian state, and the Hanoverians' proceeding with commitments to the Empire's wars, Ernest Augustus was made an Elector of the Holy Roman Empire in 1692. George's prospects were presently over and above anyone's expectations as the sole beneficiary to his dad's electorate and his uncle's duchy. 

Sophia Dorothea had a second tyke, a girl named after her, in 1687, however there were no different pregnancies. The couple ended up antagonized—George favored the organization of his escort, Melusine von der Schulenburg, and Sophia Dorothea, in the mean time, had her own sentiment with the Swedish Count Philip Christoph von Königsmarck. Compromised with the embarrassment of an elopement, the Hanoverian court, including George's siblings and mom, asked the darlings to halt, yet without much of any result. As per strategic sources from Hanover's adversaries, in July 1694 the Swedish check was slaughtered, conceivably with the conspiracy of George, and his body tossed into the waterway Leine weighted with stones. The homicide was professed to have been submitted by four of Ernest Augustus' retainers, one of whom (Don Nicolò Montalbano) was paid the colossal entirety of 150,000 thalers, which was around one hundred times the yearly compensation of the most generously compensated pastor. Later gossipy tidbits guessed that Königsmarck was hacked to pieces and covered underneath the Hanover castle wood planks. Be that as it may, sources in Hanover itself, including Sophia, prevented any learning from securing Königsmarck's whereabouts. 

George's marriage to Sophia Dorothea was broken up, not in light of the fact that both of them had submitted infidelity, yet in light of the fact that Sophia Dorothea had surrendered her significant other. With the understanding of her dad, George had Sophia Dorothea detained in Ahlden House in her local Celle, where she remained until she kicked the bucket over thirty years after the fact. She was denied access to her kids and father, illegal to remarry and just permitted to walk unaccompanied inside the chateau yard. She was, in any case, enriched with a salary, foundation, and hirelings, and was permitted to ride in a carriage outside her manor, but under supervision. Melusine von der Schulenburg went about as George's lady straightforwardly from 1698 until his demise, and they had three little girls together, conceived in 1692, 1693 and 1701, individually. 

Ernest Augustus kicked the bucket on 23 January 1698, leaving the majority of his domains to George except for the Prince-Bishopric of Osnabrück, an office he had held since 1661. George along these lines moved toward becoming Duke of Brunswick-Lüneburg (otherwise called Hanover, after its capital) just as Archbannerbearer and a Prince-Elector of the Holy Roman Empire. His court in Hanover was graced by numerous social symbols, for example, the mathematician and savant Gottfried Leibniz and the arrangers George Frideric Händel and Agostino Steffani. 

Not long after George's increase to his fatherly duchy, Prince William, Duke of Gloucester, who was second-in-line to the English and Scottish positions of royalty, passed on. By the terms of the English Act of Settlement 1701, George's mom, Sophia, was assigned as the beneficiary to the English position of royalty on the off chance that the, at that point ruling ruler, William III, and his sister-in-law, Anne, kicked the bucket without enduring issue. The progression was so planned on the grounds that Sophia was the nearest Protestant relative of the British regal family. Fifty-six Catholics with predominant innate cases were circumvent. The probability of any of them changing over to Protestantism for the progression was remote; some had just can't. 

In August 1701, George was contributed with the Order of the Garter and, inside about a month and a half, the closest Catholic petitioner to the honored positions, the previous ruler James II, passed on. William III passed on the next March and was prevailing by Anne. Sophia wound up beneficiary possible to the new Queen of England. Sophia was in her seventy-first year, more established than Anne by thirty-five years, however she was exceptionally fit and sound and put time and vitality in verifying the progression either for herself or for her child. Be that as it may, it was George who comprehended the complexities of English legislative issues and established law, which required further acts in 1705 to naturalize Sophia and her beneficiaries as English subjects, and to detail courses of action for the exchange of intensity through a Regency Council. Around the same time, George's enduring uncle kicked the bucket and he acquired further German territories: the Principality of Lüneburg-Grubenhagen, focused at Celle. 

Not long after George's increase in Hanover, the War of the Spanish Succession broke out. At issue was the privilege of Philip, the grandson of King Louis XIV of France, to prevail to the Spanish position of authority under the terms of King Charles II of Spain's will. The Holy Roman Empire, the United Dutch Provinces, England, Hanover and numerous other German states restricted Philip's entitlement to succeed on the grounds that they expected that the French House of Bourbon would turn out to be excessively amazing on the off chance that it likewise controlled Spain. As a feature of the war exertion, George attacked his neighboring state, Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, which was master French, working out a portion of the fight orders himself. The intrusion prevailing with few lives lost. As a reward, the earlier Hanoverian addition of the Duchy of Saxe-Lauenburg by George's uncle was perceived by the British and Dutch. 

In 1706, the Elector of Bavaria was denied of his workplaces and titles for agreeing with Louis against the Empire. The next year, George was contributed as an Imperial Field Marshal with order of the royal armed force positioned along the Rhine. His residency was not by and large effective, halfway in light of the fact that he was cheated by his partner, the Duke of Marlborough, into a diversionary assault, and incompletely on the grounds that Emperor Joseph I appropriated the assets important for George's crusade for his own utilization. Regardless of this, the German sovereigns felt that he had vindicated himself well. In 1708 they formally affirmed George's situation as a Prince-Elector in acknowledgment of, or due to, his administration. George did not hold Marlborough's activities against him; he comprehended they were a piece of an arrangement to draw French powers from the principle assault. 

In 1709, George surrendered as field marshal, never to go on dynamic administration again. In 1710, he was conceded the poise of Arch-Treasurer of the Empire, an office in the past held by the Elector Palatine—the nonappearance of the Elector of Bavaria permitted a reshuffling of workplaces. The passing of the Emperor in 1711 took steps to devastate the equalization of intensity the other way, so the war finished in 1713 with the approval of the Treaty of Utrecht. Philip was permitted to prevail to the Spanish position of royalty yet was expelled from the French line of progression, and the Elector of Bavaria was reestablished. 

In spite of the fact that both England and Scotland perceived Anne as their ruler, just the English Parliament had settled on Sophia, Electress of Hanover, as the beneficiary possible. The Parliament of Scotland (the Estates) had not formally settled the progression question for the Scottish position of royalty. In 1703, the Estates passed a bill proclaiming that their determination for Queen Anne's successor would not be a similar individual as the successor to the English position of authority, except if England allowed full opportunity of exchange to Scottish dealers in England and its provinces. At first Royal Assent was retained, however the next year Anne gave in to the desires of the Estates and consent was allowed to the bill, which turned into the Act of Security 1704. Accordingly the English Parliament passed measures that took steps to confine Anglo-Scottish exchange and disabled person the Scottish economy if the Estates did not consent to the Hanoverian progression. In the long run, in 1707, the two Parliaments conceded to an Act of Union, which joined England and Scotland into a solitary political substance, the Kingdom of Great Britain, and set up the guidelines of progression as set somewhere around the Act of Settlement 1701. The association made the biggest unhindered commerce territory in eighteenth century Europe. 

Whig government officials trusted Parliament reserved the option to decide the progression, and to give it on the closest Protestant relative of the Queen, while numerous Tories were increasingly disposed to have confidence in the innate right of the Catholic Stuarts, who were closer relations. In 1710, George reported that he would prevail in Britain by inherited appropriate, as the privilege had been expelled from the Stuarts, and he held it. "This statement was intended to scotch any Whig understanding that parliament had given him the kingdom [and] ... convince the Tories that he was no usurper." 

George's mom, the Electress Sophia, kicked the bucket on 28 May 1714 at 83 years old. She had crumpled in the patio nurseries at Herrenhausen in the wake of hurrying to protect from a shower of downpour. George was presently Queen Anne's beneficiary possible. He quickly reconsidered the participation of the Regency Council that would take control after Anne's passing, as it was realized that Anne's wellbeing was coming up short and legislators in Britain were shaking for power. She endured a stroke, which left her unfit to talk, and kicked the bucket on 1 August 1714. The rundown of officials was opened, the individuals sworn in, and George was declared King of Great Britain and Ireland. Incompletely because of opposite breezes, which kept him in The Hague anticipating section, he didn't touch base in Britain until 18 September. George was delegated at Westminster Abbey on 20 October. His crowning ordinance was joined by revolting in more than twenty towns in England. 

George chiefly lived in Great Britain after 1714, however he visited his home in Hanover in 1716, 1719, 1720, 1723 and 1725; in complete George spent around one fifth of his reign as lord in Germany. A condition in the Act of Settlement that prohibited the British ruler from leaving the nation without Parliament's authorization was consistently canceled in 1716. Amid everything except the first of the King's unlucky deficiencies control was vested in a Regency Council as opposed to in his child, George Augustus, Prince of Wales. 

Inside a time of George's increase the Whigs won a mind-boggling triumph in the general decision of 1715. A few individuals from the vanquished Tory Party felt for the Jacobites, who tried to supplant George with Anne's Catholic relative, James Francis Edward Stuart (called "James III and VIII" by his supporters and "the Pretender" by his adversaries). Some disappointed Tories favored a Jacobite disobedience, which wound up known as "The Fifteen". James' supporters, driven by Lord Mar, a disenthralled Scottish aristocrat who had recently filled in as a secretary of state, impelled resistance in Scotland where support for Jacobitism was more grounded than in England. "The Fifteen", in any case, was a bleak disappointment; Lord Mar's fight plans were poor, and James arrived late with too minimal expenditure and too few arms. Before the year's over the disobedience had everything except crumpled. In February 1716, looked with approaching annihilation, James and Lord Mar fled to France. After the defiance was crushed, in spite of the fact that there were a few executions and relinquishments, George acted to direct the Government's reaction, demonstrated tolerance, and spent the salary from the relinquished homes on schools for Scotland and satisfying piece of the national obligation. 

George's doubt of the Tories supported the death of capacity to the Whigs. Whig predominance would develop to be so extraordinary under George that the Tories would not come back to control for another 50 years. After the race, the Whig-ruled Parliament passed the Septennial Act 1715, which broadened the most extreme term of Parliament to seven years (in spite of the fact that it could be broken up before by the Sovereign). Along these lines Whigs as of now in power could stay in such a situation for a more prominent timeframe. 

After his promotion in Great Britain, George's association with his child (which had dependably been poor) declined. George Augustus, Prince of Wales, urged resistance to his dad's arrangements, including measures intended to build religious opportunity in Britain and grow Hanover's German regions to the detriment of Sweden. In 1717 the introduction of a grandson prompted a noteworthy squabble among George and the Prince of Wales. The King, as far as anyone knows following exceptionally, designated the Lord Chamberlain, the Duke of Newcastle, as one of the baptismal supporters of the kid. The King was enraged when the Prince of Wales, detesting Newcastle, verbally offended the Duke at the initiating, which the Duke misjudged as a test to a duel. The Prince was advised to leave the regal home, St. James' Palace. The Prince's new home, Leicester House, turned into a gathering place for the King's political adversaries. George and his child were later accommodated at the request of Robert Walpole and the craving of the Princess of Wales, who had moved out with her better half however missed her youngsters who had been left being taken care of by the King. Be that as it may, following the fight at the sanctification, father and child were never again on agreeable terms. 

George was dynamic in coordinating British outside approach amid his initial rule. In 1717 he added to the formation of the Triple Alliance, an enemy of Spanish group made out of Great Britain, France and the Dutch Republic. In 1718 the Holy Roman Empire was added to the body, which wound up known as the Quadruple Alliance. The consequent War of the Quadruple Alliance included a similar issue as the War of the Spanish Succession. The Treaty of Utrecht (1713) had perceived the grandson of King Louis XIV of France, Philip, as the King of Spain relying on the prerequisite that he surrendered his rights to prevail to the French royal position. Upon the passing of Louis XIV in 1715, be that as it may, Philip tried to upset the bargain. 

Spain bolstered a Jacobite-drove intrusion of Scotland in 1719, yet stormy oceans permitted just around three hundred Spanish troops to touch base in Scotland. A base was built up at Eilean Donan Castle on the west Scottish coast in April, just to be obliterated by British ships a month later. Endeavors by the Jacobites to enlist Scottish clansmen yielded a battling power of just around a thousand men. The Jacobites were ineffectively prepared and were effectively crushed by British ordnance at the Battle of Glen Shiel. The clansmen scattered into the Highlands, and the Spaniards surrendered. The attack never represented any genuine danger to George's administration. With the French this time battling against him in the War, Philip's militaries fared inadequately. Subsequently, the Spanish and French honored positions stayed independent. At the same time, Hanover picked up from the goals of the Great Northern War, which had been brought about by competition among Sweden and Russia for control of the Baltic. The Swedish domains of Bremen and Verden were surrendered to Hanover in 1719, with Hanover paying Sweden financial pay for the loss of region. 

In Hanover, the King was a flat out ruler. All administration consumption over 50 thalers (somewhere in the range of 12 and 13 British pounds), and the arrangement of all military officers, all clergymen, and even government authorities over the dimension of copyist, was in his own control. By complexity in Great Britain, George needed to administer through Parliament. 

In 1715 when the Whigs came to control, George's main priests included Sir Robert Walpole, Lord Townshend (Walpole's brother by marriage), Lord Stanhope and Lord Sunderland. In 1717 Lord Townshend was rejected, and Walpole left the Cabinet over conflicts with their partners; Lord Stanhope ended up preeminent in outside issues, and Lord Sunderland the equivalent in local issues. 

Master Sunderland's capacity started to melt away in 1719. He presented a Peerage Bill that endeavored to constrain the measure of the House of Lords by limiting new manifestations. The measure would have cemented Sunderland's control of the House by keeping the making of resistance peers, however it was crushed after Walpole drove the restriction to the bill by conveying what was considered "the most splendid discourse of his vocation". Walpole and Townshend were reappointed as clergymen the next year and another, apparently bound together, Whig government shaped. 

More prominent issues emerged over money related hypothesis and the administration of the national obligation. Certain administration securities couldn't be reclaimed without the assent of the bondholder and had been issued when loan costs were high; therefore each bond spoke to a long haul channel on open accounts, as bonds were scarcely ever recovered. In 1719 the South Sea Company proposed to assume control over £31 million (three fifths) of the British national obligation by trading government securities for stock in the organization. The Company influenced Lord Sunderland, George's courtesan Melusine von der Schulenburg, and Lord Stanhope's cousin, Charles Stanhope, who was Secretary of the Treasury, to help their arrangement. The Company allured bondholders to change over their high-intrigue, irredeemable bonds to low-intrigue, effectively tradeable stocks by offering obviously special monetary profits. Organization costs climbed quickly; the offers had cost £128 on 1 January 1720, yet were esteemed at £500 when the transformation plot opened in May. On 24 June the cost achieved a pinnacle of £1,050. The organization's prosperity prompted the theoretical buoyancy of different organizations, a portion of a sham sort, and the Government, trying to smother these plans and with the help of the Company, passed the Bubble Act. With the ascent in the market presently stopped, uncontrolled selling started in August, which made the stock fall to £150 before the finish of September. Numerous people—including privileged people—lost huge entireties and some were totally demolished. George, who had been in Hanover since June, came back to London in November—sooner than he needed or was regular—in line with the service. 

The monetary emergency, known as the South Sea Bubble, made George and his pastors incredibly disagreeable. In 1721 Lord Stanhope, however actually blameless, crumbled and kicked the bucket after an unpleasant discussion in the House of Lords, and Lord Sunderland left open office. 

Sunderland, be that as it may, held a level of individual impact with George until his unexpected demise in 1722 permitted the ascent of Sir Robert Walpole. Walpole moved toward becoming "accepted" Prime Minister, in spite of the fact that the title was not formally connected to him (authoritatively, he was First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer). His administration of the South Sea emergency, by rescheduling the obligations and orchestrating some remuneration, helped the arrival to money related steadiness. Through Walpole's skilful administration of Parliament, George figured out how to evade direct ramifications in the Company's fake activities. Cases that George had gotten free stock as a reward are not upheld by proof; in fact receipts in the Royal Archives demonstrate that he paid for his memberships and that he lost cash in the accident. 

As mentioned by Walpole, George resuscitated the Order of the Bath in 1725, which empowered Walpole to reward or increase political supporters by offering them the respect. Walpole turned out to be incredibly ground-breaking and was to a great extent ready to designate pastors based on his very own preference. In contrast to his antecedent, Queen Anne, George once in a while went to gatherings of the bureau; the greater part of his correspondences were in private, and he just practiced significant impact regarding British remote strategy. With the guide of Lord Townshend, he masterminded the endorsement by Great Britain, France and Prussia of the Treaty of Hanover, which was intended to offset the Austro-Spanish Treaty of Vienna and ensure British exchange. 

George, albeit progressively dependent on Walpole, could in any case have supplanted his priests voluntarily. Walpole was really terrified of being expelled from office towards the finish of George I's rule, yet such feelings of dread were put to an end when George passed on amid his 6th excursion to his local Hanover since his promotion as lord. He endured a stroke out and about among Delden and Nordhorn on 9 June 1727, and was taken via carriage to the Prince-Bishop's royal residence at Osnabrück where he kicked the bucket in the early hours before first light on 11 June 1727. He was covered in the church of Leine Palace in Hanover, yet his remaining parts were moved to the house of prayer at Herrenhausen Gardens after World War II. Leine Palace had worn out completely after British aeronautical bombings and the lord's remaining parts, alongside his folks', were moved to the nineteenth century catacomb of King Ernest Augustus in the Berggarten. 

George was prevailing by his child, George Augustus, who accepting the position of authority as George II. It was generally expected, even by Walpole for a period, that George II wanted to expel Walpole from office yet was kept from doing as such by his better half, Caroline of Ansbach. Be that as it may, Walpole directed a considerable greater part in Parliament and George II had minimal decision yet to hold him or hazard ecclesiastical unsteadiness. In ensuing rules the intensity of the head administrator expanded further to the detriment of the intensity of the sovereign. 

George was mocked by his British subjects; a portion of his counterparts, for example, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, thought him unintelligent in light of the fact that he was wooden out in the open. In spite of the fact that he was disagreeable in Great Britain because of his alleged failure to communicate in English, such a powerlessness might not have existed later in his rule as archives from that time demonstrate that he got, talked and composed English. He surely talked familiar German and French, great Latin, and some Italian and Dutch. His treatment of his better half, Sophia Dorothea, moved toward becoming something of an embarrassment. 

The British saw him as excessively German, and in the conclusion of student of history Ragnhild Hatton, wrongly expected that he had a progression of German special ladies. Be that as it may, in terrain Europe, he was viewed as a dynamic ruler steady of the Enlightenment who allowed his commentators to distribute without danger of extreme restriction, and gave haven to Voltaire when the thinker was banished from Paris in 1726. European and British sources concur that George was saved, mild and monetarily reasonable; George loathed to be in the open light at get-togethers, evaded the imperial box at the musical drama and frequently made a trip in secret to the place of a companion to play a card game. In spite of some disagreeability, the Protestant George I was seen by the greater part of his subjects as a superior option in contrast to the Roman Catholic Pretender James. William Makepeace Thackeray shows such conflicted sentiments as he composed: 

Authors of the nineteenth century, for example, Thackeray, Sir Walter Scott and Lord Mahon, were dependent on one-sided direct records distributed in the earlier century, for example, Lord Hervey's diaries, and thought back on the Jacobite cause with sentimental, even thoughtful, eyes. They thus, impacted British creators of the main portion of the twentieth century, for example, G. K. Chesterton, who presented further enemy of German and hostile to Protestant inclination into the elucidation of George's rule. In any case, in the wake of World War II mainland European chronicles were opened to history specialists of the later twentieth century and nationalistic enemy of German inclination died down. George's life and rule were re-investigated by researchers, for example, Beattie and Hatton, and his character, capacities and thought processes re-surveyed in an increasingly liberal light. John H. Plumb noticed that: 

However the character of George I stays slippery; he was thus pleasant and warm in private letters to his little girl, and after that dull and ungainly in broad daylight. Maybe his very own mom summed him up when "disclosing to the individuals who viewed him as cold and overserious that he could be buoyant, that he acknowledged things, that he felt profoundly and genuinely and was more touchy than he wanted to appear." Whatever his actual character, he rose an unsafe position of authority, and either by political intelligence and cunning, or through mishap and lack of interest, he left it secure in the hands of the Hanoverians and of Parliament. 

As King his arms were: Quarterly, I, Gules three lions passant guardant in pale Or (for England) spearing Or a lion widespread inside a tressure flory-counter-flory Gules (for Scotland); II, Azure three fleurs-de-lis Or (for France); III, Azure a harp Or stringed Argent (for Ireland); IV, tierced per pale and per chevron (for Hanover), I Gules two lions passant guardant Or (for Brunswick), II Or a semy of hearts Gules a lion uncontrolled Azure (for Lüneburg), III Gules a steed courant Argent (for Westphalia), by and large a crest Gules accused of the crown of Charlemagne Or (for the pride of Archtreasurer of the Holy Roman Empire).