Enta da Stage 

Enta da Stage is the introduction collection of American East Coast hip bounce bunch Black Moon, discharged on October 19, 1993 through Nervous Records. The collection was delivered by DJ Evil Dee and Mr. Walt of Da Beatminerz. "Enta da Stage" includes the introduction of underground hip jump couple Smif-N-Wessun, just as appearances from Havoc of Mobb Deep and Dru Ha, the prime supporter of Duck Down Records. 

In spite of being widely praised and having two singles that diagrammed on the "Board" Hot 100 ("Who Got da Props?" and "I Got Cha Opin"), the collection sold inadequately, and is regularly ignored for resulting East Coast collections, for example, "Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers)", "Illmatic", "Fluid Swords", "Prepared to Die", "Just Built 4 Cuban Linx...", and "The Infamous". In any case, "Enta da Stage" went before those discharges and filled in as an antecedent to the resurgence of the New York hip bounce scene in the mid-1990s. 

The foundations of Black Moon return to Brooklyn's Bushwick High School, where 5 ft and DJ Evil Dee met and framed a gathering called Unique Image. The two later met Buckshot in the Brownsville area of Brooklyn, and framed a fellowship dependent on comparative melodic yearnings. The recently framed gathering enrolled Evil Dee's more established sibling Mr. Walt, and started recording the pre-generation of their introduction collection at the Dewgarde Crib of Hits at Mr. Walt's home. Their first gathering discharge was their 1992 single "Who Got da Props?", which is presently hailed as a great hip bounce single. Dark Moon marked to Nervous Records in 1992, in view of the quality of the presentation single, which topped at number 86 on the "Board" Hot 100 graph in mid 1993. Buckshot before long framed a cozy association with Nervous representative Drew Friedman, later known as Dru Ha. The two framed an administration organization named "Duck Down Management", and regulated the arrival of "Enta da Stage" as co-official makers. The gathering got done with chronicle "Enta da Stage" at New York City's D&D Studios between late 1992 and mid 1993, and set it up for a late 1993 discharge date. 

A significant part of the approval the collection got was because of the execution of lead MC Buckshot, who initially passed by the name Buckshot Shorty. Ten of the fourteen tracks on the collection are Buckshot solo tracks, and he shows up on each melody however "Child Get Wrec". Buck, who was eighteen at the season of the chronicle, was a young fellow attempting to build up himself and his team in the hip jump world. In a 2005 meeting with MVRemix.com, Buckshot depicted multi day in his life while recording his introduction: 

The mindstate depicted in the above meeting rules the substance on the collection, as the verses are stacked with fierce stories and braggadocio and little else, as Buckshot and 5 ft endeavor to cement their status in rap. Allmusic's Chris Witt expressed that "Emcees Buckshot and 5ft Accelerator assault their stanzas with a forceful skepticism not heard since Kool G Rap's pinnacle." 5 ft, initially known as 5FT Accelerator, shows up on three tracks here, and his melodious substance does not vary from that of Buckshot's. Dissimilar to later work by New York City peers like Nas, the melodious substance found here does not peer profoundly into social issues or give much substance. Allmusic's collection survey expressed that "Theirs is a dismal reality, loaded up with firearms, weed and savagery. Buckshot shows none of the typical hoodlum regret, he is a resolute open danger." 

Buckshot was applauded for his lyricism, yet additionally for his expressive conveyance and breath control, with his stream and emotional, conversational vocal tones being viewed as unique and engaging. In a 2005 meeting with AllHipHop.com, hip jump maker ninth Wonder expressed that Buckshot's style emphatically impacted his present sound, and that the singles "Who Got da Props?" and "What number of MC's..." transformed him. 

The collection includes a unique style of chorales, which are currently known as "Dark Moon snares", in which they accumulate a substantial number of individuals in the corner to all the while holler the verses. These vocals were given by various craftsmen, including Smif-n-Wessun, Mr. Walt, Mobb Deep's Havoc and the trio themselves. "Niguz Talk Shit", "Who Got da Props?", "Ack Like U Want It", "Buck Em Down", "Dark Smif-n-Wessun", "Child Get Wrec", "Make Munne" and "U da Man" all element "Dark Moon snares". 

DJ Evil Dee and Mr. Walt of Da Beatminerz, who created the collection, put their samplers to use here, binding the collection with their mark cellar sound, loaded up with hard drums, unsanitary horn courses of action and profound basslines. In the collection's liner notes, DJ Evil Dee expressed: "This collection was done on blunted terms. Any individual who is outraged by the substance of the collection, FUCK YOU. Nuff said." Allmusic portrays the dull generation: "The Beatminerz creation team make underground beats to coordinate Buckshot's pandemonium. The tracks are dull, layered with quieted jazz tests, and apparently unlimited." A couple of the examples utilized here were later reproduced by various hip jump specialists during the 1990s. The single "Buck Em Down" highlights an example from Donald Byrd's "Wind Parade", an example which was later re-utilized for Organized Konfusion's 1994 idea track "Stray Bullet". "What number of MC's..." highlights an example from Grover Washington, Jr's. "Hydra", which was utilized for before hip bounce tracks like EPMD's "Underground". The famous "Who Got Da Props" intensely uses a circled test from Ronnie Laws' jazz exemplary "Tsunami", which was highlighted in a few hip-bounce and R&B tracks, including Usher's "Consider You" from his self-titled 1994 collection. Underhanded Dee and Walt take a segment of the example and art it into an alternate circle. 

An "Enta da Stage" audit on OhWord.com acclaims the generation work, expressing "However the collection's prosperity is to a great extent inferable from Buckshot's execution, one can't overlook the marvelous creation from the Beatminerz. They took the officially dim sound of "The Low End Theory" and one-increased it, sifting through practically all treble and utilizing extra, bad-to-the-bone drum tests. The pieces of Mr. Walt and Evil Dee are likewise cunningly organized, moving Buckshot's raps legitimately into the audience's psyche."..."The pop of scratched vinyl infests the collection, adding to the vibe of warmth and immortality. Because of the Beatminerz, there is something welcoming about "Enta da Stage", in spite of its fierce verses." 

"Enta da Stage" highlighted four singles and music recordings, including their introduction "Who Got da Props?". In mid-1993, the "What number of MC's..." single was discharged; it ended up prevalent in the underground rap circuit, however was not ready to discover accomplishment with standard gatherings of people, scarcely breaking into the Top 50 on the Hot Rap Singles diagram. The third single from the collection was a remix of "I Got Cha Opin", which used a smooth jazz test, cordiality of Barry White's "Playing Your Game Baby". The remix highlighted another tune and every single new refrain to oblige the new creation. The single turned into the gathering's second "Board" Hot 100 hit in 1994, cresting at number 93. Q-Tip of a Tribe Called Quest gave a yell out to the melody on the Quest track "Jam", saying "Word is bond, that Black Moon joint got me open". 

The last single, "Buck Em Down", was discharged in mid-1994, with the music video highlighting the remixed adaptation. Both unique and remixed renditions highlighted tested segments from Donald Byrd's "Wind Parade" and comparable verses, with the remix including an alternate vocal conveyance and altered verses. 

The collection generated extra remixes. Alongside "Buck Em Down" and "I Got Cha Opin", the tracks "Ack like U Want It", "Child Get Wrec", "Crap Iz Real", "What number of MC's..." and "U da Man" all highlighted remixes, which were later included on Black Moon's "Diggin' in dah Vaults" accumulation. 

"Enta da Stage" has gotten commonly good audits from most music pundits and distributions. Allmusic gave the collection 4½ stars out of 5, while "The Source" gave it 4 out of 5 Mics. In 1998, the collection was chosen as one of "The Source's" 100 Best Rap Albums, and previous "Source" magazine essayist Cheo H. Coker expressed in their November 1993 issue: 

In spite of the fact that commended for its innovation and creation, "Enta da Stage" has likewise observed analysis for its repetitiveness and absence of expressive substance. "Moving Stone" magazine gave the collection a 3-star rating, and censured the discharge for "numbness", and guaranteed that the discharge neglected to gain by its guarantee, expressing that "They leave clear a definitive canvas – oneself." In naming it the fourth most prominent collection on About.com's rundown of the Best Rap Albums of 1993, feature writer Henry Adaso composed of the collection positively, expressing "Not at all like most hip-bounce collections of its period, "Enta Da Stage" shunned angry raps and decided on agonizing, jolting brand of hip-jump." 

In spite of the fact that not as broadly proclaimed as comparable notable East Coast collections, for example, Nas' "Illmatic", The Notorious B.I.G's. "Prepared to Die", Wu-Tang Clan's "Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers)", Onyx's "Bacdafucup" and Mobb Deep's "The Infamous", "Enta da Stage" was widely praised on a comparative dimension. In spite of the fact that the majority of the collections referenced above had the capacity to reach at any rate Gold status, "Enta da Stage", discharged before these collections, has not sold so well, selling a little more than 350,000 duplicates in the U.S. as of June 2006. Allmusic portrayed the significance of the collection: "It set the tone for a great part of the hip bounce to pursue. Big deal Smalls self-destructive musings and Noreaga's rowdy thuggery both have their underlying foundations here. The collection denoted a defining moment in hip bounce." "Enta da Stage" has additionally been portrayed as "Period characterizing", and was one of the spearheading discharges amid the arrival of New York City's road hip jump resurgence of the mid 1990s, after the West Coast's rule of the mid 1990s. "Enta da Stage" is as yet conspicuous among hip bounce specialists today, for example, verses from "What number of MC's..." being utilized as a snare for Jedi Mind Trick's tune "Discourse Cobras". 

The collection likewise filled in as the presentation of the supergroup Boot Camp Clik. The group was a noticeable underground rap amass during the 1990s – additionally creating the acclaimed Smif-n-Wessun's "Dah Shinin'", Heltah Skeltah's "Nighttime", and O.G.C's. "Da Storm". "Enta da Stage" proclaimed the presentation of Da Beatminerz. In the wake of creating here, and on other Boot Camp collections "Dah Shinin"', "Nighttime" and "Da Storm", Mr. Walt and Evil Dee proceeded to grow their sounds, and produce for prevalent specialists like Afu-Ra, Big Daddy Kane, Craig G, De La Soul, Dilated Peoples, Eminem, Flipmode Squad, Jean Grae, KRS-One, M.O.P., Naughty by Nature, O.C. what's more, Black Star. The collection is widely separated track-by-track by Buckshot, DJ Evil Dee, and Mr. Walt of Da Beatminerz in Brian Coleman's book "Check the Technique" (2007). 

Track posting and maker data is taken from the CD. 

Credits for "Enta da Stage" adjusted from liner notes.