Space rock belt 

The space rock belt is the circumstellar circle in the Solar System found generally between the circles of the planets Mars and Jupiter. It is involved by various unpredictably formed bodies called space rocks or minor planets. The space rock belt is additionally named the principle space rock belt or fundamental belt to separate it from other space rock populaces in the Solar System, for example, close Earth space rocks and trojan space rocks. About a large portion of the mass of the belt is contained in the four biggest space rocks: Ceres, Vesta, Pallas, and Hygiea. The complete mass of the space rock belt is around 4% that of the Moon, or 22% that of Pluto, and generally twice that of Pluto's moon Charon (whose distance across is 1200 km). 

Ceres, the space rock belt's solitary diminutive person planet, is about 950 km in width, though 4 Vesta, 2 Pallas, and 10 Hygiea have mean breadths of under 600 km. The rest of the bodies go down to the span of a residue molecule. The space rock material is so meagerly conveyed that various unmanned shuttle have crossed it without occurrence. In any case, impacts between huge space rocks do happen, and these can create a space rock family whose individuals have comparable orbital attributes and arrangements. Singular space rocks inside the space rock belt are arranged by their spectra, with most falling into three essential gatherings: carbonaceous (C-type), silicate (S-type), and metal-rich (M-type). 

The space rock belt shaped from the primordial sun powered cloud as a gathering of planetesimals. Planetesimals are the littler forerunners of the protoplanets. Among Mars and Jupiter, be that as it may, gravitational bothers from Jupiter instilled the protoplanets with an excessive amount of orbital vitality for them to accumulate into a planet. Crashes turned out to be excessively brutal, and as opposed to combining, the planetesimals and the majority of the protoplanets broke. Thus, 99.9% of the space rock belt's unique mass was lost in the primary 100 million long stretches of the Solar System's history. A few pieces in the long run found their way into the inward Solar System, prompting shooting star impacts with the internal planets. Space rock circles keep on being considerably bothered at whatever point their time of upheaval about the Sun frames an orbital reverberation with Jupiter. At these orbital separations, a Kirkwood hole happens as they are cleared into different circles. 

Classes of little Solar System bodies in different districts are the close Earth protests, the centaurs, the Kuiper belt questions, the dissipated plate protests, the sednoids, and the Oort cloud objects. 

On 22 January 2014, ESA researchers detailed the location, for the principal conclusive time, of water vapor on Ceres, the biggest article in the space rock belt. The discovery was made by utilizing the far-infrared capacities of the Herschel Space Observatory. The finding was startling in light of the fact that comets, not space rocks, are ordinarily considered to "grow flies and crest". As indicated by one of the researchers, "The lines are winding up increasingly more obscured among comets and space rocks." 

In 1596, Johannes Kepler anticipated "Among Mars and Jupiter, I place a planet" in his "Mysterium Cosmographicum". While dissecting Tycho Brahe's information, Kepler suspected that there was too substantial a hole between the circles of Mars and Jupiter. 

In a mysterious commentary to his 1766 interpretation of Charles Bonnet's "Examination de la Nature", the cosmologist Johann Daniel Titius of Wittenberg noticed a clear example in the design of the planets. On the off chance that one started a numerical succession at 0, at that point included 3, 6, 12, 24, 48, and so forth., multiplying each time, and added four to each number and partitioned by 10, this delivered an amazingly close guess to the radii of the circles of the referred to planets as estimated in cosmic units "if" one took into consideration a "missing planet" (proportional to 24 in the arrangement) between the circles of Mars (12) and Jupiter (48). In his commentary, Titius proclaimed "Yet should the Lord Architect have left that space unfilled? Not in the least." 

At the point when William Herschel found Uranus in 1781, the planet's circle coordinated the law splendidly, driving cosmologists to presume that there must be a planet between the circles of Mars and Jupiter. 

On January 1, 1801, Giuseppe Piazzi, seat of stargazing at the University of Palermo, Sicily, found a minor moving article in a circle with precisely the range anticipated by this example. He named it "Ceres", after the Roman goddess of the reap and benefactor of Sicily. Piazzi at first trusted it to be a comet, yet its absence of a state of extreme lethargy proposed it was a planet. 

Therefore, the previously mentioned example, presently known as the Titius– Bode law, anticipated the semi-significant tomahawks of every one of the eight planets of the time (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Ceres, Jupiter, Saturn and Uranus). 

After fifteen months, Heinrich Olbers found a second article in a similar locale, Pallas. In contrast to the next known planets, Ceres and Pallas remained purposes of light even under the most astounding telescope amplifications as opposed to settling into circles. Aside from their quick development, they seemed undefined from stars. 

In like manner, in 1802, William Herschel proposed they be set into a different class, named "space rocks", after the Greek "asteroeides", signifying "star-like". After finishing a progression of perceptions of Ceres and Pallas, he closed, 

Neither the epithet of planets nor that of comets, can with any legitimacy of language be given to these two stars ... They look like little stars to such an extent as barely to be recognized from them. From this, their asteroidal appearance, on the off chance that I take my name, and call them Asteroids; saving for myself, in any case, the freedom of changing that name, if another, progressively expressive of their tendency, ought to happen. 

By 1807, further examination uncovered two new items in the locale: Juno and Vesta. The copying of Lilienthal in the Napoleonic wars, where the primary collection of work had been done, wrapped this first time of revelation up. 

Regardless of Herschel's coinage, for a very long while it stayed regular practice to allude to these items as planets and to prefix their names with numbers speaking to their date of revelation: 1 Ceres, 2 Pallas, 3 Juno, 4 Vesta. Notwithstanding, in 1845 stargazers distinguished a fifth article (5 Astraea) and, presently, new items were found at a quickening rate. Considering them as a real part of the planets turned out to be progressively unwieldy. In the long run, they were dropped from the planet list (as first proposed by Alexander von Humboldt in the mid 1850s) and Herschel's decision of terminology, "space rocks", step by step came into basic use. 

The revelation of Neptune in 1846 prompted the ruining of the Titius– Bode law according to researchers since its circle was not even close to the anticipated position. To date, there is no logical clarification for the law, and space experts' accord sees it as a fortuitous event. 

The articulation "space rock belt" came into utilization in the all around mid 1850s, despite the fact that it is difficult to pinpoint who begat the term. The main English use is by all accounts in the 1850 interpretation (by E. C. Otté) of Alexander von Humboldt's "Universe": "[...] and the normal appearance, about the thirteenth of November and the eleventh of August, of falling stars, which most likely structure some portion of a belt of space rocks converging the Earth's circle and moving with planetary speed". Another early appearance happened in Robert James Mann's "A Guide to the Knowledge of the Heavens": "The circles of the space rocks are put in a wide belt of room, reaching out between the limits of [...]". The American space expert Benjamin Peirce appears to have embraced that phrasing and to have been one of its advertisers. 

One hundred space rocks had been situated by mid-1868, and in 1891 the presentation of astrophotography by Max Wolf quickened the rate of disclosure even more. An aggregate of 1,000 space rocks had been found by 1921, 10,000 by 1981, and 100,000 by 2000. Current space rock overview frameworks presently utilize mechanized intends to find new minor planets in consistently expanding amounts. 

In 1802, soon after finding Pallas, Olbers proposed to Herschel that Ceres and Pallas were parts of an a lot bigger planet that once involved the Mars– Jupiter locale, this planet having endured an interior blast or a cometary effect numerous million years prior. The extensive measure of vitality required to pulverize a planet, joined with the belt's low consolidated mass, which is just about 4% of the mass of the Moon, don't bolster the theory. Further, the noteworthy compound contrasts between the space rocks become hard to clarify on the off chance that they originate from a similar planet. Starting at 2018, an examination was discharged from specialists at the University of Florida that found the space rock belt was made from the remainders of a few old planets rather than a particular planet. 

A speculation to the space rock belt creation is that when all is said in done, in the Solar System, a planetary arrangement is thought to have happened by means of a procedure tantamount to the long-standing nebular theory: a haze of interstellar residue and gas fallen affected by gravity to shape a turning plate of material that at that point additionally dense to frame the Sun and planets. Amid the initial couple of million years of the Solar System's history, an accumulation procedure of sticky impacts caused the clustering of little particles, which bit by bit expanded in size. When the bunches achieved adequate mass, they could attract different bodies through gravitational fascination and become planetesimals. This gravitational accumulation prompted the development of the planets. 

Planetesimals inside the area which would turn into the space rock belt were excessively emphatically annoyed by Jupiter's gravity to frame a planet. Rather, they kept on orbitting the Sun as previously, at times impacting. In districts where the normal speed of the impacts was excessively high, the breaking of planetesimals would in general rule over gradual addition, keeping the arrangement of planet-sized bodies. Orbital resonances happened where the orbital time of an article in the belt shaped a whole number portion of the orbital time of Jupiter, bothering the item into an alternate circle; the district lying between the circles of Mars and Jupiter contains numerous such orbital resonances. As Jupiter moved internal after its arrangement, these resonances would have cleared over the space rock belt, powerfully energizing the locale's populace and expanding their speeds in respect to one another. 

Amid the early history of the Solar System, the space rocks softened somewhat, enabling components inside them to be mostly or totally separated by mass. A portion of the begetter bodies may even have experienced times of touchy volcanism and shaped magma seas. Nonetheless, due to the moderately little size of the bodies, the time of softening was fundamentally short (contrasted with the a lot bigger planets), and had commonly finished about 4.5 billion years prior, in the initial countless long stretches of development. In August 2007, an investigation of zircon gems in an Antarctic shooting star accepted to have begun from Vesta proposed that it, and by expansion the remainder of the space rock belt, had framed rather rapidly, inside 10 million long stretches of the Solar System's beginning. 

The space rocks are not tests of the primordial Solar System. They have experienced impressive advancement since their arrangement, including inner warming (in the initial couple of a huge number of years), surface dissolving from effects, space enduring from radiation, and siege by micrometeorites. Albeit a few researchers allude to the space rocks as lingering planetesimals, different researchers think of them as particular. 

The present space rock belt is accepted to contain just a little part of the mass of the primordial belt. PC recreations recommend that the first space rock belt may have contained the mass proportional to the Earth. Essentially as a result of gravitational annoyances, a large portion of the material was catapulted from the belt inside about 1 million long stretches of development, deserting under 0.1% of the first mass. Since their arrangement, the size circulation of the space rock belt has remained moderately steady: there has been no huge increment or diminishing in the common elements of the primary belt space rocks. 

The 4:1 orbital reverberation with Jupiter, at a span 2.06 AU, can be viewed as the internal limit of the space rock belt. Irritations by Jupiter send bodies straying there into precarious circles. Most bodies framed inside the range of this hole were cleared up by Mars (which has an aphelion at 1.67 AU) or catapulted by its gravitational bothers in the early history of the Solar System. The Hungaria space rocks lie nearer to the Sun than the 4:1 reverberation, yet are shielded from interruption by their high tendency. 

At the point when the space rock belt was first shaped, the temperatures at a separation of 2.7 AU from the Sun framed a "snow line" beneath the point of solidification of water. Planetesimals shaped past this span had the capacity to aggregate ice. 

In 2006 it was reported that a populace of comets had been found inside the space rock belt past the snow line, which may have given a wellspring of water to Earth's seas. As indicated by certain models, there was deficient outgassing of water amid the Earth's developmental period to frame the seas, requiring an outside source, for example, a cometary barrage. 

In spite of famous symbolism, the space rock belt is generally unfilled. The space rocks are spread over such an extensive volume, that it is unlikely to achieve a space rock without pointing cautiously. Regardless, a huge number of space rocks are at present known, and the complete number ranges in the at least millions, contingent upon the lower measure cutoff. More than 200 space rocks are known to be bigger than 100 km, and a study in the infrared wavelengths has demonstrated that the space rock belt has somewhere in the range of 700,000 and 1.7 million space rocks with a distance across of 1 km or more. The evident sizes of the vast majority of the realized space rocks are somewhere in the range of 11 and 19, with the middle at around 16. 

The all out mass of the space rock belt is evaluated to be between and kilograms, which is only 4% of the mass of the Moon. The four biggest articles, Ceres, 4 Vesta, 2 Pallas, and 10 Hygiea, represent half of the belt's all out mass, with very nearly 33% represented by Ceres alone. 

The present belt comprises essentially of three classes of space rocks: C-type or carbonaceous space rocks, S-type or silicate space rocks, and M-type or metallic space rocks. 

Carbonaceous space rocks, as their name recommends, are carbon-rich. They command the space rock belt's external locales. Together they involve over 75% of the obvious space rocks. They are redder in shade than different space rocks and have a low albedo. Their surface arrangement is like carbonaceous chondrite shooting stars. Synthetically, their spectra coordinate the primordial structure of the early Solar System, with just the lighter components and volatiles evacuated. 

S-type (silicate-rich) space rocks are progressively normal toward the internal locale of the belt, inside 2.5 AU of the Sun. The spectra of their surfaces uncover the nearness of silicates and some metal, however no noteworthy carbonaceous mixes. This shows their materials have been fundamentally adjusted from their primordial piece, presumably through liquefying and renewal. They have a generally high albedo and structure about 17% of the complete space rock populace. 

M-type (metal-rich) space rocks structure about 10% of the all out populace; their spectra look like that of iron-nickel. Some are accepted to have shaped from the metallic centers of separated forebear bodies that were disturbed through crash. Be that as it may, there are likewise some silicate aggravates that can deliver a comparable appearance. For instance, the huge M-type space rock 22 Kalliope does not seem, by all accounts, to be principally made out of metal. Inside the space rock belt, the number circulation of M-type space rocks tops at a semi-significant pivot of about 2.7 AU. It isn't yet certain whether all M-types are compositionally comparable, or whether it is a mark for a few assortments which don't fit perfectly into the primary C and S classes. 

One puzzle of the space rock belt is the overall uncommonness of V-type or basaltic space rocks. Hypotheses of space rock arrangement foresee that questions the extent of Vesta or bigger should shape hulls and mantles, which would be made primarily out of basaltic shake, bringing about the greater part of all space rocks being made either out of basalt or olivine. Perceptions, in any case, recommend that 99 percent of the anticipated basaltic material is absent. Until 2001, most basaltic bodies found in the space rock belt were accepted to begin from the space rock Vesta (consequently their name V-type). In any case, the revelation of the space rock 1459 Magnya uncovered a somewhat unique synthetic arrangement from the other basaltic space rocks found up to that point, recommending an alternate beginning. This theory was strengthened by the further revelation in 2007 of two space rocks in the external belt, 7472 Kumakiri and , with a contrasting basaltic arrangement that couldn't have begun from Vesta. These last two are the main V-type space rocks found in the external belt to date. 

The temperature of the space rock belt shifts with the separation from the Sun. For residue particles inside the belt, run of the mill temperatures run from 200 K (−73 °C) at 2.2 AU down to 165 K (−108 °C) at 3.2 AU However, because of revolution, the surface temperature of a space rock can change significantly as the sides are on the other hand presented to sun based radiation and after that to the outstanding foundation. 

A few generally unremarkable bodies in the external belt show cometary movement. Since their circles can't be clarified through the catch of traditional comets, it is imagined that a significant number of the external space rocks might be frosty, with the ice every so often presented to sublimation through little effects. Primary belt comets may have been a noteworthy wellspring of the Earth's seas on the grounds that the deuterium-hydrogen proportion is unreasonably low for traditional comets to have been the key source. 

Most space rocks inside the space rock belt have orbital whimsies of under 0.4, and a tendency of under 30°. The orbital circulation of the space rocks achieves a most extreme at an unusualness of around 0.07 and a tendency underneath 4°. Along these lines despite the fact that an average space rock has a moderately roundabout circle and lies close to the plane of the ecliptic, some space rock circles can be exceptionally unpredictable or travel well outside the ecliptic plane. 

In some cases, the expression "principle belt" is utilized to allude just to the more minimal "center" district where the best grouping of bodies is found. This lies between the solid 4:1 and 2:1 Kirkwood holes at 2.06 and 3.27 AU, and at orbital erraticisms not exactly generally 0.33, alongside orbital tendencies underneath about 20°. , this "center" district contained 93% of all found and numbered minor planets inside the Solar System. The JPL Small-Body Database records more than 670,000 known fundamental belt space rocks. 

The semi-real hub of a space rock is utilized to depict the components of its circle around the Sun, and its esteem decides the minor planet's orbital period. In 1866, Daniel Kirkwood reported the disclosure of holes in the separations of these bodies' circles from the Sun. They were situated in positions where their time of insurgency about the Sun was a whole number division of Jupiter's orbital period. Kirkwood recommended that the gravitational annoyances of the planet prompted the expulsion of space rocks from these circles. 

At the point when the mean orbital time of a space rock is a whole number part of the orbital time of Jupiter, a mean-movement reverberation with the gas goliath is made that is adequate to irritate a space rock to new orbital components. Space rocks that become situated in the hole circles (either primordially due to the movement of Jupiter's circle, or due to earlier annoyances or impacts) are step by step poked into various, irregular circles with a bigger or littler semi-real pivot. 

The holes are not found in a basic preview of the areas of the space rocks at any one time since space rock circles are circular, and numerous space rocks still cross through the radii comparing to the holes. The real spatial thickness of space rocks in these holes does not contrast essentially from the neighboring locales. 

The fundamental holes happen at the 3:1, 5:2, 7:3, and 2:1 mean-movement resonances with Jupiter. A space rock in the 3:1 Kirkwood hole would circle the Sun multiple times for each Jovian circle, for example. Flimsier resonances happen at other semi-real pivot esteems, with less space rocks found than close-by. (For instance, a 8:3 reverberation for space rocks with a semi-significant hub of 2.71 AU.) 

The principle or center populace of the space rock belt is some of the time isolated into three zones, in view of the most unmistakable Kirkwood holes: 

The space rock belt may likewise be isolated into the inward and external belts, with the internal belt framed by space rocks circling closer to Mars than the 3:1 Kirkwood hole (2.5 AU), and the external belt shaped by those space rocks nearer to Jupiter's circle. (A few creators subdivide the inward and external belts at the 2:1 reverberation hole (3.3 AU), though others propose internal, center, and external belts; additionally observe outline). 

The high populace of the space rock belt makes for a functioning domain, where crashes between space rocks happen as often as possible (on galactic time scales). Impacts between fundamental belt bodies with a mean sweep of 10 km are required to happen about once every 10 million years. A crash may section a space rock into various littler pieces (prompting the development of another space rock family). On the other hand, impacts that happen at low relative paces may likewise join two space rocks. After more than 4 billion long stretches of such procedures, the individuals from the space rock belt currently look somewhat like the first populace. 

Alongside the space rock bodies, the space rock belt likewise contains groups of residue with molecule radii of up to a couple of hundred micrometers. This fine material is created, in any event to some degree, from crashes among space rocks, and by the effect of micrometeorites upon the space rocks. Because of the Poynting– Robertson impact, the weight of sun oriented radiation makes this residue gradually winding internal toward the Sun. 

The blend of this fine space rock dust, just as shot out cometary material, delivers the zodiacal light. This black out auroral sparkle can be seen during the evening reaching out from the course of the Sun along the plane of the ecliptic. Space rock particles that produce the noticeable zodiacal light normal about 40 μm in sweep. The commonplace lifetimes of primary belt zodiacal cloud particles are about 700,000 years. Subsequently, to keep up the groups of residue, new particles must be relentlessly delivered inside the space rock belt. It was once felt that impacts of space rocks structure a noteworthy part of the zodiacal light. Be that as it may, PC reenactments by Nesvorný and associates ascribed 85 percent of the zodiacal-light residue to fractures of Jupiter-family comets, as opposed to comets and impacts between space rocks in the space rock belt. At most 10 percent of the residue is ascribed to the space rock belt. 

A portion of the flotsam and jetsam from impacts can frame meteoroids that enter the Earth's air. Of the 50,000 shooting stars found on Earth to date, 99.8 percent are accepted to have started in the space rock belt. 

In 1918, the Japanese space expert Kiyotsugu Hirayama saw that the circles of a portion of the space rocks had comparative parameters, framing families or gatherings. 

Around 33% of the space rocks in the space rock belt are individuals from a space rock family. These offer comparative orbital components, for example, semi-real hub, capriciousness, and orbital tendency just as comparable unearthly highlights, all of which demonstrate a typical starting point in the separation of a bigger body. Graphical showcases of these components, for individuals from the space rock belt, show fixations demonstrating the nearness of a space rock family. There are around 20 to 30 affiliations that are in all likelihood space rock families. Extra groupings have been discovered that are less sure. Space rock families can be affirmed when the individuals show basic unearthly highlights. Littler relationship of space rocks are called gatherings or bunches. 

Probably the most unmistakable families in the space rock belt (arranged by expanding semi-real tomahawks) are the Flora, Eunoma, Koronis, Eos, and Themis families. The Flora family, one of the biggest with in excess of 800 known individuals, may have shaped from an impact under 1 billion years prior. 

The biggest space rock to be a genuine individual from a family (instead of an intruder on account of Ceres with the Gefion family) is 4 Vesta. The Vesta family is accepted to have shaped as the consequence of a pit framing sway on Vesta. In like manner, the HED shooting stars may likewise have begun from Vesta because of this crash. 

Three noticeable groups of residue have been found inside the space rock belt. These have comparative orbital tendencies as the Eos, Koronis, and Themis space rock families, as are conceivably connected with those groupings. 

The primary belt advancement after the Late Heavy Bombardment was in all respects likely influenced by the entries of extensive Centaurs and trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs). 

Centaurs and TNOs that achieve the internal Solar System can adjust the circles of fundamental belt space rocks, however just if their mass is of the request of for single experiences or, one request less if there should arise an occurrence of different close experiences. 

Anyway Centaurs and TNOs are probably not going to have essentially scattered youthful space rock families in the primary belt, however they can have irritated some old space rock families. Current fundamental belt space rocks that started as Centaurs or trans-Neptunian items may lie in the external belt with short lifetime of under 4 million years, in all likelihood somewhere in the range of 2.8 and 3.2 AU at bigger whimsies than average of principle belt space rock. 

Evading the inward edge of the belt (going somewhere in the range of 1.78 and 2.0 AU, with a mean semi-significant hub of 1.9 AU) is the Hungaria group of minor planets. They are named after the principle part, 434 Hungaria; the gathering contains no less than 52 named space rocks. The Hungaria aggregate is isolated from the fundamental body by the 4:1 Kirkwood hole and their circles have a high tendency. A few individuals have a place with the Mars-crossing class of space rocks, and gravitational annoyances by Mars are likely a factor in decreasing the complete populace of this gathering. 

Another high-tendency gathering in the internal piece of the space rock belt is the Phocaea family. These are made principally out of S-type space rocks, while the neighboring Hungaria family incorporates some E-types. The Phocaea family circle somewhere in the range of 2.25 and 2.5 AU from the Sun. 

Avoiding the external edge of the space rock belt is the Cybele gathering, circling somewhere in the range of 3.3 and 3.5 AU. These have a 7:4 orbital reverberation with Jupiter. The Hilda family circle somewhere in the range of 3.5 and 4.2 AU, and have moderately roundabout circles and a stable 3:2 orbital reverberation with Jupiter. There are not many space rocks past 4.2 AU, until Jupiter's circle. Here the two groups of Trojan space rocks can be discovered, which, in any event for items bigger than 1 km, are around as various as the space rocks of the space rock belt. 

Some space rock families have framed as of late, in galactic terms. The Karin Cluster obviously shaped about 5.7 million years prior from a crash with a begetter space rock 33 km in range. The Veritas family framed about 8.3 million years back; proof incorporates interplanetary residue recouped from sea dregs. 

All the more as of late, the Datura bunch seems to have framed around 530,000 years prior from a crash with a fundamental belt space rock. The age gauge depends on the likelihood of the individuals having their present circles, as opposed to from any physical proof. Be that as it may, this group may have been a hotspot for some zodiacal residue material. Other ongoing bunch arrangements, for example, the Iannini group ( million years prior), may have given extra wellsprings of this space rock dust. 

The main shuttle to navigate the space rock belt was "Pioneer 10", which entered the district on 16 July 1972. At the time there was some worry that the flotsam and jetsam in the belt would represent a risk to the shuttle, however it has since been securely navigated by 12 rockets without episode. "Pioneer 11", "Voyagers 1" and "2" and "Ulysses" went through the belt without imaging any space rocks. "Galileo" imaged 951 Gaspra in 1991 and 243 Ida in 1993, NEAR imaged 253 Mathilde in 1997 and arrived on 433 Eros in February 2001, "Cassini" imaged 2685 Masursky in 2000, "Stardust" imaged 5535 Annefrank in 2002, "New Horizons" imaged 132524 APL in 2006, "Rosetta" imaged 2867 šteins in September 2008 and 21 Lutetia in July 2010, and "First light" circled Vesta between July 2011 and September 2012 and has circled Ceres since March 2015. On its approach to Jupiter, "Juno" navigated the space rock belt without gathering science information. Because of the low thickness of materials inside the belt, the chances of a test running into a space rock are currently evaluated at under 1 in 1 billion. 

Most belt space rocks imaged to date have originated from brief flyby openings by tests set out toward different targets. Just the "Sunrise", NEAR and "Hayabusa" missions have considered space rocks for an extended period in circle and at the surface.