J. R. Kealoha 

J. R. Kealoha (kicked the bucket March 5, 1877) was an American Union Army warrior of Native Hawaiian plummet. Considered one of the "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War", he was among a gathering of more than one hundred archived Native Hawaiian and Hawaiʻi-conceived soldiers who battled in the American Civil War while the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi was as yet a free country. 

Kealoha enrolled in the 41st United States Colored Infantry, a USC regiment shaped in Pennsylvania. Taking an interest in the Siege of Petersburg, he and another Hawaiian fighter met the Hawaiʻi-conceived Colonel Samuel Chapman Armstrong, who recorded their experience in a letter home. With the 41st USCT, Kealoha was available at the surrender of Confederate General Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. After the war, Kealoha came back to Hawaiʻi. He kicked the bucket on March 5, 1877, and was covered in a plain grave in Honolulu's Oʻahu Cemetery. 

The inheritance and commitments of Kealoha and other Hawaiian members in the American Civil War were to a great extent overlooked with the exception of in the private circles of relatives and history specialists, yet in later years there was a recovery of enthusiasm for the Hawaiian people group. In 2010, these "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War" were remembered with a bronze plaque raised along the commemoration pathway at the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific in Honolulu. In 2014, through another nearby exertion, a grave marker was devoted over J. R. Kealoha's entombment site, which had stayed plain for a long time. 

After the episode of the American Civil War, the Kingdom of Hawaiʻi under King Kamehameha IV proclaimed its lack of bias on August 26, 1861. Numerous Native Hawaiians and Hawaiʻi-conceived Americans (principally relatives of American evangelists) abroad and in the islands volunteered and enrolled in the military regiments of different states in the Union and the Confederacy. Local Hawaiians partaking in the American wars amid its time of autonomy was not unbelievable. Singular Native Hawaiians had served in the United States Navy and Army since the War of 1812, and considerably more served amid the American Civil War. Numerous Hawaiians felt for the Union on account of Hawaiʻi's connections to New England through its preachers and the whaling enterprises, and the ideological resistance of numerous to the establishment of subjugation. 

Nothing is thought about the life of J. R. Kealoha before the war. He enrolled in 1864 as a private and was allocated to the 41st Regiment United States Colored Troops (USCT), a hued regiment shaped in Camp William Penn, Pennsylvania, between September 30 and December 7, 1864, under the order of Colonel Llewellyn F. Haskell. Most Native Hawaiians who partook in the war were alloted to the shaded regiments as a result of their dull skin shading and the segregationist arrangement in the military at the time. Kealoha is one of only a handful couple of Hawaiian troopers of the Civil War whose genuine name is known; numerous warriors served under anglicized nom de plumes they were simpler for English-speaking Americans to articulate than Hawaiian language names. They were frequently enrolled as "kanakas", the nineteenth century term for Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders, with the "Sandwich Islands" (Hawaiʻi) noted as their place of birthplace. 

From October 1864 to April 1865, Kealoha battled in the Richmond– Petersburg Campaign, otherwise called the Siege of Petersburg. Amid the battle, Kealoha and another Hawaiian named Kaiwi, of the 28th Regiment United States Colored Troops, went over Samuel Chapman Armstrong, a child of an American evangelist and a local of Maui. Armstrong composed of the experience in a letter home that was later distributed in the Hawaiian teacher paper "The Friend" in 1865: 

Recently, as my deliberate was holding my steed, I asked him where he was from. He said he was from Hawaii! He turned out to be a full-blood Kanaka, by the name of Kealoha, who originated from the Islands a year ago. There is likewise another, by the name of Kaiwi, who lived close Judge Smith's, who left the Islands last July. I appreciated seeing them definitely and we had a decent babble in kanaka. Kealoha is a private in the 41st Regiment US Colored Troops, and Kaiwi is a Private in the 28th U.S.C.T., in the pioneer corps. Both are great men and appeared to be happy to have seen me. 

Kealoha endure a long time of channel fighting amid the Richmond-Petersburg Campaign and battled with the 41st USCT at the Battle of Appomattox Court House; he was available at the surrender of Confederate General Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House on April 9, 1865. The 41st USCT regiment was assembled out of administration on November 10, 1865, at Brownsville, Texas, and was released December 14, 1865, at Philadelphia. Kealoha's enrollment of administration is absent in any current records or history from the 41st USCT regiment. History specialists Justin Vance and Anita Manning conjecture that "it is conceivable that his administration is noted under an alternate name" or his name was never recorded in light of the fact that just the marshal out moves from the regiment were come back to the Adjutant General's office after the unit disbanded. 

After the war, Kealoha came back to Hawaiʻi. He passed on March 5, 1877, and was covered with eighteen other Native Hawaiians in a plain grave in Section 1, Lot 56 of the Oʻahu Cemetery, Honolulu. Amid the Hawaii Territorial period, Kealoha's Civil War administration was recorded by the United Veterans Service Council (UVSC), an antecedent of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), which incorporated his name in their records as a "Perished Veteran" and recorded the area of his entombment. 

For a long time, Kealoha's entombment site stayed plain until a Hawaiian gathering subsidiary with the association Hawaiʻi Civil War Round Table, comprising of Anita Manning, Nanette Napoleon, Eric Mueller, and Justin Vance, began a push to give him a grave marker. Student of history Anita Manning, an individual from this gathering, had found the records containing Kealoha's name at the Hawaii State Archives in 2011. It recorded his administration in the war and the area of his entombment place, yet when Manning went to the site of his grave, she was baffled by the nonappearance of a gravestone. Giving the explanation behind the importance of Kealoha's administration, Manning expressed: 

Kealoha speaks to numerous Hawaiian men and men from Hawaii who served in the Civil War who realized what they were getting into, who went out on a limb, and we as a whole are the recipients of that work and hazard that they took ... We owe it to them to perceive that administration. 

The gathering appealed to the United States Department of Veterans Affairs for a marker for Kealoha however the Department denied the solicitation on the grounds that there was no closest relative to support the solicitation. A 2009 arrangement change authorized in 2012 necessitated that just closest relative could demand VA remembrances. After the solicitation's disavowal, Honor Life Memorials, a nearby landmark creator, gave a rock marker for Kealoha. 

The marker was formally committed and disclosed on October 25, 2014. Wearing period ensembles, individuals from the Hawaiʻi Civil War Round Table and others partook in the devotion service at Oʻahu Cemetery. The function was set apart by military distinctions and a weapon salute by a unit of Civil War re-enactors. Hawaiian pastor Kahu Silva directed the devotion service, and as per customary Hawaiian traditions, the sanctified marker was embellished with a consecrated "maile lei" and a "koa" branch, speaking to "Kealoha's respectable characteristics of grit, bravery and valor." The marker is engraved with his name, regiment, passing date, and the Hawaiian and English content: "He Koa Hanohano, a valiant and good fighter". 

Other Hawaiian veterans of the Civil War are respected in Honolulu's National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific with a bronze commemoration plaque that was raised in 2010 in acknowledgment of the "Hawaiʻi Sons of the Civil War", the more than one hundred archived Hawaiians who presented with the Union and the Confederacy. Starting at 2014, specialists have distinguished 119 archived Hawaiian and Hawaiʻi-conceived soldiers from verifiable records. The careful number stays indistinct on account of the absence of records. Of the 48 recognized Native Hawaiian soldiers, including James Wood Bush and Henry Hoʻolulu Pitman, Kealoha is the just a single covered in Hawaii whose gravesite is known. As per Hawaiian news correspondent Chelsea Davis, Kealoha has come to "speaks to every one of the men of Hawaii who waged war in America's Civil War yet who have been overlooked."