Bounce Feller 

Robert William Andrew Feller (November 3, 1918December 15, 2010), nicknamed "The Heater from Van Meter", "Slug Bob", and "Fast Robert", was an American baseball pitcher who played 18 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Cleveland Indians. Feller pitched from 1936 to 1941 and from 1945 to 1956, hindered just by a four-year commitment in the Navy. In a vocation crossing 570 amusements, Feller pitched 3,827 innings and posted a win– misfortune record of 266– 162, with 279 complete recreations, 44 shutouts, and a 3.25 earned run normal (ERA). 

A wonder who circumvent the small time, Feller originally played for the Indians at 17 years old. His profession was hindered by four years of military administration in World War II, amid which time he filled in as Chief Petty Officer on board the . Feller turned into the main pitcher to win 24 amusements in a season before the age of 21. Amid his profession, he tossed no-hitters in 1940, 1946, and 1951. Feller likewise recorded 12 one-hitters (his no-hitters and one-hitters were records at the season of his retirement). He helped the Indians win a World Series title in 1948 and an American League-record 111 successes and the flag in 1954. Feller drove the American League in wins multiple times and in strikeouts multiple times. In 1946, he recorded 348 strikeouts, an all out not surpassed for a long time. An eight-time All-Star, Feller was positioned 36th on "Wearing News"s rundown of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players and was named the production's "most noteworthy pitcher of his time". He was a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team in 1999. 

Baseball Hall of Fame part Ted Williams called Feller "the quickest and best pitcher I at any point saw amid my vocation." Hall of Famer Stan Musial trusted he was "likely the best pitcher of our period." He was accepted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962 on his first ticket appearance; at the time just three players at any point had a higher level of vote cast a ballot. He was chosen the debut President of the Major League Baseball Players' Association and took an interest in show diversions which highlighted players from both the Major and Negro Leagues. Feller kicked the bucket at 92 years old in 2010. 

Feller played principally as a shortstop or outfielder, and imitated Rogers Hornsby's batting position. From the age of 15, he started to pitch for the Oakviews after a beginning pitcher was harmed; at the same time, Feller kept on playing American Legion baseball. His catcher amid this period was Nile Kinnick, who later turned into an individual from the College Football Hall of Fame. 

An understudy at Van Meter High School, Feller was a beginning pitcher for the school's baseball crew. Amid this time he kept on playing on the Farmers Union group in the American Amateur Baseball Congress, and had 19 wins and four misfortunes for Farmers Union one season. He likewise was the beginning place for the secondary school b-ball crew. By the age of 16, Feller had what faultfinders made a decision about a top notch fastball; real alliance scouts headed out to Dayton, Ohio to watch him in the yearly national baseball competition. After the amusement, a few major association clubs offered marking rewards with their agreement offers, yet he had just been marked to an expert contract with the Cleveland Indians. 

In 1936, Feller was marked by Cy Slapnicka, a scout for the Indians, for one dollar and a signed baseball. While exploring Feller, Slapnicka stated, "This was a child pitcher I needed to get. I realized he was something exceptional. His fastball was quick and fluffy; it turned out poorly a straight line; it would squirm and shoot around. I didn't know then that he was shrewd and had the core of a lion, yet I realized that I was taking a gander at an arm any semblance of which you see just rare." Feller was alloted to the Fargo-Moorhead Twins and was to report there subsequent to completing the secondary school semester. Slapnicka was later named general administrator of the Indians and exchanged Feller's agreement from Fargo-Moorhead to the New Orleans Pelicans. He was wanting to include Feller, alongside outfielder Tommy Henrich, to the significant class list after a couple of show and semi-star amusements without visiting either ranch club. Thusly, the Indians would be infringing upon Major League Baseball's standard expressing that, at the time, just small time groups could sign novice baseball players to contracts. Following a three-month examination, finishing up in December 1936, about whether the Indians broke any Major League Baseball governs by marking Feller, Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis couldn't help contradicting the contention exhibited by Slapnicka and Indians president Alva Bradley, yet granted both Feller and Henrich free organization and required the club to pay a $7,500 fine. Landis settled on the choice somewhat because of the declaration of Feller and his dad, who needed his child to play for Cleveland and who had additionally revealed to Landis he would prosecute the issue. Feller chosen to stay with the Indians however Henrich joined the New York Yankees. Sports writer Joe Williams expressed, "For $7500 the Cleveland Indians got $500,000 worth of exposure. ... I feel almost certain Mr. Alva Bradley, leader of the Indians, will concede this is the least expensive venture he at any point made in exposure." 

Feller joined the Indians and made his Major League debut on July 19, 1936 of every an alleviation appearance against the Washington Senators. After a month on August 23, Feller made his first vocation begin against the St. Louis Browns. Indians administrator Steve O'Neill had Denny Galehouse heated up in the warm up area on the off chance that the 17-year-old Feller had early inconveniences, however he struck out every one of the three hitters he looked in the primary inning, and recorded 15 strikeouts in acquiring his first profession win. His strikeout all out was the most noteworthy for a (beginning) pitching debut. After three weeks, he struck out 17 hitters, tying a solitary amusement strikeout record recently set by Dizzy Dean, in a success over the Philadelphia Athletics. He completed the season with a 5– 3 record, having showed up in 14 diversions; he had 47 strolls and 76 strikeouts in 62 innings. Feller's notoriety achieved such a dimension, that when he came back to Van Meter for his senior year of secondary school, the legislative leader of Iowa welcomed him. His record-setting new kid on the block year made him, as indicated by baseball essayist Richard Goldstein, "the best-known youngster in America, with the conceivable special case of Shirley Temple." Feller's passageway to the major groups was later portrayed: 

As the 1937 season started, Feller showed up on the front of the April 19, 1937 issue of "Time" magazine. In his first appearance of the period on April 24, Feller endured damage to his elbow while tossing a curveball. He spent April and May recuperating the arm, and in May moved on from secondary school; the function circulated broadly on NBC Radio. In mid-May, the Indians considered consummation Feller's season early. "We're not taking any risks on that arm and we're not going to enable him to pitch again until the last hint of soreness has vanished", said Slapnicka. On May 18 Feller showed up in his first diversion since April 24 however did not record an out. He didn't pitch again until June 22, when he recorded two innings, at that point came back to typical pitching obligations on July 4. 

On October 2, 1938, Feller was the beginning pitcher against the Detroit Tigers. Detroit's Hank Greenberg was two grand slams shy of Babe Ruth's then-single-season record of 60 homers. By the ninth inning, Feller had recorded 16 strikeouts, one less than the MLB record in a nine-inning amusement. He tied the record when he struck out Detroit's Pete Fox and passed it, to set an advanced real group record of 18 strikeouts, when he struck out Chet Laabs for the fifth time that day. Greenberg stated, "Feller's bend was hopping mischievously and with that and his quick ball, he was murder." Feller did not win a success, in any case, as the Indians lost, 4– 1. "It was one of those occasions while everything feels flawless, your arm, your coordination, your fixation, everything. There was show noticeable all around on account of Greenberg's endeavor to break Ruth's record, and the fervor developed significantly more prominent when my strikeouts began to include", Feller said. For the 1938 season, Feller drove all pitchers with 208 strolls and 240 strikeouts. In 1939, Feller got his first vocation Opening Day begin against the Tigers after a match against the Browns was rained out. He won 5– 1, in the wake of permitting three hits. On Mother's Day, Feller pitched against the Chicago White Sox with his family in participation. One pitch was fouled off by Marv Owen into the seats and into the essence of Feller's mom; he proceeded to win. Feller completed the 1939 season having driven the AL in wins (24), complete diversions (24) and innings pitched (296.2) and drove the majors for a second sequential year in the two strolls (142) and strikeouts (246). 

Opening Day of the 1940 season included a no-hitter from Feller against the Chicago White Sox. Feller was helped by Indians second baseman Ray Mack when he made a jumping play to record the last out. This is the main no-hitter to be tossed on Opening Day in real alliance history. He pursued his no-hitter with a six-run, three-inning execution in his next begin, be that as it may, in a diversion against the Detroit Tigers. Before the finish of the period he had a 27– 11 record, his success complete the best in the majors that season and a profession high for Feller. He achieved a pitching triple crown for the 1940 season as he drove the AL in ERA (2.61), wins (27) and strikeouts (261) (the last two drove the whole majors). Feller likewise drove the majors with 31 complete amusements and 320.1 innings pitched, and won the "Wearing News" Player of the Year Award. Feller later surveyed his initial couple of years in the majors: "I depended on the catcher to an extreme. It's swell to have a decent catcher calling them for you, however the pitcher should assume liability all alone shoulders." 

Because of Feller's pitching speed, Lew Fonseca was dispatched by the Office of the Commissioner to set Feller's fastball against a Harley-Davidson bike in a speed preliminary. The test was directed in Chicago's Lincoln Park and expected Feller to hit an objective in width, away. The cruiser passed Feller running and with a head begin however the ball beat the bicycle to the objective by three feet (0.91 m). Feller's toss was determined at an opportunity to have achieved 98.6 mph (158.7 km/h), and later 104 mph (167 km/h) utilizing refreshed estimating techniques. 

Feller again drove the majors in wins (25), strikeouts (260), innings pitched (343), and strolls (194) for the 1941 season. His six shutouts were an AL-best on the season. That year, Joe DiMaggio discussed Feller's pitching capacity, expressing "I don't think anybody is regularly going to toss a ball quicker than he does. What's more, his curveball isn't human." Feller showed up in the May 12, 1941, version of "Life", which stated: "... he is obviously the symbol of a few ages of Americans, extending in age from 7 to 70. They speak to of city, town, and town in the land, discuss him recognizably as 'Sway', and discussion about him continuously, with excitement." 

The United States entered World War II with the assault on Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941. Feller caught wind of the bombarding while at the same time coming back from a visit to his in critical condition father at Des Moines to Chicago where he was to sign another Indians contract. After two days, he volunteered for the United States Navy, turning into the principal American expert competitor to enroll. Initially he endeavored to enroll as a military pilot however fizzled hearing tests. Feller went to essential preparing at Norfolk Naval Base and filled in as a physical health specialist there. He likewise contributed ball games facilitated by the military. Despite the fact that he had gotten a military exclusion attributable to his dad's coming up short wellbeing, he needed to serve in battle missions. Feller stated, "I revealed to them I needed to ... get into battle; needed to accomplish something other than remaining around giving out balls and bats and making ball fields out of coral reefs." Feller was allocated to the ; he had wanted to serve on the , yet about all servicemen from Iowa had mentioned a spot on that ship, and Feller was not chosen. 

In the blink of an eye before Feller left for battle, his dad kicked the bucket of mind malignant growth toward the beginning of January 1943. After five days he wedded Virginia Winther, whom he met while in Florida for spring preparing; she was an understudy at Rollins College. After the marriage, Feller came back to support as Gun Captain on board the "Alabama" and kept his contributing arm shape by tossing close to a weapon turret. Feller and the "Alabama" group burned through the vast majority of 1943 in the British Isles alongside , yet in August were reassigned to the Pacific Theater of Operations. Feller's first taste of direct battle was at Operation Galvanic in November 1943. The "Alabama" additionally served amid Operation Flintlock while fundamentally being utilized as an escort war vessel in 1944. Feller took part in the Battle of the Philippine Sea before his battle obligation finished in January 1945; he spent the remainder of the war at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station as an educator. 

At the point when the war finished, Feller was released as a Chief Petty Officer on August 22, 1945. Feller was adorned with six crusade strips and eight fight stars while serving on missions in both the Pacific and North Atlantic, and he was made a privileged individual from the Green Berets sometime down the road. 

Feller pitched for the Norfolk Naval Station's Bluejackets baseball crew, which in 1942 went 92-8, and later for the Naval Station Great Lakes group. 

In the period from late-winter 1945 to pre-fall 1945, Feller's maritime obligations were again at Great Lakes Naval station, where he supplanted Mickey Cochrane as administrator of the baseball program, just as a functioning pitcher for the group. 

Upon entry in Cleveland after his release, Feller was regarded with a municipal lunch get-together on August 24, 1945, with in excess of 1,000 individuals in participation at the Carter Hotel. Feller said to the group: "The genuine legends didn't get back home." Later that day, the city held a motorcade and Feller was the beginning pitcher in the Indians' amusement against the Detroit Tigers. Feller permitted four hits in the amusement and earned a success in the Indians' 4– 2 triumph. "I was so drained from every one of the gatherings I didn't have even an inkling in the event that I could complete the diversion", Feller said. For the 1945 season, he showed up in nine amusements and scored a 5– 3 record with 59 strikeouts and 2.50 ERA. 

Prior to the 1946 season, Feller marked a $50,000 contract for the year, including a reward for participation, as the Indians felt many were going to ball games essentially to see him; he was offered $100,000 by Jorge Pasquel to play in the Mexican League, yet declined to leave the States once more. Feller recorded his second profession no-hitter on April 30, 1946, against the New York Yankees. He permitted five strolls and struck out 11 Yankees. Feller said of the amusement, "The no-hitter on opening day in Chicago is the one that gets all the consideration. In any case, my no-hitter at Yankee Stadium was against a vastly improved group than the White Sox. There was no examination. I needed to pitch to Tommy Henrich, Charlie Keller and Joe DiMaggio in the ninth inning to get the Yankees out." At one point amid the season (as Feller idea he may close Rube Waddell's AL record for strikeouts), Feller affirmed Waddell's record of 344 strikeouts with the AL office instead of 349. In his last appearance of the period on September 29, Feller tossed five strikeouts against the Detroit Tigers to set the then-AL single-season strikeout record. Amid the 1946 season, he enrolled profession highs in strikeouts (348), recreations began (42) and amusements pitched (48), shutouts (10), complete diversions (36) and innings pitched (377.1)— all significant alliance bests that season. Feller completed 26– 15 with an ERA of 2.18, the last a profession low. Almost 20 years after the fact, Feller reviewed, "For the 1946 season, however, the Indians were so slender in pitching that Boudreau chose I was to pitch each fourth day, paying little mind to rainouts, open dates, or whatever else." 

Feller started 1947 by setting up a trouping visit, setting his own chosen group against a Negro alliance baseball crew driven by Satchel Paige. Feller's group included Stan Musial and Phil Rizzuto while Paige's incorporated Buck O'Neil and Hilton Smith. They played in 22 recreations over the United States, and at the finish of the visit, every player had gotten about as a lot of money flow as the St. Louis Cardinals made as a group for their 1946 World Series win. Against the St. Louis Browns in Feller's second beginning of the period, he broadened his real alliance record for one-hitters when he recorded his ninth one-hit amusement in a shutout win on April 22. In a June 13 amusement against the Philadelphia Athletics, having just amassed 10 strikeouts through four innings, Feller tumbled from the hill, which downpour had made dangerous, and harmed his back. "My fastball was never the equivalent after that", Feller said. He finished the season as the AL head in wins (20) and shutouts (5), and drove the majors in strikeouts (196) and innings pitched (299). 

In 1948, the Indians had one of their best seasons, however Feller encountered a season that had more good and bad times. Feller was chosen to speak to the AL All-Stars for the seventh time in his profession in the 1948 All-Star Game however declined to play, feeling that his execution did not warrant choice as an All-Star. At a certain point he was winless for a month, and by July 22, his record was 9– 12. Lou Boudreau, the Indians' player-administrator, proclaimed "we sink or swim with Feller", and kept on picking him. Feller continued to go 10– 3 for the rest of his appearances to complete the season with a record of 19– 15, an association driving 164 strikeouts, and a 3.56 ERA. The Indians won a one-diversion playoff against the Boston Red Sox to decide the group to speak to the AL in the World Series; it was the first run through the group had won the flag since the 1920 season. 

Feller began Game One of the 1948 World Series against the NL-champion Boston Braves. In the eighth inning, Feller and Boudreau seemed to have picked off the Braves' Phil Masi as he endeavored to take a base, however umpire Bill Stewart ruled he was protected. Masi scored the main keep running of the diversion on a Braves single. In spite of surrendering only two hits on 85 pitches for the diversion, Feller and the Indians lost 1– 0. Afterward, photos demonstrated that Boudreau had labeled Masi out by two feet. Feller stated, "Stewart was the main person in the recreation center who thought he was sheltered." Feller was again named the starter in Game Five, which set a participation record; the 86,288 fans in Cleveland was the then-biggest participation at a ball game. The Braves set up three keeps running in the highest point of the primary inning. The Indians returned to tie the amusement, however by the seventh inning the Braves recaptured the lead for good and Feller was expelled from the diversion. He got done with having permitted eight hits and seven earned runs. Lemon won Game Six and gave the Indians their second World Series title. After the Indians came back to Cleveland and were given a triumph march, Feller stated, "This is on a par with being President." 

In the wake of accepting a decrease in salary to begin the 1949 season, Feller pitched on Opening Day against the St. Louis Browns. Amid the amusement, he harmed his shoulder and missed the remainder of April. His exhibitions were blended in the remainder of the period and he completed the year with a 15-14 record and a 3.75 ERA. Prior to the 1950 season, Feller proposed to Indians the board he accept a decrease in salary, and did as such. Indians general director Hank Greenberg stated, "He himself made the proposal. Truth be told, he offered to take more than the 25 percent most extreme pay cut permitted. There was literally nothing to it. We as a whole concurred rapidly on the figure after Bob showed up yesterday." In a success over the Detroit Tigers in the second round of a doubleheader, Feller turned into the 53rd pitcher to win 200 diversions. Consistently, players noticed that his speed had returned, and, winning diversions with artfulness as opposed to control, he was again compelling. He completed the year with 16 wins and a 3.43 ERA. 

On July 1, 1951, Feller recorded his third vocation no-hitter against the Detroit Tigers. "I was relying upon my slider and I didn't start to think about a no-hitter until about the seventh inning. I endeavored to keep it in the back of my psyche, weighing down and focusing on one hitter at any given moment", Feller said. Feller was the third pitcher, after Larry Corcoran and Cy Young, to record three vocation no-hitters. He turned into the principal pitcher of the 1951 season to achieve 20 wins after he pitched a shutout against the Washington Senators on August 21. Alongside Early Wynn and Mike Garcia, Feller achieved the 20-win mark amid the season; they were the main trio of pitchers on a similar staff to win 20 wins since 1931. Feller was named the "Brandishing News" Pitcher of the Year. 

Feller began the 1952 season with three successes in his initial five begins; one of the misfortunes was an April 23 one-hitter against Bob Cain, who additionally permitted just a single hit. Feller battled for the remainder of the period, and after a contention with an umpire over a strike bring in late August, chief Al López shut Feller down for the season. He completed the season with a 9– 13 record and a 4.74 ERA. He improved the next year, winning 10 recreations and losing 7 of every 25 begins after Lopez gave him additional long stretches of rest between appearances. The Indians won 111 normal season recreations amid 1954, beating an AL record recently held by the 1927 New York Yankees. The 35-year-old Feller completed 13– 3 on the year, gaining his 250th contributing triumph a May 23 win and his 2,500th profession strikeout in a success on June 12. 

The Indians played against the New York Giants in the 1954 World Series, however not at all like the 1948 Series, Feller did not show up. The Indians were cleared in four amusements by the Giants. Indians director Al López said of not beginning Feller, "I realize Feller needed to begin one of the recreations in the 1954 World Series (when the Indians were cleared by the New York Giants), however we never truly discussed it ... In the event that we had won the first or second amusement in New York, I was going to begin Feller in Cleveland in the fourth diversion. Yet, when we didn't (win either amusement in New York), why in the hellfire would i say i was going to pitch Feller? He was the fifth starter on the club around then, and wasn't the Feller he'd been (before in his profession)." In 1955, Feller spent piece of the period as a starter, at that point was moved to the warm up area later in the season. He won and lost four diversions each in 25 appearances. Amid the offseason, he progressed toward becoming administrator of the Ohio March of Dimes and filled in as player agent for the American League. He worked with National League delegate Robin Roberts all through the offseason, talking about the likelihood of player discretion and annuities with baseball proprietors; he at that point progressed toward becoming leader of the Baseball Players' Association. 

In the 1956 season, Feller began four amusements and showed up in 15 others, and completed with a 0– 4 record and profession most noticeably bad 4.97 ERA. The Indians held "Bounce Feller Night" on September 9, and he showed up in his keep going real class diversion on September 30. After the season, theory mounted seeing whether Feller would resign as a player. In December 1956, Feller told "The Plain Dealer": "I will come back to Cleveland in the not so distant future and plan to meet with Hank Greenberg before Christmas. I plan to achieve a choice around then." Greenberg had additionally offered Feller his discharge or an occupation with the Indians in their front office. Greenberg stated, "We truly need Feller to stay with us. To the extent I'm worried, there will dependably be a vocation sitting tight for Bob in the Cleveland association." On December 28 Feller formally resigned from the Indians as a player to proceed with his work selling protection. Reporting his retirement, Feller stated, "I could have run with a couple other ball clubs, yet anything I may have finished with them would have offered some relief from the achievement I have had with the Cleveland club the most recent 20 years." He proceeded, "Consider the possibility that I pitched one more year, so what. I would need to go to the choice I am making now, some time." 

He spent his whole profession of 18 seasons with the Indians, being one of "The Big Four" in the Indians' contributing pivot the 1950s, alongside Bob Lemon, Early Wynn and Mike Garcia. Feller offers the Major League record of 12 one-hitters with Nolan Ryan, and was the primary pitcher to win at least 20 recreations before the age of 21. He finished his vocation with 266 successes, 2,581 strikeouts and 279 complete amusements. Through the span of his profession, he drove the AL in strikeouts multiple times and strolls multiple times. Upon his retirement, Feller held the significant class record for most strolls in a vocation (1,764), and holds the twentieth century record for most strolls in a season (208 of every 1938). The Indians resigned his shirt number, 19, on December 27, 1956. 

In 1962, Feller was chosen to the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum alongside Jackie Robinson. Both were the first to be chosen on their first poll appearance since the first acceptance class of 1936. At the season of his enlistment just Ty Cobb (98.2%), Babe Ruth (95.1%), and Honus Wagner (95.1%) had a higher level of vote cast a ballot. In 2010, after Feller had been admitted to hospice, a columnist discharged a story reviewing a 2007 meeting with a matured Feller where he raised Feller and Robinson's infrequent aversion for one another. "They overhyped Jackie Robinson. He was a decent baserunner. He was a reasonable hitter. He was a normal second baseman. He was not as great a ballplayer as Larry Doby. There were a ton of preferable dark ballplayers over Jackie Robinson," said Feller. 

All through his vocation, Feller played show diversions amid the off-season, playing in towns not used to seeing real group ballplayers. His show visits frequently highlighted other major leaguers and Negro League players, similar to Satchel Paige, who was likewise a colleague of Feller's with the Indians. Different players included Stan Musial, Mickey Vernon, and Jeff Heath. Amid a traveling visit in 1945, Feller pitched against Jackie Robinson after he had been marked by the Brooklyn Dodgers. He told a correspondent in Los Angeles he trusted Robinson was too muscle-bound to prevail against contributing the significant classes despite the fact that Robinson recorded two hits off Feller. Players needed to tell the Commissioner of Baseball, A.B. "Cheerful" Chandler, before taking an interest in presentation diversions and were not permitted to start recreations before the finish of the real alliance season. Feller kept in touch with Chandler, testing as far as possible on the quantity of diversions that were permitted to be played and proposing an expansion; the Commissioner consented to Feller's proposition. To limit travel time, Feller utilized planes, for example, two DC-3s of every 1947, to transport players from town to town. Feller's contribution, just as that of other real group players, was the subject of gatherings between the Commissioner and AL and NL presidents. 

In 1947, Feller reported that he would contribute the Cuban winter alliance amid the off-season, yet Commissioner Chandler managed no major leaguer could play in Cuba. Feller said he would give his benefits from playing in the Cuban winter alliance to the American Major League players' annuity subsidize: "I need to demonstrate I'm not going to Cuba for any egotistical intrigue but rather on the grounds that there is a standard included and that is the privilege of any competitor to work at his picked calling". Feller likewise trusted it was "horribly unjustifiable" that significant leaguers who were U.S. residents couldn't play in winter classes yet Latin Americans were allowed. Indians proprietor and president Bill Veeck stated, "I have no remark on Bob's outside exercises. I don't realize whether they've harmed him or not. In any case, I do know this. The extraordinary larger part of the general population of Cleveland think they've harmed him." Feller's traveling business shrewd and support subtleties made him one of the wealthiest players of his time however he asserted his off-season displays and trouping were important to pay for expanded therapeutic costs for his family. His first spouse created iron deficiency in the wake of bringing forth their second tyke when she was given the wrong sort of blood amid transfusions; she consequently wound up dependent on the recommended drug for her condition. Feller was endeavoring to make up lost income subsequently, since he passed up over $200,000 in compensation when he served in the Navy; he missed in excess of three noteworthy group seasons. Feller's biographer John Sickels recommended: "They were endeavoring to profit, yet part of it was additionally, he felt that the dark players weren't really getting a reasonable shot and that he needed to kind of grandstand it. Also, seeing those, I think, those display recreations helped individuals understand that the Negro League players were similarly on a par with the Major League players." 

Feller assessed that military administration cost him something like 100 profession wins. In light of his uncommon 1941 and 1946 seasons, almost certainly, Feller would have completed his vocation with in excess of 300 successes and maybe 3,800 strikeouts. Feller said "I know in my heart I would have wound up much closer to 400 than 300 if I hadn't burned through four seasons in the Navy. Be that as it may, don't accept that as a grumbling. I'm cheerful I returned home in one piece." 

There is film of a Feller fastball being timed by Army weapons hardware (used to quantify big guns shell speed) and enlisting at . Nonetheless, this occurred in the later long periods of his profession and the speed of the ball was estimated as it crossed the plate (while later techniques measure the speed as it leaves the pitcher's hand). With crude hardware Feller was at one point estimated at . Feller once referenced that he was timed at Lincoln Park in Chicago. He likewise tossed the second quickest pitch at any point formally recorded, at , in a diversion in 1946 at Griffith Stadium. Feller said a 1974 test including Nolan Ryan would be assessed when he tossed the ball as opposed to when it achieved home plate, and as feature writer Milton Richman composed, Feller said "Sandy Koufax had the best live quick ball he at any point saw." 

Ted Williams stated, "Three days before he pitched I would begin pondering Robert Feller, Bob Feller. I'd sit in my room considering him constantly. God I cherished it ... Allie Reynolds of the Yankees was intense, and I may consider him for 24 hours before a diversion, however Robert Feller: I'd consider him for three days." Feller was positioned 36th on "Wearing News'" rundown of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players and furthermore the distribution's "most prominent pitcher of his time" just as a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team in 1999. Every year, American Legion Baseball exhibits the "Weave Feller Pitching Award" to the pitcher "with the most strikeouts in local and national challenge." 

Feller was chosen the debut leader of the Major League Baseball Players' Association in 1956. As president, he showed up before Congress to talk about baseball's hold condition. Feller was the principal player to get an establishment to consent to an offer of diversion receipts when he was the beginning pitcher for Indians' amusements. He was likewise the most punctual player to consolidate himself (as Ro-Fel, Inc.). He was likewise one of the main players to work for the privilege of a player to enter free office. 

Feller and his significant other, Virginia Winther, had three children, Steve, Martin, and Bruce. The couple separated in 1971; from the separation settlement, Virginia got the house she and Feller had fabricated. Virginia kicked the bucket on May 6, 1981 in her home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. In retirement, Feller lived with his second spouse, Anne Feller, in Gates Mills, a suburb of Cleveland. 

Feller is credited with being the primary baseball star to sign signatures at baseball memorabilia traditions, and was such a successive visitor at such occasions that one ESPN author conjectured that he may have marked a greater number of signatures than some other individual. 

In June 2009, at 90 years old, Feller was one of the beginning pitchers at the debut Baseball Hall of Fame Classic, which supplanted the Hall of Fame Game at Cooperstown, New York. Feller was treated for leukemia in August 2010. By October, Feller was fitted with a pacemaker and was determined to have pneumonia and thrush, a disease of the mucous film coating the mouth and throat. He was exchanged on December 8 from the Cleveland Clinic to hospice care. On December 15, Feller kicked the bucket of difficulties from leukemia at 92. 

Of Feller's demise, Mike Hegan, Indians telecaster and child of previous Feller colleague and battery mate Jim Hegan, expressed, "The Indians of the 50s were the essence of the city of Cleveland and Bob was the substance of the Indians. In any case, Bob rose above more than that time. In this day of free office and exchanging groups, Bob Feller stayed faithful to the city and the group for more than 70 years. You will probably not see that sort of common devotion and appreciation until the end of time." In 2010, the "Cleveland Indians Man of the Year Award" was renamed the "Sway Feller Man of the Year Award". 

On Opening Day of the 2011 season, the Indians welcomed Feller's widow, Anne, to exhibit a quiet first pitch. Amid pregame presentations, Cleveland players wore a No. 19 shirt out of appreciation for Feller. For the whole 2011 season the players' regalia were furnished with a layout of Feller's pitching movement. The association likewise made a perpetual remembrance of the press-enclose situate that Feller utilized later life. 

The Bob Feller Museum opened in Van Meter, Iowa, on June 10, 1995. Structured by Feller's child Stephen, ashore given by Brenton Banks, the gallery has two rooms that contain Feller memorabilia and things from his very own accumulation. The Feller bat utilized by Babe Ruth when he showed up at Yankee Stadium is at the gallery. Feller said a partner had stolen the bat and in the end it was bought by the games card organization Upper Deck for $107,000. Feller later offered the organization $95,000 as a byproduct of the bat.