Lexington-Concord Sesquicentennial half dollar 

The Lexington-Concord Sesquicentennial half dollar, once in a while the Lexington-Concord half dollar or Patriot half dollar, is a dedicatory fifty-penny piece struck by the United States Bureau of the Mint in 1925 to pay tribute to the 150th commemoration of the Battles of Lexington and Concord. It was structured by Chester Beach. 

Individuals from the Massachusetts congressional assignment presented enactment in 1924 which would accommodate a memorial half dollar for the commemoration. The bill passed the two places of Congress and was marked by President Calvin Coolidge. Shoreline needed to fulfill advisory groups from both Lexington and Concord, and the Commission of Fine Arts passed the structure just reluctantly, feeling Beach had been given poor materials to work with. 

The coins were sold for $1, and were distributed at the commemoration festivities in Lexington and in Concord; they were sold at banks crosswise over New England. Albeit simply over portion of the approved mintage of 300,000 was struck, practically the majority of the coins that were printed were sold. Contingent upon condition, they are classified in the several dollars. 

The Battles of Lexington and Concord occurred in those neighboring Massachusetts towns on April 19, 1775. The hatred between the British government and the American colonials that went before the Revolutionary War had driven, by mid 1775, to state army gatherings, unfriendly to the British, being shaped in the Boston territory. These gatherings, under the control of Massachusetts pioneer John Hancock's Committee of Safety, were regularly named minutemen for their availability to amass to battle immediately. Reserves of weapons were put away at different towns for their utilization, including at Concord. 

The Secretary of State for the Colonies, Lord Dartmouth, trained the British administrator in Boston, General Thomas Gage, to stamp out this opposition. On April 18, 1775, Gage furtively requested Lieutenant Colonel Francis Smith to run with 700 men to Concord and devastate the weapons there. It is dubious how the Americans came to know about the arrangement: Gage's better half Margaret was conceived in New Jersey and may have been a covert agent. Another neighborhood chief, Joseph Warren, educated Paul Revere and William Dawes, and the two men passed by isolated streets to Lexington to caution pioneers there and to gather the civilian army. Both got to Lexington, where they met with Hancock and Samuel Adams. The provisions in Concord were moved. 

English troops started their walk at 2 am on April 19, and Smith sent troops ahead under Major John Pitcairn. Whenever Pitcairn and his men found an organization of outfitted colonials at Lexington, he requested them to scatter. In the disarray, a shot was discharged from an obscure source, which brought a few volleys from the British troops. Eight of the nearby men were murdered and one British warrior was injured. The British consumed or generally obliterated what supplies they could discover in Concord, and a second encounter occurred at the North Bridge. The scaffold was held by the British, and by then about 400 minutemen had gathered. Seeing the smoke from Concord, the colonials trusted the town was being scorched, and endeavored to cross the extension to help it. The British terminated on them however the colonials returned flame and crushed them. The British, who had gotten fortifications once they understood the wide open was energized against them, started their walk to Boston annoyed by in any event 2,000 militiamen who caused a consistent toll by gunfire until the British picked up the assurance of the gun close Boston. The experiences at Lexington and Concord were the principal clashes of what turned into the Revolutionary War. 

Indistinguishable joint goals to build up a United States Lexington-Concord Sesquicentennial Commission and to approve government investment in the festivals encompassing the 150th commemoration of the fights were brought into the House of Representatives by Massachusetts congressmen John Jacob Rogers and Frederick Dallinger on May 5, 1924. Robert Luce, likewise of that state, presented an indistinguishable duplicate. Rogers spoke to Concord's area in Congress, while the townsfolk of Lexington were among Dallinger's constituents. Every one of the three bills were alluded to the Committee on the Library, managed by Luce. Hearings were hung on May 8, 1924, with both Rogers and Dallinger present. Rogers talked about the 1875 festivals of the Lexington and Concord centennials, which President Ulysses S. Give, Vice President Henry Wilson, Speaker of the House James G. Blaine and different notables had visited. These festivals were not mutually held by Lexington and Concord; rather, there were two separate projects, however there was full participation between the two towns. They proposed to pursue this example for the 150th commemoration in 1925: despite the fact that there would be impressive coordination, every town would have its own board of trustees and its very own occasions. 

Rogers sketched out the solicitation for the foundation of the commission, with four individuals to be delegated by each place of Congress and three by President Calvin Coolidge. Rodgers and Dallinger needed $10,000 for the commission, and for Congress to approve the issuance of memorial coins and stamps. Rogers told the board that the language for the administrative arrangements for the coin had been obtained from the bill for the Pilgrim Tercentenary half dollar (1920– 1921), and helped them to remember other memorial coins that had been issued. At the time, memorial coins were not sold by the administration—Congress, in approving enactment, assigned an association which had the elite appropriate to buy the coins without needing any proof and distribute them to the general population at a higher cost than normal. A limit of 300,000 coins was mentioned. Dallinger noticed that the administration would cause no cost from the memorial half dollars: it would benefit from the seignorage and could never be called upon to reclaim them, as they would be held by authorities. After the two congressmen showed up, Chairman Luce presented a letter from the Senate Majority Leader, Henry Cabot Lodge of Massachusetts, demonstrating his help for the bill. Luce announced his own variant of the goals the next day, with his board's suggestion that it pass. 

The goals was conveyed to the House floor on June 7, 1924, when Luce asked that the House pass the enactment. He had suggested in his report to the outstanding Ralph Waldo Emerson lyric "Accord Hymn" by including the expression "troubled ranchers", a reference which Arkansas' Otis Wingo blamed so as to convey a protracted discourse on taxes, blaming the Republican dominant part for hurting the rancher. Once Wingo had completed to praise from the Democratic side, the House passed the bill without a recorded vote, with Rogers managing the House without the Speaker. The goals was transmitted to the Senate that day and was alluded to the Senate Appropriations Committee. On January 5, 1925, the goals was accounted for back to the Senate by Wyoming's Francis Warren, unamended, with the proposal that it pass. Congressperson Joseph T. Robinson of Arkansas requested the measure of the allocation being made in the bill, and when told it was $15,000, had no extra inquiries. The bill go without restriction, and was authorized with the mark of President Coolidge on January 14, 1925. 

In 1923, the advisory group from Lexington and the one from Concord each had thought about squeezing for a dedicatory coin, and each, unbeknownst to the next, had reached Chester Beach, credited with the structure for the Monroe Doctrine Centennial half dollar. Shoreline got them to join their endeavors and each consented to pay half of his expense of $1,250. Every town would choose the structure for one side of the half dollar. 

Judge Prescott Keyes, who drove the Concord advisory group, sent Beach the proposed plan for the front (the Concord side) on February 2, 1925, telling him the Lexington structure for the switch, or Lexington side, would before long pursue. The next day, Edward Stone, lawyer for the Lexington council, sent Beach a letter formalizing the agreement. Shoreline would not be paid except if the Commission of Fine Arts endorsed the mortar models. Shoreline answered to Stone on the fourth, relating that he had addressed James Earle Fraser, originator of the Buffalo nickel and artist individual from the commission, and had been educated that the commission had quite recently had its month to month meeting, however that a majority could be amassed to affirm the coin. Shoreline noticed that the Mint would take three or a month to start striking coins once last endorsement was given; he had examined this with Chief Engraver George T. Morgan in 1924. Morgan had as of late kicked the bucket, yet Beach did not anticipate the new boss etcher, John R. Sinnock, to cause any extra postponements. 

On February 4, Concord craftsman Philip Holden sent Beach improved portrayals for the two sides. Shoreline had been under the feeling that the year must show up on the coin independent from anyone else, notwithstanding the commemoration dates ; on February 5 Keyes wrote to Beach that he had seen the Pilgrim Tercentenary half dollar and the Huguenot-Walloon half dollar. Both bore their dates just as a major aspect of commemorations. Keyes noticed that the two coins had the words "" and "" separately before "", and suggested that the word "" show up in a similar spot on the new coin. Keyes noticed that April 19, the commemoration of the two fights, is Patriot Day in Massachusetts. He demanded that the words "" seem regardless of whether it was indecipherable, "the general population in these two towns are at times quite delicate about negligible issues thus Mr. Stone and I have been extremely specific to go to an understanding as to all subtleties." 

Shoreline consented to the wording changes, subject to endorsement by the experts in Washington. On February 12, 1925, Keyes composed again to disclose to him that Harry B. Little, draftsman of the National Cathedral, had taken a gander at the plans and had recommendations, including moving the words "" from the lower some portion of the Concord side to one side of the minuteman. He additionally proposed putting "April 19" on the coin; Beach did not do as such, however he received different proposals from Keyes. The Commission of Fine Arts felt that French's statue, because of its slenderness, was not appropriate for a coin. By the by, it endorsed the plan, with Moore writing to Mint Director Robert J. Give on March 5 that "a planner ought to be allowed to utilize images as he best realizes how to utilize them in filling the spaces of a coin or award." 

By March 27, preliminary strikes had been made of the new coin at the Philadelphia Mint. Stone arranged an underlying amount of 100,000 half dollars on March 31. 

The front duplicates Daniel Chester French's statue "The Minute Man" that remains in Concord. Celebrating the minutemen, volunteer state army who battled the British in 1775, it delineates a rancher, rifle close by. His jacket is hung over his furrow, and he is prepared to react to the flag to collect, probably to be given by the ringer in the Old Belfry at Lexington, the subject of the invert of the mint piece. The minuteman's head clouds some portion of the name of the nation he set up, and he is flanked on the left by the words "" and on the privilege by "". French intended to speak to local army commander Isaac Davis, who was slaughtered at Concord. Not appeared on the coin, yet on the base of the statue in Concord, is the primary stanza of Ralph Waldo Emerson's ballad, "Accord Hymn", sections obediently retained by ages of American schoolchildren. 

The turn around portrays the Old Belfry, situated in Lexington, where a chime was sounded to gather the nearby state army. The turret was not then old, having been constructed following the gift of a ringer weighing by Isaac Stone to the town of Lexington in 1761. The chime was sounded after Revere and Dawes arrived, however when no British fighters showed up, Captain John Parker sent his men home, with guidelines to stay prepared. It was sounded again at 5:30 am, when word came the British were not far away. 

Numismatist John F. Jones, in his 1937 study of commemoratives, felt the statue and spire exceedingly suitable subjects for the coin, yet lamented that it did not have the unmistakable, sharp lines of prior extraordinary issues. Workmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule, in his book on U.S. coins and decorations, expressed that the Lexington-Concord half dollar "is nearly diminished to the aesthetic dimension of a photo, for little is left that is unique with respect to Beach". Vermeule expostulated the numerous engravings, however conceding they were constrained on Beach, and particularly loathed the position of "In God We Trust": "nothing is more strange than the religious adage." Vermeule opined that "albeit less chafing than his half-dollar for the Monroe Doctrine Centennial, this coin does no acknowledge to Beach's stature as a five star craftsman. What the coin oozes in enthusiasm, it needs in craftsmanship." 

An aggregate of 162,099 Lexington-Concord Sesquicentennial half dollars were struck at the Philadelphia Mint in April and May, 1925, with 99 pieces put aside for assessment and testing by the 1926 Assay Commission. The coins were produced using spaces, or planchets, that had been expected for mintage into 1924 Stone Mountain Memorial half dollars, yet had not been utilized. 

The principal coin struck was exhibited to President Coolidge. The half dollars were sold at the commemoration festivities in Lexington and at those in Concord, both held April 18– 20, 1925, with 39,000 sold in Lexington and 21,000 in Concord. Circulation was taken care of by the Lexington Trust Company and the Concord National Bank, which sold them in wooden boxes designed with pictures of the statue and spire. They were sold by banks all through New England, and to some degree somewhere else in the nation. Just 86 coins were come back to the Mint, likely speaking to harmed pieces. Most were sold to the overall population, not to gatherers. The asking cost was $1. The version of R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins" distributed in 2015 records the half dollar at somewhere in the range of $100 and $975 relying upon condition. An excellent example sold at closeout in 2014 for $11,880.