First Battle of Dernancourt 

The First Battle of Dernancourt was battled on 28 March 1918 close Dernancourt in northern France amid World War I. It included a power of the German second Army assaulting components of the VII Corps, which included British and Australian troops, and brought about a total annihilation of the German attack. 

The Australian third and fourth Divisions had been sent south from Belgium to help stem the tide of the German Spring Offensive towards Amiens and, with the British 35th Division, they held a line west and north of the Ancre waterway and the zone between the Ancre and Somme, shaping the southern flank of the Third Army. A significant part of the VII Corps bleeding edge comprised of a progression of posts unstable along a railroad bank among Albert and Buire-sur-l'Ancre. The principle German ambush compel was the 50th Reserve Division of the XXIII Reserve Corps, which focused its strike on hold among Albert and Dernancourt, assaulting off the line of walk after a short mounted guns arrangement. Supporting assaults were to be propelled by the thirteenth Division further west. Some German administrators considered achievement improbable except if the dike was pitifully held, and the officer of the German second Army requested the assault to be deferred, however that message did not achieve the attacking troops in time. 

The Germans assaulted at day break under the front of mist, yet other than one little infiltration by an organization in the early morning that was immediately repulsed, somewhat because of the activities of Sergeant Stanley McDougall of the Australian 47th Battalion, the Germans neglected to get through the VII Corps guards. McDougall was granted the Victoria Cross, the most noteworthy honor that could be gotten by an Australian warrior for heroism even with the adversary. By late evening, precipitation set in, making early restoration of the strike more uncertain. The Germans endured around 550 losses amid the fight, and the Australians lost no less than 137 executed or injured. The British 35th Division experienced 1,540 setbacks 25 to 30 March. In the week following the fight, the Germans reestablished their endeavors to progress in the division, finishing in the Second Battle of Dernancourt on 5 April, when the Germans were crushed in urgent battling. 

After the Third Battle of Ypres subsided in late 1917, the Western Front fell into its standard respite over the winter months. In mid 1918, it ended up evident to the Allies that a vast German hostile was pending. This Spring Offensive initiated on 21 March 1918, with more than one million men in three German militaries striking hard only north of the intersection between the French and British armed forces. The primary exertion of this hostile hit the British Third and Fifth Armies, which shaped the correct flank of the British bleeding edge. Struck a progression of amazing blows, a rupture between the two British armed forces created, and they were constrained into a quick, and in parts disordered withdrawal, enduring substantial misfortunes. The key railroad intersection at Amiens was before long compromised. 

Not long after the Spring Offensive started, the Australian third and fourth Divisions were sent south in stages from rest zones in the Flanders locale of Belgium to the Somme stream valley in France to help stem the German hostile. At first it was planned to utilize them to dispatch a counter-hostile, yet this thought was before long racked because of German triumphs. On their way south, the fourth Brigade was confined from the fourth Division to help end the Germans close Hébuterne in the focal point of the Third Army area. Going via train, transport and walking by walking, the staying two detachments of the fourth Division, the twelfth and thirteenth Brigades, amassed in the territory west of Dernancourt, under the order of the VII Corps driven by Lieutenant General Walter Norris Congreve, which presently shaped the correct flank of the Third Army. 

The leader of the fourth Division, Major General Ewen Sinclair-Maclagan, was requested to help and after that assuage remainders of the ninth (Scottish) Division, which was holding the bleeding edge along a railroad among Albert and Dernancourt, west of the Ancre stream. This undertaking was given to the twelfth Brigade, under the order of Brigadier General John Gellibrand. The thirteenth Brigade was held in help positions among Bresle and Ribemont-sur-Ancre. To one side of the twelfth Brigade was the British 35th Division, situated among Dernancourt and Buire-sur-l'Ancre, and directed by Brigadier General Arthur Marindin. That division had been engaged with a progression of battling withdrawals since being resolved to fight on 25 March close Cléry-sur-Somme, some east of Dernancourt. The third Division, instructed by Major General John Monash, was conveyed further toward the south, between the Ancre and the Somme around Morlancourt, with its tenth Brigade to one side of the 35th Division. 

From before midnight on 27 March, the now worn out twelfth Brigade had been holding the railroad line among Albert and Dernancourt, having mitigated the ninth (Scottish) Division. The forward places of the striking held by the twelfth Brigade were along the railroad line, which kept running along a progression of banks and cuttings, up to however excluding a rail line connect quickly northwest of Dernancourt where the Dernancourt– Laviéville street go under the railroad. Northwest of Dernancourt, a mushroom-formed component known as the Laviéville Heights disregarded the railroad line, which bended around its foot. This was troublesome ground to guard, especially where the railroad line bended and avoided the northwestern corner of Dernancourt, as the edges of the town were extremely near the railroad line now, and gave great camouflage to moving toward adversary troops. In the event that the line there was invade, the foe would almost certainly fire into the back of the troops conveyed along the railroad in the two bearings. In spite of this, the Australian leaders thought of it as essential to hold the railroad line; in the event that it was not garrisoned, the adversary could collect in the dead ground behind the bank. A further trouble emerged from the way that if an assault happened amid light, it would be practically difficult to move troops down the presented slants to strengthen the railroad line without devastating misfortunes, and troops pulling back from the rail route line would be comparatively uncovered. To bear the cost of them some assurance along the railroad line, the forward posts delved small time specialties in the close side of the dike, however the main route for them to flame was to move up and lie over the bank, consequently presenting themselves to adversary fire. 

On the left of the detachment front, with its northern flank shy of the Albert– Amiens street, was the 48th Battalion, instructed by Lieutenant Colonel Raymond Leane. To one side was the British twelfth (Eastern) Division of V Corps. The 48th Battalion was holding its area with two organizations in a progression of posts along substitute cuttings and banks of the railroad line as it ran south from Albert. Near that town the railroad line was not in VII Corps hands, and the posts were tossed back at the edge of a crevasse shy of the Albert– Amiens street, in contact with the southern posts of the twelfth (Eastern) Division, which expanded south of the street now. The unit facade was about . The 48th Battalion bolster line was situated going to the back on the high ground, with on leg on each side of the Albert– Amiens street. Because of the arch of the incline, the two organizations in the help line were far out of its forward organizations at the railroad line. 

On the privilege of the 48th Battalion was the 47th Battalion, instructed by Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Imlay, with its two forward organizations likewise unstable along the railroad line. The all out facing of the 47th Battalion was , which implied that the 180– 200 men of the forward organizations were situated in broadly divided posts. Between the forward organizations was an area of bank close to a dimension crossing which was not garrisoned, yet was secured from a shallow slicing toward the south and a low dike toward the north. The 47th Battalion's help line was likewise situated on the slope some separation to the back. The twelfth Machine Gun Company was conveyed with eight of its Vickers assault rifles in every regiment territory, essentially sited along the railroad line. Leane and Imlay had their central command co-situated on the summit by the Albert– Amiens street. Of the two residual legions of the twelfth Brigade, the 45th Battalion was conveyed on the incline behind the 106th Brigade of the 35th Division, and the 46th Battalion was held available for later close to the town of Millencourt. 

On the privilege of the twelfth Brigade were components of the 35th Division, the first of these was the nineteenth (Service) Battalion (second Tyneside Pioneers) of the Northumberland Fusiliers (nineteenth NF), instructed by Lieutenant Colonel W.P.S.Foord. It was sent close to the railroad curve on the northwestern edges of Dernancourt. The right-hand firearm of the twelfth Machine Gun Company was situated with this unit, which was under the control of the 106th Brigade. To their privilege the 106th Brigade was sent along the railroad line similarly as Buire-sur-l'Ancre, the cutting edge there being held by the seventeenth (Service) Battalion, Royal Scots, and the twelfth (Service) Battalion, Highland Light Infantry. This segment of the railroad kept running along level ground. To its right side, the 104th Brigade line kept running from Buire-sur-l'Ancre past Treux, its forward units being the eighteenth (Service) Battalion (second South East Lancashire) of the Lancashire Fusiliers, and the nineteenth (Service) Battalion, Durham Light Infantry. The 104th Brigade covered and shielded the left flank of the tenth Brigade of the third Division, which was conveyed only east of Méricourt-l'Abbé. The VII Corps positions had incredible perception of the encompassing field, yet were strategically feeble. 

A lot of mounted guns support was accessible to the safeguards. The divisional mounted guns of the fourth Division, comprising of the tenth and eleventh Australian Field Artillery (AFA) Brigades, were inside range, similar to the British 50th and 65th Royal Field Artillery (RFA) Brigades. The S.O.S. lines of the tenth AFA Brigade were on a thicket south of Albert, in front of the 48th Battalion and those of the eleventh AFA Brigade were on the furthest side of Dernancourt. The Australian batteries were in the open, as pits had not yet been burrowed for them because of their ongoing entry. 

The fundamental German assault was to be made by the 50th Reserve Division of "General der Infanterie" Hugo von Kathen's XXIII Reserve Corps. The 50th Reserve Division was a Prussian division that had been engaged with the Spring Offensive from the start. It had a couple of days' rest before the development was deferred by the British at Albert and Dernancourt and its spirit was still high. The correct prong of the assault would be made by the 229th Reserve Infantry Regiment (RIR) progressing through the ninth Reserve Division north of Dernancourt against the part held by the 48th Battalion. The left prong would comprise of the 230th RIR, progressing from the territory of Morlancourt through Dernancourt against the 47th Battalion and nineteenth NF. In this part, I Battalion of the 230th RIR (I/230 RIR) would cross the Ancre and seize Dernancourt, at that point III Battalion, 230 RIR (III/230 RIR) would strike the dike. After the catch of the dike, the ambushing troops would push northwest over the Albert– Amiens street, at that point advance west towards Amiens. II Battalion, 230 RIR (II/230 RIR) was to catch up the attack of III/230 RIR. Both regimental authorities thought about that the arrangement could possibly succeed if the dike was feebly held and made portrayals to their unit leader, without much of any result. The German mounted guns planning was to last just 45 minutes. 

Further west, supporting assaults were to be propelled by the thirteenth Division, with the fifteenth Infantry Regiment (IR) attacking over the Ancre towards the bleeding edge held by the 106th Brigade among Dernancourt and Buire-sur-l'Ancre and afterward abusing accomplishment by driving west towards the town of Ribemont-sur-Ancre. The thirteenth IR was to assault the 104th Brigade at Marrett Wood. The German ordnance arrangement was to begin at 05:15 on 28 March, and the attack to start at 06:00. Amid the evening of 27/28 March, the officer of the German second Army evidently arrived at a similar resolution as the regimental administrators of the 50th Reserve Division, as at 03:00 he requested the assault to be deferred until early afternoon, and later further delayed it, however the requests did not achieve the divisions in time. 

Amid the evening of 27/28 March, watches of the 47th Battalion had watched German troops on the Albert– Dernancourt street, on the open pads right over the railroad line, yet the night go without clear indications of assault. Promptly toward the beginning of the day, the German big guns fell intensely on the help lines and back region, yet at first was light along the railroad line. In the thick fog of early day break, the leader of a little post of the 47th Battalion, positioned behind the dike quickly north of the dimension crossing, heard the sound of pike sheaths fluttering on the thighs of walking troops. Sergeant Stanley McDougall woke his friends and they rushed to alarm close-by components of the legion. McDougall, running along the highest point of the dike, saw German troops of II Battalion, 229 RIR (II/229 RIR) progressing along the entire front through the fog. Coming back with a bunch of men, he intended to convey them behind the unmanned bank toward the south. At this point, Germans were tossing hand explosives over the bank, and one detonated almost a Lewis assault rifle group before McDougall, seriously injuring the two-man team. McDougall, who had recently been a Lewis heavy armament specialist, got the firearm and started to flame it from the hip as he went. First he shot down two German light automatic rifle groups as they endeavored to cross the rails, at that point, running along the foe edge of the bank, saw around 20 Germans trusting that the flag will attack. He turned the weapon on them, and as they ran, tailed them with its shoot. At this point, a few of his companions had been murdered or injured. 

Different individuals from the 47th Battalion had garrisoned the northern end of the beforehand empty bank, however the southern half stayed open. A gathering of around 50 Germans of the sixth Company of II/229 RIR, progressing sooner than arranged, had overwhelm the Lewis firearm group covering the dimension crossing, and started propelling southwards behind the dike to the back of the privilege forward organization of the force. Seeing their development, McDougall and others opened flame on them. The barrel packaging of McDougall's Lewis firearm had developed so hot that his left hand progressed toward becoming rankled, yet he kept on terminating it with the assistance of another sergeant. Of the gathering of Germans who had entered about past the railroad line, two officers and 20 men had just been murdered. Australian troops met on the rest of the Germans, and they immediately surrendered. A sum of one officer and 29 men were caught. For his activities that morning, McDougall was later granted the Victoria Cross, the most astounding honor that could be gotten by an Australian warrior for bravery despite the adversary. 

At this point, the remainder of the bleeding edge between Albert to past Dernancourt was additionally being intensely assaulted. In the north, forward troops of the 48th Battalion were terminating persistently from the railroad line. Assaulted by components of III Battalion, 229 RIR (III/229 RIR) upheld by "minenwerfers" terminating from a thicket south of Albert, the 48th Battalion effectively beat off each German strike. This was in spite of being gotten in enfilade by an assault rifle sited on the scaffold where the Albert– Amiens street crossed the railroad line. Leane coordinated ordnance onto the wood south of Albert from which the "minenwerfers" were terminating. This was a similar wood whereupon the S.O.S. line of the tenth AFA Brigade had been laid. Similarly as the Germans were gathering for a restored ambush, a stray British shell detonated a weapons dump, dispersing froze troops of II/229 RIR, a considerable lot of whom were then shot somewhere around the Australians. The 48th lost just three officers and 59 men amid the day's battling. Careful about sending fortifications from his help line down the presented slant to the railroad line, Leane just sent four men with two Lewis firearms forward amid the sunlight hours. Amid the day, the privilege of the 48th was relentlessly stretched out to enable the 47th Battalion to move directly thus. 

The 47th Battalion's area was additionally being vigorously assaulted by II/229 RIR, and separated from the underlying infiltration by the sixth Company, they likewise held the German strike, with help from the Lewis weapons of the 48th Battalion to their left side, who got the propelling Germans in enfilade. On one event a gathering of the left forward organization of the legion charged over the bank, pursuing the Germans back over the pads into certain structures, and afterward driving them out of that spread. Presented to substantial flame, this little power pulled back to the railroad dike by early afternoon. When he got reports of the German ambush, Imlay sent two units of his correct help organization forward to strengthen the correct flank of the brigade forefront. In any case, the uncovered incline between the two positions was cleared by German automatic rifle discharge and shell shoot, and the men must be sent forward in surges, well spread out, so this took some time and they endured losses. Not long after their entry, the privilege forward organization exacted substantial losses on another German endeavor to surge the dike. Imlay later sent another company to fortify the left flank, and a conveying party with a resupply of hand explosives. Meanwhile, Gellibrand put the 45th Battalion available to Imlay, in spite of the fact that they didn't quickly push ahead from their situation behind the 106th Brigade. German specialists endeavored to put boat connects over the Ancre north of Dernancourt to enable amassing troops to cross, however the barges were before long perplexed and numerous architects murdered and injured by firearms of the twelfth Machine Gun Company. At the point when Imlay ended up mindful of this convergence of German troops, he requested an organization of the 45th Battalion to move to his help lines. Amid the day, the 47th Battalion endured 75 losses. 

The German big guns siege was heaviest in the segment held by the correct organization of the 47th Battalion and the nineteenth NF on either side of the railroad connect northwest of Dernancourt. About 05:00, I/230 RIR started progressing down the incline from the line of the Morlancourt– Méaulte street in three waves, and was rapidly met by Lewis firearm fire from the nineteenth NF, which separated the development. The German brigade had scarcely had the capacity to achieve its bouncing off point in time, and fell behind its flood. It kept on progressing through the Australian and British torrent south of Dernancourt and immediately traveled through the town, some portion of the unit achieving the railroad dike. About 09:30, the German shelling in the part close to the extension diminished. The authority of the correct segment of the twelfth Machine Gun Company, positioned close to the scaffold with the nineteenth NF, moved up the dike and investigating the rails, saw German knifes staying up on the opposite side. After a brisk exchange with the positioning officer of the nineteenth NF here, it was chosen they would assault right away. Charging over the railroad line, they drove the German power back sufficiently far to bring one of the Vickers weapons enthusiastically. The shoot from this firearm drove the Germans of I/230 RIR back similarly as Dernancourt. Before this counter-assault was propelled, Foord, feeling his situation to be uncertain, mentioned fortification. Two organizations of the eighteenth (Service) Battalion, Highland Light Infantry, were sent forward from the 106th Brigade bolster line, touching base around the season of the counter-assault, in spite of the fact that they endured huge setbacks as they moved down the uncovered slant. II and III/230 RIR were unfit to get past Dernancourt to fortify I/230 RIR, because of a colossal Australian and British barrage that fell on the town as they drew closer. They looked for haven in the basements of the town. Any troops that endeavored to cross the open ground between the town and the railroad were shot down. 

About 10:00, a German power evaluated at around two legions in quality rose up out of the town and lined out about from the bank among the hedgerows and greenery enclosures at the edge of the town. In the meantime, a German torrent fell vigorously around 200 yards behind the protecting troops along the railroad line. As ammo was running low, resupply parties were sent forward from the help line, and the dead and injured were deprived of what ammo they had left. This restored German weight was focussed for the most part on the left forward organization of the nineteenth NF that held the railroad connect, which figured out how to push a Lewis weapon group forward of the dike to enfilade the amassing Germans. The German torrent expanded about 10:25, and losses mounted among the nineteenth NF. One of these was Foord, who was injured in the neck yet stayed at his post. 

From the assault close to the railroad connect it turned out to be evident that Dernancourt was in German hands, notwithstanding a past supposition that it was as yet held by watches of the 35th Division. After the substantial shelling of the town, reports were gotten that the Germans were pulling back. About 12:30, the authority of the 106th Brigade mentioned that the mounted guns shoot on the town stop at 14:00 so he could send watches into the town trying to verify it. He was unfit to mount an appropriate assault because of misfortunes. He asked Gellibrand to expand the correct flank of his line to incorporate the railroad extension to free up his troops to go ahead. Imlay was requested to do this, and to catch up any achievement the nineteenth NF accomplished, however as per the creator of a 47th Battalion history, Craig Deayton, this push into Dernancourt had an "incredibly hopeful" objective, as the German quality in the town was evident from the assaults that had been mounted from it. Imlay additionally coordinated the joined organization of the 45th to move down to that segment from his help line when the nineteenth NF went ahead. In the occasion, the pioneers propelled an assault by the leftovers of two organizations, totalling around 100 men. As indicated by Deayton, when they left the front of the bank, they went under overwhelming automatic weapon shoot from the town, endured huge setbacks and pulled back to their begin line. An alternate rendition is given by Davson, the student of history of the 35th Division, who expresses that the nineteenth NF assault made progress that was "quick and wonderful", driving the Germans once again into the town deserting many automatic weapons. The 47th did not catch up the pioneers in going ahead towards Dernancourt. 

The move of the organization of the 45th Battalion down the uncovered slant was tragic, conceivably as the organization administrator had not been instructed regarding the specific troubles included. Moving in big guns development, they were shelled and went under exceptional automatic weapon discharge; 11 men being executed and 37 injured. The survivors mixed to the bank in little gatherings. In spite of the fact that the "Official History" is quiet on who was in charge of this failure, in his journals, the official student of history, Charles Bean, accused Imlay. 

About 18:00, Gellibrand hopefully requested the 47th to push into Dernancourt, however they met massed automatic rifle discharge from the town when they started and immediately resigned to the railroad line. Deayton depicts the two assaults on the town as "strange" and the misfortunes caused superfluous, as it was clear to the troops on the railroad line that the town was emphatically held by the Germans. 

The extreme left flank of the German assault fell on the 104th Brigade close to the town of Treux, in spite of the fact that with the line south of the Ancre here, the safeguards were less subject to shock and had great fields of flame. A post of the eighteenth (Service) Battalion of the Lancashire Fusiliers was situated in a profound depressed street in the upper east corner of Marrett Wood, which was southwest of Treux itself. On the night of 27 March, Monash had requested the tenth Brigade to build up if the 35th Division truly held the wood, and watches of the 37th Battalion had found the British post in the depressed street and gave some help, comprising of a couple of riflemen and a Lewis firearm team which was low on ammo. About 06:00, a little German assault was propelled in this division, yet it was repulsed with Lewis firearm fire. About 08:00, Germans were seen drawing closer out there, and the leader of the Lancashire Fusiliers post approached the 37th Battalion for more noteworthy help. Before this could arrive, a few hundred Germans of II/13 IR assaulted, yet they were beaten off by the consolidated British-Australian power at Marrett Wood with the assistance of the British big guns. The remainder of 13 IR assaulted further east around the town of Ville, yet were effectively ceased by the fundamental line of the 106th Brigade. Because of the Lancashire Fusiliers' solicitation for fortifications, an organization of the 38th Battalion involved Marrett Wood about 11:35, similarly as another fruitless German ambush was mounted. A further ineffective endeavor was made at 16:30. The Germans accused absence of sufficient cannons support for their inability to catch Treux and Marrett Wood. 

For the duration of the day, the Australian and British mounted guns shot on German gathering regions east and south of the railroad line. About 16:00, cautioning was gotten of a conceivable German assault north of the Albert– Amiens street, so Gellibrand prompted the 46th Battalion, at that point available for later, that they may be expected to join with an organization of Medium Mark A Whippet tanks to help repulse the estimate assault. About this time, a light sprinkle started to fall, and the assault never came. 30 minutes after this notice, Germans of III/230 RIR upheld by components of I and II/230 RIR, were seen sifting into houses on the southern edges of Albert in the 48th Battalion part. Mounted guns was coordinated into this region, which drove the Germans out once more. By 17:00, German troops could be seen pulling back east out there. At this point, the troops of the twelfth Brigade had been "moving, walking and battling for three days and three evenings nearly without rest", and were in a condition of depletion. Expanding precipitation into the night tried more uncertain. Taking all things together, nine assaults were mounted by the Germans on the railroad line amid the day, and everything except the short infiltration into the 47th Battalion division were beaten off, in spite of the fact that the guarding troops had endured critical setbacks in doing as such. As per Deayton, the protective inadequacies of the forward positions along the railroad line were self-evident. 

The assaults of 28 March were a continuation of the quick advances that had caused the withdrawal of the hard-squeezed Fifth Army since the main days of the Spring Offensive. Detainees of war taken by the 48th Battalion confirmed the way this was not a set-piece ambush but rather just an assault off the line of walk with insignificant readiness. The 50th Reserve Division was in no state to restore the hostile on the next day, and 229 RIR was pulled back from the line. It had endured 309 setbacks, and 230 RIR had lost another 240. 

In spite of the withdrawal of the 50th and 65th RFA Brigades on 29 March, the Australian big guns kept on battering Dernancourt, making another 83 losses 230 RIR who were garrisoning the town. The German endeavor to restore their development among Albert and Buire-sur-l'Ancre on 28 March had been totally crushed. Australian setbacks added up to something like 137 slaughtered or injured, and from 25 to 30 March, the 35th Division endured 1,540 losses. The legions of the twelfth and thirteenth Brigades were granted the fight respect "Somme 1918" to a limited extent for their cooperation in the fight. 

The Germans made two increasingly minor and fruitless attacks on the railroad bank south of Albert on 1 and 3 April, at that point restored their hostile in this part with a decided push on 5 April which was in the long run vanquished by the fourth Division after frantic battling amid the Second Battle of Dernancourt. Somewhere else, the Australian third Division battled a sharp activity amid the First Battle of Morlancourt over the period 28– 30 March, trailed by overwhelming battling further south around Villers-Bretonneux toward the beginning of April.