It Is the Law 

It Is the Law is a 1924 American quiet riddle movie coordinated by J. Gordon Edwards and featuring Arthur Hohl, Herbert Heyes, and Mona Palma. It is a film adjustment of the 1922 Broadway play of a similar name by Elmer Rice, itself dependent on a novel by Hayden Talbot. The film portrays the tale of Ruth Allen (Palma), who weds Justin Victor (Heyes) over contending suitor Albert Woodruff (Hohl). Looking for retribution for this slight, Woodruff fakes his passing by slaughtering a vagabond who takes after him, and casings Victor for the homicide. Woodruff endeavors to restore his romance of Allen by utilizing an expected character, yet she sees through his camouflage. When Victor is liberated from jail, he executes Woodruff, and goes free on the grounds that a conviction would establish twofold danger. 

This was the last movie for executive Edwards, who passed on the next year, and was one of the last created at Fox Film's New York studio. Contemporary surveys were commonly positive. In the same way as other of Fox's initial works, it was likely lost in the 1937 Fox vault fire. 

Albert Woodruff and Justin Victor are companions who are both in affection with a similar lady, Ruth Allen. Allen marries Victor, and Woodruff storms off in an envious anger. Woodruff finds his twin, "Sniffer" Evans, a stray and medication someone who is addicted. On the night following Allen and Victor's wedding, Woodruff calls Allen and takes steps to extort her. He additionally persuades Evans to go to his loft. 

Victor additionally goes to Woodruff's loft, expecting to stand up to his previous companion about the undermining telephone call. At the point when Woodruff sees Victor outside the condo building, he pretends a sob for help and shoots Evans to death. Victor is accused for the homicide of the man ventured to be Woodruff, and is condemned to life detainment. 

After five years, Woodruff camouflages himself with a whiskers and monocle and expect another personality trying to court Allen. She can remember him as Woodruff in view of his dread of flame tongs. Since she is companions with the senator, she can orchestrate her significant other's discharge from jail. Victor finds Woodruff in a club and executes him. At preliminary, he pronounces that the disallowance against twofold peril keeps his arraignment for the homicide; he is sans set to live joyfully with his significant other. 

Arthur Hohl repeated the job of Woodruff from a prior creation of the story as a Broadway play; notwithstanding Woodruff and Evans, he assumed a third job as the club's owner. The cast likewise incorporates Dorothy Kingdon, Helena D'Algy, Patricia O'Connor, and Nancy Newman as club regulars. This was Herbert Heyes' last quiet film; he came back to acting during the 1940s. 

In 1922, showy specialist Walter Jordan empowered fruitful writer Elmer Rice to sensationalize "It Is the Law", an unpublished novel composed by Hayden Talbot. At the time, Rice was best known for his 1914 Broadway play "On Trial", which included the principal utilization of flashback, a story system he adjusted from film, in a Broadway creation. Rice's stage adjustment of Talbot's work, likewise titled "It Is the Law", again included a story told in flashback. The play kept running for 125 exhibitions at the Ritz Theater, and was a humble achievement. 

Fox Film reported creation of a film adjustment of "It Is the Law" from the get-go in 1924, with J. Gordon Edwards set to coordinate. This was the main movie he coordinated that year, as he was fundamentally filling in as Fox Film's chief general at the time. Curtis Benton composed the screenplay for Fox; in contrast to the showy form, Benton's work exhibits the story altogether in sequential request. Key throwing was finished in February, and recording occurred at Fox's New York studio. The majority of Fox's film creation had by then moved to Hollywood: "It Is the Law" was one of just four movies Fox made at its East Coast office in 1924. Aside from four Allan Dwan films in 1926, they were the last Fox created in New York. The set developed for the court peak was a copy of a room in The Tombs. 

The copyright enrollment for "It Is the Law" expressed its length as eight reels, however the discharged form was a shorter, seven-reel film. At the point when Twentieth Century-Fox Film reestablished the copyright in 1951, they again alluded to the more drawn out run time; the title was likewise restyled with an outcry point, as "It Is the Law!" Fox's publicizing for the film incorporated a trailer, just as curiosity things to be given away by exhibitors, for example, a little key portrayed as the "way to the puzzle" of the film. 

This was Edwards' last work. He resigned from Fox after the film's culmination, and despite the fact that he communicated an enthusiasm to coming back to the job, he passed on of pneumonia the next year. 

"It Is the Law" got commonly positive audits. George T. Pardy, composing for "Exhibitors Trade Review", noticed that the gathering of people knew about the idea of the puzzle while the characters were not, an appreciated takeoff from the traditions of generally melodramas. "Movie Magazine" called the film "tense, suspensive, ... furthermore, new in its thought." "The Film Daily" commentator trusted it would speak to enthusiasts of the class regardless of "some hokum and unrealistic turns". Edwards' heading was commended, including his pacing of the story, in spite of the fact that the analyst for "Assortment" felt the film was superfluously long. Hohl, in his double job execution, was considered the most grounded of the cast, notwithstanding some overstated articulations. Chicago-based "Screen Opinions" had a progressively blended feeling, giving the movie a 65% score; in spite of lauding the course and cast, its analyst felt the film was "too troubled to possibly be prevalent". 

"It Is the Law" is accepted to be lost. The 1937 Fox vault fire pulverized the greater part of Fox's quiet movies, and the Library of Congress doesn't know about any surviving duplicates. Since little of Edwards' work endures, few of his movies have drawn consideration from present day creators, however film student of history Larry Langman included "It Is the Law" for instance of how avenging-companion films developed during the 1920s to "underscore the inward qualities of their ladies".