Muhammad I of Granada 

Abu Abdullah Muhammad ibn Yusuf ibn Nasr (1195 – 22 January 1273), otherwise called Ibn al-Aḥmar () and by his designation al-Ghalib billah ("The Victor by the Grace of God"), was the main leader of the Emirate of Granada, the keep going autonomous Muslim state on the Iberian Peninsula, and the organizer of its decision Nasrid administration. He lived amid when Iberia's Christian kingdoms—particularly Portugal, Castile and Aragon—were growing to the detriment of the Islamic region in Iberia, called Al-Andalus. Muhammad ibn Yusuf took control in his local Arjona in 1232 when he defied the "accepted" pioneer of Al-Andalus, Ibn Hud. Amid this defiance, he had the capacity to assume responsibility for Córdoba and Seville quickly, before he lost the two urban communities to Ibn Hud. Compelled to recognize Ibn Hud's suzerainty, Muhammad had the capacity to hold Arjona and Jaén. In 1236, he double-crossed Ibn Hud by helping Ferdinand III of Castile take Córdoba. In the years that pursued, Muhammad had the capacity to oversee the southern urban communities, including Granada (1237), Almería (1238) and Málaga (1239). In 1244, he lost Arjona to Castile. After two years, in 1246, he consented to surrender Jaén and acknowledge Ferdinand's overlordship in return for harmony. 

In the 18 years that pursued Muhammad united his area by keeping up generally serene relations with the Crown of Castile; in 1248 he even helped the Christian kingdom take Seville from the Muslims. Be that as it may, in 1264, he betrayed Castile and helped the fruitless insubordination of Castile's recently vanquished Muslim subjects. In 1266 his partners in Málaga, the Banu Ashqilula, defied the emirate. At the point when these previous partners looked for help from Alfonso X of Castile, Muhammad had the capacity to persuade the pioneer of the Castilian troops, Nuño González de Lara, to betray Alfonso. By 1272 Nuño González was effectively battling Castile. The emirate's contention with Castile and the Banu Ashqilula was as yet uncertain in 1273 when Muhammad kicked the bucket in the wake of tumbling off his pony. He was prevailing by his child, Muhammad II. 

The Emirate of Granada which Muhammad established, and the Nasrid imperial house went on for a few additional hundreds of years until it was attached by Castile in 1492. His other heritage was the development of the Alhambra, his home in Granada. His successors would keep on structure the royal residence and stronghold complex and dwell there, and it has endured to the present day as the compositional inheritance of the emirate. 

Muhammad ibn Yusuf was conceived in 1195 in the town of Arjona, at that point a little outskirts Muslim town south of the Guadalquivir, presently in Spain's area of Jaén. He originated from a modest foundation and, in the expressions of the Castilian "First General Chronicle", at first he had "no other occupation than following the bulls and the furrow". His family was known as the Banu Nasr or the Banu al-Ahmar According to later Granadan history specialist and vizier Ibn al-Khatib, the group was plummeted from an unmistakable friend of the Islamic prophet Muhammad known as Sa'd ibn Ubadah of the Banu Khazraj clan; Sa'd's relatives moved to Spain and settled in Arjona as ranchers. Amid his initial life he wound up known for his administration action on the boondocks and for his austere picture, which he kept up even in the wake of getting to be ruler. 

Muhammad was otherwise called Ibn al-Ahmar, or by his "kunya" Abu Abdullah. 

The mid thirteenth century was a time of incredible misfortune for the Muslims of the Iberian Peninsula. The Almohad caliphate, which had ruled Al-Andalus or the Muslim Iberia, was part by a dynastic battle after Caliph Yusuf II kicked the bucket in 1224 without a beneficiary. Al-Andalus separated into numerous little kingdoms or "taifas". One of the "taifa" pioneers was Muhammad ibn Yusuf ibn Hud (d. 1238), who rebelled against the Almohads and ostensibly declared the expert of the Abbasid caliphate yet practically speaking ruled autonomously from Murcia. His becoming stronger made him the "true" pioneer of Al-Andalus, and quickly Muhammad's overlord. In spite of his prominence and his achievement in Al-Andalus, Ibn Hud had endured routs against the Christians, incorporating at Alanje in 1230 and at Jerez in 1231, trailed by the loss of Badajoz and Extremadura. 

In the north of the landmass there were a few Christian kingdoms: Castile, León (in an association with Castile since 1231), Portugal, Navarre, and an association of kingdoms known as the Crown of Aragon. They had been extending south—taking once in the past Muslim-ruled territores—in a procedure called the "Reconquista" or "the reconquest". The majority of the kingdoms had sizable Muslim minorities. By the mid-thirteenth century, Castile was the biggest kingdom of the landmass. Its lord, Ferdinand III () exploited the expansion of León to his domain and of the Muslims' disunity to dispatch a southward venture into Muslim regions, inevitably vanquishing Córdoba (1236) and Seville (1248). 

The annihilations endured by Ibn Hud disintegrated his validity; uprisings broke out in parts of his space, including Muhammad's community of Arjona. On 16 July 1232, a mosque get together in Arjona announced the town's autonomy. This declaration occurred on 26 Ramadan 629 in the Islamic date-book, after the last Friday petition of the sacred month. The get together chosen Muhammad, who was known for his devotion and his military notoriety in past clashes against the Christians, as the town's head. Muhammad likewise had the help of his family, the Banu Nasr and a united Arjonan faction known as the Banu Ashqilula. 

Around the same time, Muhammad took Jaén—an essential city near Arjona. With assistance from Ibn Hud's opponents, the Banu al-Mawl, Muhammad quickly caught control of the previous caliphal seat of Córdoba. He additionally took Seville in 1234 with assistance from the Banu al-Bajji family, yet he was just ready to hold it for one month. Both Córdoba and Seville, disappointed with Muhammad's decision style, came back to Ibn Hud's standard in no time Muhammad's takeover. After these disappointments, Muhammad by and by pronounced his loyalty to Ibn Hud and kept his standard over a little district containing Arjona, Jaén, Porcuna, Guadix and Baeza. 

Muhammad betrayed Ibn Hud again in 1236. He aligned himself with Ferdinand and helped the Castilians take Córdoba and end a very long time of Muslim guideline in the city. In the next years, Muhammad assumed responsibility for critical urban communities in the south. In May 1237 (Ramadan 634 AH), by welcome of the city's notables, he took Granada, which he at that point made his capital. He likewise took Almería in 1238 and Málaga in 1239. He didn't take these southern urban areas by power, however through political moving and the assent of the occupants. 

Muhammad entered Granada in May 1238 (Ramadan 635). As per Ibn al-Khatib, he entered the city dressed like a sufi, in a plain fleece top, coarse garments and shoes. He relocated to the "alcazaba" (palace) worked by the Zirids in the eleventh century. He at that point assessed a region known as al-Hamra, where there was a little fortification, and established the frameworks there for his future home and stronghold. Before long work started on cautious structures, a water system dam, and a barrier. The development would last into the rules of his successors, and the complex would be known as the Alhambra and would turn into the habitation of all Nasrid rulers up to the surrender of Granada in 1492. He constrained his duty authorities to gather the important assets for the development, going similarly as executing Almería's expense gatherer Abu Muhammad ibn Arus to implement his requests. He likewise utilized cash sent by the Hafsid leader of Tunis—planned for barrier against the Christians—to broaden the city's mosque. 

Before the finish of the 1230s, Muhammad had turned into the most dominant Muslim ruler in Iberia. He controlled the real urban areas of the south, including Granada, Almería, Málaga and Jaén. In the mid 1240s, Muhammad clashed with his previous partners, the Castilians, who were attacking Muslim domains. Contemporary sources differ about the reason for this antagonistic vibe: the Christian "First General Chronicle" accused Muslim assaulting, while Muslim student of history Ibn Khaldun accused Christian attacks of Muslim regions. In 1242, Muslim powers effectively assaulted Andújar and Martos close Jaén. In 1244, Castile assaulted and caught Muhammad's main residence of Arjona. 

In 1245, Ferdinand III of Castile attacked the intensely invigorated Jaén. Ferdinand did not have any desire to chance ambushing the city, so his strategy was to cut it off from the remainder of the Muslim region and starve it into accommodation. Muhammad endeavored to send supplies to this essential city, yet these endeavors were frustrated by the besiegers. Because of Muhammad's trouble in protecting and calming Jaén, he consented to terms with Ferdinand. In return for harmony, Muhammad surrendered the city and consented to pay Ferdinand a yearly tribute of 150,000 maravedíes—a sum that turned into Ferdinand's most essential wellspring of salary. This understanding was made in March 1246, seven months into the attack of Jaén. As a feature of the understanding he was required to kiss Ferdinand's hand to mean his vassalage, and guaranteed him "insight and help". Castilian sources would in general underscore this occasion as a demonstration of medieval accommodation and thought about Muhammad and his successors as vassals of Castile in the primitive sense. On different hands, Muslim sources dodged notices of any vassal-master connection and would in general casing the relationship as between equivalents with specific commitments. After the understanding, the Castilians entered the city and removed its Muslim occupants. 

The harmony concurrence with Castile to a great extent held for just about twenty years. In 1248, Muhammad showed his promise to Ferdinand by sending an unforeseen to help the Castilian triumph of the Muslim-held Seville. In 1252, Ferdinand passed on and was prevailing by Alfonso X. In 1254, Muhammad went to a "Cortes", or a get together of Alfonso's vassals, at the regal castle in Toledo, where he recharged his guarantee of dedication and tributes just as paying respect to Alfonso's infant little girl Berengaria. Amid his rule, Alfonso was progressively intrigued by different undertakings—including a progression of ineffective battles in Muslim North Africa—as opposed to recharging the contention with Granada. Muhammad met with Alfonso at the last's court in Seville consistently, and paid his yearly tributes. Muhammad utilized the resulting harmony to merge his new emirate. Despite the fact that little in size, the Emirate of Granada was moderately well off and thickly populated. Its economy was centered around horticulture, particularly silk and dried organic product; it exchanged with Italy and northern Europe. Islamic writing, workmanship and design kept on thriving. The mountains and desert that different the kingdom from Castile gave regular protections, however its western ports and the northwestern course to Granada were less solid. 

Amid his standard, Muhammad set faithful men in mansions and urban communities. His sibling Isma'il was legislative head of Málaga until 1257. Following Isma'il's demise in 1257, Muhammad selected his nephew, Abu Muhammad ibn Ashqilula, as legislative leader of Málaga. 

Harmony among Granada and Castile endured until the mid 1260s, when different activities by Castile frightened Muhammad. As a major aspect of his campaign against Muslim North Africa, Alfonso developed his military nearness in Cadiz and El Puerto de Santa María near Granadan region. Castile vanquished the Muslim-held Jerez de la Frontera in 1261 close to the Granadan outskirt and introduced an army there. In 1262, Castile vanquished the Kingdom of Niebla, another Muslim enclave in Spain. In May 1262, amid a gathering in Jaén, Alfonso mentioned that Muhammad hand the port urban areas of Tarifa and Algeciras to him. The interest for these deliberately vital ports was stressing to Muhammad, and despite the fact that he verbally concurred he continued deferring the exchange. Further, in 1263 Castile removed the Muslim occupants of Écija and resettled the town with Christians. 

In light of these activities, Muhammad was concerned that he would turn into Alfonso's next target. He started converses with Abu Yusuf Yaqub, the Marinid Sultan in Morocco, who at that point sent troops to Granada, numbering somewhere in the range of 300 and 3,000 as indicated by various sources. In 1264, Muhammad and 500 knights ventured out to the Castilian court at Seville to talk about an expansion of the 1246 ceasefire. Alfonso welcomed them to hold up at the previous Abbadid royal residence alongside the city's mosque. Amid the night, the Castilians bolted and blockaded the region. Muhammad saw this as a snare, requested his men to break out and came back to Granada. Alfonso contended that the blockade was to shield the company from Christian hoodlums, yet Muhammad was rankled, and requested troops in his bordertowns to get ready for war. He pronounced himself vassal of Muhammad I al-Mustansir, the Hafsid sultan of Tunis. 

The harmony was broken in either late April or early May 1264. Muhammad assaulted Castile, and in the meantime Muslims in the domains as of late vanquished by Castile ("Mudéjars") revolted; mostly over Alfonso's constrained movement strategy and somewhat at Muhammad's affectation. At first, Murcia, Jerez, Utrera, Lebrija, Arcos and Medina Sidonia were taken into Muslim control, however counterattacks by James I of Aragon and Alfonso retook these regions, and Alfonso attacked Granada's region in 1265. Muhammad soon sued for harmony, and the subsequent settlement was annihilating for the dissidents: the Muslims of Andalusia endured mass ejections, supplanted by Christians. 

For Granada, the thrashing had blended outcomes. From one perspective, it was soundly vanquished, and as per the harmony arrangement marked at Alcalá de Benzaide needed to pay a yearly tribute of 250,000 maravedíes to Castile—a lot bigger than what had been paid before the disobedience. Then again, the bargain guaranteed its survival, and it rose as the sole autonomous Muslim state in the landmass. Muslims who were removed by Castile moved to Granada, supporting the emirate's populace. 

The Banu Ashqilula were a family and—like the Nasrids—were additionally from Arjona. They had been the Nasrids' most essential partners amid their ascent to control. They bolstered Muhammad's arrangement as pioneer of Arjona in 1232 and assisted with the procurement of urban communities like Seville and Granada. The two families intermarried, and Muhammad delegated individuals from the Banu Ashqilula as governors in his domains. The Banu Ashqilula's focal point of intensity was in Málaga, where Muhammad's nephew Abu Muhammad ibn Ashqilula was representative. Their military quality was the foundation of Granada's capacity. 

By 1266, while Granada was all the while battling Castile in the Mudéjar revolt, the Banu Ashqilula began a resistance to Muhammad I. Sources are rare with respect to the start of the disobedience and students of history differ about the reason for the crack between the two families. Teacher of Hispano-Islamic history Rachel Arié proposed that contributing elements may have been the 1257 presentation of Muhammad's children—Muhammad and Yusuf—as beneficiaries and his 1266 choice to wed one of his granddaughter Fatima to a Nasrid cousin rather than one of the Banu Ashqilula. As per Arié, these choices frightened the Banu Ashqilula on the grounds that Muhammad had recently guaranteed to impart capacity to them and these choices rejected them from the Nasrid tradition's inward circle. Interestingly, another antiquarian of Islamic Spain, María Jesús Rubiera Mata rejected these clarifications; she contended that the Banu Ashqilula were stressed over Muhammad's choice to welcome North African powers amid the 1264 Revolt of the Mudéjars in light of the fact that the new military power undermined the Banu Ashqilula's situation as the most grounded military power in the Emirate. 

Muhammad attacked Málaga however neglected to overwhelm the Banu Ashqilula military quality. The Banu Ashqilula looked for help from Alfonso X of Castile, who was glad to help the insubordination to undermine Muhammad's power. Alfonso sent 1,000 officers under Nuño González de Lara and Muhammad was compelled to sever the attack of Málaga. The risk of battling at different fronts added to Muhammad's choice to at long last look for harmony with Alfonso. In the subsequent understanding of Alcalá de Benzaide, Muhammad revoked his cases over Jerez and Murcia—regions not under his control—and guaranteed to pay a yearly tribute of 250,000 maravedies. In return, Alfonso surrendered his coalition with the Banu Ashqilula and recognized Muhammad's power over them. 

Alfonso was hesitant to implement the last point and did not move against the Banu Ashqilula. Muhammad countered by persuading Nuño González, the authority of the Castilian powers sent to help the Banu Ashqilula, to defy Alfonso. Nuño González, who had complaints against his lord, concurred; in 1272 he and his Castilian respectable partners started activities against Castile from Granada. Muhammad had effectively denied Castile of Nuño González's powers and picked up partners in his contention against the Banu Ashqilula. The Banu Ashqilula consented to consult under the intervention of Al-Tahurti from Morocco. Before these endeavors proved to be fruitful, Muhammad experienced lethal wounds in the wake of falling a pony on 22 January 1273 (29 Jumada al-Thani 671 AH), close to the city of Granada amid a minor military undertaking. He was covered in a burial ground on the Sabika Hill, east of the Alhambra. An inscription was engraved on his tombstone and was recorded by Ibn al-Khatib and other verifiable sources. He was prevailing by his child Muhammad II as he had arranged. Soon thereafter, Muhammad II and Alfonso arranged a ceasefire—but fleeting—among Granada and Castile just as the Banu Ashqilula. 

When of his passing in 1273, Muhammad had just verified the progression for his child, additionally named Muhammad, known by the appellation al-Faqih (the group legal counselor). On his deathbed, Muhammad I exhorted his beneficiary to look for security from the Marinid line against the Christian kingdoms. The child, presently Muhammad II, was at that point 38 years of age and experienced in the issues of state and war. He had the capacity to proceed with Muhammad I's strategies and would manage until his passing in 1302. 

Muhammad's principle inheritance was the establishing of the Emirate of Granada under the standard of the Nasrid administration, which on his passing was the main free Muslim state staying in the Iberian landmass, and would keep going for minimal more than two centuries before its fall in 1492. The emirate spread over between Tarifa in the west and eastern outskirts past Almería, and was around wide from the ocean to its northern wildernesses. 

Amid his lifetime, the Muslims of al-Andalus endured extreme mishaps, including the loss of the Guadalquivir valley, which incorporated the significant urban areas of Córdoba and Seville just as Muhammad's main residence of Arjona. As indicated by teacher of Spanish history L. P. Harvey, he "figured out how to grab from catastrophe ... a moderately secure asylum for Islam in the promontory". His standard was described both by his "unheroic" part in the fall of Muslim urban communities like Seville and Jaén, also his carefulness and political cleverness which guaranteed the survival of Granada. He was eager to go into trade offs, including tolerating vassalage to Castile, just as to switch unions among Christians and Muslims, to safeguard the emirate's autonomy. The "Reference book of Islam" remarks that while his standard did not have any "fantastic triumphs", he created a steady routine in Granada and begin the development of the Alhambra, an "enduring commemoration to the Nasrids". The Alhambra is today an UNESCO World Heritage site. 

His religious perspectives seemed to change amid his profession. First and foremost, he showed an outward picture of a plain religious frontiersman, similar to a commonplace Islamic spiritualist. He kept up this standpoint amid his initial principle in Granada, however as his standard settled, he started to grasp the standard Sunni universality and implemented the teachings of the Maliki "fuqaha". This change and his promise to standard Islam carried Granada into line with the remainder of the Islamic world, and were proceeded by his successors. 

<br>