Ramblin' Wreck 

The Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech is the 1930 Ford Model A Sport roadster that fills in as the official mascot of the understudy body at the Georgia Institute of Technology. The Wreck is available at all major games and understudy body capacities. Its most detectable job is driving the football crew into Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field, an obligation which the Wreck has performed since 1961. The Ramblin' Wreck is precisely and monetarily kept up on grounds by understudies in Ramblin' Reck Club. 

The principal mechanical Wreck was a 1914 Ford Model T possessed by Dean Floyd Field. Until the present Wreck was given to the school in 1961, the majority of the early Ramblin' Wrecks were possessed by understudies, workforce or graduated class. The cutting edge Wreck has wore various distinctive paint employments and has had a few rebuilding efforts and alterations made to it. These progressions were made by different people and associations throughout the years, including Bobby Dodd and Georgia Tech Alumni Pete George, who worked at the Ford plant in Hapeville, Georgia. The upkeep of the Wreck has been the sole obligation of Ramblin' Reck Club and the Wreck driver since 1987. 

The Ramblin' Wreck has been the objective of a few tricks executed by opponent schools; the University of Tennessee once gave the Wreck a spontaneous new paint work, and the University of Georgia has stolen the Wreck on something like two events. A few copy or "false" Wrecks are possessed by graduated class, or are utilized for showcase and don't run. The authority Ramblin' Wreck is considered the main "genuine" Wreck, and no reinforcements or substitutions exist. 

The expression "Ramblin' Wreck" has been utilized to allude to understudies and graduated class of Georgia Tech any longer than the vehicle that presently bears the name has been in presence. The articulation has its roots in the late nineteenth century and was utilized initially to allude to the alternative mechanized vehicles developed by Georgia Tech engineers utilized in activities in the wildernesses of Central America. The Wrecks were developed from whatever the architects could discover—generally old tractor and car parts—and were continued running by the specialists' inventiveness and innovativeness. Different specialists in the region started to allude to these vehicles and the men who drove them as "Meandering Wrecks from Georgia Tech." 

The main "mechanical mascot" at Georgia Tech was a 1914 Ford Model T possessed by Dean Floyd Field. Field drove the vehicle to and from class each day from 1916 until 1928. Field thought about the vehicle that he even nicknamed it "Nellie". The vehicle was recognized by its metallic dark paint work and a substantial discovery secured to the backside by a surrey wheel circle. The discovery's substance were never uncovered to the understudy body and the case turned out to be a piece of the persona of the Old Ford. 

The understudy body at first nicknamed the vehicle "Floyd's Flivver" yet inevitably started to consider the vehicle the "Ramblin' 'Reck." The principal notice of Field's Ford as a "Ramblin' 'Reck" was in 1926 when he played out an update of the vehicle's motor, body, and paint work with the assistance of the grounds machine shop. 

Dignitary Field found an affection for movement with his Model T. He took it right to California for workshops on science and training. In any case, in 1927 bits of gossip started to flourish grounds that Field was going to purchase a Model A. Field suppressed the bits of gossip with an individual meeting in the last issue of the 1927 "Method". By September 1928, Field felt he couldn't go as much with the bedraggled Model T. To the alarm of the understudy body the vehicle was disposed of by Dean Field in 1928 and a Model A was obtained. Field's Model A kept going until 1934 in which he purchased a Ford V8. He would roll over in each of the three autos amid his Georgia Tech residency of 1900– 1945. 

In memoriam to his resigned "Dilapidated car", Dean Field began "an Old Ford Race" from the convergence of North Avenue and Techwood Drive in Atlanta to the crossing point of Hills Street and Prince Avenue in Athens. The race was supported by the "Procedure", which nicknamed the occasion the "Flying Flivver Race." The end goal was encouraged by the University of Georgia understudy paper "The Red and Black". The main guideline of the race was that the vehicle must be a pre-1926 4-chamber engine vehicle. The quickest time in the race was accomplished by an Essex which finished the 79-mile (126 km) race in 1 hour and 26 minutes or 55 mph (88 km/h). 

The Tech organization disdained the risky race and diminished the race to a progressively serene and directed motorcade of contraptions known as the Ramblin' Wreck Parade after races were finished in 1929 and 1930. The Yellow Jacket Club encouraged the primary authority Ramblin' Wreck march in 1932. The main break in the procession's persistent task happened with the beginning of World War II. There were no motorcades from 1942– 1943 and when the procession continueed in 1944, all Wrecks must be human fueled. In 1946, the Ramblin' Wreck Parade was permitted to work burning motors once more. The principles organized in the 1946 Wreck Parade still stay as the motorcade has turned into the included occasion for all Tech homecomings. 

Dignitary of Student Affairs Jim Dull perceived a requirement for an authority Ramblin' Wreck when he watched the understudy body's interest with exemplary vehicles. Brotherhoods, specifically, would march around their House Wrecks as showcases of school soul and excitement. It was viewed as a soul changing experience to possess a stalled vehicle. 

In 1960, Dull started a look for another official image to speak to the Institute. He explicitly needed an exemplary pre-war Ford. Dull's inquiry would involve paper promotions, radio plugs, and different intends to find this vehicle. The hunt took him all through the state and nation, yet no appropriate vehicle was found until the pre-winter of 1960. Dignitary Dull recognized a cleaned 1930 Ford Model An outside of his loft situated in Towers Dormitory. The proprietor was Captain Ted J. Johnson, Atlanta's main Delta Air Lines pilot. 

Johnson had obtained the vehicle from a junkyard in 1956. Johnson and his child, Craig, would reestablish the vehicle as a dad child venture while Craig went to the Georgia Military Academy. The two went through two years and over $1,800 reestablishing the vehicle. Johnson utilized extra parts from various sources to revamp the corroded mass. He purchased the mahogany dash from a sections vendor in Caracas, Venezuela and utilized Convair 440 aluminum sheets to supplant the ground surface. After Craig moved on from secondary school, he went to Florida State on a track grant. In 1960, Craig's track group would be in Atlanta contending with Tech. Johnson, needing to see his child contend, took the Model A to Tech grounds, stopped it close Towers residence, and went to watch Craig contend. 

At the point when Johnson came back to his vehicle, he found a note from Dean Dull joined to his windshield. Dull's note offered to buy the vehicle to fill in as Georgia Tech's authentic mascot. Johnson, after extraordinary consideration, consented to take $1,000, yet inevitably restored the cash in 1984 with the goal that the vehicle would be recognized as an official gift to Georgia Tech and the Alexander-Tharpe Fund. The Ramblin' Wreck was formally exchanged to the Athletic Association on May 26, 1961. 

The Ramblin' Wreck was uncovered September 30, 1961, at Grant Field before 43,501 Tech fans, as it drove the group onto the field against Rice University. The group won 24– 0 and the Wreck turned into a moment accomplishment inside the Tech family. 

The Wreck has since driven the group onto the field for each home diversion. 

The present shading plan was chosen in 1974 by then athletic chief and previous head mentor Bobby Dodd. The first Wreck stylistic theme highlighted a wooden GT shield on both the driver-and traveler side entryways. This shield was expelled amid Dodd's renewal of the old Model A. Dodd picked an old gold paint from a Lincoln vehicle paint list as the base for the new shading plan. He likewise set a somewhat extended GT insignia on the entryway, a Tech head protector on the back quarter board, and a 1952 adaptation of the Yellow Jacket on the front quarter board. As indicated by Tech legend, Bobby Dodd was so fascinated with the Lincoln gold, he changed the football head protector and uniform shading to coordinate the new Ramblin' Wreck paint plot. 

The greatest auxiliary change was an emotionally supportive network appended to the vehicle's casing. The emotionally supportive network runs the length of the running sheets and permits the expanded load of team promoters or Reck Club individuals remaining on the running sheets. 

From 1973 to 1987, 1947 IE alum Pete George kept up the Ramblin' Wreck at the Hapeville Ford Plant. George would engineer the 1974 difference in hues just as a noteworthy restoration of the Wreck in 1982 in time for Georgia Tech's 1985 centennial festival. The vehicle was totally dismantled, reconstructed, and repainted by late 1982. 

There were a couple of recognizable changes to the Ramblin' Wreck after the 1982 restoration. A secondary selling chrome stone watchman was added to ensure the barbecue, The insignias as an afterthought were evacuated and supplanted by an essential GT decal on the entryways. The 1952 Yellow Jackets were moved to the front tire wells. The white horn was chrome plated over. The old tire spread was a shield with a football cap wearing yellow coat. This was supplanted with a white nonexclusive naugahyde Ford tire spread. The Old Model A tires and brakes were supplanted with Model B whitewall tires and adjusted brakes. 

The Wreck encountered a noteworthy progress of proprietorship after the Centennial Celebration. Since Reck Club had monetarily kept up the vehicle for such a long time and Reck Club fell under the Dean of Students instead of the Athletic Association, the vehicle was sold from the Athletic Association to the Institute for zero dollars in 1987. The exchange additionally hardened Reck Club's obligations over the vehicle yet in addition made the vehicle more than essentially a football mascot. The Old Ford was authoritatively an Institute symbol. 

After Pete George's retirement in 1987, the upkeep of the Wreck fell legitimately upon the shoulders of the Wreck Drivers and Reck Club. In 1994, the Hapeville Plant finished their association with Reck Club. From that point forward, the Wreck has been understudy kept up with the help of nearby Atlanta carports. The Wreck has had various mechanical and restorative fixes throughout the years since Pete George's underlying full remake. 

After 1994, Reck Club reestablished the haggles to unique Model A details. Reck Club played out a noteworthy off body reclamation in the Spring of 2000 that saw the vehicle repainted and the motor revamped. Pete George, albeit quite a while resigned, helped Reck Club in its rebuilding giving subsidizing and work to the 2000 reclamation. After the reclamation, a little adjustment supplanted the electrical generator with an increasingly proficient Nu-Rex alternator. 

Reck Club facilitated their second significant reclamation following harm brought about amid a thruway mishap on June 22, 2007, on Interstate 75 in Monroe County, around 60 miles south of Atlanta. In spite of the fact that trailered, the accident made extreme harm the body and top of the Ramblin' Wreck, while the Ford Expedition and trailer close behind were both destroyed. Fourth-year Polymer, Textile, and Fiber Engineering significant John Bird was driving, with his more youthful sibling Matt, and reviewed for the press: 

Fledgling had expressed that the two his sibling and he got whiplash from the accident, one of Matt's legs was wounded, and "it likewise could have 

been a great deal more terrible." 

The Ramblin' Wreck has driven the Yellow Jacket football crew onto Grant Field practically 300 games. It likewise shows up for other Georgia Tech sports crews: it is regularly observed before enormous b-ball games at Hank McCamish Pavilion, every so often stopped outside of Russ Chandler Stadium amid warm end of the week baseball arrangement, and has gone to a few softball games a year at the new mid-grounds arena. 

An image of the Institute's scholastic and university custom, the old Model An is regularly dispatched to extraordinary occasions on grounds. It is constantly present when new structures are opened or committed. On December 5, 2006, the Wreck turned into the primary vehicle to drive over the new Fifth Street Bridge. 

Each spring, the Institute holds a service, known as When the Whistle Blows, to respect understudies, staff, and workforce who passed on amid the earlier year. The Georgia Tech Whistle is blown once for every individual who kicked the bucket, and yet again to salute Georgia Tech graduated class and companions who may likewise have passed on. A parade of the military escort, driven by the Ramblin' Wreck, paves the way to the service, amid which the Wreck is stopped alongside the speaker's stage. 

Amid Tech Homecoming, the Ramblin' Wreck has a few obligations. A few days before Homecoming, it goes about as a mammoth gold starter gun for the Mini 500 tricycle race. The Wreck's next assignment is to lead the racers out of the beginning line in the Freshman Cake Race. Upon the arrival of the Homecoming football match-up, the Wreck drives the Ramblin' Wreck Parade, at that point drives the football crew onto the field. 

The vehicle is additionally present at each Freshman Orientation (FASET), Earth Day celebration, and other campuswide occasions. 

A ride in the Wreck fills in as a blessing to many resigning workforce and staff; a ride onto Grant Field is one of the best distinctions Georgia Tech can present. Kim King, for instance, got this respect on October 2, 2004 amid halftime of the Miami amusement. 

There are a few lesser known insights concerning the Wreck that are barely noticeable when it meanders down Techwood Drive. Explicit physical subtleties and the genuine individual in the driver's seat are frequently missed or neglected. The Wreck is monetarily kept up through Ramblin' Reck Club appearances and pledge drives. There is no official wellspring of subsidizing from the Institute, Athletic Association, or Alumni Association. This gives the Wreck a remarkable dimension of freedom that is atypical among school mascots. 

At the point when a green bean first achieves grounds for FASET (introduction), one of the numerous customs that they are acquainted with is that rookies can't contact the Wreck until the fruition of their first year. This standard began in the 1963 version of the RAT Rules. On the off chance that a green bean contacts the Wreck among conference and the most recent day of classes in the Spring, they will get misfortune all through their school vocation and GT will be reviled to lose to UGA in football that year. 

The Wreck is recognized by its old gold body and white delicate top. The delicate top has a chrome bolster swagger, which includes a metal exemplary Tech T and 1952 yellow coat. The body additionally has two strong white runningboards, which run the length of the vehicle. The running sheets bolster team promoters or the infrequent Tech understudy searching for a ride. The inside upholstery is strong white vinyl. The rigging shifter handle is a white globe with the exemplary Tech T painted on it. There are two brilliant nylon flags decorated with the words "To Hell With Georgia" and "Give Them Hell Tech" attached to the front guard. 

The driver of the Ramblin' Wreck is a chosen position inside Ramblin' Reck Club. This position is resolved after each football season. The driver deals with the vehicle's open appearances and upkeep. There have just been 46 drivers of the Wreck, making the situation of Wreck driver a standout amongst the most lofty positions in all of Georgia Tech's understudy associations. 

The driver gets the chance to include their very own touch each year to the Wreck. The front tag is picked by the driver consistently and the radiator top is supplanted yearly, too. The top is commonly a flying quail or a wreath. After every driver's term, the driver gets the chance to keep the two flags, as well. 

Senior member Dull started a gathering known as the Ramblin' Wreck Committee of the Student Council to help as he continued looking for a mascot. At the point when the Wreck was found in 1961, the Ramblin' Wreck Committee was led by Dekle Rountree. Rountree would drive the Wreck for school capacities and Student Council pledge drives. He was likewise the primary individual to drive the Ramblin' Wreck onto Grant Field. Wear Gentry, the leader of Reck Club in 1961, was the main understudy to drive the Wreck as he helped in recovering the Model A from Ted Johnson's home. The Wreck was constantly kept up by Reck Club yet the total progress of control happened between 1964– 1967. Amid this period, Reck Club was eased of its RAT rules implementation obligations and given increasingly healthy occupations of keeping up the Wreck, maintaining conventions, and producing school soul. 

Four ladies have formally determined the Ramblin' Wreck in its history. Lisa Volmar, a mechanical designing major, was chosen the driver in 1984 and she was the principal female driver after 23 consecutive long stretches of male-just drivers. 

The name can be spelled either "Ramblin Reck" or "Ramblin Wreck". In all spellings, there is no "g" in "Ramblin". The primary references to the 1930 Model A (1961) spelled "Reck" while the main references to the 1914 Model T claimed by Dean Field spelled "Reck" (1925). Ramblin' Reck Club has spelled "Reck" since their 1945 club sanction. The Institute has received the spelling Ramblin' Wreck and holds a trademark on the expression. Reck Club still alludes to the Ramblin' Wreck as the Ramblin' Reck while most different organizations allude to it as the Ramblin' Wreck. 

In its history, the Wreck has showed up at various away diversions and different occasions from the Georgia Tech grounds. A large number of these treks brought about harm to the Reck or other fascinating accounts. 

The primary away amusement for the Ramblin' Wreck was the 1961 diversion against the Alabama Crimson Tide. The Wreck was freighted by Southern Railway to Birmingham, Alabama. At the time, Alabama played its home amusements at Legion Field. Prior to the diversion, the momentum driver Dekle Rountree chose to navigate the slant up to visit Birmingham's Vulcan statue. The trek to Birmingham was such a triumph, an excursion to Jacksonville for Tech's Gator Bowl appearance against Penn State was sorted out, also. These were the primary street and bowl amusement appearances for the Wreck in its distinguished profession. 

In 1963, the Ramblin' Wreck Committee and Ramblin' Reck Club sorted out another excursion for the Wreck. This outing took the Wreck up to Knoxville for a diversion against the Tennessee Volunteers. After Tech won, the Wreck was put away medium-term in Neyland Stadium. Heads and Tennessee's Athletic Director Bob Woodruff guaranteed Georgia Tech Athletics that the Wreck would be protected. They weren't right. Tennessee understudies broke into the capacity zone and painted the Wreck orange. They stated "Go Vols" in the paint and secured the gold wheels with paint, also. After the occurrence, Georgia Tech sent a bill to Tennessee's Athletic Department requesting compensation. Woodruff was accepted to have supported the understudies in their endeavors after he transparently challenged the administering of the football challenge. 

In 1976, Tech understudies took the Wreck to Athens for the yearly football match-up with UGA. After the amusement, the Wreck's police escort deserted the vehicle. The vehicle showed up moderately unprotected and was drawn closer by UGA understudies endeavoring to vandalize it. The Tech understudies in charge of the vehicle's protection terrified the infringing Bulldog fans away by delivering a disguised 9 mm gun. 

The most distant outings the Ramblin' Wreck has ever gone from Atlanta were the 1970 Sun Bowl in El Paso, Texas, and Denver, Colorado, in 1990 for Tech's NCAA Final Four appearance against UNLV. The Wreck was freighted by van to Denver Coliseum. En route, a TV group reported the outing and communicate the Wreck's undertaking amid the Final Four advancements. 

The last significant excursions for the Ramblin' Wreck were to the 2004 Final Four in San Antonio, the 2006 ACC Championship Game in Jacksonville, Florida, and the 2009 ACC Championship Game in Tampa's Raymond James Stadium. 

On June 15, 2007, the Wreck was engaged with a mishap while being towed to a wedding south of Atlanta in a secured vehicle trailer. The trailer fizzled while conveying the Wreck, thus making the truck and trailer keep running off the street and into the roadside discard. The Wreck fell over inside the trailer, making harm its side and rooftop. Notwithstanding the extreme body harm (in overabundance of $30,000), the Wreck was fixed for the principal round of the 2007 season against the Samford Bulldogs. 

In 1987, the Ramblin' Wreck and Dean Jim Dull were included on ABC-TV's morning appear. Senior member Dull yelled into the camera, "I'm Dean of Students Jim Dull and I'm a Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech. Hello, America!" Dull was on the show since he had won a make-a-wish challenge. All he needed was for the Ramblin' Wreck, gold-clad understudies, and himself to be on the ABC morning show and ABC allowed the desire. 

The Ramblin' Wreck has been highlighted in a few papers, magazines, and books. The Ramblin' Wreck is depicted driving the Georgia Tech football crew onto the field on the front of Al Thomy's 1973 work "Ramblin' Wreck – A Story of Georgia Tech Football". Pete George's 1982 restoration was highlighted in the November 1983 version of the Ford Times. The June 1986 version of Cars and Parts Magazine highlighted the Ramblin' Wreck and the wager for the Centennial Wreck. The December 1991 Car Collector and Car Classics highlighted the Wreck on the spread after the National Championship season. The December 2007 Bellsouth Real White Pages for Greater Atlanta highlighted the Ramblin' Wreck with edited banners. 

The Ramblin' Wreck has been included various occasions in Tech's understudy paper, "The Technique", and Atlanta's essential paper, the "Atlanta Journal-Constitution". The Wreck has likewise been highlighted in "The New York Times" and the Associated Press. Nearby papers, for example, the "Cherokee Times", "Augusta Chronicle", and "Gwinnett Daily Post" have additionally printed articles about the Wreck. 

In the week before the 2007 home opener, the Ramblin' Wreck was highlighted on "ESPN First Take". ESPN indicated old clasps of the Wreck driving the football crew onto the field and examined the likelihood of the Wreck not making the football opener following 45 back to back long stretches of never missing a diversion. 

The Ramblin' Wreck was included unmistakably on the October 18, 2007 scene of Jim Cramer's "Distraught Money". Cramer left the Wreck's traveler way to begin the show and one of Cramer's trademark soundboards was connected to the front guard. 

On April 16, 2009, a Georgia Tech understudy riding on the running leading body of the Ramblin' Wreck fell and endured serious head wounds hospitalizing the understudy for four days. Just about a year later, the understudy documented suit against Georgia Tech and an auto shop in charge of introducing handles on the top of the vehicle. The claim refers to the disappointment of the auto shop's handles as the purpose behind the fall and claims the University advanced the perilous utilization of a vehicle by understudies. In September 2013, the understudy harmed in the April 2009 mishap, won a settlement of $1.36 million from the Georgia Board of Regents and Eco-Clean, Inc. 

The 2012 version of EA Sports' NCAA football computer game included the expansion of the Ramblin' Wreck driving Georgia Tech's football crew onto the field at all diversions played in Bobby Dodd Stadium. The Ramblin' Wreck was incorporated into the diversion nearby numerous other universities' pre-amusement conventions to "convey the pride and display of amusement day". 

A few vehicles guarantee "Ramblin' Wreck status." However, just a single vehicle is the authority Ramblin' Wreck, without any reinforcements or equal vehicles. 

Other understudy possessed vintage and veteran vehicles: 

Comparable vehicular mascots at different colleges: