Mary of Teck 

Mary of Teck (Victoria Mary Augusta Louise Olga Pauline Claudine Agnes; 26 May 1867 – 24 March 1953) was Queen of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions and Empress of India as the spouse of King George V. 

Albeit actually a princess of Teck, in the Kingdom of Württemberg, she was brought up in England. Her folks were Francis, Duke of Teck, who was of German extraction, and Princess Mary Adelaide of Cambridge, who was a granddaughter of King George III. She was casually known as "May", after her introduction to the world month. 

At 24 years old, she was pledged to her second cousin once evacuated Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale, the oldest child of the Prince of Wales, yet a month and a half after the declaration of the commitment, he passed on out of the blue amid a flu pandemic. The next year, she ended up connected to Albert Victor's next enduring sibling, George, who thusly progressed toward becoming lord. Prior to her significant other's increase, she was progressively Duchess of York, Duchess of Cornwall, and Princess of Wales. 

As ruler associate from 1910, she upheld her better half through the First World War, his evil wellbeing, and major political changes emerging from the result of the war. After George's demise in 1936, she progressed toward becoming ruler mother when her oldest child, Edward VIII, rose the position of royalty, however sadly, he resigned later that year so as to wed twice-separated from American socialite Wallis Simpson. She bolstered her second child, George VI, until his demise in 1952. She passed on the next year, amid the rule of her granddaughter Elizabeth II, who had not yet been delegated. 

Princess Victoria Mary ("May") of Teck was conceived on 26 May 1867 at Kensington Palace, London, in a similar room where Queen Victoria, her first cousin once expelled, was brought into the world 48 years and two days sooner. Ruler Victoria came to visit the child, composing that she was "a fine one, with really little highlights and an amount of hair". May would turn into the main ruler associate conceived in England since Catherine Parr. Her dad was Prince Francis, Duke of Teck, the child of Duke Alexander of Württemberg by his morganatic spouse, Countess Claudine Rhédey von Kis-Rhéde (made Countess von Hohenstein in the Austrian Empire). Her mom was Princess Mary Adelaide of Cambridge, a granddaughter of King George III and the third youngster and more youthful little girl of Prince Adolphus, Duke of Cambridge, and Princess Augusta of Hesse-Kassel. 

She was sanctified through water in the Chapel Royal of Kensington Palace on 27 July 1867 by Charles Thomas Longley, Archbishop of Canterbury. Since the beginning, she was known to her family, companions and the general population by the small name of "May", after her introduction to the world month. 

May's childhood was "cheerful however genuinely exacting". She was the oldest of four youngsters, the main little girl, and "figured out how to practice her local carefulness, solidness, and affability" by settling her three more youthful siblings' unimportant childhood quarrels. They played with their cousins, the offspring of the Prince of Wales, who were comparable in age. She grew up at Kensington Palace and White Lodge, in Richmond Park, which was conceded by Queen Victoria on changeless advance, and was instructed at home by her mom and tutor (just like her siblings until they were sent to all inclusive schools). The Duchess of Teck spent a surprisingly prolonged stretch of time with her youngsters for a woman of her time and class, and enrolled May in different beneficent undertakings, which included visiting the apartments of poor people. 

Despite the fact that May was an incredible grandkid of George III, she was just a minor individual from the British regal family. Her dad, the Duke of Teck, had no legacy or riches and conveyed the lower illustrious style of Serene Highness since his folks' marriage was morganatic. The Duchess of Teck was allowed a parliamentary annuity of £5,000 and got about £4,000 every year from her mom, the Duchess of Cambridge, however she gave extravagantly to many foundations. Sovereign Francis was profoundly in the red and moved his family abroad with a little staff in 1883, so as to conserve. They went all through Europe, visiting their different relations. They remained in Florence, Italy, for a period, where May appreciated visiting the workmanship exhibitions, holy places, and historical centers. She was familiar with English, German, and French. 

In 1885, the family came back to London and lived for quite a while in Chester Square. May was near her mom, and went about as an informal secretary, sorting out gatherings and get-togethers. She was additionally near her auntie, the Grand Duchess of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, and kept in touch with her consistently. Amid the First World War, the Crown Princess of Sweden helped pass letters from May to her auntie, who lived in adversary domain in Germany until her demise in 1916. 

In 1886, Princess May was a debutante in her first season and presented at court. Her status as the main unmarried British princess who was not slid from Queen Victoria made her a reasonable possibility for the imperial family's most qualified unhitched male, Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale, her second cousin once evacuated and the oldest child of the Prince of Wales. 

In December 1891, May and Albert Victor were locked in. The decision of May as lady of the hour for the Duke owed a lot to Queen Victoria's affection for her, just as to her solid character and feeling of obligation. In any case, Albert Victor kicked the bucket a month and a half later, in a repeat of the worldwide 1889– 90 flu pandemic, before the date was fixed for their wedding. 

Albert Victor's sibling, Prince George, Duke of York, presently second in line to the royal position, clearly turned out to be near May amid their mutual time of grieving, and Queen Victoria still supported May as an appropriate contender to wed a future lord. The open was additionally on edge that the Duke of York ought to wed and settle the progression. In May 1893, George proposed, and May acknowledged. They were soon profoundly enamored, and their marriage was a triumph. George wrote to May each day they were separated and, in contrast to his dad, never took a special lady. 

May wedded Prince George, Duke of York, in London on 6 July 1893 at the Chapel Royal, St James' Palace. The new Duke and Duchess of York lived in York Cottage on the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, and in condos in St James' Palace. York Cottage was an unassuming house for eminence, yet it was a most loved of George, who enjoyed a generally basic life. They had six kids: Edward, Albert, Mary, Henry, George, and John. 

The youngsters were put into the consideration of a babysitter, as was normal in privileged families at the time. The main caretaker was rejected for rudeness and the second to mishandle the kids. This second lady, restless to propose that the youngsters favored her to any other person, would squeeze Edward and Albert at whatever point they were going to be displayed to their folks with the goal that they would begin crying and be expediently come back to her. On disclosure, she was supplanted by her successful and much-adored collaborator, Charlotte Bill. 

Some of the time, Mary and George seem to have been far off guardians. At first, they neglected to see the caretaker's maltreatment of the youthful Princes Edward and Albert, and their most youthful child, Prince John, was housed in a private homestead on the Sandringham Estate, in Bill's consideration, maybe to conceal his epilepsy from people in general. In any case, in spite of Mary's grave open picture and her strait-bound private life, she was a minding mother in numerous regards, uncovering a carefree and unimportant side to her youngsters and showing them history and music. 

Edward composed affectionately of his mom in his journals: "Her delicate voice, her developed personality, the comfortable room flooding with individual fortunes were all indistinguishable elements of the satisfaction related with this last hour of a youngster's day ... Such was my mom's pride in her kids that everything that happened to every one was absolutely critical to her. With the introduction of each new youngster, Mama began a collection in which she carefully recorded every dynamic phase of our youth". He communicated a less magnanimous view, nonetheless, in private letters to his significant other after his mom's demise: "My pity was blended with distrust that any mother could have been so difficult and pitiless towards her oldest child for such huge numbers of years but so requesting toward the end without yielding a piece. I'm apprehensive the liquids in her veins have dependably been as frigid cold as they are currently in death." 

As Duke and Duchess of York, George and May did an assortment of open obligations. In 1897, she turned into the benefactor of the London Needlework Guild in progression to her mom. The organization, at first settled as The London Guild in 1882, was renamed a few times and was named after May somewhere in the range of 1914 and 2010. Tests of her own weaving range from seat seats to tea warmers. 

On 22 January 1901, Queen Victoria kicked the bucket, and May's dad in-law climbed the royal position. For the majority of the remainder of that year, George and May were known as the "Duke and Duchess of Cornwall and York". For eight months they visited the British Empire, visiting Gibraltar, Malta, Egypt, Ceylon, Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, Mauritius, South Africa and Canada. No illustrious had embraced such a yearning visit previously. She separated in tears at the prospect of abandoning her kids, who were to be left being taken care of by their grandparents, for so long. 

On 9 November 1901, nine days in the wake of landing back in Britain and on the King's sixtieth birthday celebration, George was made Prince of Wales. The family moved their London home from St James' Palace to Marlborough House. As Princess of Wales, May went with her better half on outings to Austria-Hungary and Württemberg in 1904. The next year, she brought forth her last kid, John. It was a troublesome work, and despite the fact that she recuperated rapidly, her infant child endured respiratory issues. 

From October 1905 the Prince and Princess of Wales embraced an additional eight-month visit, this season of India, and the youngsters were by and by left being taken care of by their grandparents. They went through Egypt both ways and in transit back ceased in Greece. The visit was very quickly pursued by an outing to Spain for the wedding of King Alfonso XIII to Victoria Eugenie of Battenberg, at which the lady of the hour and husband to be barely stayed away from death. Just seven days in the wake of coming back to Britain, May and George went to Norway for the royal celebration of George's brother by marriage and sister, King Haakon VII and Queen Maud. 

On 6 May 1910, Edward VII passed on. Mary's better half rose the royal position and she moved toward becoming ruler partner. At the point when her better half solicited her to drop one from her two authority names, Victoria Mary, she was called Mary, leaning toward not to be referred to by a similar style as her significant other's grandma, Queen Victoria. Ruler Mary was delegated with the King on 22 June 1911 at Westminster Abbey. Later in the year, the new King and Queen headed out to India for the Delhi Durbar hung on 12 December 1911, and visited the sub-mainland as Emperor and Empress of India, coming back to Britain in February. 

The start of Mary's period as partner carried her into struggle with her relative, Queen Alexandra. In spite of the fact that the two were on inviting terms, Alexandra could be obstinate; she requested priority over Mary at the memorial service of Edward VII, was moderate in leaving Buckingham Palace, and kept a portion of the regal gems that ought to have been passed to the new ruler. 

Amid the First World War, Queen Mary organized a severity drive at the royal residence, where she apportioned sustenance, and visited injured and kicking the bucket servicemen in medical clinic, which caused her extraordinary passionate strain. Following three years of war against Germany, and with hostile to German inclination in Britain running high, the Russian Imperial Family, which had been removed by a progressive government, was declined shelter, perhaps to some extent on the grounds that the Tsar's better half was German-conceived. Updates on the Tsar's abandonment gave a lift to those in Britain who wished to supplant their very own government with a republic. The war finished in 1918 with the thrashing of Germany and the surrender and outcast of the Kaiser. 

Two months after the finish of the war, Queen Mary's most youthful child, John, passed on at thirteen years old. She depicted her stun and distress in her journal and letters, concentrates of which were distributed after her demise: "our poor dear little Johnnie had passed away suddenly ... The principal break in the family circle is difficult to shoulder however individuals have been so kind and thoughtful and this has helped us [the King and me] much." 

Her staunch help of her better half kept amid the last 50% of his rule. She prompted him on addresses and utilized her broad information of history and sovereignty to exhort him on issues influencing his position. He valued her watchfulness, knowledge, and judgment. She kept up a demeanor of confident quiet all through the entirety of her open commitment in the years after the war, a period set apart by common turmoil over social conditions, Irish freedom, and Indian patriotism. 

In the late 1920s, George V turned out to be progressively sick with lung issues, exacerbated by his substantial smoking. Ruler Mary gave specific consideration to his consideration. Amid his disease in 1928, one of his specialists, Sir Farquhar Buzzard, was asked who had spared the King's life. He answered, "The Queen". In 1935, King George V and Queen Mary praised their silver celebration, with festivities occurring all through the British Empire. In his celebration discourse, George paid open tribute to his better half, having told his speech specialist, "Put that section at the very end. I can't believe myself to talk about the Queen when I think about all I owe her." 

George V passed on 20 January 1936, after his doctor, Lord Dawson of Penn, gave him an infusion of morphine and cocaine that may have rushed his demise. Ruler Mary's oldest child rose the position of royalty as Edward VIII. She was currently the ruler mother, however she didn't utilize that style, and was rather known as "Her Majesty Queen Mary". 

Inside the year, Edward made a protected emergency by reporting his longing wed his twice-separated from American special lady, Wallis Simpson. Mary objected to separate, which was against the educating of the Anglican church, and thought Simpson entirely unacceptable to be the spouse of a lord. In the wake of accepting counsel from the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Stanley Baldwin, just as the Dominion governments, that he couldn't remain lord and wed Simpson, Edward surrendered. 

Despite the fact that dependable and strong of her child, Mary couldn't understand why Edward would disregard his regal obligations for his own emotions. Simpson had been displayed formally to both King George V and Queen Mary at court, yet Mary later would not meet her either in broad daylight or secretly. She considered it to be her obligation to give moral help to her second child, the saved and stammering Prince Albert, Duke of York, who climbed the position of authority on Edward's renouncement, taking the name George VI. At the point when Mary went to the crowning ritual, she turned into the primary British matron ruler to do as such. Edward's surrender did not diminish her affection for him, however she never faltered in her dissatisfaction with his activities. 

Mary looked into the childhood of her granddaughters, Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret, and took them on different trips in London, to craftsmanship displays and exhibition halls. (The princesses' own folks thought it superfluous for them to be saddled with any requesting instructive routine.) 

Amid the Second World War, George VI wanted his mom to be emptied from London. In spite of the fact that she was hesitant, she chose to inhabit Badminton House, Gloucestershire, with her niece, Mary Somerset, Duchess of Beaufort, the little girl of her sibling Lord Cambridge. Her own assets were transported from London in seventy bits of baggage. Her family, which included fifty-five hirelings, involved the greater part of the house, aside from the Duke and Duchess' private suites, until after the war. The main individuals to grumble about the game plans were the imperial workers, who found the house excessively little, however Queen Mary irritated her niece by having the antiquated ivy torn from the dividers as she thought of it as ugly and a peril. From Badminton, in help of the war exertion, she visited troops and processing plants and coordinated the social event of scrap materials. She was known to offer lifts to troopers she spotted on the streets. In 1942, her most youthful enduring child, Prince George, Duke of Kent, was slaughtered in an air crash while on dynamic administration. Mary at last came back to Marlborough House in June 1945, after the war in Europe had brought about the annihilation of Nazi Germany. 

Mary was an energetic authority of articles and pictures with an illustrious association. She paid above-advertise gauges when acquiring gems from the home of Dowager Empress Marie of Russia and paid just about multiple times the gauge when purchasing the family's Cambridge Emeralds from Lady Kilmorey, the fancy woman of her late sibling Prince Francis. In 1924, the celebrated engineer Sir Edwin Lutyens made Queen Mary's Dolls' House for her gathering of smaller than usual pieces. To be sure, she has some of the time been reprimanded for her forceful securing of "objets d'art" for the Royal Collection. On a few events, she would express to hosts, or others, that she respected something they previously possessed, in the desire that the proprietor would give it away. Her broad learning of, and examination into, the Royal Collection helped in distinguishing relics and fine art that had gone off to some far away place throughout the years. The illustrious family had loaned out numerous items over past ages. When she had recognized unreturned things through old inventories, she would keep in touch with the holders, mentioning that they be returned. Notwithstanding being an eager authority, Mary was likewise liberal in giving endowments of gems, for example, showing her women in-holding up with rings on the event of their commitment. 

In 1952, King George VI kicked the bucket, the third of Queen Mary's kids to predecease her; her oldest granddaughter, Princess Elizabeth, climbed the position of authority as Queen Elizabeth II. The demise of a third kid significantly influenced her. Mary commented to Princess Marie Louise: "I have lost three children through death, however I have never been favored to be there to express a last goodbye to them." 

Mary kicked the bucket on 24 March 1953 in her rest at the age of 85, ten weeks before her granddaughter's crowning liturgy. Mary let it be realized that, in case of her demise, the crowning ordinance was not to be deferred. Her remaining parts lay in state at Westminster Hall, where huge quantities of grievers recorded past her pine box. She is covered close to her significant other in the nave of St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle. 

Sir Henry "Chips" Channon composed that she was "above politics ... glorious, amusing, common, in truth almost radiant, however cold and hard. In any case, what an excellent Queen." 

The sea liner ; the Royal Navy battlecruiser, , which was demolished at the Battle of Jutland in 1916; Queen Mary University of London; Queen Mary Reservoir in Surrey, United Kingdom; Queen Mary College, Lahore; Queen Mary's Hospital, Roehampton; Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong; Queen Mary's Peak, the most elevated mountain in Tristan da Cunha; Queen Mary Land in Antarctica; and Queen Mary's College in Chennai, India, are named in her respect. 

Performers who have depicted Queen Mary incorporate Dame Wendy Hiller (on the London organize in "Crown Matrimonial"), Greer Garson (in the TV generation of "Crown Matrimonial"), Judy Loe (in "Edward the Seventh"), Dame Flora Robson (in "A King's Story"), Dame Peggy Ashcroft (in "Edward and Mrs. Simpson"), Phyllis Calvert (in "The Woman He Loved"), Gaye Brown (in "All the King's Men"), Miranda Richardson (in "The Lost Prince"), Margaret Tyzack (in "Wallis and Edward"), Claire Bloom (in "The King's Speech"), Judy Parfitt (in W.E.), Valerie Dane (in Downton Abbey), and Dame Eileen Atkins (in "Bertie and Elizabeth" and "The Crown"). 

Ruler Mary's arms were the imperial crest of the United Kingdom speared with her family arms – the arms of her granddad, Prince Adolphus, Duke of Cambridge, in the first and fourth quarters, and the arms of her dad, Prince Francis, Duke of Teck, in the second and third quarters. The shield is surmounted by the magnificent crown, and bolstered by the delegated lion of England and "a stag Proper" as in the arms of Württemberg.