Archie versus Predator 

Archie versus Predator is a comic book and intercompany hybrid, composed by Alex de Campi and drawn by Fernando Ruiz. It was initially distributed as a four-issue constrained arrangement in the United States by Dark Horse Comics and Archie Comics in 2015. The single issues were discharged among April and July, and a hardcover gathering went on special in November 2015. 

Following in a long custom of all-American youngster Archie Andrews meeting uncommon famous people and popular culture symbols, this comic book indicates him meeting the universe's deadliest seeker, the Predator. The thought was first recommended in the Archie office and after that proposed to Dark Horse, who holds the permit to funnies highlighting the Predator character possessed by twentieth Century Fox. The organizations matched de Campi, a loathsomeness essayist at Dark Horse, with Ruiz, a standard "Archie" craftsman. At the point when the comic book was declared, numerous news sources noted in their features that the new title was not a joke. 

In "Archie versus Predator", a trophy-chasing outsider touches base on Earth and starts stalking secondary school understudy Archie Andrews and his colleagues. After various young people have been killed, the survivors acknowledge they are being chased and choose to battle back. 

The book got positive audits from commentators, who appreciated the bizarre hybrid matchup and dull cleverness. The miniseries was the top of the line book for the two distributers amid its discharge and won a Ghastly Award for Best Limited Series. 

Since Archie Comics collaborated with Marvel Comics for the 1994 one-shot comic "Archie Meets the Punisher", the Archie characters have had a custom of group ups with characters from other anecdotal universes. Following the accomplishment of "Archie meets KISS" in 2012 and "Archie meets Glee" in 2013, the Archie Creative Summit held in March 2014 incorporated a meeting to generate new ideas for new hybrids. Godzilla and "Friday the thirteenth" were considered, yet the Predator got the most help. Craftsman Fernando Ruiz was at the summit and enjoyed the reason, however did not trust it would really be made, or that he would be included on the off chance that it was. 

Archie Comics proposed the hybrid to twentieth Century Fox, who possesses the Predator character, and Dark Horse Comics, who had authorized the character for comic books. Both immediately concurred. Dull Horse drew nearer Alex de Campi to compose dependent on her work on the repulsiveness comic book "Grindhouse" and the silly comic book "". Dim Horse supervisor Brendan Wright, who was at that point altering the customary "Predator" comic book and had recently planned with Archie Comics on Dark Horse's "Archie Archives" reprints, was picked as editorial manager. Ruiz was the sole craftsman considered to pencil the arrangement, and inker Rich Koslowski was chosen dependent on his work with Ruiz on a Thor spoof in "Archie" #648. The venture was initially titled "Archie meets Predator", however it was changed to "versus." in light of the fact that the general population associated with creation continued considering it that inadvertently, and to spoof the "Outsider versus Predator" establishment. 

To plan for the task, de Campi read more than 4000 pages of Archie comic books. She drew motivation for the story from the 1940s time of the arrangement, when she says Archie Andrews' lady friends Betty Cooper and Veronica Lodge had "more edge". Her contents were liable to notes and changes from Archie Comics and Fox, however de Campi portrayed both licensors as "very smooth, lovely and simple to work with". Fox's essential concern was the reason the Predator, who is known for picking testing prey, would be keen on adolescents, yet an appropriate clarification was incorporated into the story. She anticipated a portion of the notes, for example, being outlined for, "Alex, you can't poke fun at tyke predation in an Archie book". Different occasions, she was astounded when she didn't get notes, for example, her utilization of emoticons for the Predator's discourse. She was satisfied when she got the chance to add profundity to Dilton Doiley, a character she feels is frequently neglected in normal "Archie" funnies. The decision of whether Archie Andrews would endure the arrangement or not was changed a few times amid scripting, and a ultimate conclusion was not made until the last draft of the content. 

Ruiz explored different avenues regarding drawing the entire arrangement in an increasingly practical way, however from the earliest starting point the arrangement was to utilize the customary Archie configuration style for the book, which Archie veteran Dan DeCarlo advanced in the great funnies since the 1960s. The publication group felt this would make the story feel increasingly "odd and disrupting". Albeit most current comic workmanship is made utilizing advanced instruments and sweeps to quicken the creation procedure, the craftsmanship group for "Archie versus Predator" utilized customary techniques and utilized FedEx to get the physical duplicate of each page to the individual who might total the subsequent stage all the while. 

Archie Comics and Dark Horse Comics mutually declared "Archie versus Predator" and its imaginative group at the 2014 New York Comic Con. Before long, numerous news sources conveying the news utilized a feature demonstrating the odd declaration was not a joke. Wright portrayed it as his "most psycho venture" and was persistently shocked by the size of positive response to it. 

A special ashcan comic was discharged two or three months before the primary issue. It highlighted eight pages from the main issue and a portion of Ruiz's character plans, including a portion of his underlying, increasingly exact Predator outlines. The four issues were distributed month to month starting April 15, 2015, and finishing July 22, 2015. Each issue had two variation covers, and the primary issue had some extra store-selective and tradition restrictive spreads. The majority of the issues additionally incorporated a one-page, clever reward strip composed by de Campi highlighting hybrids of other Archie and Dark Horse characters: "Sabrina Meets Hellboy" (workmanship by Robert Hack), "Little Mask and his Pals" (craftsmanship by Art Baltazar), "Jughead Meets MIND MGMT: "S" is for Sleeper" (craftsmanship by Matt Kindt), and "Josie and the Pussycats Meet Finder" (workmanship via Carla Speed McNeil). A 128-page hardcover gathering the arrangement and reward content was discharged November 4, 2015. 

Whenever Archie and his companions take a spring break excursion to Los Perdidos Resort, an outsider, trophy-chasing Predator contacts down in the close-by wilderness. Betty and Veronica get into a battle amid a challenge and pull in the consideration of the Predator, who tails them home to Riverdale. While focusing on Veronica, the Predator additionally executes a few outfitted individuals. The animal's image is taken by Betty, and Kevin Keller's dad, a US Military General, distinguishes it as a youngster from a race of almost relentless outsider seekers. The Kellers compose Archie's companions, and Jughead Jones is utilized as snare to bait the Predator, yet the device fizzles and the Predator murders a large portion of the trap party. 

A few individuals from the gathering choose to part up in expectations the Predator will keep on pursueing Veronica, enabling them to get away, while Archie, Betty, Jughead and Dilton Doiley remain with Veronica. At the point when the Predator assaults once more, it murders Dilton and Jughead and basically wounds Archie. Betty and Veronica take asylum at Lodge Manor, where they snare Archie to a trial mending machine. At the point when the Predator assaults, Archie is murdered and Veronica and Betty are fundamentally injured, which makes the Predator show lament since it was inspired by a smash on Betty. Veronica recuperates to find that Betty has utilized the mending machine to reestablish them both to full wellbeing and is presently utilizing it to change the Predator into an Archie resemble the other alike. 

The primary issue was the top rated issue for the two distributers in April 2015, and the 74th top of the line comic book among different discharges that month. Deals numbers fell just shy of 30% through the fourth issue, which was the 102nd smash hit issue in July. At the point when the hardcover was discharged in November, it was the 36th top of the line funnies accumulation of the month as indicated by Diamond Comic Distributors. 

The principal issue gathered a normal survey rating of 7.9 out of 10 as indicated by the audit aggregator Comic Book Roundup. Composing for "The Guardian", Graeme Virtue said the "urgently odd" arrangement fit with Archie Comics' notoriety for driving funnies forward and commended it for staying consistent with both the Archie and Predator properties. The book's "profoundly interesting dim funniness" was a selling point for Robin Parrish at "Tech Times", and IGN commentator Jeff Lake portrayed the principal issue as "beautiful darn incredible". The utilization of the customary animation workmanship style to portray abhorrent scenes was depicted as "a visual loss of honesty" by "Glue" magazine. Comic Bastards' Dustin Cabeal called the miniseries "a hoot". The arrangement won the 2015 Ghastly Award for Best Limited Series.