Der 100. Hymn 

Reger organized the content in four developments, as a choral ensemble. He scored it for a four-section choir with frequently partitioned voices, an extensive ensemble symphony, and organ. He mentioned extra metal players for the peak in the last development when four trumpets and four trombones play the tune of Luther's chorale "". Reger utilized both late-Romantic highlights of agreement and elements, and polyphony in the Baroque convention, coming full circle in the last development, a twofold fugue with the additional instrumental cantus firmus. 

In 1922, the biographer Eugen Segnitz noticed that this work, of extreme articulation, was remarkable in the holy music of its period, with its persuading melodic understanding of the scriptural content and complex shades of feeling. Paul Hindemith composed a cut adaption which most likely kept the work in the repertory, and François Callebout composed an organ variant, making the work available for littler choirs. The organ adaptation was first performed in 2003, in Wiesbaden where the author contemplated. The festival of the Reger Year 2016, mirroring the century of the author's passing, prompted a few exhibitions of "Der 100. Song". 

Conceived in Bavaria in 1873, Reger learned at the Wiesbaden Conservatory and functioned as a professional piano player and arranger. His work concentrated first on ambiance music, "Lied", and choral music. In 1898, after he finished his examinations, he came back to his parental home and concentrated on works for organ, proceeding with the convention of Johann Sebastian Bach. Despite the fact that raised as a Catholic, he was roused by Lutheran psalms, composing chorale capriccios, for example, "Zwei Choralphantasien", Op.40, in 1899. He moved to Munich in 1901. In 1902 he wedded Elsa vonBercken, a separated from Protestant. In 1907 Reger was named educator at the Royal Conservatory in Leipzig. After a year he started the setting of Psalm 100 with the main development. 

Reger composed the initial segment of the work for the 350th commemoration of Jena University. He put together the piece with respect to Martin Luther's interpretation of the song. Reger created the primary development in Leipzig, starting on 24April 1908 and taking a shot at it until early July. He devoted it "" (To the High Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Jena for the 350th commemoration of the University). PartI was first performed on 31July 1908 at the function denoting the 350th commemoration. Fritz Stein led the Akademischer Chor Jena and the "Sängerschaft zu St. Pauli", the band of the Erfurt Infantry Regiment 71, individuals from the Weimar court ensemble (Weimarer Hofkapelle) and organist Kurt Gorn. After the main execution, Reger got a privileged doctorate from Jena University. Reger requested numerous practices of the conductor and kept in touch with him: 

Reger finished the creation of the song by including three additional developments from May to August 1909. Release Peters in Leipzig distributed the work, starting in September 1909 with the vocal score, for which Reger arranged the piano decrease. The full score and the parts showed up in December that year. The total work was debuted all the while on 23February 1910 in Chemnitz and Breslau. In Chemnitz, Reger directed at the congregation of St.Lukas the congregation choir and the city symphony (Städtische Kapelle), with Georg Stolz at the organ. In Breslau, Georg Dohrn directed the Sing-Akademie and the Orchester-Verein, with organist Max Ansorge. A commentator wrote in the exchange paper "Neue Musik-Zeitung": 

The content is Psalm 100, otherwise called the Jubilate Deo, in the interpretation by Martin Luther. The fairly short song calls one to cheer in the Lord, serve him with happiness, precede his face with delight, understand that he made us, and go enter his doors, since he is amicable (). 

The call to celebrate prompts music that is particularly appropriate for happy events. The hymn has been set to music commonly, generally for ritualistic use, for instance by Palestrina (1575) and Lully, who created a motet, LWV77/16, out of appreciation for the marriage of Louis XIV and harmony with Spain in 1660. In England, the Jubilate was generally joined with the Te Deum, for example, Henry Purcell's "Te Deum and Jubilate", and Handel's "Utrecht Te Deum and Jubilate". In German, Heinrich Schütz incorporated a setting of Psalm100, alongside an all-encompassing setting of Psalm119 and a Magnificat, in his last accumulation, known as "Creation ultimum" or "Schwanengesang" (Swan melody). A pasticcio motet "Jauchzet dem Herrn alle Welt" incorporates music by Georg Philipp Telemann and J.S.Bach. The subjects of the main song stanzas are reworded in the opening development of Bach's 1734 "Christmas Oratorio", , with a later differentiating area (Serve the Highest with awe inspiring choirs). 

Ralph Vaughan Williams, who in 1928 had composed a course of action of the conventional tune related with the hymn, "Old 100th" ("All individuals that on earth do abide"), masterminded it for assembly, organ, and symphony for the crowning liturgy of Elizabeth II in 1953; it wound up omnipresent at merry events in the Anglophone world. Reger's setting had not been expected for chapel use; it was composed at first for a mainstream event and after that for the show corridor. 

Reger organized the content of the hymn in four developments as a choral ensemble, in the common structure of an orchestra: first development in sonata structure ("Hauptsatz"), moderate development, scherzo, and finale. The accompanying table depends on the choral score and demonstrates the development number, incipit, the verse(s) of Psalm100, voices (SATB melody, now and again separated further), checking, key (start and closure in D major) and time, utilizing the image for normal time. 

The work is scored for a four-section choir, with frequently isolated voices, and a symphony of two woodwinds, two oboes, two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, two trumpets, three trombones, tuba, three timpani and more percussion, organ, and strings. In the last development, an extra metal gathering of four trumpets and four trombones plays the cantus firmus of Luther's chorale "". Reger utilized Lutheran songs regularly in his work, in the custom of Johann Sebastian Bach. He had effectively composed a chorale capriccio on the psalm, "Ein' feste Burg ist unser Gott", Op.27 in 1898. Reger's harmonies are progressed and now and again near atonality, yet he asserted that he didn't do anything that Bach had not done previously: harmonies as the aftereffect of the polyphon singular lines ("Stimmführung"). 

All developments are written in D major, yet Reger regularly tweaks. The developments pursue each other without a break. A short instrumental presentation, checked , leads into the fourth development. Reger accomplishes a solidarity of structure by including material (both content and music) from the primary development in the later ones. 

The main development compares to the opening development of an ensemble, which is regularly in sonata structure. The development sets the initial two stanzas of the hymn, which call for three activities: "" (cheer), "" (serve), and "" (come). The three points coordinate two differentiating topics of the article of the sonata structure, and its improvement. They are trailed by a reiteration of the two topics. 

A timpani move on C of two estimates prompts a symphonic Dmajor harmony in the third measure, stamped "ff" ("fortissimo"), and a syncopated passage of the choir one beat later, articulating as one "" (Rejoice, cheer), the principal subject. The choir initially sings a theme a fourth downwards, while the strings include a turn theme ("") which gets rehashed all through the piece lastly opens a topic of the twofold fugue in Part4. The short themes are blessed to receive upward arrangements, at that point proceeded in upward scales in triplets, again in groupings, at that point another upward line in dabbed beat, yet no tune, rendering just the rehashed word "" with various articulation. Fred Kirshnit, who presented the piece for an exhibition of the American Symphony Orchestra, viewed the treatment as an "instrumental blast". The content is proceeded in measure16 by "" (to the Lord, [of] the entire world). 

The accompanying refrain starts with "" (Serve), the second point. It is tranquil, stamped and "pp" (pianissimo). It has been contrasted with the second topic of the sonata structure. From the most minimal voice to the most elevated, the material is extended in impersonation, with all voices partitioned. The expression "" is first sung by the alto, and afterward imitated by different voices. "" seems first in the speak with a softer tone while the sopranos grow the topic one measure later, checked and crescendo. Upbeat gatherings of sixteenths show up, first in single voices, at that point in denser surface, prompting the primary theme, "". In measure111 the third theme shows up, "". This word is rehashed ordinarily before the expression is proceeded, "" (before his face), later additionally "" (with yells of bliss). In measure130, a repeat of the primary segment prompts an end of the development in a harmony "", with a fermata on each syllable. 

The second development starts with a delicate instrumental presentation of thirteen measures. Horns and trombones play a similar note multiple times as one, which is later sung with the word "" ("Realize" or Recognize"). Kirshnit composes that the development starts "bafflingly, frightfully". The mood rules the presentation. The choir grabs, singing it first on a unisonC, stamped "ppp" (incredibly delicate). After a few reiterations the expression is proceeded in measure26: "" (that the Lord is God) with a fast crescendo from Lord to God. The Swiss musicologist Michael Eidenbenz, composing for the Zürcher Bach Chor, depicts the segment as enchanted and intelligent (""). In a center segment the isolated voices express, generally in homophony, and progressively more seriously: "" (He has made us, and not we ourselves, his kin). The continuation "" (and the sheep of his field) is given articulation by the turn down the volume, at that point rehashed by unadulterated sets of three of every A noteworthy and B real, first by three soprano parts, at that point three alto parts, lastly three male voices, with a performance violin. 

As a first connect to the principal developments, the line "He has made us, and not we ourselves, his kin" is rehashed with the music utilized for "", interfacing both the melodic structure and the substance of being made God's kin and serving him with happiness. The development closes with a repeat of the principal theme, this time finishing pianissimo. 

The key of F-sharp minor and a triple meter are presented by the symphony. The separated female voices express in homophony and "dolcissimo": "" (Go enter his entryways), with the measure frequently partitioned in a halfnote and a quarter. The male voices answer "" (Go), and afterward the female voices rehash their line in another variant. The play is rehashed, this time starting with the male voices. The ensuing content shows up in developing thickness and power, tweaking continually, finishing off with C major. 

A short instrumental prelude repeats the symphonic themes of the start of movement1. At the same time, soprano and tenor sing the two topics of a twofold fugue on the content "" (For the Lord is inviting). The two subjects are vivacious, however have their quickest development at various occasions. The song of the soprano starts with the divert motiv from the main development, while the tenors sing for the most part a rising broken Dmajor harmony, with quick movement in the second measure. The alto takes the tenor tune, and the bass the soprano song in their following passage. After an instrumental break from measure77, the subjects show up in measure91 in bass and soprano, while the song of Luther's "" is played by metal as one. The work closes, backing off magnificently, with the content "" (and his fact for all eternity). 

The biographer Eugen Segnitz wrote in 1922 that the work was exceptional in the writer's work, however in the holy music of its period, with an uncommon extraordinary intensity of articulation ("concentrated Ausdruckskraft") and a persuading melodic interpretation of the scriptural content, just as its turns and complex shades of feeling ("überzeugende musikalische Auslegung des biblischen Textes, wie auch seiner Wendungen und mannigfaltigen Gefühlsschattierungen"). 

A commentator of a chronicle noticed the work's "semi symphonic grouping" and its "adjusted by and large shape which brings melodic fulfillment despite the fact that the choral-instrumental introduction is now and again to some degree unwavering". Eidenbenz noticed that Reger accomplished an immediate expressivity of the littlest elements of material (""), and found in this "atomization" and tireless tweak a cutting edge radicality (""). He at that point composed: 

Eidenbenz noticed how these components additionally portray Reger's life. 

In 1955, Paul Hindemith modified the work to accomplish greater clearness. As indicated by Wolfgang Rathert, Hindemith "tried to direct Reger's 'uncontrolled development, while Kirshnit depicted Reger's unique scoring as "greatly polychromatic". Hindemith "diminished" the symphony, particularly the horns. In Reger's scoring, the organ fortified the voices all through the piece, bringing about an absence of clearness for the polyphonic sections. Hindemith utilized the organ just for peaks. In the twofold fugue, he allocated one subject to a voice, however the different synchronous topic to the ensemble. Hindemith's methodology, which empowers increasingly logical tuning in, appears to be legitimized by Reger's very own scoring of later pieces which were progressively refined and centered. It is most likely because of his form that "" delighted in consistent nearness in show corridors, while different works by Reger were dismissed. 

François Callebout composed an organ form that was distributed in 2004 by Dr. J. Butz. Gabriel Dessauer clarifies in the introduction that Reger's work was considered for oratorio choirs of up to 500 artists toward the start of the 20thcentury. The organ variant empowers littler choirs to play out the music. This form was debuted in 2003 by the Reger-Chor in St. Bonifatius, Wiesbaden, the area to which the arranger had a place amid his examinations in Wiesbaden. The organ was played by Ignace Michiels, organist at the St. Salvator Cathedral in Bruges. 

Hanns-Friedrich Kaiser, KMD (chief of chapel music) in Weiden, where Reger grew up, composed a rendition for choir and organ, which he directed at the opening of the celebration Reger-Tage at the congregation St. Michael on 16 September 2012, with organist Michael Schöch. 

In 2016, a Reger Year mirroring the century of Reger's demise, the work was performed at the Thomaskirche in Leipzig on 11May, on his day of death in the town where he kicked the bucket. The Thomanerchor, the Leipziger Universitätschor and the MDR Sinfonieorchester were directed by David Timm. The show was rehashed on 26 May at a similar area for the Katholikentag. 

On 13 May, the MDR circulated a live show recording from 1984 at the Kreuzkirche in Dresden, performed by the Dresdner Kreuzchor, the Philharmonischer Chor Dresden, the Rundfunkchor Berlin, organist , and the Dresdner Philharmonie, led by Martin Flämig. In June, the Kaiser led again his organ form in St. Michael in Weiden, with the Kantorei Weiden and organist Ute Steck. The Reger-Chor played out the organ form by Callebout in Bruges and Wiesbaden in August, again with Dessauer and Michiels. 

Scores 

Max-Reger-Institut 

Books 

Diaries 

Papers 

Online sources