Æthelberht, King of Wessex 

Æthelberht (or Ethelbert or Aethelberht) was the King of Wessex from 860 until his passing in 865. He was the third child of King Æthelwulf and his first spouse, Osburh. Æthelberht was first recorded as an observer to a sanction in 854. The next year Æthelwulf went on journey to Rome and delegated his most seasoned enduring child, Æthelbald, as lord of Wessex while Æthelberht moved toward becoming ruler of the as of late vanquished region of Kent. Æthelberht may have surrendered his situation to his dad when he came back from journey, yet continued (or kept) the south-eastern authority when his dad passed on in 858. 

At the point when Æthelbald passed on in 860, Æthelberht joined both their regions under his standard. He didn't choose a sub-lord and Wessex and Kent were completely joined out of the blue. He seems to have been on great terms with his more youthful siblings, the future lords Æthelred I and Alfred the Great. The kingdom went under assault from Viking strikes amid his rule, yet these were minor contrasted and the attacks after his passing. Æthelberht kicked the bucket in the harvest time of 865 and was covered by his sibling Æthelbald at Sherborne Abbey in Dorset. He was prevailing by Æthelred. 

At the point when Æthelberht's granddad Ecgberht moved toward becoming ruler of Wessex in 802, it more likely than not seemed all around improbable that he would build up an enduring line. For two hundred years, three families had battled for the West Saxon position of royalty, and no child had pursued his dad as lord. Ecgberht's closest association with a past ruler of Wessex was as an extraordinary incredible grandson of Ingild, sibling of King Ine (688– 726), however he was accepted to be a fatherly relative of Cerdic, the author of the West Saxon tradition, which made him a ætheling, a sovereign who had a real case to the position of authority. Be that as it may, in the ninth and tenth hundreds of years Ecgberht's line controlled the kingdom, and all æthelings were children of lords. 

Toward the start of the ninth century, England was entirely under the control of the Anglo-Saxons. The Midland kingdom of Mercia overwhelmed southern England, however their matchless quality arrived at an end in 825 when they were unequivocally vanquished by Ecgberht at the Battle of Ellendun. The two kingdoms moved toward becoming partners, which was critical in the protection from Viking assaults. Around the same time Ecgberht sent his child Æthelwulf to vanquish the Mercian sub-kingdom of Kent (the zone of the cutting edge province in addition to Essex, Surrey and Sussex) and named him sub-lord. In 835 the Isle of Sheppey was attacked by Vikings and in the next year they vanquished Ecgberht at Carhampton in Somerset, however in 838 he was successful over a union of Cornishmen and Vikings at the Battle of Hingston Down, lessening Cornwall to the status of a customer kingdom. He kicked the bucket in 839 and was prevailing by Æthelwulf, who selected his oldest child Æthelstan as sub-ruler of Kent. Æthelwulf and Ecgberht might not have planned a lasting joining among Wessex and Kent as they both designated children as sub-lords and sanctions in Wessex were confirmed (seen) by West Saxon magnates, while Kentish contracts were seen by the Kentish world class; the two rulers kept by and large control and the sub-rulers were not permitted to issue their own coinage. 

Viking attacks expanded in the mid 840s on the two sides of the English Channel, and in 843 Æthelwulf was vanquished by the organizations of 35 Danish boats at Carhampton. In 850 Æthelstan vanquished a Danish armada off Sandwich in the primary recorded maritime fight in English history. In 851 Æthelwulf and his second child Æthelbald vanquished the Vikings at the Battle of Aclea and, as per the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", "there made the best butcher of a barbarian assaulting armed force that we have heard recount up to this present day, and there took the triumph". 

Contracts give the significant source to Æthelberht's life and story are extremely restricted. The "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" just notices two occasions in his rule and these are additionally the main occurrences related in Asser's account of his more youthful sibling Alfred the Great, which is basically founded on the "Annal" for the mid-tenth century. 

Æthelberht was the third of five children of Æthelwulf and his first spouse Osburh, who kicked the bucket around 855. Æthelstan kicked the bucket in the mid 850s, however the four more youthful siblings were progressively rulers of Wessex: Æthelbald from 855 to 860, Æthelberht from 860 to 865, Æthelred I from 865 to 871 and Alfred the Great from 871 to 899. Æthelberht had one sister, Æthelswith, who wedded King Burgred of Mercia in 853. 

Æthelberht was first recorded when he authenticated contracts in 854. In the next year Æthelwulf went on journey to Rome subsequent to selecting his oldest enduring child, Æthelbald, under-lord of Wessex and Æthelberht under-ruler of Kent, Essex, Sussex and Surrey, arrangements which recommend that his children were to prevail to the different kingdoms whether he came back to England. Æthelberht bore witness to sanctions as "dux" (ealdorman) in 854 and ruler in 855. In 856, Æthelwulf came back to England with another spouse, Judith, girl of Charles the Bald, lord of the West Franks. Æthelbald, with the help of Eahlstan, Bishop of Sherborne, and Eanwulf, Ealdorman of Somerset, would not surrender his sovereignty of Wessex. Æthelwulf traded off to evade a common war, however history specialists differ how the kingdom was partitioned. As per Asser, Æthelwulf was doled out the "eastern regions", and most students of history expect that Æthelbald kept Wessex while Æthelberht surrendered the Kent to his dad; some others trust that Wessex itself was separated, with Æthelbald administering the west and Æthelwulf the east, and Æthelberht holding Kent. 

Æthelwulf affirmed that he expected a lasting division of his kingdom as he prescribed that on his passing Æthelbald ought to be lord of Wessex and Æthelberht ruler of Kent. This proposition was done when Æthelwulf passed on in 858. As indicated by the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle": "And after that Æthelwulf's two children prevailing to the kingdom: Æthelbald to the kingdom of Wessex, and Æthelberht to the kingdom of the occupants of Kent and to the kingdom of Essex and to Surrey and to the kingdom of Sussex". Æthelbald was later denounced by Alfred the Great's biographer, Asser, both for his disobedience to his dad and on the grounds that he wedded his dad's widow, however he seems to have been on great terms with Æthelberht. In 858 Æthelbald issued a sanction (S 1274) identifying with land in Surrey, and along these lines in his sibling's region, and a contract he issued in 860 (S 326) was seen by Æthelberht and Judith. 

Æthelberht seems to have rolled out huge improvements in work force as a Kentish sanction of 858 (S 328) was seen by twenty-one thegns, out of whom fourteen did not observe an enduring contract of his dad. They incorporate Eastmund, who Æthelberht later delegated ealdorman of Kent. The contract is viewed by antiquarians as imperative since it clears up the commitments of folkland. 

The partition of Wessex and Kent was before long turned around as Æthelbald passed on childless in 860 and Æthelberht prevailing to the entire kingdom of Wessex and Kent. Æthelred and Alfred may have been expected to prevail in Wessex, yet they were excessively youthful as the inclination was for grown-ups as lords, particularly when Wessex was under risk from the Vikings. Amid Æthelberht's standard over the entire kingdom, Wessex and its ongoing south-eastern victories turned into an assembled kingdom out of the blue. In contrast to his dad and granddad, Æthelberht did not choose another individual from his family as under-ruler of Kent. A Kentish contract issued in the primary year of his rule (S 327) was the first to incorporate a full supplement both of West Saxon and Kentish attesters, in spite of the fact that he at that point came back to privately validated sanctions. The antiquarian Simon Keynes sees this contract as 

As indicated by the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle", Æthelberht ruled "in great concordance and in extraordinary harmony" and "in harmony, love and respect". He seems to have been on great terms with his more youthful siblings and in a contract of 861 (S 330) he conceded land to St Augustine's, Canterbury as an end-result of the abbot's proceeding with faithfulness to him, Æthelred and Alfred. A few history specialists trust that the three siblings concurred that each would prevail to the honored position thusly. In two sanctions in 862 and 863 (S 335 and S 336) Æthelred makes allows as lord of the West Saxons and Æthelberht isn't referenced. In Keynes' view, Æthelberht may have assigned some power in Wessex, maybe in his own nonattendance. Be that as it may, a contract of Æthelberht dated December 863 (S 333) is validated by Æthelred and Alfred as "filius regis" (ruler's child). Æthelberht allowed resistance from illustrious and legal administrations to Sherborne church to pay tribute to the spirits of his dad Æthelwulf and his sibling Æthelbald. In contrast to most sanctions, which were in Latin, this one is in Old English, and students of history differ whether this mirrors a pattern towards more noteworthy utilization of the vernacular as more qualified to recording authoritative archives or backing for Alfred's later case that learning of Latin had declined tragically when he went to the royal position in 871. 

Æthelberht's rule started and finished with assaults by the Vikings. In 860 a Viking armed force cruised from the Somme to England and sacked Winchester, however they were then vanquished by the men of Hampshire and Berkshire. Most likely in the harvest time of 864, another Viking armed force stayed outdoors on Thanet and were guaranteed cash as a byproduct of harmony, yet they broke their guarantee and assaulted eastern Kent. These assaults were minor contrasted and occasions after Æthelberht's passing, when the Vikings nearly vanquished England. 

In the late eighth and ninth hundreds of years the main section of coin created in southern England was the silver penny. Coins were printed in a unidentified town in Wessex itself, however action in the mid-ninth century was negligible and no Wessex coins of Æthelberht are known. Kent had mints at Canterbury and Rochester and they delivered coins for the sake of Æthelwulf until 858 and Æthelberht from that point. The absence of coins for the sake of Æthelbald is proof that he didn't have any status of overlordship over Æthelberht. In the early ninth century the nature of the engraving and the bust of the lord on coins declined, yet it restored on the Inscribed Cross penny toward the finish of Æthelwulf's rule and this proceeded under Æthelberht's, which additionally observed the presentation of the uncommon Floreate Cross structure in around 862. There was a significant increment in the quantity of moneyers: twelve struck Inscribed Cross coins in Æthelwulf's reign and fifty in Æthelberht's. This may have been expected to a recoinage beginning toward the finish of Æthelwulf's reign and proceeding in Æthelberht's, when old coins were brought in and dissolved down to make new ones. The silver substance of his Inscribed Cross issue tumbled to underneath half and one penny printed in Canterbury has just 30%, yet a Floreate Cross coin has 84%, maybe showing that it was a proposed as a recoinage with higher fineness. There was likewise expanding institutionalization of plan in the coinage, reflecting more noteworthy imperial command over money and printing amidst the ninth century. 

Æthelberht passed on of obscure causes in the harvest time of 865. He was covered at Sherborne Abbey in Dorset next to his sibling Æthelbald however the tombs had been lost by the sixteenth century. He had no known youngsters and was prevailing by his sibling Æthelred. 

As per Asser, who based his record of occasions before 887 for the most part on the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle": "So in the wake of overseeing in harmony, love and respect for a long time, Æthelberht went the method for all substance, to the extraordinary distress of his kin; and he lies covered respectably close to his sibling, at Sherborne." Asser's view was trailed by post-Conquest students of history. John of Worcester replicated Asser's words, while William of Malmesbury depicted him as "a fiery yet compassionate ruler". The twentieth century student of history Alfred Smyth calls attention to that the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", which was first written in Alfred the Great's rule, just recorded two occasions in Æthelberht's rule, the assaults on Winchester and eastern Kent, and does not relate the ruler actually with both of them. Smyth contends this mirrored a plan by Alfred's proselytizers to make light of the accomplishments of his siblings to improve the notoriety of Alfred himself.