Artur Phleps 

Artur Gustav Martin Phleps (29 November 1881 – 21 September 1944) was an Austro-Hungarian, Romanian and German armed force officer who held the position of "SS-Obergruppenführer und General der Waffen-SS" (lieutenant general) in the "Waffen-SS" amid World War II. An Austro-Hungarian Army officer previously and amid World War I, he had some expertise in mountain fighting and coordinations, and had been elevated to "Oberstleutnant" (lieutenant colonel) before the finish of the war. Amid the interwar period he joined the Romanian Army, achieving the position of "General-locotenent" (significant general), and furthermore turned into a counsel to King Carol. After he took a stand in opposition to the administration, he requested to be expelled from the military in the wake of being sidelined. 

In 1941 he left Romania and joined the "Waffen-SS" as a "SS-Standartenführer" (colonel) under his mom's original last name of Stolz. Seeing activity on the Eastern Front as a regimental administrator with the SS Motorized Division "Wiking", he later raised and directed the seventh SS Volunteer Mountain Division "Prinz Eugen", raised the thirteenth Waffen Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian), and instructed the V SS Mountain Corps. Units under his direction carried out numerous violations against the non military personnel populace of the Independent State of Croatia, German-involved domain of Serbia and Italian governorate of Montenegro. His last arrangement was as diplomat general in south Siebenbürgen (Transylvania) and the Banat, amid which he composed the clearing of the "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic Germans) of Siebenbürgen to the Reich. Notwithstanding the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross, Phleps was granted the German Cross in Gold, and after he was slaughtered in September 1944, he was granted the Oak Leaves to his Knight's Cross. 

Phleps was conceived in Birthälm (Biertan), close Hermannstadt in Siebenbürgen, at that point a piece of the Austro-Hungarian Empire (current Transylvania, Romania). At the time, Siebenbürgen was thickly populated by ethnic Germans, generally alluded to as Transylvanian Saxons. He was the third child of a specialist, Dr. Gustav Phleps and Sophie (née Stolz), the girl of a laborer. The two families had lived in Siebenbürgen for a considerable length of time. In the wake of completing the Lutheran "Realschule" school in Hermannstadt, Phleps entered the Imperial and Royal cadet school in Pressburg (cutting edge Slovakia) in 1900, and on 1 November 1901 was charged as a "Leutnant" (lieutenant) in the third Regiment of the "Tiroler Kaiserjäger" (mountain infantry). 

In 1903, Phleps was exchanged to the eleventh "Feldjäger" (rifle) Battalion in Güns (in cutting edge Hungary), and in 1905 was acknowledged into the Theresian Military Academy in Wiener Neustadt. He finished his examinations in two years, and was embraced as appropriate for administration in the General Staff. Following advancement to "Oberleutnant" (first lieutenant) he was exchanged to the staff of the thirteenth Infantry Regiment at Esseg in Slavonia, at that point to the sixth Infantry Division in Graz. This was trailed by an advancement to "Hauptmann" (skipper) in 1911, alongside a situation on the staff of the XV Army Corps in Sarajevo. There, he spent significant time in assembly and interchanges, in the troublesome territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

At the episode of World War I, Phleps was presenting with the staff of the 32nd Infantry Division in Budapest. His division was engaged with the beginning periods of the Serbian battle, amid which Phleps was exchanged to the tasks staff of the Second Army. This Army was before long pulled back from the Serbian front and conveyed by means of the Carpathian Mountains to the Austro-Hungarian region of Galicia (cutting edge Poland and Ukraine), to shield against an effective hostile by the Russian Imperial armed force. The Second Army kept on battling the Russians in and around the Carpathians through the winter of 1914– 1915. In 1915 Phleps was again exchanged, this opportunity to "Armeegruppe Rohr" told by "General der Kavallerie" (General) Franz Rohr von Denta, which was shaped in the Austrian Alps, in light of the Italian announcement of war in May 1915. "Armeegruppe Rohr" turned into the reason for the development of the tenth Army, which was headquartered in Villach. Phleps hence turned into the appointee officer of the tenth Army, in charge of sorting out the supply of the troops battling the Italians in the mountains. 

On 1 August 1916, Phleps was elevated to Major. Soon thereafter, King Ferdinand of Romania drove the Kingdom of Romania in joining the Triple Entente, in this way attacking Phleps' country of Siebenbürgen. On 27 August, Phleps turned into the head of staff of the 72nd Infantry Division, which was engaged with Austro-Hungarian activities to repulse the Romanian intrusion. He stayed in this venue of activities for the following two years, at last filling in as the main officer of the German ninth Army, and was granted the Iron Cross second Class, on 27 January 1917. In 1918 he came back to the mountains when he was exchanged to "Armeegruppe Tirol", and finished the war as an "Oberstleutnant" (lieutenant colonel) and boss officer for the whole Alpine Front. 

After the war the Austro-Hungarian Empire was broken down, and Phleps came back to his country, which had moved toward becoming piece of the Kingdom of Romania under the Treaty of Trianon. He joined the Romanian Army and was selected officer of the Saxon National Guard, a local army shaped of the German-talking individuals of Siebenbürgen. In this job he restricted the Hungarian socialist progressive legislature of Béla Kun, which battled against Romania in 1919. Amid a fight at the Tisza waterway against Kun's powers, Phleps resisted direct requests and was along these lines court-martialled. The preliminary presumed that he had spared the Romanian powers through his activities, and he was elevated to "Oberst" (colonel). He directed the 84th Infantry Regiment, at that point joined the general armed force home office and began showing coordinations at the Romanian War Academy in Bucharest. He went to the V Army Corps staff school in Brașov, and distributed a book titled "Coordinations: Basics of Organization and Execution" in 1926, which turned into the standard work on coordinations for the Romanian Army. Unexpectedly, after the book was distributed, Phleps fizzled his first broad's examination on the theme of coordinations. He told different Romanian units, including the first Brigade of the "vânători de munte" (mountain officer troops), while serving likewise as a military counsel to King Carol II during the 1930s. Phleps achieved the position of "General-locotenent" (real broad) in spite of his announced abhor for the debasement, interest and false reverence of the imperial court. In the wake of reprimanding the administration's arrangement and openly considering King Carol a liar when another general attempted to bend his words, he was exchanged to the stores in 1940 lastly rejected from administration at his very own solicitation in 1941. 

In November 1940, with the help of the pioneer of the "Volksgruppe in Rumänien" (ethnic Germans in Romania), Andreas Schmidt, Phleps kept in touch with the key "Waffen-SS" enlisting officer "SS-Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen SS" (Brigadier) Gottlob Berger offering his administrations to the Third Reich. He hence requested authorization to leave Romania so as to join the "Wehrmacht", and this was affirmed by the as of late introduced Romanian "Conducător" (tyrant), General Ion Antonescu. Phleps volunteered for the "Waffen-SS" rather, enrolling under his mom's original last name of Stolz. As indicated by the history specialist Hans Bergel, Phleps joined the "Waffen-SS" on the grounds that "Volksdeutsche" were not allowed to join the "Wehrmacht". He was selected a "SS-Standartenführer" (colonel) by "Reichsführer-SS" Heinrich Himmler and joined the SS Motorized Division "Wiking", where he told Dutch, Flemish, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish volunteers. At the point when Hilmar Wäckerle, the authority of SS-Regiment "Westland", was murdered in real life close Lvov in late June 1941, Phleps took over direction of that regiment. He separated himself in battling at Kremenchuk and Dnipropetrovsk in the Ukraine, directed his own "Kampfgruppe", turned into a friend of "Generalmajor" (Brigadier General) Hans-Valentin Hube, administrator of the sixteenth Panzer Division, and was along these lines elevated to "SS-Oberführer" (senior colonel). In July 1941 he was granted the 1939 catch to his Iron Cross (1914) second Class and afterward the Iron Cross (1939) first Class. 

On 30 December 1941, "Generalfeldmarschall" (Field Marshal) Wilhelm Keitel prompted Himmler that Adolf Hitler had approved the raising of a seventh "Waffen-SS" division from the "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic Germans) of Yugoslavia. Meanwhile, Phleps returned to his original name from his mom's birth name. After two weeks, "SS-Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen SS" Phleps was chosen to sort out the new division. On 1 March 1942, the division was formally assigned the "SS-Freiwilligen-Division "Prinz Eugen"". Phleps was elevated to "SS-Gruppenführer und Generalleutnant der Waffen SS" (significant general) on 20 April 1942. After enlistment, arrangement and preparing in the Banat area in October 1942, the two regiments and supporting arms were conveyed into the southwestern piece of the German-involved region of Serbia as an enemy of Partisan power. Headquartered in Kraljevo, with its two mountain infantry regiments fixated on Užice and Raška, the division proceeded with its preparation. Some gunnery batteries, the counter air ship contingent, the bike unit and mounted force squadron kept on shaping in the Banat. Amid his time with the seventh SS Division, Phleps was alluded to as "Daddy Phleps" by his troops. 

Toward the beginning of October 1942, the division started Operation "Kopaonik", focusing on the Chetnik power of Major Dragutin Keserović in the Kopaonik Mountains. The task finished with little achievement, since the Chetniks had cautioning of the activity and had the capacity to stay away from contact. After a tranquil winter, in January 1943 Phleps conveyed the division to the Independent State of Croatia (NDH) to take an interest in Case White. Between 13 February and 9 March 1943 he was in charge of the underlying parts of raising the thirteenth Waffen Mountain Division of the SS "Handschar" (first Croatian) in the NDH notwithstanding his obligations instructing the seventh SS Division. 

In his firmly contrite divisional history of the division which he later directed, Otto Kumm claims that his division caught Bihać and Bosanski Petrovac, murdered more than 2,000 Partisans and caught almost 400 amid Case White. After a brief rest and refit in April, the division was resolved to Case Black in May and June 1943, amid which it progressed from the Mostar territory into the Italian governorate of Montenegro slaughtering, as per Kumm, 250 Partisans and catching more than 500. The history specialist Thomas Casagrande takes note of that every single German unit battling partisans routinely tallied the regular citizens they had killed as partisans. Subsequently, it tends to be expected that the revealed number of caused setbacks included numerous regular folks. The division assumed an unequivocal job amid the battling. In spite of the fact that Himmler had effectively wanted to grant Phleps the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross for his job in arranging the seventh SS Division, it was for the accomplishments of his division amid Case Black that Phleps got the honor. Phleps was additionally depicted in the SS-magazine "Das Schwarze Korps". He got the Knight's Cross in July 1943, while being likewise elevated to "Obergruppenführer und General der Waffen-SS" (lieutenant general), and put in order of the V SS Mountain Corps. 

In May 1943, Phleps wound up baffled by the disappointment of his Italian partners to collaborate with German tasks, which was exhibited in his notoriety for direct discourse. Amid a gathering with his Italian partner in Podgorica, Montenegro, Phleps called the Italian corps officer General Ercole Roncaglia a "languid macaroni". Phleps admonished his "Wehrmacht" translator, "Leutnant" Kurt Waldheim for conditioning down his language, saying "Listen Waldheim, I know some Italian and you are not deciphering what I am telling this so-thus". On another event, he took steps to shoot Italian guards who were postponing his section through a checkpoint. On 15 May 1943, Phleps gave over direction of the division to "SS-Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Waffen SS" Karl von Oberkamp. 

While under Phleps' direction, the division carried out numerous violations against regular citizen populace of the NDH, particularly amid Case White and Case Black. These included "consuming towns, slaughter of occupants, torment and murder of caught partisans", thus the division consequently built up an unmistakable notoriety for cold-bloodedness. These charges have been denied by Kumm, among others. All things considered, the divisional requests routinely required the destruction of unfriendly non military personnel populace and records by the "Waffen-SS" themselves demonstrate that these requests were consistently tried. For instance, Himmler's police agent in the NDH, "SS-Brigadeführer und Generalmajor der Polizei" Konstantin Kammerhofer, gave an account of 15 July 1943 that units of the seventh SS Division had shot the Muslim populace of Kosutica, around 40 men, ladies, and kids assembled in a "congregation". The division asserted that "brigands" in the town had started shooting, yet the police couldn't find any hints of battle. Such occurrences, which imperiled the arrangement to raise a Muslim SS division, prompted a question among Kammerhofer and Phleps' successor Oberkamp. Himmler requested Phleps to mediate, and he wrote about 7 September 1943 that he couldn't find anything amiss with the shootings in Kosutica and that Kammerhofer and Oberkamp had settled their question. The atrocities carried out by the seventh SS Division turned into the subject of universal contention when Waldheim's administration in the Balkans wound up open in the mid-1980s, amid his fruitful offer for the Austrian administration. 

The developments under the order of V SS Mountain Corps changed amid Phlep's direction. In July 1944, it comprised of the 118th Jäger Division and 369th (Croatian) Infantry Division notwithstanding the seventh SS and thirteenth SS divisions. All through Phlep's order, the corps was under the general control of second Panzer Army and led hostile to Partisan tasks all through the NDH and Montenegro. These tasks included Operations "Kugelblitz" (ball lightning) and "Schneesturm" (snowstorm), which were a piece of a noteworthy hostile in eastern Bosnia in December 1943, however they were just a restricted achievement. Phleps had met actually with Hitler to talk about the getting ready for Operation "Kugelblitz". 

Because of the temperamental idea of the troops faithful to the NDH government, Phleps used Chetnik powers as assistants, expressing to a meeting officer that he couldn't incapacitate the Chetniks except if the NDH government gave him a similar quality in dependable troops. In January 1944, because of fears that the Western Allies would attack along the Dalmatian coastline and islands, V SS Mountain Corps constrained the mass departure of male regular folks between the ages of 17 and 50 from that territory. Phleps was condemned by both NDH and German specialists for the cruelty with which the clearing was done. Amid the initial a half year of 1944, components of the V SS Mountain Corps were associated with Operation "Waldrausch" (Forest Fever) in focal Bosnia, Operation "Maibaum" (Maypole) in eastern Bosnia, and Operation "Rösselsprung" (Knight's Move), the endeavor to catch or murder the Partisan chief Josip Broz Tito. 

On 20 June 1944, Phleps was granted the German Cross in Gold. In September, he was designated diplomat general of German occupation troops in south Siebenbürgen and the Banat, arranging the trip of the "Volksdeutsche" of north Siebenbürgen in front of the propelling Soviet Red Army. 

Following the 23 August 1944 King Michael's Coup, while in transit to a gathering with Himmler in Berlin, Phleps and his escort made a bypass to survey the circumstance close Arad, Romania in the wake of getting reports of Soviet advances around there. Joined just by his aide and his driver, and ignorant of the nearness of Red Army units in the region, he entered Șimand, a town around north of Arad, on the evening of 21 September 1944. Soviet powers were at that point in the town, and Phleps and his men were caught and acquired for cross examination. At the point when the structure in which they were held was assaulted by German airplane later that evening, the detainees attempted to escape and were shot by their watchmen. Bergel suspects that Phleps had been set up by Hungarian armed force officers who had discovered that he knew about designs for Hungary to switch sides as Romania had done in the blink of an eye previously. Phleps' belongings, including his character card, labels and improvements, were found by a Hungarian watch and gave over to German experts on 29 September 1944. Phleps had been recorded as lost without a trace since 22 September 1944 when he didn't appear for his gathering with Himmler, who had issued a warrant for his capture. 

Phleps was after death granted the Oak Leaves to his Knight's Cross on 24 November 1944, which was introduced to his child, "SS-Obersturmführer" (First Lieutenant) Dr.med. Reinhart Phleps, a unit specialist serving in the seventh SS Division. Not long after his demise, the thirteenth "Gebirgsjäger" Regiment of the seventh SS Division was given the sleeve title "Artur Phleps" in his respect. Phleps was hitched; his significant other's name was Grete and notwithstanding their child Reinhart, they had a girl, Irmingard. One of Phleps' siblings turned into a specialist, and the other was a teacher at the Danzig specialized college, presently Gdańsk University of Technology. 

Phleps was blamed by the Yugoslav specialists for atrocities in relationship with the abominations perpetrated by seventh SS Division in the zone of Nikšić in Montenegro amid Case Black. At the Nuremberg preliminaries on 6 August 1946, a report from the Yugoslav State Commission for Crimes of Occupiers and their Collaborators with respect to the violations of the seventh SS Division was cited as pursues: 

Toward the finish of May 1943 the division came to Montenegro to the zone of Niksic so as to participate in the fifth foe hostile related to the Italian troops. [...] The officers and men of the SS division "Prinz Eugen" perpetrated violations of a ridiculous mercilessness on this event. The exploited people were shot, butchered and tormented, or consumed to death in consuming houses. [...] It has been built up from the examinations entered upon that 121 people, for the most part ladies, and including 30 people matured 60– 92 years and 29 offspring of ages running from a half year to 14 years, were executed on this event in the frightful way described previously. The towns [and then pursues the rundown of the villages] were burned to the ground and wrecked to the ground. [...] For these most genuine War Crimes those mindful other than the real guilty parties - the individuals from the SS Division Prinz Eugen- - are altogether prevalent and every single subordinate administrator as the people issuing and transmitting the requests for homicide and decimation. Among others the accompanying war hoodlums are known: SS Gruppenfuehrer and Lieutenant General of the Waffen-SS Phleps; Divisional Commander, Major General of the Waffen-SS Karl von Oberkamp; Commander of the thirteenth Regiment, later Divisional Commander, Major General Gerhard Schmidhuber... 

Phleps got the accompanying honors amid his administration: