Drakengard (computer game) 

Drakengard, known as in Japan, is an activity pretending computer game created by Cavia and distributed by Square Enix for the PlayStation 2. An Europe-select portable adjustment was created by Macrospace and distributed by Square Enix for Vodafone gadgets in August 2004. 

The amusement is the primary portion of the "Drakengard" arrangement and highlights a blend of ground-based hack-and-cut, elevated battle, and pretending components which have turned into a staple of the arrangement. The story is set amid a religious war between two groups—the Union and the Empire—with the war tipping for the Empire. The player controls Caim, a dismissed ruler of the Union, as he continued looking for retaliation against the Empire. Injured in fight while ensuring his sister Furiae, he is compelled to make a settlement with a red winged serpent named Angelus. As they venture together, they unite with Hierarch Verdelet on a mission to keep the Empire from devastating mystical seals that keep the world in equalization: Furiae goes about as the focal seal, and her passing will drop the world into confusion. 

Takamasa Shiba and Takuya Iwasaki imagined the diversion as a crossover between the prevalent "Line Warriors" arrangement and Namco's elevated battle amusement "Ace Combat". It was Shiba's first undertaking as a maker. The dull story was made by executive Yoko Taro and Sawako Natori, who composed most of the content. The music was composed by Nobuyoshi Sano and Takayuki Aihara. "Drakengard" sold well in Japan and got blended to positive surveys in the west: analysts commended the amusement's story and music, yet were blended about the designs and reprimanded the ongoing interaction for being redundant. 

"Drakengard" is an activity pretending computer game highlighting three kinds of interactivity: ground missions, airborne missions, and Free Expedition Mode. The interactivity modes are called Ground Mode, Strafe Mode, and Air Mode. In certain dimensions, players can switch between ground-based and airborne battle. Ground-based ongoing interaction basically has the player controlling the primary hero, Caim. He approaches three kinds of assault: a standard sword-slice, an enchantment assault and a dash assault that tosses adversaries to the ground. Extra weapons can be gotten to and swapped by means of the menu. Weapons gain experience levels through use, managing more harm thus. Every ha a four-level top. The player can access up to eight weapons amid a mission. Squeezing the assault catch over and again while in battle with foe units triggers combos, and squeezing another catch mid-combo will trigger an extraordinary assault which will briefly weaken adversary units in the quick region. The player can likewise briefly switch among Caim and a doled out partner, who has comparative assaults yet bargains more harm. These partners are picked up in discretionary dimensions and must be brought a set number of times. 

In airborne battle missions, players control Caim's winged serpent accomplice Angelus. Amid these minutes, players are coordinated against different ethereal focuses on that must be decimated so as to win. As Angelus picks up experience focuses through battle, she step up and can accomplish more harm – like the weapons utilized in ground-based battle. Manager fights are altogether situated in these ethereal stages. Angelus approaches two kinds of standard flame assaults: a free-point impact that causes high harm, and homing jolts that can hit different targets yet do less harm. Homing shots can be avoided or countered by some adversary types later in the amusement. Angelus can likewise play out an exceptional region influencing enchanted assault that harms or slaughters different foe units. She can be utilized to rapidly cross fight zones amid fundamentally ground-based missions. Players can gather Angelus amid certain ground-based missions and play her in Strafe Mode. Controls are indistinguishable to ground-based battle. Squeezing the select catch causes Caim to get off Angelus. Caim and Angelus level up amid battle in various ways: as Caim step up, their common wellbeing meter develops, while Angelus' leveling expands the harm her assaults do to foe units. 

Players can explore the amusement world and select missions by means of a world guide got to between levels. While playing, a smaller than normal guide enables the player to see foe areas, and a full-screen guide can be changed to that covers the whole territory and shows mission destinations. "Drakengard"s levels are called sections, and the stanzas are assembled crosswise over thirteen parts. Each dimension has a period point of confinement of one hour for players to finish them. Ordinary dimensions are numbered, while extra dimensions are set apart by Roman numerals. The amusement highlights five endings: the typical consummation and four extra endings which are opened when certain conditions are met, for example, finishing discretionary parts or acquiring amazing weapons. 

"Drakengard" happens in a medieval dull dreamland called Midgard. The world is shielded from falling into disorder by the Seals, questions mystically connected to a lady picked as the Goddess of the Seal. In the event that the seals and the Goddess were pulverized, noxious creatures known as the Watchers would enter the world to devastate mankind. A key component of the world is the capacity for a human and a mammoth to frame a settlement, a custom that integrates their spirits and allows extraordinary power. Their lives become bound by the settlement, and the human pays a cost for it as some trait (for example their voice, their visual perception or their capacity to age). Amid the occasions of "Drakengard", the Union, which ensures the Seals, is amidst a religious war with the Empire, an influence driven by a faction who trust that devastating the seals will bring them favorable luck. 

The fundamental characters are , a dismissed sovereign of the Union, and , a red mythical beast. Joining Caim and Angelus in discretionary areas of the story are , a loner who loses his siblings in an assault by the Empire; , a mythical person lady made distraught by the homicide of her family; and , a young man from the Empire whose town was obliterated by the religion's enthusiasts. Other noticeable characters are , Caim's sister and the momentum Goddess of the Seal; , Furiae's previous life partner; , a cleric responsible for ensuring the Goddess Seal; and , Seere's sister, pioneer of the adversary faction and the amusement's principle foe. 

"Drakengard" opens with Caim amidst a fight to shield his sister from the Empire. Amid the fight, Caim is harmed, and heading off to Furiae's manor discovers Angelus seriously injured from torment. Regardless of their common question, Caim and Angelus consent to make an agreement and spare one another. In the wake of repulsing the assault, Furiae and Inuart run with Caim to discover security, experiencing Verdelet on their movements. Inuart is caught, tormented and mentally programmed by Manah, inevitably capturing Furiae in the conviction that he can spare her from her destiny as the Goddess and gain her affection. Verdelet and Caim travel to every one of the three Seals, yet each time arrive past the point where it is possible to stop them being devastated. In the long run, the Union and the Empire take part in fight and the Union are triumphant. After the fight, in any case, the Union's enduring troops are demolished by an obscure power and the Empire's troops come back to life. Caim and Angelus travel to a post that has showed up in the sky, where they find that Furiae has murdered herself, breaking the last seal. Inuart, seeing her body, is discharged from his mentally programming and removes her. 

Discretionary zones permit Caim to discover and enroll Leonard and Seere, and bring Arioch to shield others from her franticness. Consequent playthroughs and additional sections uncover further insights concerning the characters. Leonard's willful segregation is on the grounds that he was endeavoring to smother his pedophilia, and the blame at his siblings' demises comes from the way that he surrendered to his desires and left them unprotected. Arioch's franticness appears as human flesh consumption of youngsters, in the conviction that they would be protected from damage inside her. Furiae is additionally uncovered to feel sentimental love for Caim, which prompted Inuart getting to be desirous and powerless against Manah's impact. Amid the occasions prompting the third consummation, Manah uncovers Furiae's affections for Caim, who indicates repugnance at the disclosure: because of this and the Watchers' impact, Furiae cuts herself. Manah was mishandled by her and Seere's mom, yet Seere was never exposed to the maltreatment, driving him to feel regretful. The maltreatment Manah got and her aching for adoration in the end made her crazy, and she was picked to turn into the Watchers' operator. 

There are five conceivable endings, four of which are opened in the wake of satisfying certain conditions. In the primary completion, Caim and Angelus face Manah and annihilation her. Manah requests that they murder her, yet Angelus pronounces that she should live with her violations. Angelus at that point offers herself as the new Goddess of the Seal for the good of Caim. As Verdelet plays out the custom, Angelus reveals to Caim her name before blurring endlessly. In the second completion Inuart utilizes an otherworldly article called a "Seed of Resurrection" to restore Furiae: while fruitful, the Seed transforms her into a beast, and she kills Inuart. Caim is compelled to slaughter her, yet not before clones of her are delivered from different Seeds to pulverize mankind. In the third completion, after Furiae's suicide, Caim and Angelus stop Inuart's endeavor to revive her and go up against Manah, who is executed by another winged serpent. With the mythical serpents presently being headed to pulverize humanity, Angelus breaks her settlement with Caim and battles him until the very end. Caim then gets ready to kick the bucket battling different mythical beasts. In the fourth closure, Seere has his Golem settlement accomplice slaughter the disturbed Manah, making the post breakdown. Caim, Seere, Leonard and Arioch escape, while Inuart and Furiae are murdered inside. With Manah dead, the Watchers dive on the Imperial capital, with Leonard and Arioch biting the dust at their hands. Caim and Angelus at that point penance themselves to permit Seere to utilize his forces to seal the city and the Watchers in an ageless zone, invalidating their risk. In the fifth completion, Caim and Angelus rather assault the ruler and the three vanish through an entry. In the wake of drawing in the ruler beast in a musicality diversion in cutting edge Tokyo, the two wreck it, and are then shot somewhere near a warrior stream. 

The first thought for "Drakengard" began between Takamasa Shiba and Takuya Iwasaki when they were working at Cavia. It was considered as an aeronautical fight diversion like "Pro Combat". The four-year advancement was Shiba's first undertaking as a maker. The group building up the diversion went under the moniker of "Task Dragonsphere". As advancement advanced, ground-based fights were likewise fused after the accomplishment in Japan of "Administration Warriors 2". Making the change from ground to aeronautical ongoing interaction was astoundingly troublesome for the group as they experienced issues with the PlayStation 2 equipment. Jun Iwasaki, president and CEO of Square Enix USA, portrayed "Drakengard" as an "ideal half breed of classifications", refering to its story and interactivity as reasons why it would be appreciated by players who needed a "more profound activity amusement". Talking in 2013, Shiba remarked that Cavia had been unpracticed in making activity amusements, and all things considered it was not up to the guidelines of its counterparts. The diversion's fight scenes were roused by movies, for example, the 1999 variant of "The Mummy" and its turn off "The Scorpion King", just as movies like "Dragonheart" and epic movies from Asia. Iwasaki was unfit to take up the situation of chief on account of different tasks he was included with: the situation rather went to Yoko Taro. Cavia staff part Yosuke Saito went about as the amusement's software engineer—Saito would proceed to take a shot at later sections in the arrangement. 

Amid generation, the group were approached to make numerous modifications and changes to its substance by "Drakengard"s warning board. It was sufficiently irritating for Yoko that he chose at the time not to make another "Drakengard". "Drakengard" was first appeared at the western open at E3 2003. It experienced numerous progressions for its western discharge. The first title, "Delay Dragoon," was picked for its sound, yet was not viewed as ideal for the western market. Along these lines, it was changed to "Drakengard". Likewise, a portion of the more develop subjects, for example, references to interbreeding and sexual taboos, were controlled in the western limitation. It likewise experienced major investigating and a change in the edge of the in-diversion camera before its European discharge. While Square Enix distributed the title in Japan and North America, Take-Two Interactive was picked to distribute it in European domains. The versatile port was a piece of Square Enix's arrangements to fan out into the European versatile diversion showcase. It was co-created with London-based portable engineer Macrospace as a component of a coordinated effort between Square Enix and Vodafone, intended to work on the Vodafone live! administration. It was first discharged in Germany, at that point made accessible in the United Kingdom, Spain and Italy. 

The setting, mythos and scene were fundamentally roused by the legends of Northern Europe, while different components drew from Japanese-style revisionism. As indicated by Shiba, numerous components of the story and world were made to be dull, tragic and genuine in tone, rather than any semblance of "Winged serpent Quest" and "Last Fantasy". One of the center account strings, including sentimental emotions between kin, was enlivened in Yoko's psyche by the anime arrangement "Sister Princess". Another arrangement that motivated the group was "Neon Genesis Evangelion", with an examination being attracted between them because of a common quality: while having standard premises, darker story components were covered up in its substance. The focal account topic was "Shamelessness", which was for the most part exhibited by essayist Sawako Natori through the characters. Numerous endings were made in light of the fact that Yoko was informed that the amusement would not have a spin-off. The characters' accounts were made by Yoko and Iwasaki, who freely made the character foundations: Yoko assumed responsibility for Seere, Leonard and Arioch, while Iwasaki was engaged with creating Verdelet, Inuart and Caim. In a meeting concerning her job in the amusement, Natori confessed to feeling humiliated by her composition when hearing Sota Murakami and Natsuki Yamashita, who voiced Seere and Manah, talk their lines. 

Caim, the principle hero, was intended to be an examination of the average activity diversion legend, which Yoko felt ought not have a cheerful completion in a story concentrated on savagery. The idea of Caim and Angelus' relationship experienced changes amid improvement: Yoko had imagined their relationship as a parasitic one, yet Iwasaki needed to make an alternate kind of sentiment, thus composed the romantic tale for both of them. The on-screen character who depicted the two was Shinnosuke Ikehata: however initially cast for the job of Caim, his flexibility likewise got him the job of Angelus. Furiae was structured by Yoko as both a clarification for Caim and Inuart's contention, and as a portrayal of his abhorrence for the sort of forgettable character she spoke to. The connection among Caim and Furiae, just as their definitive destinies, was Yoko's reaction to the standard glad closure found in most pretending recreations at the time, which he felt did not fit in with a hero who had killed hundreds amid their mission. The second consummation was basically roused by this and his aversion for "Sister Princess". Caim and Furiae were individually based around Guts from "Wild" and Rei Ayanami from "Neon Genesis Evangelion", with Caim being codenamed "Guts" amid advancement. 

Inuart was initially structured as the principle hero of "Drakengard", with him being a "pointless saint". A crucial scene in the diversion, where he first conflicts with Caim, wound up one of the ways Yoko had the capacity to appropriately extend his vision of the amusement's reality. Verdelet was depicted as the "disgusting senior", who thought about nobody aside from himself: his identity was expected to be both incapable and bossy, even despite calamity. Manah's job in "Drakengard" was intended to speak to disliked kids. The fifth consummation, a manager fight in advanced Tokyo, was made as a joke finishing off with a similar vein as the "Quiet Hill" arrangement and a surprising turn for players who were anticipating a perky tone after the past endings. Titled "the End of mythical serpent circle", this completion filled in as a tribute to "The End of Evangelion". 

Character structures were finished by Kimihiko Fujisaka. "Drakengard" was his first occupation as a character architect: his plans were immovably situated inside the Medieval European stylish. To accomplish this, he envisioned that he had been sent back to that chronicled period. His structures were roused by the character plans of "Conclusive Fantasy" and "Mythical beast Quest". Caim was one of the most punctual characters made for "Drakengard". In Inuart's structure, Fujisaka consolidated overwhelming protection into his plan to give an increasingly commanding impression for players. His definitive job and last structure were based around the possibility of him being Caim's adversary. The plan of the dark mythical serpent, which went about as Inuart's agreement monster, did not inspire Shiba, who thought about cutting it from the last item. Manah's red attire was intended to bring out the two its status as the diversion's key shading, and her status as the pioneer of the Cult of the Watchers. Shiba endorsed of the plan, feeling that it stood out pleasantly from Furiae's dominatingly white structure. Fujisaka likewise helped plan Furiae's beast structure for the amusement's second closure. Looking back, Fujisaka was disappointed with his work on "Drakengard", especially his work on Caim. The diversion's beasts were planned by Taro Hasegawa. 

The music was formed by Nobuyoshi Sano and Takayuki Aihara: the two utilized extracts from bits of traditional music (chosen by Aihara), at that point revised, remixed and layered them. Their principle objective was to make music that copied the ongoing interaction, just as the story and general account subject of "frenzy". The music was expected to be "exploratory" and "expressionistic" as opposed to "business". The signature melody, , was made by Sano, composed by Natori and sung by Eriko Hatsune. The soundtrack was initially discharged in two volumes under the names "Delay Dragoon Original Soundtrack Vol.1" and "Delay Dragoon Original Soundtrack Vol.2", discharged on October 22 and November 21, 2003, individually. The soundtrack was re-discharged on April 20, 2011, as a two-circle set under the title "Delay Dragoon Original Soundtrack". 

"Drakengard" sold in excess of 122,000 units in its first seven day stretch of discharge in Japan, taking ""s place at the highest point of the business outlines. Before the finish of 2003, it had sold 241,014 duplicates. Gaming magazine "Famitsu" positioned it as the 50th top of the line title of 2003, and sold all around ok that it was made piece of Square Enix's Ultimate Hits arrangement, re-arrivals of mainstream titles. Its solid deals were ascribed by the group to its realistic story and likeness to the mainstream "Tradition Warriors" arrangement. In Europe, the amusement sold 110,000 units by November 2004. 

As indicated by GameSpot, "Drakengard" got ideal audits in Japan. "Famitsu" gave it a general score of 29/40. After the diversion's uncover at E3, different computer game productions, including "", IGN and "Amusement Informer", applauded its promising story and blend of interactivity sorts. The diversion got "normal" surveys, as per computer game audit aggregator Metacritic. 

The story got the most astounding measure of applause. IGN's Jeremy Dunham considered it the amusement's "greatest quality", commending the tense topics investigated and the harmony among dream and authenticity. He additionally lauded the different parallels with "Neon Genesis Evangelion". The analyst for Computer and Video Games (CVG) lauded "the development and mind of the discourse and unfurling plot", noticing that they remained close by other Square Enix RPGs of the time. VideoGamer.com's Adam Jarvis applauded the diversion's narrating style, saying that while it turned into "a little hindered at different focuses, it is sufficiently profound to keep your enthusiasm all through the amusement." GameSpot's Greg Kasavin said that "however the story itself is unadroitly paced and is at times hard to stay aware of, it winds up one of the principle spurring factors for needing to get entirely all the way to the finish of the amusement." 

The designs got blended reactions. Kasavin said the amusement "looks respectable however, eventually, not too great". He censured the flat conditions and ungainly developments for adversary units and the playable character, however adulated the plan of the mythical beast. "Amusement Informer" was progressively positive, adulating the graphical detail and cutscenes and the appearance of adversary units, in spite of discovering spring up issues and framerate plunges. Jarvis lauded the plan of the primary cast, however refered to the monotonous foe structure and dim conditions as degrading components. Dunham lauded the character and beast structures just as the full-movement cutscenes, yet was less awed by the dreary human adversary plans, tasteless situations and low draw remove. The full-movement recordings were additionally applauded by the CVG analyst. 

Response to the sound structure was blended to positive. Dunham lauded most of the British-style voice acting, however called the music "frustrating". "Amusement Informer" refered to the low number of foundation tracks and voice acting "straight out of a renaissance celebration" as less fortunate pieces of the diversion. Kasavin commended the voice acting and called the music "the most harrowing and most extreme part of the diversion." Jarvis was additionally positive, adulating the sound plan for fights, the vast majority of the voice acting and the music, which "[helped] make an appropriately dull climate." 

Gathering of the interactivity was blended to negative, with Dunham saying it endured indistinguishable issues from its subordinate diversions notwithstanding its simple stimulation esteem, while Jarvis called the choices in ongoing interaction "genuinely constrained". The CVG commentator applauded the aeronautical sections of ongoing interaction, considering them the most engaging, and found that the standard battle served to adorn the hero's "kick-ass persona, making him something other than another mysterious mythical beast rider". The principle analysis was redundancy in the ongoing interaction. Kasavin was especially basic, saying that the interactivity both made the way toward playing relentless and brought down the fundamental story. "Amusement Informer" called the ongoing interaction "fun, however [lacking] any similarity to profundity." 

"Drakengard" got two novelizations by Emi Nagashima (composing as Jun Eishima) and Takashi Aizawa. The amusement's occasions were retold again in an exceptional story titled "Drakengard 1.3", which pursued on from the turn off manga "Delay Dragoon: Shi ni Itaru Aka". In March 2014, Hardcore Gamer's Jahanzeb Khan positively alluded to the diversion as a forerunner to the TV adjustment of the book arrangement "A Song of Ice and Fire" in its treatment of forbidden subjects and savagery. The diversion was viewed as sufficiently effective in Japan by Square Enix that a continuation was charged. "Drakengard 2" was again created by Shiba, however Yoko was supplanted as chief by Akira Yasui, bringing about various topical changes. Initially set after the principal consummation of "Drakengard", it was later retconned into a detached course of events. A prequel, "Drakengard 3", was discharged in 2013, with numerous staff individuals coming back to their unique jobs. 

An endeavor to make another title in the arrangement brought about the turn off "Nier", which holds connections and subjects from the primary arrangement. "Nier" happens over a thousand years after the occasions of "Drakengard"s fifth consummation. At the point when Cavia was consumed by AQ Interactive after "Nier"s discharge, a future endeavor by Shiba to proceed with the arrangement was ineffective. A spin-off, "", was created by PlatinumGames as a team with past "Nier" staff and discharged in 2017, occurring after "Nier's" fourth closure.