Alexandra of Denmark 

Alexandra of Denmark (Alexandra Caroline Marie Charlotte Louise Julia; 1 December 1844 – 20 November 1925) was Queen of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions and Empress of India as the spouse of King Edward VII. 

Her family had been moderately dark until 1852, when her dad, Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg, was picked with the assent of the real European forces to succeed his inaccessible cousin, Frederick VII, to the Danish position of authority. At sixteen years old, she was picked as the future spouse of Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, the beneficiary obvious of Queen Victoria. They wedded eighteen months after the fact in 1863, that year her dad progressed toward becoming ruler of Denmark as Christian IX and her sibling was delegated to the empty Greek position of authority as George I. She was Princess of Wales from 1863 to 1901, the longest anybody has ever held that title, and turned out to be commonly prevalent; her style of dress and bearing were replicated by design cognizant ladies. Generally avoided from using any political power, she ineffectively endeavored to influence the supposition of British clergymen and her significant other's family to support Greek and Danish interests. Her open obligations were confined to uncontroversial association in altruistic work. 

On the demise of Queen Victoria in 1901, Albert Edward moved toward becoming ruler head as Edward VII, with Alexandra as ruler sovereign. She held the status until Edward's passing in 1910. She extraordinarily questioned her nephew, German Emperor Wilhelm II, and upheld her child George V amid the First World War, in which Britain and its partners battled Germany. 

Princess Alexandra Caroline Marie Charlotte Louise Julia, or "Alix", as her close family knew her, was conceived at the Yellow Palace, an eighteenth century town house at 18 Amaliegade, directly alongside the Amalienborg Palace complex in Copenhagen. Her dad was Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg and her mom was Princess Louise of Hesse-Kassel. In spite of the fact that she was of imperial blood, her family carried on with a similarly ordinary life. They didn't have extraordinary riches; her dad's pay from a military commission was about £800 every year and their home was a lease free beauty and support property. Incidentally, Hans Christian Andersen was welcome to call and recount to the youngsters stories before sleep time. 

In 1848, King Christian VIII of Denmark passed on and his solitary child Frederick rose the position of authority. Frederick was childless, had experienced two ineffective relational unions, and was thought to be fruitless. A progression emergency emerged as Frederick led in both Denmark and Schleswig-Holstein, and the progression guidelines of every domain varied. In Holstein, the Salic law avoided legacy through the female line, while no such limitations connected in Denmark. Holstein, being dominatingly German, announced freedom and brought in the guide of Prussia. In 1852, the significant European forces called a meeting in London to examine the Danish progression. An uneasy harmony was concurred, which incorporated the arrangement that Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg would be Frederick's beneficiary in the entirety of his domains and the earlier cases of others (who incorporated Christian's own relative, brother by marriage and spouse) were surrendered. 

Ruler Christian was given the title Prince of Denmark and his family moved into another official living arrangement, Bernstorff Palace. In spite of the fact that the family's status had ascended, there was next to zero increment in their pay and they didn't partake in court life at Copenhagen as they would not meet Frederick's third spouse and previous paramour, Louise Rasmussen, since she had an ill-conceived kid by a past sweetheart. Alexandra imparted a drafty storage room to her sister, Dagmar (later Empress of Russia), made her own garments and held up at table alongside her sisters. Alexandra and Dagmar were given swimming exercises by the Swedish pioneer of ladies' swimming, Nancy Edberg. At Bernstorff, Alexandra developed into a young lady; she was shown English by the English clergyman at Copenhagen and was affirmed in Christiansborg Palace. She was faithful for an incredible duration, and pursued High Church practice. 

Ruler Victoria and her better half, Prince Albert, were at that point worried about finding a lady of the hour for their child and beneficiary, Albert Edward, the Prince of Wales. They enrolled the guide of their little girl, Crown Princess Victoria of Prussia, in looking for a reasonable applicant. Alexandra was not their first decision, since the Danes were at loggerheads with the Prussians over the Schleswig-Holstein Question and the majority of the British illustrious family's relations were German. In the long run, in the wake of dismissing different potential outcomes, they settled on her as "the just a single to be picked". 

On 24 September 1861, Crown Princess Victoria acquainted her sibling Albert Edward with Alexandra at Speyer. Right around a year later on 9 September 1862 (after his undertaking with Nellie Clifden and the passing of his dad) Albert Edward proposed to Alexandra at the Royal Castle of Laeken, the home of his extraordinary uncle, King Leopold I of Belgium. 

A couple of months after the fact, Alexandra made a trip from Denmark to Britain on board the illustrious yacht "Victoria and Albert II" and touched base in Gravesend, Kent, on 7 March 1863. Sir Arthur Sullivan created music for her landing and Poet Laureate Alfred, Lord Tennyson, composed a tribute in Alexandra's respect: 

Thomas Longley, the Archbishop of Canterbury, wedded the couple on 10 March 1863 at St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle. The decision of scene was censured generally. As the function occurred outside London, the press griped that extensive open groups would not have the capacity to see the scene. Imminent visitors thought it cumbersome to get to and, as the setting was little, a few people who had expected solicitations were disillusioned. The Danes were terrified on the grounds that just Alexandra's nearest relations were welcomed. The British court was still in grieving for Prince Albert, so women were limited to sporting dim, lilac or mauve. As the couple left Windsor for their special first night at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight, they were cheered by the students of neighboring Eton College, including Lord Randolph Churchill. 

Before the finish of the next year, Alexandra's dad had rose the position of royalty of Denmark, her sibling George had progressed toward becoming King of the Hellenes, her sister Dagmar was locked in to the Tsesarevich of Russia, and Alexandra had brought forth her first youngster. Her dad's promotion offered ascend to additionally struggle over the destiny of Schleswig-Holstein. The German Confederation effectively attacked Denmark, decreasing the zone of Denmark by two-fifths. To the extraordinary aggravation of Queen Victoria and the Crown Princess of Prussia, Alexandra and Albert Edward upheld the Danish side in the war. The Prussian success of previous Danish terrains elevated Alexandra's significant aversion of the Germans, an inclination which remained with her for an incredible remainder. 

Alexandra's first tyke, Albert Victor, was brought into the world two months untimely in mid 1864. Alexandra indicated dedication to her kids: "She was in her wonder when she could keep running up to the nursery, put on a wool smock, wash the kids herself and see them sleeping in their little beds." Albert Edward and Alexandra had six youngsters altogether: Albert Victor, George, Louise, Victoria, Maud, and John. The majority of Alexandra's youngsters were evidently conceived rashly; biographer Richard Hough thought Alexandra intentionally deluded Queen Victoria as to her plausible conveyance dates, as she didn't need the ruler to be available at their births. Amid the introduction of her third kid in 1867, the additional difficulty of an episode of rheumatic fever compromised Alexandra's life, and left her with a changeless limp. 

Out in the open, Alexandra was honorable and beguiling; in private, tender and carefree. She delighted in numerous social exercises, including moving and ice-skating, and was a specialist horsewoman and couple driver. She likewise appreciated chasing, to the daunt of Queen Victoria, who requested that her stop, however without progress. Indeed, even after the introduction of her first kid, she kept on mingling much as previously, which prompted some rubbing between the ruler and the youthful couple, exacerbated by Alexandra's abhorring of Prussians and the ruler's favoritism towards them. 

Albert Edward and Alexandra visited Ireland in April 1868. After her sickness the earlier year, she had just barely started to walk again without the guide of two strolling sticks, and was at that point pregnant with her fourth kid. The regal couple attempted a six-month visit taking in Austria, Egypt and Greece more than 1868 and 1869, which included visits to her sibling King George I of Greece, to the Crimean combat zones and, for her just, to the collection of mistresses of the Khedive Ismail. In Turkey she turned into the principal lady to take a seat to supper with the Sultan (Abdülâziz). 

The Waleses made Sandringham House their favored habitation, with Marlborough House their London base. Biographers concur that their marriage was from multiple points of view a glad one; notwithstanding, some have affirmed that Albert Edward did not give his better half as much consideration as she would have loved and that they step by step wound up antagonized, until his assault of typhoid fever, the infection which was accepted to have slaughtered his dad, in late 1871 achieved a compromise. This is questioned by others, who call attention to Alexandra's continuous pregnancies all through this period and use family letters to prevent the presence from claiming any genuine crack. All things considered, the sovereign was seriously reprimanded from numerous quarters of society for his obvious absence of enthusiasm for her intense sickness with rheumatic fever. All through their marriage Albert Edward kept on keeping organization with other ladies, including the performer Lillie Langtry, Daisy Greville, Countess of Warwick, compassionate Agnes Keyser, and society lady Alice Keppel. Alexandra thought about the greater part of these connections, and later allowed Alice Keppel to visit her significant other as he lay kicking the bucket. Alexandra herself stayed loyal all through her marriage. 

An expanding level of deafness, brought about by innate otosclerosis, prompted Alexandra's social confinement; she invested more energy at home with her kids and pets. Her 6th and last pregnancy finished shockingly when her baby child passed on just multi day after his introduction to the world. Regardless of Alexandra's supplications for protection, Queen Victoria demanded reporting a time of court grieving, which drove unsympathetic components of the press to portray the birth as "a pathetic premature birth" and the memorial service game plans as "sickening revelry", despite the fact that the baby was not covered in state with different individuals from the regal family at Windsor, however in severe security in the churchyard at Sandringham, where he had experienced his short life. 

For eight months over 1875– 76, the Prince of Wales was missing from Britain on a voyage through India, yet to her terrify Alexandra was abandoned. The sovereign had arranged an all-male gathering and planned to invest a great part of the energy chasing and shooting. Amid the sovereign's visit, one of his companions who was going with him, Lord Aylesford, was told by his better half that she was going to abandon him for another man: Lord Blandford, who was himself hitched. Aylesford was shocked and chose to look for a separation. In the interim, Lord Blandford's sibling, Lord Randolph Churchill, induced the darlings against an elopement. Presently worried by the risk of separation, Lady Aylesford looked to discourage her significant other from continuing however Lord Aylesford was inflexible and would not reexamine. While trying to weight Lord Aylesford to drop his separation suit, Lady Aylesford and Lord Randolph Churchill approached Alexandra and revealed to her that if the separation was to continue they would subpoena her significant other as an observer and embroil him in the embarrassment. Upset at their dangers, and following the counsel of Sir William Knollys and the Duchess of Teck, Alexandra educated the ruler, who at that point kept in touch with the Prince of Wales. The sovereign was angered. In the long run, the Blandfords and the Aylesfords both isolated secretly. Despite the fact that Lord Randolph Churchill later apologized, for quite a long time a short time later the Prince of Wales would not address or see him. 

Alexandra spent the spring of 1877 in Greece recovering from a time of sick wellbeing and visiting her sibling King George of Greece. Amid the Russo-Turkish War, Alexandra was obviously fractional against Turkey and towards Russia, where her sister was hitched to the Tsarevitch, and she campaigned for an amendment of the fringe among Greece and Turkey for the Greeks. Alexandra and her two children went through the following three years to a great extent separated from one another's organization as the young men were sent on an overall journey as a component of their maritime and general instruction. The goodbye was extremely sorrowful and, as appeared by her standard letters, she missed them awfully. In 1881, Alexandra and Albert Edward made a trip to Saint Petersburg after the death of Alexander II of Russia, both to speak to Britain thus that Alexandra could give solace to her sister, who was currently the tsarina. 

Alexandra embraced numerous open obligations; in the expressions of Queen Victoria, "to save me the strain and weakness of capacities. She opens bazaars, goes to shows, visits emergency clinics in my place ... she never whines, yet attempts to demonstrate that she has delighted in what to another eventual a tedious obligation." She took a specific enthusiasm for the London Hospital, visiting it routinely. Joseph Merrick, the alleged "Elephant Man", was one of the patients whom she met. Groups more often than not cheered Alexandra blissfully, however amid a visit to Ireland in 1885, she endured an uncommon snapshot of open antagonistic vibe when visiting the City of Cork, a hotbed of Irish patriotism. She and her significant other were booed by a horde of a few thousand individuals displaying sticks and dark banners. She grinned her way through the difficulty, which the British press still depicted in a positive light, portraying the groups as "eager". As a feature of a similar visit, she got a Doctorate in Music from Trinity College, Dublin. 

The demise of her oldest child, Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale, in 1892 was a genuine hit to Alexandra. His room and assets were kept precisely as he had abandoned them, much as those of Prince Albert were left after his passing in 1861. She stated, "I have covered my heavenly attendant and with him my joy." Surviving letters among Alexandra and her kids show that they were commonly dedicated. In 1894, her brother by marriage Alexander III of Russia kicked the bucket and her nephew Nicholas II of Russia progressed toward becoming Tsar. Alexandra's bereft sister, the Dowager Empress, leant intensely on her for help; Alexandra rested, supplicated, and remained close to her sister for the following two weeks until Alexander's internment. 

With the demise of her relative, Queen Victoria, in 1901, Alexandra moved toward becoming ruler sovereign partner to the new lord. Only two months after the fact, her child George and little girl in-law Mary left on a broad voyage through the domain, leaving their young youngsters under the watchful eye of Alexandra and Edward, who spoiled their grandkids. On George's arrival, arrangements for Edward and Alexandra's crowning ceremony in Westminster Abbey were well close by yet only a couple of days before the booked royal celebration in June 1902 the ruler turned out to be genuinely sick with an infected appendix. Alexandra assigned for him at a military procession, and went to the Royal Ascot races without him, trying to forestall open caution. In the long run, the crowning ceremony must be delayed and Edward had an activity performed by Frederick Treves of the London Hospital to deplete the tainted addendum. After his recuperation, Alexandra and Edward were delegated together in August: he by the Archbishop of Canterbury, Frederick Temple, and she by the Archbishop of York, William Dalrymple Maclagan. 

Notwithstanding being ruler, Alexandra's obligations changed pretty much nothing, and she kept huge numbers of similar retainers. Alexandra's Woman of the Bedchamber, Charlotte Knollys, the girl of Sir William Knollys, served Alexandra faithfully for a long time. On 10 December 1903, Knollys woke to discover her room loaded with smoke. She energized Alexandra and shepherded her to wellbeing. In the expressions of Grand Duchess Augusta of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, "We should offer credit to old Charlotte for "truly" sparing [Alexandra's] life." 

Alexandra again taken care of her grandkids when George and Mary went on a second visit, this opportunity to British India, over the winter of 1905– 06. Her dad, King Christian IX of Denmark, passed on that January. Anxious to hold their family interfaces, both to one another and to Denmark, in 1907 Alexandra and her sister, the Dowager Empress of Russia, acquired an estate north of Copenhagen, Hvidøre, as a private escape. 

Alexandra was denied access to the ruler's informing papers and rejected from a portion of his remote visits to keep her interfering in discretionary issues. She was profoundly wary of Germans, and constantly restricted whatever favored German extension or interests. For instance, in 1890 Alexandra composed a notice, circulated to senior British pastors and military faculty, cautioning against the arranged trade of the British North Sea island of Heligoland for the German province of Zanzibar, calling attention to Heligoland's vital importance and that it could be utilized either by Germany to dispatch an assault, or by Britain to contain German animosity. In spite of this, the trade proceeded in any case. The Germans invigorated the island and, in the expressions of Robert Ensor and as Alexandra had anticipated, it "turned into the cornerstone of Germany's sea position for offense just as for barrier". The "Sausage Zeitung" was candid in its judgment of Alexandra and her sister, the Dowager Empress of Russia, saying that the pair were "the focal point of the universal enemy of German connivance". She scorned and questioned her nephew, German Emperor Wilhelm II, calling him in 1900 "deep down our foe". 

In 1910, Alexandra turned into the principal ruler associate to visit the British House of Commons amid a discussion. In a striking takeoff from point of reference, for two hours she sat in the Ladies' Gallery sitting above the chamber while the Parliament Bill, to evacuate the privilege of the House of Lords to veto enactment, was discussed. Secretly, Alexandra couldn't help contradicting the bill. In a matter of seconds a while later, she left to visit her sibling, King George I of Greece, in Corfu. While there, she got news that King Edward was genuinely sick. Alexandra returned without a moment's delay and arrived only the day preceding her better half passed on. In his last hours, she by and by controlled oxygen from a gas chamber to enable him to relax. She told Frederick Ponsonby, "I feel as though I had been transformed into stone, unfit to cry, unfit to get a handle on the significance, all things considered, Later that year she moved out of Buckingham Palace to Marlborough House, yet she held ownership of Sandringham. The new ruler, Alexandra's child George, before long confronted a choice over the Parliament Bill. In spite of her own perspectives, Alexandra bolstered her child's hesitant consent to Prime Minister H. H. Asquith's solicitation to make adequate Liberal friends after a general race if the Lords kept on obstructing the enactment. 

From Edward's passing, Alexandra was ruler mother, being a matron ruler and the mother of the supreme ruler. She didn't go to her child's royal celebration in 1911 since it was not standard for a delegated ruler to go to the crowning celebration of another lord or ruler, yet generally proceeded with the open side of her life, committing time to her beneficent causes. One such reason included Alexandra Rose Day, where counterfeit roses made by individuals with inabilities were sold in help of medical clinics by ladies volunteers. Amid the First World War, the custom of draping the pennants of outside sovereigns contributed with Britain's most noteworthy request of knighthood, the Order of the Garter, in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, went under analysis, as the German individuals from the Order were battling against Britain. Alexandra joined calls to "have down those contemptuous German pennants". Driven by general conclusion, however against his very own desires, the lord had the pennants evacuated yet to Alexandra's dishearten he had down "those terrible Prussian flags" yet additionally those of her Hessian relations who were, as she would see it, "basically troopers or vassals under that ruthless German Emperor's requests". On 17 September 1916, she was at Sandringham amid a Zeppelin air attack, yet far more terrible was to happen to different individuals from her family. In Russia, her nephew Tsar Nicholas II was ousted and he, his significant other and their kids were executed by progressives. Her sister the Dowager Empress was protected from Russia in 1919 by and conveyed to England, where she lived for quite a while with Alexandra. 

Alexandra held an energetic appearance into her senior years, however amid the war her age made up for lost time with her. She took to wearing elaborate shroud and substantial cosmetics, which was depicted by tattles as having her face "enameled". She made no more excursions abroad, and endured expanding sick wellbeing. In 1920, a vein in her eye burst, abandoning her with brief incomplete visual impairment. Towards a mind-blowing finish, her memory and discourse ended up hindered. She passed on 20 November 1925 at Sandringham subsequent to enduring a heart assault, and was covered in an intricate tomb beside her significant other in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle. 

The Queen Alexandra Memorial by Alfred Gilbert was revealed on Alexandra Rose Day 8 June 1932 at Marlborough Gate, London. A tribute in her memory, "such huge numbers of genuine princesses who have gone", made by the then Master of the King's Musick Sir Edward Elgar to words by the Poet Laureate John Masefield, was sung at the revealing and directed by the writer. 

Alexandra was profoundly mainstream with the British open. After she wedded the Prince of Wales in 1863, another park and "Individuals' Palace", an open display and expressions focus under development in north London, were renamed the Alexandra Palace and park to recognize her. There are no less than sixty-seven streets and boulevards in the Greater London region alone called Alexandra Road, Alexandra Avenue, Alexandra Gardens, Alexandra Close or Alexandra Street, all named after her. In contrast to her better half and relative, she was not blasted by the press. Assets that she gathered were utilized to purchase a stream dispatch, called "Alexandra", to ship the injured amid the Sudan battle, and to fit out a clinic deliver, named "The Princess of Wales", to bring back injured from the Boer War. Amid the Boer War, Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing Service, later renamed Queen Alexandra's Royal Army Nursing Corps, was established under Royal Warrant. 

Alexandra had small comprehension of cash. The administration of her funds was left in the hands of her unwavering officer, Sir Dighton Probyn VC, who attempted a comparative job for her better half. In the expressions of her grandson, Edward VIII (later the Duke of Windsor), "Her liberality was a wellspring of shame to her money related counsels. At whatever point she got a letter requesting cash, a check would be sent by the following post, paying little mind to the genuineness of the vagabond and without having the case examined." Though she was not constantly indulgent (she had her old leggings darned for re-use and her old dresses were reused as furniture covers), she would expel dissents about her substantial going through with a flood of a hand or by guaranteeing that she had not heard. 

She concealed a little scar on her neck, which was most likely the consequence of a youth activity, by wearing choker pieces of jewelry and high neck areas, setting designs which were received for a long time. Alexandra's impact on style was profound to the point that society women even replicated her limping step, after her genuine disease in 1867 remaining her with a solid leg. This came to be known as the "Alexandra limp". She utilized prevalently the London design houses; her most loved was Redfern's, however she shopped incidentally at Doucet and Fromont of Paris. 

Ruler Alexandra has been depicted on TV by Deborah Grant and Helen Ryan in "Edward the Seventh", Ann Firbank in "Lillie", Maggie Smith in "All the King's Men", and Bibi Andersson in "The Lost Prince". She was depicted in film by Helen Ryan again in the 1980 film "The Elephant Man", Sara Stewart in the 1997 film "Mrs Brown", and Julia Blake in the 1999 film "Enthusiasm". In a 1980 phase play by Royce Ryton, "Motherdear", she was depicted by Margaret Lockwood in her last acting job. 

In 1901, she turned into the primary lady since 1488 to be made a Lady of the Garter. Different distinctions she held included Member First Class of the Royal Order of Victoria and Albert, Lady of the Imperial Order of the Crown of India, and Lady of Justice of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem. On 1 January 1918, she was selected a Dame Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire. 

Among remote distinctions gotten by Queen Alexandra was the Japanese Order of the Precious Crown, conveyed to her for the benefit of Emperor Meiji by Prince Komatsu Akihito when he visited the United Kingdom in June 1902 to go to the royal celebration. In the meantime she additionally got the Order of Nishan-I-Sadakat from the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire, despatched to London by an exceptional delivery person together with their crowning celebration delegates. 

Ruler Alexandra's arms upon the increase of her better half in 1901 were the imperial crest of the United Kingdom speared with the arms of her dad, the King of Denmark. The shield is surmounted by the magnificent crown, and bolstered by the delegated lion of England and a wild man or savage from the Danish imperial arms.