Attalus I 

Attalus I (), surnamed Soter (, "Guardian angel"; 269– 197 BC) ruled Pergamon, an Ionian Greek polis (what is currently Bergama, Turkey), first as dynast, later as ruler, from 241 BC to 197 BC. He was the main cousin once expelled and the receptive child of Eumenes I, whom he succeeded, and was the first of the Attalid line to accept the title of lord in 238 BC. He was the child of Attalus and his better half Antiochis. 

Attalus prevailed upon a vital triumph the Galatians, recently arrived Celtic clans from Thrace, who had been, for in excess of an age, looting and demanding tribute all through the majority of Asia Minor with no genuine check. This triumph, celebrated by the triumphal landmark at Pergamon (acclaimed for its Dying Gaul) and the freedom from the Gallic "dread" which it spoke to, earned for Attalus the name of "Soter", and the title of "ruler". A gutsy and skilled general and steadfast partner of Rome, he assumed a huge job in the first and second Macedonian Wars, pursued against Philip V of Macedon. He directed various maritime tasks, pestering Macedonian interests all through the Aegean, winning distinctions, gathering ruins, and picking up for Pergamon ownership of the Greek islands of Aegina amid the primary war, and Andros amid the second, twice barely getting away catch because of Philip. 

Attalus was a defender of the Greek urban communities of Anatolia and saw himself as the boss of Greeks against savages. Amid his reign he set up Pergamon as a significant power in the Greek East. He kicked the bucket in 197 BC, in no time before the second's end war, at 72 years old, having endured an obvious stroke while tending to a Boeotian war board a few months prior. He and his better half were appreciated for their raising of their four children. He was prevailing as ruler by his child Eumenes II. 

Little is thought about Attalus' initial life. He was brought into the world a Greek, the child of Attalus, and Antiochis. The senior Attalus was the child of a sibling (additionally called Attalus) of both Philetaerus, the originator of the Attalid tradition, and Eumenes, the dad of Eumenes I, Philetaerus' successor; he is referenced, alongside his uncles, as a supporter of Delphi, won notoriety as a charioteer, succeeding at Olympia, and was respected with a landmark at Pergamon. 

Attalus was a youthful tyke when his dad kicked the bucket, at some point before 241 BC, after which he was embraced by Eumenes I, the occupant dynast. Attalus' mom, Antiochis, was identified with the Seleucid illustrious family (being a granddaughter of Seleucus I Nicator) with her marriage to Attalus' dad likely orchestrated by Philetaerus to harden his capacity. This would be steady with the guess that Attalus' dad had been Philetaerus' beneficiary assign, however was prevailing by Eumenes, since Attalus I was too youthful when his dad kicked the bucket. 

As indicated by the second century AD Greek author Pausanias, "the best of his accomplishments" was the thrashing of the "Gauls" (). Pausanias was alluding to the Galatians, settler Celts from Thrace, who had as of late settled in Galatia in focal Asia Minor, and whom the Romans and Greeks called Gauls, partner them with the Celts of what is currently France, Switzerland, and northern Italy. Since the season of Philetaerus, the first Attalid ruler, the Galatians had represented an issue for Pergamon, without a doubt for all of Asia Minor, by demanding tributes to dodge war or different repercussions. Eumenes I had (likely), alongside different rulers, managed the Galatians by paying these tributes. Attalus anyway would not pay them, being the main such ruler to do as such. As an outcome, the Galatians set out to assault Pergamon. Attalus met them close to the wellsprings of the waterway Caïcus and won an unequivocal triumph, after which, following the case of Antiochus I, Attalus took the name of Soter, which signifies "friend in need", and asserted the title of ruler. The triumph brought Attalus incredible notoriety. A story emerged, related by Pausanias, of a prophet who had prognosticated these occasions an age prior: 

Pausanias includes that by "child of a bull" the prophet "implied Attalus, ruler of Pergamon, who was styled bull-horned". On the acropolis of Pergamon was raised a triumphal landmark, which incorporated the popular figure the "Diminishing Gaul", honoring this fight. 

Quite a while after the main triumph over the Gauls, Pergamon was again assaulted by the Gauls together with their partner Antiochus Hierax, the more youthful sibling of Seleucus II Callinicus, and leader of Seleucid Asia Minor from his capital at Sardis. Attalus vanquished the Gauls and Antiochus at the skirmish of Aphrodisium and again at a second fight in the east. Resulting fights were battled and won against Antiochus alone: in Hellespontine Phrygia, where Antiochus was maybe looking for asylum with his dad in law, Ziaelas the lord of Bithynia; close Sardis in the spring of 228 BC; and, in the last clash of the crusade, further south in Caria on the banks of the Harpasus, a tributary of the Maeander. 

Because of these triumphs, Attalus dealt with all of Seleucid Asia Minor north of the Taurus Mountains. He had the capacity to clutch these additions even with rehashed endeavors by Seleucus III Ceraunus, oldest child and successor of Seleucus II, to recuperate the lost domain, coming full circle in Seleucus III himself crossing the Taurus, just to be killed by individuals from his military in 223 BC. Achaeus, who had went with Seleucus III, expected control of the military. He was offered and rejected the majesty for Seleucus III's more youthful sibling Antiochus III the Great, who at that point made Achaeus legislative leader of Seleucid Asia Minor north of the Taurus. Inside two years Achaeus had recouped all the lost Seleucid regions, "shut up Attalus inside the dividers of Pergamon", and accepted the title of lord. 

After a time of harmony, in 218 BC, while Achaeus was engaged with an endeavor to Selge south of the Taurus, Attalus, with some Thracian Gauls, recovered his previous regions. Anyway Achaeus came back from triumph in Selge in 217 BC and continued threats with Attalus. 

Under a bargain of partnership with Attalus, Antiochus crossed the Taurus in 216 BC, assaulted Achaeus and attacked Sardis, and in 214 BC, the second year of the attack, had the capacity to take the city. Anyway the bastion stayed under Achaeus' control. Under the falsification of a salvage, Achaeus was at long last caught and put to death, and the fortification surrendered. By 213 BC, Antiochus had recaptured control of the majority of his Asiatic regions. 

Impeded in the east, Attalus now turned his consideration westbound. Maybe on account of worry for the desire of Philip V of Macedon, Attalus had at some point before 219 BC become aligned with Philip's adversaries the Aetolian League, an association of Greek states in Aetolia in focal Greece, having financed the fortress of Elaeus, an Aetolian fortification in Calydonia, close to the mouth of the waterway Acheloos. 

Philip's union with Hannibal of Carthage in 215 BC likewise caused worry in Rome, at that point associated with the Second Punic War. In 211 BC, a settlement was marked among Rome and the Aetolian League, an arrangement of which took into account the consideration of specific partners of the League, Attalus being one of these. Attalus was chosen one of the two "strategoi" (officers) of the Aetolian League, and in 210 BC his troops most likely took an interest in catching the island of Aegina, obtained by Attalus as his base of tasks in Greece. 

In the accompanying spring (209 BC), Philip walked south into Greece. Under order of Pyrrhias, Attalus' partner as strategos, the partners lost two fights at Lamia. Attalus himself went to Greece in July and was joined on Aegina by the Roman proconsul P. Sulpicius Galba who wintered there. The accompanying summer (208 BC) the joined armada of thirty-five Pergamene and twenty-five Roman boats neglected to take Lemnos, yet involved and ravaged the field of the island of Peparethos (Skopelos), both Macedonian belongings. Attalus and Sulpicius then went to a gathering in Heraclea Trachinia of the Council of the Aetolians, at which the Roman contended against making harmony with Philip. 

At the point when threats continued, they sacked both Oreus, on the northern shoreline of Euboea and Opus, the central city of eastern Locris. The crown jewels from Oreus had been saved for Sulpicius, who returned there, while Attalus remained to gather the riches from Opus. With their powers isolated, Philip assaulted Opus. Attalus, gotten off guard, scarcely ready to get away to his boats. 

Attalus was currently compelled to come back to Asia, for he had learned at Opus that, at the induction of Philip, Prusias I ruler of Bithynia, identified with Philip by marriage, was moving against Pergamon. Before long, the Romans additionally relinquished Greece to focus their powers against Hannibal, their goal of keeping Philip from helping Hannibal having been accomplished. In 206 BC the Aetolians sued for tranquility on conditions forced by Philip. A bargain was drawn up at Phoenice in 205 BC, formally finishing the First Macedonian War. Attalus was incorporated as an "adscriptus" in favor of Rome. He held Aegina, however had achieved little else. Since Prusias was likewise incorporated into the settlement, the war among Attalus and Prusias should likewise have finished at that point. 

In 205 BC, after the "Tranquility of Phoenice", Rome swung to Attalus, as its solitary companion in Asia, for help concerning a religious issue. An unordinary number of meteor showers caused worry in Rome, and an examination was made of the Sibylline Books, which found refrains saying that if an outsider were to make war on Italy, he could be vanquished if the "Magna Idaea", the Mother Goddess, related with Mount Ida in Phrygia, were conveyed to Rome. Wanting to achieve an expedient end to the war with Hannibal, a recognized appointment, driven by M. Valerius Laevinus, was dispatched to Pergamon, to look for Attalus' guide. As per Livy, Attalus got the appointment energetically, and "gave over to them the hallowed stone which the locals announced to be 'the Mother of the Gods', and bade them convey it to Rome." In Rome the goddess wound up known as the Magna Mater. 

Avoided by the arrangement of Phoenice from development in the west, Philip set out to broaden his capacity in the Aegean and in Asia Minor. In the spring of 201 BC he took Samos and the Egyptian armada positioned there. He at that point attacked Chios toward the north. These occasions caused Attalus, aligned with Rhodes, Byzantium and Cyzicus, to enter the war. A huge maritime fight happened in the strait among Chios and the territory, only southwest of Erythrae. As per Polybius, fifty-three decked warships and more than one hundred and fifty littler warships, participated on the Macedonian side, with sixty-five decked warships and various littler warships on the partnered side. Amid the fight Attalus, having turned out to be disconnected from his armada and sought after by Philip, was compelled to run his three ships aground, barely getting away by spreading different illustrious fortunes on the decks of the grounded boats, making his followers forsake the interest for loot. 

That year, Philip attacked Pergamon; albeit unfit to take the effectively guarded city, to some extent because of safety measures taken by Attalus to accommodate extra strongholds, he destroyed the encompassing sanctuaries and special stepped areas. 

In the interim, Attalus and Rhodes sent emissaries to Rome, to enlist their grievances against Philip. 

In 200 BC, Attalus ended up engaged with the Second Macedonian War. Acarnanians with Macedonian help attacked Attica, causing Athens, which had recently kept up its nonpartisanship, to look for assistance from the foes of Philip. Attalus, with his armada at Aegina, got an international safe haven from Athens, to go to the city for interviews. A couple of days after the fact, he discovered that Roman ministers were additionally at Athens, and chose to go there on the double. His gathering at Athens was uncommon. Polybius composes: 

Sulpicius Galba, presently emissary, persuaded Rome to proclaim war on Philip and asked Attalus to get together with the Roman armada and again lead a maritime crusade, hassling Macedonian belongings in the Aegean. In the spring of 199 BC, the joined Pergamon and Roman armadas took Andros in the Cyclades, the riches setting off to the Romans and the island to Attalus. From Andros they cruised south, made an unprofitable assault on another Cycladic island, Kithnos, turned back north, rummaged the fields of Skiathos off the shore of Magnesia, for sustenance, and proceeded with north to Mende, where the armadas were wracked by tempest. Ashore they were shocked at Cassandrea, enduring substantial misfortune. They proceeded with upper east along the Macedonian coast to Acanthus, which they sacked, after which they came back to Euboea, their vessels weighed down with riches. On their arrival, the two heads went to Heraclea to meet with the Aetolians, who under the terms of their arrangement, had approached Attalus for a thousand troopers. He cannot, refering to the Aetolians' very own refusal to respect Attalus' solicitation to assault Macedonia amid Philip's assault on Pergamon two years sooner. Continuing activities, Attalus and the Romans assaulted however neglected to take Oreus and, choosing to leave a little power to contribute it, assaulted over the strait in Thessaly. When they came back to Oreus, they again assaulted, this time effectively, the Romans taking the prisoners, Attalus the city. The crusading season now finished, Attalus went to the Eleusinian Mysteries and afterward came back to Pergamon having been away for more than two years. 

In the spring of 198 BC, Attalus came back to Greece with twenty-three quinqueremes joining an armada of twenty Rhodian decked warships at Andros, to finish the victory of Euboea started the earlier year. Before long joined by the Romans, the consolidated armadas took Eretria and later Carystus. In this way, the partners controlled all of Euboea aside from Chalcis. The associated armada at that point cruised for Cenchreae in anticipation of an assault on Corinth. In the interim, the new Roman representative for that year, Titus Quinctius Flamininus, had discovered that the Achaean League, partners of Macedon, had an adjustment in administration which favored Rome. With the expectation of inciting the Achaeans to forsake Philip and join the partners, emissaries were sent, including Attalus himself, to Sicyon, where they offered the consolidation of Corinth into the Achaean League. Attalus obviously so inspired the Sicyonians, that they raised a huge statue of him in their commercial center and organized forfeits in his respect. A gathering of the League was assembled and after a warmed discussion and the withdrawal of some of agents the rest consented to join the coalition. Attalus drove his military from Cenchreae (presently constrained by the partners) through the Isthmus and assaulted Corinth from the north, controlling the entrance to Lechaeum, the Corinthian port on the Gulf of Corinth, the Romans assaulted from the east controlling the ways to deal with Cenchreae, with the Achaeans assaulting from the west controlling the entrance to the city by means of the Sicyonian entryway. Anyway the city held, and when Macedonian fortifications arrived, the attack was surrendered. The Achaeans were rejected, the Romans left for Corcyra, while Attalus cruised for Piraeus. 

Right off the bat in 197 BC, Flamininus called Attalus to go along with him at Elateia (presently in Roman hands) and from that point they headed out together to go to a Boeotian committee in Thebes to examine which side Boeotia would take in the war. At the gathering Attalus talked first, helping the Boeotians to remember the numerous things he and his precursors had accomplished for them, however amid his location he quit talking and crumbled, with one side of his body deadened. Attalus was reclaimed to Pergamon, where he kicked the bucket around the season of the Battle of Cynoscephalae, which achieved the second's end Macedonian War. 

Attalus wedded Apollonis, from Cyzicus. They had four children, Eumenes, Attalus, Philetaerus and Athenaeus (after Apollonis' dad). Apollonis was believed to be a model of nurturing love. Polybius depicts Apollonis as "a lady who for some, reasons has the right to be recalled, and with respect. Her cases upon a positive memory are that, however conceived of a private family, she turned into a ruler, and held that lifted up rank as far as possible of her life, not by the utilization of meretricious interests, yet by the excellence and trustworthiness of her direct in private and open life alike. Most importantly, she was the mother of four children with whom she kept on terms of the absolute best fondness and protective love to the most recent day of her life." 

The dutiful fondness of the siblings just as their childhood is commented on by a few old sources. A pronouncement of Antiochus IV acclaims "lord Attalus and ruler Apollonis … as a result of their ethicalness and goodness, which they protected for their children, dealing with their instruction along these lines shrewdly and well." An engraving at Pergamon speaks to Apollonis as saying that "she constantly viewed herself as favored and expressed gratefulness to the divine beings, not for riches or domain, but since she saw her three children guarding the oldest and him ruling without dread among the individuals who were outfitted." When Attalus passed on in 197 BC at 72 years old, he was prevailing by his oldest child Eumenes II. Polybius, depicting Attalus' life says "and what is more surprising than all, however he left four adult children, he so very much settled the topic of progression, that the crown was passed on to his' kids without a solitary debate." 

Apollonis kicked the bucket in the mid-second-century BC. In her respect, Attalus' children manufactured a sanctuary in Cyzicus beautified with bas-reliefs speaking to a few scenes of children showing love for their moms, with one scene likewise appearing for a dad.