Bud Dunn 

Emerson "Bud" Dunn (May 15, 1918 – January 11, 2001) was a Tennessee Walking Horse mentor from Kentucky who burned through a large portion of his vocation in northern Alabama. He prepared ponies for more than forty years and won his first Tennessee Walking Horse World Grand Championship at age 74 with Dark Spirit's Rebel; at the time, he was the most seasoned rider to win the respect. He was drafted into the Tennessee Walking Horse Hall of Fame in 1987 and named mentor of the year in 1980 and 1991. In 1999 at age 81, Dunn outperformed his own record for the most established winning rider by winning his second World Grand Championship, riding RPM. He passed on of a heart assault in January 2001. 

Dunn was conceived on May 15, 1918 in Scott County, Kentucky, close Lexington, the second youngster and just child of Lucius and Sadie Burgess Dunn. He was named Emerson however was commonly known as "Bud". Ponies had a substantial impact in his initial life, and he later said that he "appeared on the scene around them". Dunn started preparing steeds in his teenagers, and in 1951 he started to work in preparing Tennessee Walking Horses, a gaited breed frequently ridden in seat situate rivalry, noted for its special "running walk". 

Dunn's preparation office, Bud Dunn Stables, (later Bud Dunn and Son Stables) was in Florence, Alabama, on a ten-section of land property. Dunn moved to north Alabama from Georgia during the 1950s, and purchased out another coach who was stopping the pony business. By the mid-1980s, Dunn had more than 50 ponies in preparing at once, and had a few full-time representatives. He likewise made a decision about Tennessee Walking Horse appears, including the Spring Celebration, a yearly Tennessee Walking Horse appear in Shelbyville, Tennessee that is customarily mainstream with mentors who plan to enter ponies in the National Celebration later in the year. 

Dunn prepared and indicated Tennessee Walking Horses for a long time, and amid his profession won two World Grand Championships and 20 World Championships with different ponies, contending in 125 to 150 steed demonstrates a year. Dunn partook in the breed's real yearly steed appear, the Tennessee Walking Horse National Celebration, consistently from 1950. By 1993 he was popular to the point that he frequently marked signatures for a few hours before an exhibition. Altogether, Dunn by and by indicated 108 ponies at the Celebration, and a few hundred others which he prepared were appeared different riders. Among them was Sundust Royal Flush, a stallion who, at the 1970 Celebration, won both the Preliminary Stallion class and the Three-Year-Old World Championship. Among other winning ponies were Stock Exchange, who won the Junior Stallion Championship at the Dixie Jubilee in Baton Rouge, Louisiana in 1984, and Yankee Delight, who won the Grand Championship at a similar show. Dunn rode the two steeds to their successes. Among ponies that were prepared by Dunn yet ridden by novice riders, Delight Puff and Stuff was Amateur Champion, and Aces Executive was Ladies' Champion, likewise in 1984. 

In spite of Dunn's prosperity, he didn't ride a triumphant steed to the World Grand Championship until 1992; individual mentors felt that he was debased in light of the fact that he didn't live in the Shelbyville territory, where the Celebration is held. With his possible achievement, he twice turned into the most seasoned rider ever to win the World Grand Championship, the first run through at age 74. 

Dunn was given the Trainer of the Year grant by the Professional Walking Horse Trainers Organization without precedent for 1980. In 1987, he was drafted into the Tennessee Walking Horse Hall of Fame. In 1991 Dunn was named the Tennessee Walking Horse Professional Trainer of the Year by his kindred coaches for reliably appearing and preparing top-quality steeds. After his demise, Dunn was accepted into the Lauderdale County Sports Hall of Fame in 2003. 

Dunn had three kids: Billie Ann by his first spouse; David and Steven by his second wife Charlotte Blythe Dunn, and no kids with his third wife Elaine (née Lewis). Steve Dunn additionally turned into an effective pony coach, winning two World Grand Championships, the first before his dad won one. Steve Dunn's triumphant ponies were Motown Magic in 1989, and Out On Parole in 2002. Bud and Steve Dunn were at the season of Bud Dunn's passing the main dad and child to win World Grand Championships inside the Tennessee Walking Horse industry. At the point when Bud won his first World Grand Championship in 1992, three years after his child's first, Steve stated, "I think him winning implied more to me than when I won it." Bud Dunn said of his organization with Steve, "I constantly needed him to work around here. In any case, ain't numerous dads and children at any point got along that long." 

Bud Dunn kicked the bucket on January 11, 2001 at 82 years old, after two heart assaults realized by difficulties from knee substitution medical procedure. He was covered in Oakwood Cemetery, in Sheffield, Alabama, United States. 

Dunn prepared and rode his first World Grand Championship on the narrows stallion Dark Spirit's Rebel. In 1991, the pony set third in the challenge. In 1992, the pony and rider pair succeeded at the vast majority of the shows they had entered, including the World Grand Championship at that year's Celebration. Dunn had been preparing for a long time at the time, and was 74 years of age, making him the most seasoned coach ever to win the class. The challenge was held before a record horde of 28,000. "Radical" was the most loved steed going into the challenge, out of a field of 13, and the group of Dunn and the stallion was portrayed by the Florence "TimesDaily" as the "most prominent group in Celebration history". Dunn said after the success, "I've been going to the Celebration since 1950 and I've never observed anything like it. That made it twice as great. It's decent to realize that I have that numerous companions and supporters." The next year, Dark Spirit's Rebel was resigned from rivalry in a formal service at the Celebration. Dunn's riding number, 1865, was likewise resigned. 

Dunn's second World Grand Champion was RPM, a child of Dark Spirit's Rebel. Dunn demonstrated RPM to a Three-Year-Old World Championship in 1997. In 1998, RPM and Dunn won the Four-Year-Old World Championship and afterward put second in the World Grand Championship; the last accomplishment made them the Reserve World Grand Champions. Dunn had any expectations of winning first the following year. In May 1999 the steed was sold to L R and N Partners, LLC for $1.25 million. The new proprietors moved RPM to coach Sammy Day's steady in Shelbyville, with the aim of entering him in the Celebration. In a matter of seconds before the Celebration, Day was sentenced for paying off a judge, fined, and put on a five-year suspension. Dunn was given the assignment of riding RPM in the show, and won the World Grand Championship. Dunn was 81, again making him the most seasoned rider ever to win the class, breaking his prior record. At a similar show, Steve Dunn rode Out On Parole to a Two-Year-Old World Championship, and another Dunn-prepared steed, Broken Promises, won the Four-Year-Old World Championship.