2006 Bank of America 500 

The 2006 Bank of America 500 was the 31st stock vehicle race of the 2006 NASCAR Nextel Cup Series and the fifth in the ten-race season-finishing Chase for the Nextel Cup. It was hung on October 14, 2006, preceding a horde of 175,000 in Concord, North Carolina, at Lowe's Motor Speedway. The circuit is one of ten middle of the road tracks to hold NASCAR races. The 334-lap race was won by Kasey Kahne of the Evernham Motorsports group, who began from second position. Jimmie Johnson completed second and Jeff Burton came in third. 

Despite the fact that Scott Riggs won the shaft position, he was quickly passed by partner Kahne toward the beginning of the race. Riggs recovered in front of the rest of the competition twelve laps later, just to lose it to Tony Raines on the nineteenth lap. Riggs retook the lead on lap 31 and kept up it for the accompanying 16 laps, until he was passed by Dale Earnhardt Jr. who drove for the following 31 laps. Kahne moved once again into the main position on lap 96, with Raines recovering the lead on the 123rd lap. Kahne passed Raines to move once more into the lead 15 laps later. Johnson moved into the lead on lap 168 and held the situation for an aggregate of 72 laps. At the race's last restart on lap 307 Johnson drove until he was passed two laps later by Kahne who kept up it to win the race. There was a sum of ten alerts and 34 lead changes by thirteen distinct drivers. 

The triumph was Kahne's 6th of the period, and the seventh of his vocation, since he appeared in 2004. After the race Burton kept up his lead in the Drivers' Championship, which expanded to 45 over closest adversary Matt Kenseth. Kahne's triumph moved him from ninth to eighth, while Jeff Gordon dropped to tenth since he neglected to score enough indicates due a motor disappointment in the race's end laps. Chevrolet kept up its lead in the Manufacturers' Championship, 48 before Dodge and 54 in front of Ford with five races left in the season. 

The Bank of America 500 was the 31st of 36 planned stock vehicle races of the 2006 NASCAR Nextel Cup Series, and the fifth in the ten-race season-finishing Chase for the Nextel Cup. It was hung on October 14, 2006, in Concord, North Carolina, at Lowe's Motor Speedway (presently called Charlotte Motor Speedway), one of ten middle of the road tracks to hold NASCAR races; the others are Atlanta Motor Speedway, Kansas Speedway, Chicagoland Speedway, Darlington Raceway, Homestead-Miami Speedway, New Hampshire Motor Speedway, Kentucky Speedway, Las Vegas Motor Speedway, and Texas Motor Speedway. The standard track at Lowe's Motor Speedway is a four-turn, - long, quad-oval track. The track's turns are banked at twenty-four degrees; both the front stretch (the area of the end goal) and the back stretch (inverse the front) have a five-degree banking. 

Prior to the race, Jeff Burton drove the Drivers' Championship with 5,598, with Matt Kenseth 6th focuses behind in second, and Mark Martin was a further four uncontrolled in third. Kevin Harvick and Denny Hamlin were fourth and fifth. Dale Earnhardt Jr., Jeff Gordon, Jimmie Johnson, Kasey Kahne, and Kyle Busch balanced the best ten drivers contending in the 2006 Chase for the Nextel Cup. Johnson was the race's shielding champion. Chevrolet was driving the Manufacturers' Championship with 231 points; Dodge was second with 170, and Ford was a nearby third with 169. NASCAR commanded that groups utilize an energy component for the second time in the season so there would be less laps between pit stops and more tire changes could happen. Tire provider Goodyear brought a supply of new right-hand tires, which were tried at the track on August 29 with drivers Joe Nemechek and Kurt Busch. The pair trusted Goodyear had corrected issues with harder-compound tires that were raised at the past round at Charlotte (the Coca-Cola 600). 

After he was smashed by his colleague Brian Vickers in the former UAW-Ford 500, Johnson said the desires for him to prevail at Lowe's Motor Speedway were high and trusted the track's surface would be more unsurprising than the last race at Charlotte. Martin said he was in the best position that he had been in for quite a while to win the title, and talked about his fading enthusiasm for seeing race results. Having verified one top-ten completion in the season's initial four Chase for the Nextel Cup races, Earnhardt expressed he have to verify a main five completing position, and was resolved to get his group increasingly engaged with the title fight. Gordon had driven well at the circuit, however without wrapping up. His group conveyed the vehicle he headed to triumph in the season's eighteenth race at Chicagoland Speedway. Gordon felt it would help him at middle tracks and get him over into title dispute. Despite the fact that Kahne had a poor begin in the Chase, he corrected this by completing second at Talladega Superspeedway. He trusted the force would be conveyed into Charlotte and expressed he would push hard to win races. 

One group made its début at the race. Red Bull Racing Team chose to begin tasks right on time as a major aspect of a warm-up exercise to running a full-time plan for 2007 with the 1988 NASCAR Winston Cup Series champion Bill Elliott driving the 83 vehicle. Elliott would endeavor to qualify the vehicle at three races towards the year's end. He said that his choice to join Red Bull was a direct result of the association's ability to wind up aggressive. Elliott expressed that he was required to qualify the vehicle for the race and climb the field, and give input that would enable the group to be set up for the 2007 Daytona 500. 

Three practice sessions were held before the Sunday race, one each on Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The primary practice session endured an hour and a half, the second an hour, and the third 50 minutes. Kahne set the quickest time in the principal practice session with a lap of 28.834 seconds; Scott Riggs was second, and Kurt Busch third. Elliott Sadler took fourth position, and Martin put fifth. Johnson, Nemechek, Martin Truex Jr., Jeff Green, and Hamlin balanced the session's main ten quickest drivers. 

In spite of the fact that 52 vehicles were entered in the qualifier, as indicated by NASCAR's passing technique, no one but 43 could race. Every driver was restricted to two planned laps, with the beginning request dictated by the contender's quickest occasions. Riggs secured the third shaft position of his vocation, and his third continuous at Lowe's Motor Speedway, with a quickest time of 28.203 seconds. He was joined on the lattice's first column by Kahne, his Evernham Motorsports partner, who held the post position until Riggs' lap. Kurt Busch initially qualified in third, yet his vehicle's correct back safeguard was found to have damaged NASCAR guidelines amid the post-qualifying examination since it didn't skip back. Busch was required to begin from 42nd position in the wake of utilizing a temporary. Consequently, Casey Mears acquired third, Sadler fourth, and Harvick fifth. Burton, Martin, Clint Bowyer, Reed Sorenson and Johnson balanced the best ten qualifiers. Kenseth, a Chase for the Nextel Cup driver, qualified eleventh, while Earnhardt took sixteenth and Kyle Busch eighteenth. The nine drivers who neglected to qualify were Elliott, Kevin Lepage, Derrike Cope, Chad Chaffin, Hermie Sadler, Kirk Shelmerdine, Kenny Wallace (who smashed on his originally planned lap), Morgan Shepherd (who pulled back because of an absence of readiness), and Carl Long (who slammed while endeavoring to record a coordinated lap). After the qualifier Riggs said that his group realized his vehicle was nice, and uncovered that his group needed to get once again into a beat of beginning and completing in a top position. 

On Friday evening Kyle Busch was quickest in the second practice session with a period of 29.378 seconds, in front of Kahne and Robby Gordon. Bowyer was fourth-quickest; Johnson was fifth and Truex 6th. Greg Biffle, Kurt Busch, Burton, and Martin followed in the best ten. Of different drivers in the Chase, Edwards was eleventh-quickest, Hamlin set the twelfth-quickest time, and Harvick was fifteenth. Ryan Newman smashed and changed to a back-up vehicle. Afterward, on Saturday evening, Earnhardt paced the last practice session with a period of 29.357; Kyle Busch was second and Hamlin third. Kahne was fourth-quickest, in front of Johnson and Bowyer. Biffle was seventh-quickest, Truex eighth, Riggs ninth, and Robby Gordon tenth. Other Chase drivers included Jeff Gordon in thirteenth and Burton in fifteenth; all were inside three-tenths of a second of Earnhardt's time. 

Live TV inclusion of the race on NBC started at 7:04 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time. Around the beginning of the race, climate conditions were radiant with an air temperature of which was estimate to drop as the occasion advanced. Dr. William K. Thierfelder, leader of Belmont Abbey College in Belmont, North Carolina, started pre-race services with a summon. American Idol competitor and down home music artist Kellie Pickler played out the national song of praise, and Mickey Jackson, the champ of a supported Grand Marshal challenge, alongside his five-year-old child Kalob, told the drivers to begin their motors. Amid the pace laps, Ryan Newman moved to the back of the field since he changed to a back-up vehicle. 

The race began at 7:21 pm. Kahne quickened quicker than colleague Riggs off the line, and was in front of him continuously turn. The principal alert of the race was given one lap later when Todd Bodine slammed into Robby Gordon in the tri-oval. Gordon slid yet recovered control of his vehicle with Bodine abating. This set off a multi-fender bender that included Mike Bliss hitting the back of Hamlin's vehicle sending him turning down the front stretch which at that point included Mike Skinner, Truex, Jeff Gordon, Jamie McMurray, Kyle Petty, J. J. Yeley, Travis Kvapil, David Gilliland, Tony Stewart, Kurt Busch, Newman, and Nemechek. The episode obstructed the track briefly. Hamlin drove back to his carport where his group fixed his vehicle. Kahne drove the field at the lap-nine restart, trailed by Riggs and Mears. As the field drove through the principal turn, an alert was issued quickly, in light of the fact that three security vehicles were on the track as group individuals did not hear there would be another lap included before dashing continued. All laps were tallied towards the principal alert. 

A few vehicles chose to make pit stops under alert. Stewart made fixes to his vehicle's body which had been harmed in the lap two accident. Kahne kept up the top position at the lap twelve restart, with colleague Riggs in second. Riggs recovered the principal position from Kahne on the thirteenth lap; in the wake of beginning from 41st, Jeff Gordon climbed to 22nd position by lap 15. Two laps later, Dave Blaney spun subsequent to leaving turn four and hit the outside hindrance with his vehicle's left-back quarter, setting off the second alert. A large portion of the field, including Riggs, made pit stops for fuel and tires. Tony Raines chose not to make a pit stop and guided the field back up to speed at the lap-22 restart, in front of Newman, McMurray, Terry Labonte, and Riggs. On the 23rd lap, Riggs and Kahne stretched out beyond Labonte for fourth and fifth positions. Riggs passed McMurray for third one lap later, and Kahne advanced beyond McMurray for fourth on lap 25. Newman tumbled to fourth place when Riggs and Kahne passed him two laps later. Riggs passed Raines for the lead on the 30th lap, while Kahne moved into second spot. Truex hit the stopping point on a similar lap yet no alert was appeared. 

On lap 33, Sorenson kept running into the back of Dale Jarrett's vehicle, which spun in reverse into the turn four divider, provoking the third alert. Jarrett resigned from the race when he crashed into his carport. All drivers chose to make pit stops for fuel under alert. Riggs kept up his lead at the lap-39 restart, trailed by Kahne and Bowyer. Johnson stretched out beyond Sadler to move into eighth on lap 44. On lap 46, a fourth alert was given; in the wake of leaving turn two, Todd Kluever was hit by partner Greg Biffle and spun on the backstretch, causing Ken Schrader and Petty to crash into Kluever. Michael Waltrip hit the stopping point in shirking. Most drivers (counting Riggs) made pit stops for fuel. Earnhardt drove at the lap-53 restart with the non-halting vehicles of Edwards, Newman, Biffle and Sorenson tailing him. Riggs moved again into third spot on lap 59 in the wake of passing Biffle and Newman. By lap 66, Earnhardt held a 1.78-second preferred standpoint over Edwards. Two laps later, Riggs disregarded Edwards to come in just short of the win. Riggs shut the hole to Earnhardt, and was 1.5 seconds behind by lap 75. Green-banner pit stops started three laps later, with Earnhardt ceasing on lap 79, giving the lead back to Riggs. Kahne and Riggs made pit stops on the 85th lap for scraped right-hand tires. 

After the pit stops, which finished up on lap 91, Riggs recovered the principal position. Kahne shut the hole to partner Riggs, who was holding a lead of four-tenths of a second, by lap 95. One lap later, Kahne passed Riggs (who griped his vehicle had an excessive amount of understeer) for the lead position. Earnhardt moved into second when he passed Riggs on the 100th lap. Lap 105 saw the fifth alert; Waltrip lost control of his vehicle and hit the turn four outside divider, making him turn while endeavoring to make a pit stop for fuel. Amid the alert, all drivers again made pit stops. Kahne kept up the lead at the lap-110 restart, trailed by Earnhardt and Bowyer. Gordon passed Bowyer to guarantee third position one lap later. Bowyer lost two further positions when Burton and Johnson overwhelmed him on the 115th lap. A 6th alert was provoked on the accompanying lap when Kurt Busch spun leaving turn two and hit within divider on the backstretch; while endeavoring to evade Busch, Sorenson lost control thusly two, and went towards within backstretch divider. The greater part of the pioneers, including Kahne, made pit stops for fuel. Harvick and Kahne kept away from a crash on pit street. Sadler drove the field at the lap-121 restart, trailed by Raines and Robby Gordon. Raines passed Sadler to recover the lead two laps later, while Sadler drove back to pit street with motor issues on lap 125. 

Kahne climbed into second spot by lap 132 in the wake of passing Jeff Gordon, Earnhardt, and Robby Gordon. Johnson stretched out beyond Robby Gordon for fourth spot one lap later. Kahne moved once more into the lead subsequent to passing Raines on the backstretch on lap 138, while Johnson moved into second on the accompanying lap. The second round of green-banner pit stops started on lap 143, when Robby Gordon made a pit stop for right-side tires and vehicle alterations. Kahne and Riggs ceased on lap 154. Jeff Gordon and Johnson made comparative stops throughout the following three laps. Following the pit stops, Kahne recovered the lead subsequent to doing combating with Raines. A seventh alert was given three laps later when Gilliland spun thus two and reached within divider intensely. He headed to his carport to resign. The greater part of the pioneers, including Kahne, made pit stops. Sterling Marlin remained out and drove at the lap-168 restart, in front of Johnson. That equivalent lap, Marlin lost the lead when Johnson passed him on the backstretch, and Kahne pushed forward of Marlin for second on lap 169. Martin stretched out beyond Earnhardt for fifth position ten laps later. By lap 180, Johnson held a 1.4-second lead over Kahne. Gordon passed Martin for third on lap 182, while Edwards surpassed Kyle Busch for seventh two laps later. Forthright, Kahne shut the hole to be six-tenths of a second behind Johnson by the 188th lap. 

The third round of green-banner pit stops started on lap 199; Johnson ceased on lap 203, while Earnhardt made a pit stop on the accompanying lap. After the pit stops, Kahne retook the lead. Johnson headed to the track's inside at turn three and passed Kahne for the lead on lap 211 and began to pull far from the remainder of the field. Bowyer headed to his carport on lap 216 for a transmission change since he had lost the utilization of third apparatus. Jeff Gordon had shut the hole to Kahne by lap 229. Green-banner pit stops again begun six laps later when Kahne made a pit prevent from second spot. Johnson took on four tires at his stop on lap 239, giving the lead to Jeff Gordon, who surrendered it to Earnhardt two laps later. Martin's pit team dropped a fastener which came about him staying stationary for 21.7 seconds. Burton slowed down his vehicle which required his group to push him as far as possible of pit street. An eighth alert was activated on lap 242 when Yeley endeavored to drive down pit street, and Martin was moving toward him. Martin attempted to maintain a strategic distance from Yeley by directing left onto the turn four cook's garment however reached him. Martin at that point spun and went hard into the tri-oval divider; his vehicle went airborne. Robby Gordon couldn't maintain a strategic distance from the scuffle and hit Yeley. Gordon therefore spun into the front stretch grass however proceeded. 

Earnhardt made a pit stop on lap 244, trailed by Kahne on the accompanying lap. Edwards picked up the lead and kept up it at the lap-252 restart, trailed by Earnhardt and Kahne. Five laps later, Kahne passed Edwards to recover the lead as they went over slower vehicles and started to pull away. Trash was situated on the track on lap 276, requiring the race's ninth alert. The pioneers chose to make pit quits amid the alert. Kahne kept up his lead at the lap-281 restart and pulled far from Earnhardt. Jeff Gordon passed Nemechek to move into fourth spot on the accompanying lap. Jeff Gordon's motor flopped after he crossed the begin complete line on lap 302, setting off the race's last alert. The pioneers, including Kahne, made pit stops for fuel under alert. Johnson drove the field at the lap-307 restart, in front of Kahne, Earnhardt and Burton. Kahne swung ideal to the track's outside and passed Johnson around within thusly one for the lead on the 309th lap. Burton (who felt a vibration from his vehicle) disregarded Earnhardt to take third position seven laps later. Kahne expanded his preference over Johnson in the staying seventeen laps to win the race and turned into the eighth driver to win the two points races at Lowe's Motor Speedway in a timetable year. Johnson completed second, in front of Burton in third, Earnhardt was fourth and Bobby Labonte fifth. Kyle Busch, Raines, Edwards, Nemechek, and Vickers balanced the best ten. The race had an aggregate of ten alerts and thirty-four lead changes by thirteen unique drivers. Kahne drove multiple times for an aggregate of 134 laps, more than some other contender. The success was the seventh of Kahne's Cup Series vocation and the remainder of an arrangement high six triumphs he posted in 2006. 

Kahne showed up in triumph path before the horde of 170,000 to commend his 6th success of the period, which earned him $305,889. Kahne was charmed with his triumph and said thanks to the general population who chipped away at his vehicle's transmission and back: "We had an extraordinary vehicle. It was mind boggling throughout the night. I pummeled it into second rigging toward the finish of pit street one time and I thought I needed to break something. This isn't the extraordinary vehicle. This current vehicle's been great two different occasions this year, yet it went to squander. It's only a great group." Second-place finisher Johnson said he completed the occasion where he kept running in its length: "I just made up ten. In any case, ten points is ten." Third-place finisher Burton was glad to recoup from a tire issue from the past race at Talladega Superspeedway. In any case, he was disturbed that he slowed down his motor as he felt it cost him the shot of triumph. Burton additionally said his late-race vibration was sufficient to frighten him and was happy the race finished due to the measure of shiver originating from his vehicle: "I shouted, 'We have a wheel free, we got a wheel free' and they stated, we don't have a wheel free, we realize we got them tight." 

Not long after leaving his vehicle, Martin expressed his conviction that it was impractical for him to secure the title: "They disclose to me many individuals are experiencing difficulty at any rate, yet we didn't have to discard that." He said he was ignorant that Yeley planned to make a pit stop and, from his perspective, it permitted Kenseth to pass him while Yeley was originating from the focal point of the track. Yeley said the pit stop was arranged and flagged his aims to Martin for over a mile. He felt Martin set him in a situation to hit the backstretch divider. Hamlin said the primary lap crash that he was engaged with was a piece of auto hustling, and expressed it was tricky being associated with challenges in the Chase for the Nextel Cup: "We looked up and another person (Waltrip) didn't. I set myself back there in qualifying. We'll face the facts and go on." Seventh-place finisher Raines was upbeat to hold the primary position for 28 laps saying it was "additional uncommon" to lead a race at Charlotte. Tom Bowles of "Frontstretch" opined that had the alert banner not been shown for the three security vehicles on lap nine, it could have brought about "a standout amongst the most grievous mishaps in NASCAR history." 

Johnson and Burton expressed it was hard to accomplish a cadence in light of the little power devices ordered for the race and the hard-compound tires. Temperatures had been hotter than the earlier day's Busch Series race and this gave the drivers more hold albeit sliding was seen amid the two occasions. McMurray noted it was hard to drive nearby different vehicles and that different contenders drove mindfully. Kenny Francis, Kahne's team boss, expressed that he liked to see longer runs yet knew that wellbeing must be thought about. Four days after the race, Penske Racing South was given punishments for Kurt Busch's vehicle. The punishments, for "activities inconvenient to stock vehicle hustling"; "vehicle, vehicle parts, segments as well as hardware that don't adjust to NASCAR rules"; and a correct back safeguard that did not pack, incorporated a $25,000 fine and a two race suspension for group boss Roy McCauley who was put on post trial supervision until December 31, 2006. Group boss Matt Gimbel assumed control over McCauley's job at the following race end of the week. Group proprietor Roger Penske and Kurt Busch were punished 50 points in the Owners' and Drivers' Championships. The next day, Penske Racing South reported it would not bid the punishments. 

The outcome kept Burton in the number one spot of the Drivers' Championship with 5,763, in front of Kenseth, who had 5,718. Harvick moved into third with 5,674, thirteen in front of Martin who tumbled to fourth. Earnhardt moved before Hamlin for fifth, and Johnson, Kahne and Kyle Busch filled positions seven to nine. After the race, Jeff Gordon (who tumbled to tenth) said he would attempt to win races to come back to conflict for the title. In the Manufacturers' Championship, Chevrolet kept up the lead with 237. Avoid stayed in second with 179, six in front of Ford. The race took three hours, forty-seven minutes and twenty-nine seconds to finish, and the edge of triumph was 1.624 seconds.