U.S. Highway 491 

U.S. Highway 491 (US 491) is a north– south U.S. Roadway serving the Four Corners locale of the United States. One of the most up to date assignments in the U.S. Interstate System, it was made in 2003 as a renumbering of U.S. Highway 666 (US 666). With the 666 assignment, this street was nicknamed the "Fiend's Highway" as a result of the essentialness of number 666 to numerous Christian sections, which is accepted by some that 666 is the Number of the Beast. This Satanic implication, joined with a high casualty rate along the New Mexico divide, persuaded a few people the roadway was reviled. The issue was aggravated by constant sign robbery. These elements prompted two endeavors to renumber the parkway, first by authorities in Arizona, later in New Mexico. There have been wellbeing improvement extends lately, and casualty rates have along these lines diminished. 

The thruway, presently a goad course of US 91 by means of its association with US 191, goes through Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah, just as the innate countries of the Navajo Nation and Ute Mountain Ute Tribe. The thruway goes by two mountains thought about hallowed by Native Americans: Ute Mountain and a wiped out volcanic center named Shiprock. Different highlights along the course incorporate Mesa Verde National Park and Dove Creek, Colorado, oneself declared pinto-bean capital of the world. 

US 491 serves the conditions of New Mexico, Colorado and Utah. Prior to 1992, US 666 additionally served Arizona. The Arizona partition was renumbered independently and is currently part of US 191. The previous US 666 was the main parkway to have gone through every one of the Four Corners states, despite the fact that it never drew close to the Four Corners Monument, which is gotten to by means of US 160. At a few points along US 491, mountain goes in the majority of the Four Corners states are noticeable from a solitary area. The arrangement of the interstate is for the most part north– south, anyway the Utah parcel is marked east– west. 

US 491 starts at Gallup, at an intersection with Interstate 40 (I-40), and as of now runs north along Muñoz Drive. The steering has changed to sidestep the downtown region. The first course utilized ninth Street, beginning at US 66. US 491 leaves Gallup and goes north through the eastern portion of the Navajo Nation. En route, the street goes through the little innate networks and exchanging posts of Tohatchi, Buffalo Springs, Naschitti, Sheep Springs and Newcomb. The Navajo innate capital at Window Rock, Arizona, is only west of the expressway passageway, gotten to by State Road 264 (NM 264). The biggest city served by US 491 is Shiprock, which takes its name from one of a few terminated spring of gushing lava centers in the territory. Shiprock is known as "the winged shake" in the Navajo language, and the mountain is viewed as sacrosanct by the Navajo individuals. 

Shiprock is the place the US 491 crosses the San Juan River and is quickly simultaneous with US 64. In the wake of passing Shiprock, the course proceeds with north to the Colorado state line. The New Mexico parcel has been assigned the "John Pinto Highway" by the New Mexico state lawmaking body. 

It is on the Trails of the Ancients Byway, one of the assigned New Mexico Scenic Byways. 

The New Mexico – Colorado state line is the place the interstate goes from the Navajo Nation to Ute Mountain Ute innate grounds. The expressway goes toward the east of the clan's namesake, Ute Mountain, accepted to have a place with an incredible warrior divine force of the Ute People. US 491 continues askew toward the northwest in the outrageous southwestern corner of the state. The interstate ways out inborn grounds close Cortez and Mesa Verde National Park. In the wake of leaving Cortez, the street bit by bit ascends in rise while continuing towards Utah. Here, the course includes huge pinto bean cultivating locales including Dove Creek, which charges itself as the "pinto bean capital of the world". Gulches of the Ancients National Monument is situated along the rising, only west of the parkway. Along this rising is a frontage road for Hovenweep National Monument at the state line. A part of the street in Colorado has been assigned the Trail of the Ancients, a National Scenic Byway, which utilizes US 491 as an entrance for these parks and landmarks in southwest Colorado. 

Once in Utah, US 491 progressively climbs to the Abajo Mountains. Still unmistakable are vast cultivating districts. After achieving a height of , the expressway touches base at a checkpoint and achieves the town of Monticello. US 491 enters the town on Central Street and ends close to the city park at a convergence with US 191, which keeps running along Main Street. All expressways in Utah are classified into law; US 491 is characterized at Utah Code Annotated §72-4-137(11). 

Prior to the Mexican– American War, when this region was surrendered to the United States, the principle exchange course through this piece of Mexico was the Old Spanish Trail. This trail stretched out from Santa Fe, New Mexico to Los Angeles. The trail had different courses; in any case, the fundamental course continued north towards Moab, Utah, one of only a handful couple of spots where the Colorado River can be crossed without navigating steep precipices. The cutting edge US 491 generally corresponds with the fundamental course of the Old Spanish Trail between Cortez, Colorado and its northern end. 

Prior to 1926, all of present day US 491 existed as state courses. In New Mexico, US 666 consumed a bit of State Road 32 (NM 32) from Gallup to Shiprock, and totally supplanted NM 121 from Shiprock to the Colorado state line. The segment in Colorado was numbered State Highway 108 (SH 108) from the New Mexico state line to Cortez, and SH 10 from Cortez to Utah. At the time, SH 10 navigated the southern segment of Colorado. While the vast majority of this course was consumed by the U.S. Thruway System, a bit of despite everything it exists. In Utah, the course was initially numbered State Route 9 (SR 9), which likewise included what is presently US 191 from Monticello to Crescent Junction. Utah has since re-utilized the SR 9 assignment for an alternate street. 

The course was moved up to a U.S. Interstate in 1926, as U.S. Highway 666. This number was fitting and as per the street numbering rules for U.S. Expressways, being the 6th goad along the parkway's parent interstate, the popular cross-mainland thruway U.S. Highway 66, from which US 491 breaks around Gallup, New Mexico. This number was allocated by the American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO), a planning body that made the U.S. Parkway System. Around then, the northern end of the course was in Cortez, at a convergence with then US 450 (present day US 160). 

After some time the course wound up known as the "Villain's Highway", a reference to the Number of the Beast. This moniker and affiliation made a few guests awkward, just as making the signs focuses for burglary. Due to the thruway's number, mishaps and other wonders ended up rehashed as legend. These legends persuaded a few people the parkway was reviled. One anonymous expressway watch officer was cited in "USA Today" as expressing an alcoholic driving suspect let him know, "Triple 6 is insidious. Everybody kicks the bucket on that expressway." Skeptics call attention to that the interstate has a lower than normal casualty rate in Utah and Colorado; just the New Mexico divide is factually a hazardous roadway. Doubters further express the high casualty rate in New Mexico can be clarified by a deficient plan for the traffic loads at the time. A few people recommended that the interstate upgrades, began in the meantime as the renumbering, have accomplished more to diminish fatalities than the renumbering itself. 

The scourge of US 666 is quickly talked about in Jonathan D. Rosenblum's book, "Copper Crucible", which explores the Arizona Copper Mine Strike of 1983. This strike happened along the interstate close Morenci, Arizona. The roadway was utilized as a plot component in movies and TV, including "Route 666", "Characteristic Born Killers", and "Repo Man", just as a two-section scene of the arrangement "Wedded... with Children", titled "Route 666". These pieces are not exact in depicting the course; for instance, one delineates the course in Nevada. 

By 1942, the southern end of the course was stretched out to Douglas, Arizona, at the Mexican outskirt. It ran simultaneous with US 66 for 30 miles (48.3 km) before the turn south. The Arizona bit of the roadway is known as the Coronado Trail Scenic Byway, as it approximated the way of the Spanish adventurer, Francisco Vásquez de Coronado. This part is noted for hilly territory, with fastener turns and soak reviews, that achieves an elevation of over . The bends compel a speed farthest point of in spots. 

In 1970, a few U.S. Interstates in the Four Corners district were re-adjusted. As a component of this change, US 160 was rerouted west of Cortez to serve the Four Corners Monument and enter Arizona rather than Utah. US 666 was reached out up some portion of the old course of US 160 to Monticello, Utah, at a crossing point with then US 163 (presently US 191). 

In 1985, the Utah Department of Transportation appealed to stretch out US 666 northwest to Richfield, however the proposition was rejected. The proposed expansion pursued SR 95, SR 24, and SR 119. A simultaneousness with US 191 would have been directed through Blanding and Monticello to interface with the remainder of the course. One reason refered to for dismissing the proposition was that parts of SR 24 were not worked to gauges wanted for increments to the U.S. Thruway System. 

In 1985, the US 66 assignment was dispensed with, leaving US 666 (and different courses) as "vagrants". This reality would be utilized as a supporting element in later petitions to renumber the expressway. In 1992, the part in Arizona was renumbered as an expansion of US 191. This truncated US 666 again at Gallup, New Mexico, presently at I-40. 

The course in the other three states moved toward becoming U.S. Highway 491 of every 2003, for the most part through endeavors of New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson. He mentioned the change due to the "notoriety brought by the inconvenient naming of the street". While battling for senator, Richardson guaranteed to renumber the expressway as a feature of a bigger arrangement to improve the parkway and assemble relations between New Mexico and the Navajo Nation. Albeit customary Navajo culture does not share the conviction of 666 being an insidious number, a few Navajos had endeavored for quite a long time to change the number as an approach to bring issues to light about the perilous roadway. The thruway had to a great extent been overlooked, with couple of upgrades made since it was first cleared. By 1997, US 666 was named one of the 20 most hazardous parkways in the United States. Some Navajo heads were worried that endeavors to lessen destitution on Navajo lands, by means of advancing the travel industry and outside venture, were being hampered by the Christian repugnance for the number. 

In New Mexico's movement to renumber the thruway, they chose U.S. Route 393. Since the course came not even close to US 93, AASHTO rather recommended US 491, noticing it as a part of US 191 at Monticello, Utah. Despite the fact that the following three-digit offspring of US 91 would have been U.S. Route 291, both the 291 and 391 assignments were at that point being used as state course numbers in no less than one of the influenced states. At the news that the movement had passed, a New Mexico representative expressed, "The villain's gone, and we bid a fond farewell and no love lost." Referring to the movement going with an alternate number from what New Mexico mentioned, another representative reacted, "As long as it's not 666 and it's not all that much, that is OK." US 666 formally stopped to exist on May 31, 2003, albeit brief "New 491 – Old 666" signs were presented after the change on help explorers utilizing old maps. 

Albeit sign burglary has dependably been an issue along this thruway, burglaries achieved plague extents when the pending number change was declared. Inside days of the declaration, for all intents and purposes each US 666 sign had been stolen, some available to be purchased on eBay. Authorities in Utah announced that five whole sign gatherings had been chopped down with a cutting apparatus and stolen, while New Mexico authorities detailed that even signs welded to metal posts, as a robbery obstacle, had been stolen. Authorities conjectured from one scene that somebody had deliberately slammed a vehicle into the sign post to break the welds. 

The devotion of the "new" roadway was deferred until July 30, 2003, to harmonize with the beginning of development tasks to improve wellbeing on the parkway. At the devotion George Blue Horse, a Navajo prescription man, played out a function to expel the revile from the thruway. In the Navajo language he expressed, "The street itself never closes. It goes on age to age. The new number is a decent one. The new street will be a drug." 

Papers and TV slots talked with individuals along the course about their sentiments on the changing of the thruway's number. Indeed, even a few people who had faith in the 666 revile couldn't help contradicting the change. One went on record as expressing thruway authorities, "are upsetting the wrong person. They're making the fiend frantic. They ought to have disregarded the 666." Others were increasingly wry. One Monticello occupant expressed, "We'll truly miss every one of the potheads halting and taking photos of the Route 666 sign." Most inhabitants invested wholeheartedly in living along the Devil's Highway and contradicted the change. Some remarked that regardless of the number they would in any case consider the street the Devil's Highway. 

Since the renumbering in 2003, bits of US 491 in New Mexico have been moved up to a four-path isolated thruway, with grade divisions at the busiest exchanges. The New Mexico Department of Transportation has noticed that, as areas are updated, casualty rates enhance the four-path partitions, yet stay high on the two-path parcels. As development has continued, the most risky parts of the expressway have moved to focuses where the four-path parcel closures, and traffic converges to two paths. This has made the office organize the periods of the moves up to limit the quantity of two-path/four-path changes. Development on the last stage was initially booked to start January 2008, anyway the state connected for American Recovery and Reinvestment Act assets to complete the task and consummation was deferred until 2012. 

Note: The Utah mileposts are presented in a west-on east course, while Colorado's and New Mexico's mileposts are presented in a south-on north bearing.