Alice in Chains 

Alice in Chains is an American musical crew from Seattle, Washington, shaped in 1987 by guitarist and vocalist Jerry Cantrell and drummer Sean Kinney, who later enrolled bassist Mike Starr and lead vocalist Layne Staley. Starr was supplanted by Mike Inez in 1993. William DuVall joined the band in 2006 as co-lead vocalist and musicality guitarist, supplanting Staley, who kicked the bucket in 2002. The band took its name from Staley's past gathering, the glitz metal band Alice N' Chains. 

Albeit generally connected with grunge music, the band's sound fuses substantial metal components. Since its development, Alice in Chains has discharged six studio collections, three EPs, three live collections, four gatherings, two DVDs, 32 music recordings and 31 singles. The band is known for its unmistakable vocal style, which frequently incorporated the orchestrated vocals among Staley and Cantrell (and later Cantrell and William DuVall). Cantrell began to sing lead vocals on the 1992 acoustic EP "Sap", and his job kept on developing in the accompanying collections, making Alice in Chains a two-vocal band. 

Alice in Chains rose to universal acclaim as a component of the grunge development of the mid 1990s, alongside other Seattle groups, for example, Nirvana, Pearl Jam, and Soundgarden. The band was a standout amongst the best music demonstrations of the 1990s, selling more than 30 million records around the world, and more than 14 million records in the only us, with two No. 1 collections and six Top 10 collections on the "Board 200" graph. The band has had 18 Top 10 melodies on Billboard's Mainstream Rock Tracks outline, 5 No. 1 hits, and 11 Grammy Award selections. Their presentation collection, "Facelift", highlighting the hit single "Man in the Box", was discharged in 1990 and has been affirmed twofold platinum by the RIAA, selling more than two million duplicates. In 1992, the band's second collection, "Earth", was discharged to basic approval and was confirmed fourfold platinum. Their second acoustic EP, "Container of Flies", appeared at No. 1 on the "Bulletin" 200 outline in 1994, turning into the first ever EP and first Alice in Chains discharge to top the graphs, and it has been ensured triple platinum. The band's third collection, "Alice in Chains" appeared at No. 1 on the "Bulletin" 200 out of 1995 and is guaranteed twofold platinum. 

Albeit never authoritatively disbanding, Alice in Chains was tormented by broadened dormancy from 1996 onwards because of Staley's substance misuse, which brought about his passing in 2002. The band rejoined in 2005 for a live advantage appear, performing with various visitor vocalists. They visited in 2006, with William DuVall taking over as lead vocalist full-time. The new line-up discharged the band's fourth studio collection, "Dark Gives Way to Blue", in 2009, which appeared at No. 5 on the Billboard 200, got gold affirmation by the RIAA and two Grammy designations. The lead single, "Check My Brain", turned into the main Alice in Chains tune to graph on the Billboard Hot 100, cresting at No. 92. Their fifth studio collection, "The Devil Put Dinosaurs Here", was discharged in 2013 and appeared at No. 2 on the Billboard 200. The band visited broadly and discharged a few recordings in help of these collections. Alice in Chains' 6th studio collection, "Rainier Fog", was discharged on August 24, 2018, appeared at No. 12 on the Billboard 200 and got a Grammy selection for Best Rock Album. 

Before the arrangement of Alice in Chains, at that point drummer Layne Staley handled his first gig as a vocalist when he tried out to sing for a nearby glitz metal band known as Sleze in the wake of accepting some support from his stepbrother Ken Elmer. Different individuals from this gathering around then were guitarists Johnny Bacolas and Zoli Semanate, drummer James Bergstrom, and bassist Byron Hansen. This band experienced a few lineup changes coming full circle with Nick Pollock as their sole guitarist and Bacolas changing to bass before dialogs emerged about changing their name to "Alice in Chains". This was incited by a discussion that Bacolas had with Russ Klatt, the lead vocalist of Slaughter Haus 5, about behind the stage passes. One of the passes said "Welcome to Wonderland", and they began discussing that being a reference to Alice in Wonderland, until Klatt stated, "Shouldn't something be said about Alice in Chains? Place her in subjugation and stuff that way." Bacolas thought the name "Alice in Chains" was cool and conveyed it up to his Sleze bandmates and everybody loved it, so they chose to change the name of the band. Because of worries over the reference to female servitude, the gathering eventually spelled it distinctively as Alice N' Chains to mollify any parental concerns, however Staley's mom Nancy McCallum has said she was as yet not content with this name at first. As per Bacolas, the choice to utilize the punctuation N blend in their name had nothing to do with the Los Angeles band Guns N' Roses. The name change occurred in 1986, a year prior to Guns N' Roses turned into an easily recognized name with their first collection "Craving for Destruction", discharged in July 1987. 

Staley met guitarist Jerry Cantrell at a gathering in Seattle around August 1987. A couple of months before that, Cantrell had watched a show of Staley's then-band, "Alice N' Chains", in the place where he grew up at the Tacoma Little Theater, and was awed by his voice. Cantrell was destitute in the wake of being kicked out of his family's home, so Staley welcomed Cantrell to live with him at the practice studio Music Bank, and the two battling performers progressed toward becoming flat mates. 

Alice N' Chains before long disbanded, and Staley joined a funk band. Cantrell's band, Diamond Lie, separated and he needed to frame another band, so Staley gave him the telephone number of Melinda Starr, the sweetheart of drummer Sean Kinney, so that Cantrell could converse with him. Cantrell called the number and set up a gathering with Kinney. Kinney and his better half went to the Music Bank and tuned in to Cantrell's demos, who referenced that they required a bass player to stick with them, and he had somebody at the top of the priority list: Mike Starr, with whom Cantrell had played in a band in Burien called Gypsy Rose. Kinney then referenced that his better half was really Mike Starr's sister, and that he had been playing in groups together with Starr since they were kids. Kinney called Starr and a couple of days after the fact he began sticking with him and Cantrell at the Music Bank, however they didn't have a vocalist. 

Staley's funk band additionally required a guitarist at the time, and Staley asked Cantrell to join as a sideman. Cantrell conceded to condition that Staley join his band. Since Cantrell, Starr and Kinney needed Staley to be their lead vocalist, they began trying out horrendous lead artists before Staley to send an insight. The final irritation that will be tolerated for Staley was the point at which they tried out a male stripper – he chose to join the band after that. In the end the funk venture separated, and in 1987 Staley joined Cantrell's band on a full-time premise. Two weeks after the band's development, they were playing a gig at the University of Washington, attempting to round out a 40-minute set with two or three unique material alongside Hanoi Rocks and David Bowie covers. 

The band played two or three gigs in clubs around the Pacific Northwest, calling themselves diverse monikers, including Diamond Lie, the name of Cantrell's past band, and "Fuck", before in the end receiving the name that Staley's past band had at first played with, "Alice in Chains". Staley reached his previous bandmates and requested authorization to utilize the name. Scratch Pollock wasn't especially excited about it at the time and figured he should concoct an alternate name, in any case both he and James Bergstrom gave Staley their approval to utilize the name. 

Neighborhood advertiser Randy Hauser ended up mindful of the band at a show and offered to pay for demo chronicles. Nonetheless, one day before the band was because of record at the Music Bank studio in Washington, police shut down the studio amid the greatest cannabis assault ever of state. The last demo, finished in 1988, was named "The Treehouse Tapes" and discovered its way to the music supervisors Kelly Curtis and Susan Silver, who additionally dealt with the Seattle-based band Soundgarden. Curtis and Silver passed the demo on to Columbia Records' A&R delegate Nick Terzo, who set up a meeting with mark president Don Ienner. In light of "The Treehouse Tapes", Terzo marked Alice in Chains to Columbia in 1989. The band likewise recorded another untitled demo over a three-month time frame in 1989. This account can be found on the contraband discharge "Sweet Alice". 

Alice in Chains before long turned into a top need of the name, which discharged the band's first official chronicle in July 1990, a limited time EP called "We Die Young". The EP's lead single, "We Die Young", turned into a hit on metal radio. After its prosperity, the name surged Alice in Chains' presentation collection into creation with maker Dave Jerden. Cantrell expressed the collection was planned to have an "ill humored air" that was an "immediate consequence of the agonizing climate and feel of Seattle". 

The subsequent collection, "Facelift", was discharged on August 21, 1990, topping at number 42 in the late spring of 1991 on the "Bulletin" 200 diagram. "Facelift" was not a moment achievement, selling under 40,000 duplicates in the initial a half year of discharge, until MTV included "Man in the Box" to customary daytime pivot. The single hit number 18 on the Mainstream shake diagrams, with the collection's subsequent single, "Ocean of Sorrow", achieving number 27, and in about a month and a half "Facelift" sold 400,000 duplicates in the US. The collection was a basic achievement, with Steve Huey of AllMusic refering to "Facelift" as "a standout amongst the most essential records in building up a group of people for grunge and elective shake among hard shake and overwhelming metal audience members". Sammy Hagar asserted he welcomed the band to visit with Van Halen after he saw the music video for "Man In The Box" on MTV. 

"Facelift" was guaranteed gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for selling a half-million duplicates on September 11, 1991, turning into the principal collection from Seattle's Grunge development to be affirmed gold. The band kept on sharpening its gathering of people, opening for such specialists as Iggy Pop, Van Halen, Poison, and Extreme. "Facelift" has since been confirmed triple-platinum by the RIAA, for shipments of three million duplicates in the United States. 

The show at the Moore Theater in Seattle on December 22, 1990, was recorded and discharged on VHS on July 30, 1991 as "Live Facelift". It highlights five live tunes and three music recordings. The home video has been ensured gold by the RIAA for deals surpassing 50,000 duplicates. 

In mid 1991, Alice in Chains handled the opening space for the Clash of the Titans visit with Anthrax, Megadeth, and Slayer, presenting the band to a wide metal group of onlookers yet getting for the most part poor gathering. Alice in Chains was designated for a Best Hard Rock Performance Grammy Award in 1992 for "Man in the Box" yet lost to Van Halen for their 1991 collection "For Unlawful Carnal Knowledge". 

Following the visit, Alice in Chains entered the studio to record demos for its next collection, however wound up account five acoustic tunes. While in the studio, drummer Sean Kinney had a fantasy about "making an EP called "Sap"". The band chose "not to disturb destiny", and on February 4, 1992, Alice in Chains discharged their second EP, "Sap". The EP was discharged while Nirvana's "Don't worry about it" was at the highest point of the "Announcement" 200 diagrams, bringing about a rising prominence of Seattle-based groups, and of the expression "grunge music". "Sap" was guaranteed gold inside about fourteen days. The EP highlights Cantrell on lead vocals on the opening track, "Sibling", and visitor vocals by Ann Wilson from the band Heart, who joined Staley and Cantrell for the melodies of "Sibling" and "Am I Inside". The EP additionally includes Mark Arm of Mudhoney and Chris Cornell of Soundgarden, who imparted vocals to Staley and Cantrell on the melody "Right Turn", credited to "Alice Mudgarden" in the liner notes. 

In 1992, Alice in Chains showed up in the Cameron Crowe film "Singles", executing as a "bar band". The band additionally contributed the melody "Would?" to the film's , whose video gotten an honor for Best Video from a Film at the 1993 MTV Video Music Awards. 

In March 1992, the band came back to the studio. With new melodies composed basically out and about, the material has a by and large darker feel than "Facelift", with six of the collection's thirteen tunes managing the subject of fixation. "We completed a great deal of soul seeking on this collection. There's a ton of extreme sentiments." Cantrell stated, "We manage our every day devils through music. The majority of the toxic substance that develops amid the day we wash down when we play". 

On September 29, 1992, Alice in Chains discharged its second collection, "Earth". The collection topped at number six on the "Board" 200 and since its discharge has been confirmed fourfold platinum by the RIAA, making "Earth" the band's most noteworthy pitching collection to date. The collection was a basic achievement, with Steve Huey of Allmusic commending the collection as a "noteworthy creative proclamation, and the nearest they at any point came to recording a level out perfect work of art". Chris Gill of "Guitar World" called "Earth" "immense and premonition, yet scary and private", and "brilliantly dull and severely genuine". 

"Soil" brought forth five top 30 singles, "Would?", "Chicken", "Them Bones", "Furious Chair", and "Down in a Hole", and stayed on the outlines for about two years. Alice in Chains was added as openers to Ozzy Osbourne's "No More Tours" visit. Days before the visit started, Layne Staley broke his foot in an ATV mishap, driving him to utilize bolsters in front of an audience. 

Starr left the band soon after the Hollywood Rock show in Rio de Janeiro on January 22, 1993, expressing that he needed to invest more energy with his family. Staley told "Moving Stone" in 1994 about Starr leaving the band, "It was only a distinction in needs. We needed to proceed with extraordinary visiting and press. Mike was prepared to return home." Years after the fact, Starr guaranteed that he was terminated because of his chronic drug use. 

Starr was supplanted by previous Ozzy Osbourne bassist Mike Inez. Inez had met Alice in Chains amid Ozzy Osbourne's "No More Tours" visit and progressed toward becoming companions with them. At the point when the band was in Brazil, they called Inez to go along with them and he acknowledged. Inez needed to do the shows in Brazil and even got his inoculation shots, yet the band got back to him advising that Starr needed to do the last two shows in Brazil, so they would meet Inez in London. Inez wound up becoming ill with his inoculation shots for two or three days. Inez played his first show with Alice in Chains on January 27, 1993 at the Camden Underworld in London. 

In April 1993, the band recorded two melodies with Inez, "What the heck Have I" and "A Little Bitter", for the "Last Action Hero" soundtrack. Amid the late spring of 1993, Alice in Chains visited with the elective music celebration Lollapalooza, their last significant visit with Staley. 

Following Alice in Chains' broad 1993 world visit, Staley said the band "simply needed to go into the studio for a couple of days with our acoustic guitars and see what occurred". "We never truly anticipated the music we set aside a few minutes to be discharged. In any case, the record mark heard it and they truly enjoyed it. For us, it was only the experience of four folks getting together in the studio and making some music." 

Columbia Records discharged Alice in Chains' second acoustic-based EP, "Container of Flies", on January 25, 1994. Composed and recorded in multi week, "Container of Flies" appeared at number one on the "Announcement" 200, turning into the first EP—and first Alice in Chains discharge—to top the diagrams. 

Paul Evans of "Moving Stone" called the EP "dimly ravishing", and Steve Huey stated, "'Jar of Flies' is a serene shocker, painfully beautiful and harrowingly dismal at the same time". "Container of Flies" highlights Alice in Chains' first number-one single on the Mainstream Rock outlines, "No Excuses". The second single, "I Stay Away", achieved number ten on the Mainstream shake diagrams, while the last single "Don't Follow", achieved number 25. "Container of Flies" has been guaranteed triple platinum by the RIAA, with more than 2 million duplicates sold in the United States amid its first year. "Container of Flies" got two Grammy selections, Best Hard Rock Performance for "I Stay Away", and Best Recording Package. 

After the arrival of "Container of Flies", Staley entered recovery for heroin fixation. The band was planned to visit amid the mid year of 1994 with Metallica, Suicidal Tendencies, Danzig, and Fight, just as an opening amid Woodstock '94, yet while in practice for the visit, Staley started utilizing heroin once more. Staley's condition incited the other band individuals to drop every booked date one day before the beginning of the visit, putting the band on rest. Alice in Chains was supplanted by Candlebox on the visit. Susan Silver's administration office conveyed an announcement saying that the choice to pull back from the Metallica visit and Woodstock was "because of medical issues inside the band". 

The band separated for a half year. Kinney told "Moving Stone" in 1996, "No one was being straightforward with one another in those days. In the event that we had continued onward, there was a decent shot we would have self-destructed out and about, and we certainly didn't need that to occur in broad daylight." 

While Alice in Chains was inert amid 1995, Staley joined the "grunge supergroup" Mad Season, which likewise highlighted Pearl Jam guitarist Mike McCready, bassist John Baker Saunders from The Walkabouts, and Screaming Trees drummer Barrett Martin. Distraught Season discharged one collection, "Above", for which Staley gave lead vocals and the collection work of art. The collection brought forth a number-two single, "Waterway of Deceit", just as a home video arrival of "Live at the Moore". 

In April 1995, Alice in Chains entered Bad Animals Studio in Seattle with maker Toby Wright, who had recently worked with Corrosion of Conformity and Slayer. While in the studio, a mediocre rendition of the melody "Granulate" was spilled to radio, and got major airplay. On October 6, 1995, the band discharged the studio adaptation of the tune to radio by means of satellite uplink to stem intemperate spread of taped duplicates of the melody. 

On November 7, 1995, Columbia Records discharged the eponymous collection, "Alice in Chains", which appeared at number one on the "Board" 200 and has since been affirmed triple platinum. Of the collection's four singles, "Granulate", "Once more", "Over Now", and "Paradise Beside You", three element Cantrell on lead vocals. Jon Wiederhorn of "Moving Stone" called the collection "freeing and illuminating, the tunes accomplish a frightening, amazing and discernable effect." 

On December 12, 1995, the band discharged the home video "The Nona Tapes", a mockumentary highlighting interviews with the band individuals led by columnist Nona Weisbaum (played by Jerry Cantrell), and the music video for "Pound". 

The tune "Misunderstood Me" out of the blue graphed three years after its discharge on the "Sap" EP. The tune was re-discharged as a solitary on the soundtrack for the free film "Representatives" in 1994, achieving number seven on the Mainstream Rock Tracks graph. The band picked not to visit in help of "Alice in Chains", adding to the gossipy tidbits about medication misuse. 

Alice in Chains reemerged on April 10, 1996, to play out their first show in over two years for "MTV Unplugged", a program highlighting all-acoustic set records. The execution highlighted a portion of the band's most astounding graphing singles, including "Chicken", "Down in a Hole", "Paradise Beside You", "No Excuses" and "Would?", and presented another tune, "Executioner Is Me", with Cantrell on lead vocals. The show stamped Alice in Chains' solitary appearance as a five-piece band, including second guitarist Scott Olson. A live collection of the execution was discharged in July 1996, appearing at number three on the "Board" 200, and was joined by a home video discharge, the two of which got platinum accreditation by the RIAA. Following the Unplugged show, Alice in Chains performed "Once more" on the TV show "Saturday Night Special" on April 20, 1996. The band likewise showed up on "The Late Show with David Letterman" on May 10, 1996, playing out the tunes "Once more" and "We Die Young". 

Alice in Chains performed four shows supporting the rejoined unique Kiss lineup on their 1996/97 Alive/Worldwide Tour, including the last live appearance of Layne Staley on July 3, 1996, in Kansas City, Missouri. Not long after the show, Staley was discovered inert after he overdosed on heroin and was taken to the emergency clinic. Despite the fact that he recouped, the band was compelled to go on rest. 

Despite the fact that Alice in Chains never formally disbanded, Staley turned into a loner, once in a while leaving his Seattle townhouse following the passing of his ex-life partner Demri Parrott because of a medication overdose on October 29, 1996. "Medications worked for me for a considerable length of time", Staley told "Moving Stone" in February 1996, "and now they're betraying me ... presently I'm strolling through hellfire and this sucks. I didn't need my fans to imagine that heroin was cool. Be that as it may, at that point I've had fans come up to me and offer me the go-ahead, revealing to me they're high. That is actually what I would not like to occur.". 

Unfit to proceed with new Alice in Chains material, Cantrell discharged his first solo collection, "Boggy Depot", in 1998, likewise highlighting Sean Kinney and Mike Inez. Cantrell and Kinney were additionally included on Metallica's 1998 collection "Carport Inc.", both were visitor performers in the track "Tuesday's Gone", a front of Lynyrd Skynyrd. 

In October 1998, Staley rejoined with Alice in Chains to record two new tunes, "Get Born Again" and "Kicked the bucket". Initially planned for Cantrell's second solo collection, the melodies were improved by Alice in Chains and were discharged in the fall of 1999 on the crate set, "Music Bank". The set contains 48 tunes, including rarities, demos, and recently discharged collection tracks and singles. The band additionally discharged a 15-track accumulation titled "", filling in as a sampler for "Music Bank", just as the band's first assemblage collection; a live collection, basically titled "Live", discharged on December 5, 2000; and a second arrangement, titled "Most prominent Hits" in 2001. 

In November 1998, Layne Staley recorded a front of Pink Floyd's "Another Brick in the Wall" with the supergroup Class of '99, framed by guitarist Tom Morello of Rage Against the Machine, bassist Martyn LeNoble, drummer Stephen Perkins, both from Jane's Addiction and Porno for Pyros, and keyboardist Matt Serletic. The melody was included on the soundtrack to the 1998 repulsiveness/science fiction film, "The Faculty". 

After they visited as a feature of Cantrell's performance band in 1998, Sean Kinney and Queensrÿche guitarist Chris DeGarmo framed another band called Spys4Darwin. Mike Inez and Sponge lead vocalist Vin Dombroski joined the supergroup before long. The band discharged their sole collection in 2001, a 6-track EP entitled "Microfish". In June 2001, Mike Inez joined Zakk Wylde's Black Label Society for the rest of the dates of Ozzfest, following the takeoff of bassist Steve Gibb because of restorative reasons. Inez joined the band again for their West Coast and Japanese visit in 2003. 

By 2002, Cantrell had completed work on his second solo collection, "Debasement Trip". Written in 1998, the collection's melodious substance centered intensely around what Cantrell viewed as the downfall of Alice in Chains, which still stayed obvious as the collection moved toward its June 2002 discharge. Nonetheless, in March that year, Cantrell remarked, "We're all still around, so it's conceivable [Alice in Chains] could all accomplish something sometime in the future, and I completely trust some time or another we will." 

Thinking about the band's break in a 2011 meeting, Kinney said that Staley wasn't the just a single doing combating enslavement. "He was the point of convergence, as are vocalists. So they'd single him out. In any case, the fact of the matter was, it was basically everyone. I unquestionably had my hand solidly on the wheel going off the precipice. What's more, the reason we pulled back – you know when you stop when you have two #1 records, it's not so much the best profession move – yet we did that since we adore one another and we would not like to kick the bucket in broad daylight. Furthermore, I know beyond a shadow of a doubt in my heart that if we somehow happened to proceed with that I wouldn't be on the telephone right presently conversing with you. I wouldn't have made it. I just wouldn't have." 

Following a time of doing combating illicit drug use, Layne Staley was discovered dead in his apartment suite in Seattle on April 19, 2002. The post-mortem and toxicology report on Staley's body uncovered that he passed on from a blend of heroin and cocaine, known as "speedball". The examination reasoned that Staley passed on April 5, two weeks before his body was found. Cantrell devoted his 2002 solo collection, "Debasement Trip", discharged two months after Staley's passing, to his memory. Mike Starr later guaranteed on "Big name Rehab" that he was the last individual to see Staley alive, and confessed to feeling remorseful about not calling 911 after Staley had cautioned him against it. "I wish I wasn't high on benzodiazepine [that night], I wouldn't have recently exited the entryway", Starr said. 

Following Staley's demise, Mike Inez joined Heart and visited and recorded with the band from 2002 through 2006. Jerry Cantrell teamed up with a few craftsmen, for example, Heart, Ozzy Osbourne, and Damageplan. In 2004, Cantrell framed the band Cardboard Vampyres alongside The Cult guitarist Billy Duffy, Motley Crue and Ratt vocalist John Corabi, The Cult bassist Chris Wyse and drummer Josh Howser. 

On October 22, 2004, Sony BMG ended their agreement with Alice in Chains, 15 years after the band marked with the name, in 1989. 

In 2005, Sean Kinney thought of completing an advantage show for the casualties of the wave catastrophe that struck South Asia in 2004. Kinney made calls to his previous bandmates, just as companions in the music network, for example, previous Alice in Chains supervisor Susan Silver. Kinney was amazed by the energetic reaction to his thought. On February 18, 2005, Jerry Cantrell, Mike Inez, and Sean Kinney rejoined to perform without precedent for a long time at "K-Rock Tsunami Continued Care Relief Concert" in Seattle. The band highlighted Damageplan vocalist Pat Lachman, just as other extraordinary visitors including Maynard James Keenan of Tool and Ann Wilson of Heart. A couple of months after that experience, the band called Susan Silver and Cantrell's supervisor Bill Siddons and said they needed to visit as Alice in Chains once more. 

Alice in Chains was drawn closer by the makers of the CBS unscripted TV drama "Demigod" about being highlighted on its second season, however the band turned the idea down. In the show, hopeful artists contended to turn into the lead vocalist of a highlighted gathering. 

On March 10, 2006, the enduring individuals performed at VH1's Decades Rock Live show, respecting individual Seattle artists Ann and Nancy Wilson of Heart. They played "Would?" with vocalist Phil Anselmo of Pantera and Down and bass player Duff McKagan of Guns N' Roses and Velvet Revolver, and toward the finish of the execution Cantrell devoted the show to Layne Staley and the late Pantera and Damageplan guitarist Dimebag Darrell. They likewise played "Chicken" with Comes with the Fall vocalist William DuVall and Ann Wilson. The band pursued the show with a short United States club visit, a few celebration dates in Europe, and a concise visit in Japan. Duff McKagan again joined the band for the get-together visit, playing musicality guitar on chose melodies. Amid the visit, the band played a 5-minute video tribute to Staley amid the changeover from the electric to acoustic set. 

To agree with the band's get-together, Sony Music discharged the since a long time ago postponed third Alice in Chains accumulation, "The Essential Alice in Chains", a twofold collection that incorporates 28 melodies. 

Jerry Cantrell met William DuVall in Los Angeles in 2000 through a shared colleague who acquainted Cantrell with Comes with the Fall's first collection. Cantrell began spending time with the band and once in a while went along with them in front of an audience. Somewhere in the range of 2001 and 2002, Comes with the Fall was both the opening follow up on Cantrell's visit for his second solo collection, "Debasement Trip", and furthermore his support band, with DuVall singing Staley's parts at the shows. DuVall joined Alice in Chains as lead artist amid the band's gathering shows in 2006, and made his first open execution with the band at VH1's "Decades Rock Live" show. As indicated by Cantrell, it just took one tryout for DuVall to get the gig. For his first practice with the band, DuVall sang "Love, Hate, Love". After they completed, Sean Kinney saw his bandmates and stated, "I think the inquiry is essentially finished". As indicated by Mike Inez, DuVall didn't endeavor to imitate Staley, and that is the thing that attracted them to him. 

Cantrell uncovered that before he proposed DuVall for the band, Sean Kinney and Mike Inez welcomed Sponge and Spys4Darwin lead vocalist Vin Dombroski to stick with the band in their practice space. Dombroski stuck with them to a few melodies however they didn't feel he was directly for the band. As per Cantrell, Stone Temple Pilots and Velvet Revolver lead artist Scott Weiland was additionally keen on joining the band. 

Cantrell clarified the get-together saying, "We need to celebrate what we did and the memory of our companion. We have played with some [singers] who can really bring it and add their very own thing to it without being a Layne clone. We're not keen on venturing on [Staley's] rich heritage. It's an extreme thing to experience. Do you adopt the Led Zeppelin strategy and never play again, in light of the fact that the person was that imperative? That is the methodology we've taken for a great deal of years. Or on the other hand, do you give it a shot, have a go at something? We're willing to take a risk on it. It's totally a get-together on the grounds that the three of us who're left are back together. In any case, it's not tied in with isolating and overlooking — it's tied in with recollecting and proceeding onward." Before the visit, Kinney referenced in a meeting that he would be keen on composing new material, however not as Alice in Chains. 

Amid the VH1 Rock Honors show regarding Heart on May 12, 2007, Alice in Chains played out Heart's "Barracuda" fronted by nation vocalist Gretchen Wilson. Heart's guitarist Nancy Wilson likewise gone along with them in front of an audience. 

Alice in Chains joined Velvet Revolver for a keep running of U.S. what's more, Canadian gigs from August through October 2007. Amid that visit, the band additionally performed four extraordinary acoustic-just shows, named as "The Acoustic Hour". The acoustic execution at The Rave/Eagles Club in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on August 31, 2007 was recorded for an up and coming live collection. 

On November 2, 2007, Alice in Chains played out a four-tune set at Benaroya Hall in Seattle for Matt Messina and the Symphony Guild's tenth commemoration advantage show for the Seattle Children's Hospital and Regional Medical Center. Notwithstanding the band's unique material, they likewise played a front of Led Zeppelin's "Kashmir" while upheld by more than 200 artists, including the Northwest Symphony Orchestra and the Northwest Girlchoir. 

Sean Kinney said about the band's gathering: "I never called Jerry; he never called me, and stated, 'Hello, we should recover the unite as one,' you know? We had been making each stride amazingly careful and moderate, and simply doing whatever feels right: If it's real and we're doing it for authentic reasons and we're all alright with it then we make a little stride. None of us is destitute. No one should be a stone goof ball, and you know, compliment them. That is to say, we don't generally work that way. So as long as it felt better and from the opportune spot and it's tied in with making music and continuing… ". 

About the weight being put on DuVall for supplanting Staley as lead vocalist, Cantrell stated, "To put all that weight on Will's shoulders is unjustifiable. We're simply making sense of how we fill in as a group. Despite the fact that the band has transformed, we've lost Layne, we've included Will, and there was no ground breaking strategy. Playing again in 2005 felt right, so we did the following thing and visited. We did it well ordered. It's something beyond making music, and it generally has been. We've been companions quite a while. We've been even more a family than most, and it must be alright from here", Cantrell said indicating his heart. 

Previous The Doors supervisor Bill Siddons and his administration organization, Core Entertainment, co-oversaw Alice in Chains with unique director Susan Silver from 2005 to 2007. 

The band began composing and demoing tunes for another collection with DuVall in April 2007. In any case, the band did not hint at further advancement until October 2008, when they declared that they had started recording with maker Nick Raskulinecz in the studio. 

Blabbermouth.net detailed in September 2008 that Alice in Chains would enter the studio that October to start recording another collection for a late spring 2009 discharge. 

On September 14, 2008, Alice in Chains performed at halftime amid the Seattle Seahawks versus San Francisco 49ers amusement at the CenturyLink Field (at that point named Qwest Field) in Seattle. The 12-minute execution for a horde of 67,000 individuals highlighted a front of Led Zeppelin's "Kashmir" joined by the Northwest Symphony Orchestra. 

In October 2008, Alice in Chains started recording its fourth studio collection at the Foo Fighters' Studio 606 in Los Angeles with maker Nick Raskulinecz. The band did not have a record mark at the time and the collection was supported by Jerry Cantrell and Sean Kinney. At the Revolver Golden God Awards, Cantrell said that the gathering had got done with account on March 18, 2009 and were blending the collection for a September discharge. The chronicle procedure was finished on Cantrell's 43rd birthday and furthermore that day that William DuVall's child was conceived. In April 2009, it was accounted for that the new Alice in Chains collection would be discharged by Virgin/EMI, making it the band's first name change in its 20 or more year vocation. Susan Silver, who began overseeing Alice in Chains in 1988, presently co-deals with the band with David Benveniste and his Velvet Hammer firm. 

On June 11, 2009, Blabbermouth.net announced that the new collection would be titled "Dark Gives Way to Blue" and was authoritatively set to be discharged on September 29, 2009. The title originally showed up on Amazon.com with no earlier declaration from the band. Also, it was declared that Elton John plays piano on the title track, a tribute to Layne Staley composed and sung by Cantrell. The collection includes new vocalist and musicality guitarist William DuVall imparting vocal obligations to lead guitarist/vocalist Jerry Cantrell, who sings lead vocals on the vast majority of the tunes. DuVall sings lead vocals on the tune "Last of My Kind". 

On June 30, 2009, the melody "A Looking in View" was made accessible for buy by means of iTunes and Amazon, and temporarily it was accessible as a free download through the official Alice in Chains site toward the beginning of July. In spite of the fact that it was not the collection's first radio single, Rock stations over the U.S. begun playing the tune. The music video for "A Looking in View" appeared by means of the band's legitimate site on July 7, 2009. The melody was named for a Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance. 

"Check My Brain" was discharged to radio stations as the principal official single from the collection on August 14, 2009, and was made accessible for buy on August 17, 2009. The music video for "Check My Brain" debuted on September 14, 2009. The tune was likewise designated for a Grammy Award for Best Hard Rock Performance. 

To advance the collection, the band discharged an EPK highlighting each of the four of the individuals being met while the Kiss cosmetics is being connected on them. An application for iPhone was discharged on October 27, 2009, highlighting melodies, music recordings, news, photographs and systems administration. 

Sean Kinney said about the new collection and the fans' blended responses about the band proceeding onward after Staley's demise: "Look, it's a major move to screwing stand up and proceed onward. A few people, the music associated with them so firmly, their sentiments, how they feel about it ... Unfortunately they have such an association yet they appear to act like it transpired. This happened to us and Layne's family, not them. This is really our lives. In case we're alright with it, for what reason wouldn't you be able to be? This transpired, this didn't transpire. In any case, this collection isn't about that, it's a greater all inclusive point. We're all going to screwing kick the bucket, we're all going to lose someone, and it screwing harms. How would you proceed onward? This record is us proceeding onward, and harming. That, to me, is a triumph. I as of now feel like I've won." "Now and again individuals ask us, 'Wouldn't Layne have been irritated that we did this?' And I disclose to them it would have been the inverse: he would have been annoyed that it took us such a long time to do this. We're not doing this for cash; there is no cash in the music business any longer. Jerry and I supported the entire collection, and we spent bunches of our own cash, since we have confidence in this. Also, one reason I'm doing this is so increasingly light is swung on to something where the light was killed." And Cantrell included: "We've visited far and wide, we've lost a few companions, we covered a dear companion, and someone that you can't screwing supplant, and after that we've picked by situation to get together once more. That transformed into 'possibly we can screwing do this.' And that transformed into this". 

In September 2008, it was declared that Alice in Chains would feature Australia's Soundwave Festival in 2009, close by Nine Inch Nails and Lamb of God. In February 2009, it was likewise reported that Alice in Chains would play at the third yearly Rock on the Range celebration. On August 1, 2009, Alice in Chains performed, alongside Mastodon, Avenged Sevenfold, and Glyder, at Marlay Park, Dublin as immediate help to Metallica. The band showed up on "Later... with Jools Holland" on November 10, 2009, performing "Exercise Learned", "Dark Gives Way to Blue", and "Check My Brain" as the last execution of the scene. 

To correspond with the band's European visit, Alice in Chains discharged its next single, "Your Decision", on November 16, 2009 in the UK and on December 1 in the US. The last single from the collection was "Exercise Learned" and was discharged to shake radio in mid-June 2010. 

"Dark Gives Way to Blue" appeared at No. 5 on the "Board" 200. On May 18, 2010, the collection was guaranteed gold by the RIAA for selling more than 500,000 duplicates in the U.S. The singles ""Check My Brain"" and ""Your Decision"" came to No. 1 on Billboard's Mainstream Rock Tracks, while ""Lesson Learned"" came to No. 4. ""Check My Brain"" was likewise the band's first #1 tune on the Alternative Songs outline, and on the Hot Rock Songs diagram, it additionally came to No. 92 on Billboard's Hot 100, turning into the band's first single to show up on the graph. 

Alongside Mastodon and Deftones, Alice in Chains visited the United States and Canada in late 2010 on the Blackdiamondskye visit, an amalgam of the three groups' most recent collection titles ("Black Gives Way to Blue", "Precious stone Eyes", and "Break the Skye"). 

On March 8, 2011, previous Alice in Chains bassist Mike Starr was discovered dead at his home in Salt Lake City. Police disclosed to Reuters they were called to Starr's home at 1:42 pm and discovered his body; Starr was 44. Reports later surfaced that Starr's flat mate had seen him blending methadone and nervousness prescription hours before he was discovered dead. Later reports showed Starr's passing may have been connected to two unique sorts of antidepressants endorsed to him by his specialist. An open commemoration was held for Starr at the Seattle Center's International Fountain on March 20, 2011. A private commemoration was additionally held, which Jerry Cantrell and Sean Kinney went to as indicated by Mike Inez. 

On March 21, 2011, Alice in Chains reported that they were chipping away at a fifth studio collection, and both Cantrell and Inez later made proclamations that they had started the chronicle procedure. The collection was required to be done by summer of 2012 and discharged before the finish of 2012 or start of 2013. While Alice in Chains were composing for the collection in 2011, Cantrell experienced medical procedure on his correct shoulder, which deferred recording the new material. In a meeting distributed in May 2012, Cantrell clarified, "what set me back is I had some bone goads [and] ligament issues in my shoulders. I had a similar issue in the other shoulder around six years prior so I've had them both done at this point. It's a dull movement damage from playing." Cantrell couldn't play guitar for eight months while he was recuperating from medical procedure. While recovering at home in a sling, Cantrell heard a riff in his mind and sang it into his telephone. The riff later turned into the melody "Stone". 

Alice in Chains played their first show in about 10 months and their first show after Cantrell's shoulder medical procedure on August 13, 2011 at the Winstar Casino in Thackerville, Oklahoma. The band played progressively three shows in 2011, at Canada's Rock on the Range celebration, Chile's Maquinaria celebration and Brazil's SWU celebration. 

Alice in Chains' solitary show in 2012 was a five-melody acoustic set on May 31 at the eighth yearly MusiCares MAP Fund Benefit Concert regarding Jerry Cantrell. 

On December 12, 2012, Cantrell affirmed that the new collection had been finished. The primary single, "Empty", appeared online on December 18, accessible for computerized download in January 2013, alongside an official music video. On February 13, 2013, Alice in Chains posted on Facebook that their new collection title would be a re-arranged word of the letters H V L E N T P S U S D A H I E O E D T I U R. The following day they declared that the collection would be designated "The Devil Put Dinosaurs Here", which was discharged on May 28, 2013, appearing at No. 2 on the "Bulletin" 200. 

To advance the collection, Alice in Chains collaborated with Funny or Die for a 11-minute mockumentary titled "", in which Film Studies teacher Alan Poole McLard (played by W. Baron Brown) endeavors to make a narrative on Alice in Chains with no assistance from the real band, meeting different artists. Among them are nation artist Donnie 'Skeeter' Dollarhide Jr. (played by Jerry Cantrell), Reggae artist Nesta Cleveland (played by William DuVall), Black Metal artist Unta Gleeben Glabben Globben Globin (played by Mike Inez) and the fashionable person Stanley Eisen (played via Sean Kinney). The video was discharged on April 3, 2013 and furthermore includes appearances by Ann and Nancy Wilson from Heart, Mike McCready from Pearl Jam, Kim Thayil from Soundgarden, Duff McKagan from Guns N' Roses, Brent Hinds and Bill Kelliher from Mastodon, and Lars Ulrich and Robert Trujillo from Metallica. 

In June 2013, the band discharged a pinball game application for iOS as a major aspect of "Pinball Rocks" HD accumulation, highlighting the single "Empty", the band's logo and the collection work of art, just as references to the band's past collections, for example, "Container of Flies" and oneself titled record. 

The band discharged recordings for the tunes "Empty", "Stone," "Voices," the title track and "Ghost Limb". ""Empty"" and ""Stone"" came to No. 1 on Billboard's Mainstream Rock Tracks, while ""Voices"" came to No. 3, and every last one of the three tunes remained on the outline for 20 weeks. "The Devil Put Dinosaurs Here" was named for a Grammy Award for Best Engineered Album, Non-Classical in 2014. 

Alice in Chains visited broadly in the U.S., Canada, and Europe in 2013 and 2014. In May 2013, the band co-featured the yearly MMRBQ celebration with Soundgarden in Camden, New Jersey. Inquired as to whether Alice in Chains would make another collection, Cantrell answered, "It'll be some time. It's [been] a long time since we set the last one out, however in any event it's not the hole that was between the last one, so that is about right - around three to four years." 

On January 18, 2015, Alice in Chains performed in the halftime show of the NFC Championship amusement between the Seattle Seahawks and the Green Bay Packers at the CenturyLink Field in Seattle. Cantrell is a long lasting Seahawks fan and frequently goes to their amusements. In August 2015, Bassist Mike Inez said that the band had been "tossing around riffs for another record" and "taking it decent and moderate". The band visited in the late spring of 2015 and the late spring of 2016, including select shows opening for Guns N' Roses as a major aspect of the Not in This Lifetime... Visit. The band completed their 2016 visit with a show at the Grand Sierra Resort and Casino in Reno, Nevada on October 8, 2016. 

In November 2016, Alice in Chains discharged a front of the Rush melody "Tears", which was incorporated into the 40th commemoration arrival of the collection "2112". 

The home video "Live Facelift" was discharged on vinyl out of the blue on November 25, 2016, as a feature of Record Store Day's Black Friday occasion. The collection highlights six melodies and just 5000 duplicates were issued. 

To praise the tenth commemoration of Record Store Day, on April 22, 2017 Legacy Recordings discharged ""Get Born Again"/"What the heck Have I"", an extraordinary 45 RPM twofold 7" single including four tracks remastered and accessible on vinyl out of the blue, "What the heck Have I", "A Little Bitter", "Get Born Again" and "Kicked the bucket". 

In January 2017, Mike Inez expressed in a meeting that the band had started deal with another collection. In June 2017, it was accounted for that the band would come back to Studio X (some time ago Bad Animals Studios) in Seattle to record another collection soon thereafter, for a conditional mid 2018 discharge. The sessions were helmed by Nick Raskulinecz, who created the band's last two collections. Studio X was where Alice in Chains recorded its 1995 self-titled collection. As per Inez, the band was not marked to a name, having finished its past two-record contract with the Universal Music Group. "This [upcoming album], we don't know where it's going to arrive ... That is to say, we financed ['Black Gives Way To Blue'] all alone as well, so we're not very stressed over that stuff. We've simply gotta get it out to ... a critical mark [with overall distribution]." 

The band began recording their 6th studio collection on June 12, 2017. On January 11, 2018, maker Nick Raskulinecz reported by means of Instagram that the collection was about completed and that there was just a single more day left of account. Amid a meeting with "Guitar World" distributed on April 11, 2018, Jerry Cantrell said that the collection was recorded at four studios. In the wake of chronicle at Studio X in Seattle, the band went to Nashville to record vocals and lead guitars at Nick Raskulinecz's home studio. In any case, Cantrell needed to take a startling break from work for two or three weeks subsequent to becoming ill on an outing to Cabo for Sammy Hagar's birthday. Cantrell had the band's specialist, Paul Figueroa, come in to his home and record a great deal of his vocals and performances there. The band wrapped up the collection at the Henson Recording Studios in Los Angeles. Cantrell additionally said he anticipates that the collection should be discharged "most likely at some point this late spring". 

At the press room of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction Ceremony on April 14, 2018, Cantrell uncovered that Alice in Chains had quite recently marked with BMG, and that they had wrapped up their new collection. 

Alice in Chains did not perform live in 2017. The band played out their first show since October 2016 at the House of Blues in Boston on April 28, 2018. In May 2018, Alice in Chains featured the celebrations Carolina Rebellion, Lunatic Luau, Pointfest, Northern Invasion, the WMMR BBQ celebration in Philadelphia, and the Rock on the Range celebration in Columbus, Ohio on May 18, 2018, in which they paid tribute to Chris Cornell on the main commemoration of his passing covering two Soundgarden tunes to close their set, "Chased Down" and "Training camp", separately. Toward the finish of the show, the lights in front of an audience explained "CC" for Chris Cornell and "SG" for Soundgarden as input rang out. The band began their European visit in June 2018, and featured the Tons Of Rock Festival in Norway close by Ozzy Osbourne and Helloween. Alice in Chains are likewise planned to feature KISW's Pain in the Grass celebration in August 2018. 

The band discharged another single, "The One You Know", by means of Spotify, Amazon and iTunes on May 3, 2018. A music video coordinated by Adam Mason was discharged on YouTube that day. "The One You Know" topped at No. 9 on Billboard's Mainstream Rock outline. 

Amid a meeting with Eddie Trunk on "Trunk Nation" on May 7, 2018, Jerry Cantrell said that the new collection would be discharged toward the finish of August 2018. the band additionally uncovered that they conversed with executive Adam Mason, who is making a dull sci-film, about completing two separate bits of craftsmanship and perhaps shaping them together, and that the music video for "The One You Know" is the primary section of embellishment Mason's film and the band's music recordings together. 

The second single, "So Far Under", was discharged on Alice in Chains' YouTube channel and on gushing stages on June 27, 2018. It was likewise declared that the collection would be titled "Rainier Fog", with the discharge date booked for August 24, 2018. The collection's craftsmanship and the track posting were additionally uncovered around the same time. Jerry Cantrell told "Moving Stone" that the title "Rainier Fog" was motivated by the Mount Rainier in Seattle, and the title track is a tribute to the Seattle music scene. "This tune is a little tribute to the majority of that: where we originate from, our identity, the majority of the triumphs, the majority of the catastrophes, lives lived". 

The collection's third single, "Never Fade", was discharged on August 10, 2018 through computerized and spilling administrations. The melody is a tribute committed to frontman William DuVall's grandma, Chris Cornell, and Alice in Chains' unique artist Layne Staley. "Never Fade" crested at No. 10 on Billboard's Mainstream Rock graph. A music video coordinated by Adam Mason was discharged on November 1, 2018 and proceeded with the storyline from the music video of "The One You Know". 

In June 2018, William DuVall said in a meeting with Swedish site "Rocksverige" that the music video for "The One You Know" is the primary section of what the band is trusting will be visuals for each of the ten melodies from the collection "Rainier Fog", and notwithstanding that, will be a sidekick piece to the movie that executive Adam Mason was shooting. 

On August 20, 2018, the baseball crew Seattle Mariners facilitated an extraordinary "Alice in Chains Night" at the Safeco Field in Seattle to advance "Rainier Fog", with the group offering the fans a bundle that incorporated a Safeco Field patio club ticket, access to a pre-amusement listening gathering of the collection, an Alice in Chains T-shirt and a Rainier Fog CD. Jerry Cantrell additionally tossed out the formal first pitch and conveyed a strike before the Seattle Mariners versus Houston Astros diversion. 

To stamp the dispatch of the collection, on August 21, 2018, Alice in Chains played out an acoustic set at the highest point of Seattle's Space Needle and appeared the tune "Fly". Alice in Chains were the main band to perform on the Space Needle's new "Loupe" glass floor, the world's sole spinning glass floor 500 feet high. The show was select for a crowd of people of SiriusXM endorsers. SiriusXM communicate the show on their channel Lithium on August 31, 2018. 

On August 22, 2018, Alice in Chains sent fans on a Scavenger chase to get to a mystery gig that the band would perform in Seattle on August 24. Ten marked CD duplicates of "Rainier Fog" were covered up around the city as a ticket into the show, and the band requested that the fans watch out for their Instagram story for subtleties on the 10 concealed areas. When every one of the 10 collections were discovered, the band uncovered that the mystery gig would be at the stone club The Crocodile, with restricted tickets accessible with the buy of their collection at a spring up occasion at a similar scene the following day. Review clasps of every one of the collection tracks were posted on the band's Instagram. 

The band likewise remembered the arrival of the collection with a spring up historical center establishment at The Crocodile in Seattle on August 23 and 24. The exhibition hall included uncommon Alice in Chains photographs, restricted release stock and memorabilia that displayed the band's 30+ year profession. 

"Rainier Fog" appeared at No. 12 on the "Board" 200 outline, selling 31,000 duplicates (29,000 in customary collection deals), in its first seven day stretch of discharge. The collection additionally appeared at No. 1 on Billboard's Top Rock Albums, Alternative Albums and Hard Rock Albums diagrams, and at No. 3 on the Vinyl Albums graph. "Rainier Fog" progressed toward becoming Alice in Chains' first top 10 in the UK, cresting at No. 9, and garnish UK's Rock and Metal Albums diagram. The collection has been assigned for a Grammy Award for Best Rock Album. 

On December 13, 2018, the mystery of the film "Dark Antenna" including the melody "Rainier Fog" was discharged on Alice in Chains' authentic YouTube channel, with drummer Sean Kinney expressing; "We've generally toyed with making recordings for each tune on one of our collections. In addition to the fact that we did that for "Rainier Fog", it got thoroughly insane and we made an entire goddamn motion picture. Everything that will be found in the recordings will be film from "Dark Antenna" to introduce the total film's discharge.". 

In spite of the fact that Alice in Chains has been marked grunge by the predominant press, Jerry Cantrell recognizes the band as principally overwhelming metal. He told "Guitar World" in 1996, "We're a variety of things  ... I don't exactly comprehend what the blend is, yet there's unquestionably metal, blues, shake and roll, possibly a dash of punk. The metal part will never leave, and I never need it to". The "Edmonton Journal" has expressed, "Living and playing in Seattle may have them the grunge tag, yet they've in every case practically been a great metal band deeply." 

Through the span of their profession, the band's sound has additionally been portrayed as elective metal, slop metal, fate metal, ramble shake, hard shake, and elective shake. With respect to band's steady order by the media, Cantrell expressed "When we previously turned out we were metal. At that point we began being called elective metal. At that point grunge turned out and afterward we were hard shake. What's more, presently, since we've begun doing this again I've seen us recorded as: hard shake, elective, elective metal and simply straight metal. I strolled into a HMV a day or two ago to look at the position and see what's on and they have us consigned once again into the metal segment. Directly back where we began!". Drummer Sean Kinney rejects the grunge name, expressing in a 2013 meeting "I mean, before we initially turned out there was no grunge, they hadn't developed that word. Before they imagined the word grunge we were elective shake and elective metal and metal and shake, and we didn't care at all whatever, we were a stone and move band!". As indicated by Mike Inez, they were dependably the metal stepchildren of the Seattle scene. 

Jerry Cantrell's guitar style consolidates "pounding riffs and broad guitar surfaces" to make "moderate, agonizing minor-key drudgeries". He is likewise perceived for his characteristic capacity to mix acoustic and electric guitars. While down-tuned, misshaped guitars blended with Staley's unmistakable "growl to-a-shout" vocals spoke to overwhelming metal fans, the band likewise had "a feeling of tune that was verifiable", which acquainted Alice in Chains with an a lot more extensive gathering of people outside of the substantial metal underground. 

As indicated by Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic, Alice in Chains' sound has a "Dark Sabbath-style riffing and an unusual vocal style". The band has been portrayed by Erlewine as "sufficiently hard for metal fans, yet their dim topic and punky assault set them among the front positions of the Seattle-based grunge groups". Three of the band's discharges highlight acoustic music, and keeping in mind that the band at first kept these discharges independent, Alice in Chains' self-titled collection consolidated the styles to frame "a somber, agnostic sound that decent pounding hard shake with inconspicuously finished acoustic numbers". 

Alice in Chains is additionally noted for the novel vocal harmonies of Staley (or DuVall) and Cantrell, which included covering entries, double lead vocals, and trademark harmonies ordinarily isolated by a noteworthy third. Cantrell said it was Staley who gave him the confidence to sing his own melodies. Alyssa Burrows said the band's particular sound "originated from Staley's vocal style and his verses managing individual battles and enslavement". Staley's tunes were regularly thought to be "dull", with subjects, for example, medicate misuse, discouragement, and suicide, while Cantrell's verses frequently managed individual connections. 

Alice in Chains has sold more than 14 million records in the United States, and more than 30 million records around the world, discharged two number-one collections, had 23 top 40 singles, and has gotten eleven Grammy selections. The band was positioned number 34 on VH1's "100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock". Alice in Chains was named fifteenth most prominent live band by "Hit Parader", with vocalist Layne Staley setting as 27th most prominent overwhelming metal vocalist ever. The band's second collection, "Earth", was named fifth best collection over the most recent two decades by "Close-Up" magazine in 2008. 

In October 2008, "Guitar World" positioned Jerry Cantrell's performance in "Man In The Box" at No. 77 on their rundown of "100 Greatest Guitar Solos". In August 2009, Alice in Chains won the "Kerrang!" Icon Award. 

In November 2011, "Container of Flies" was positioned number four on "Guitar World" magazine's best ten rundown of guitar collections of 1994. It was additionally included in "Guitar World" magazine's "Superunknown: 50 Iconic Albums That Defined 1994" list, and in May 2014, the EP was put at number five on Loudwire's "10 Best Hard Rock Albums of 1994" list. 

Pantera and Damageplan guitarist Dimebag Darrell had communicated his profound respect for Jerry Cantrell's guitar work in a meeting for "Guitar International" in 1995, saying that "the layering and the fair feel that Jerry Cantrell jumps on [Alice in Chains' "Dirt"] record merits much more than somebody who plays five million notes". 

Road performer Wesley Willis composed a tune about the band entitled "Alice in Chains", included on his 1996 collection "Feel The Power". 

Billy Corgan uncovered that the melody "Draining The Orchid" from The Smashing Pumpkins' 2007 collection "Zeitgeist" has a touch of a reverence to Alice in Chains in the harmonies and was in a roundabout way enlivened by the passing of Layne Staley. 

Elton John expressed that he is an enthusiast of Alice in Chains and a major admirer of Jerry Cantrell. As indicated by Jon Wiederhorn of MTV, Godsmack has "sonically pursued Alice in Chains' lead while including their own unmistakable edge". Godsmack artist and author Sully Erna has additionally refered to Layne Staley as his essential impact. Godsmack was named after the Alice in Chains tune "God Smack" from the collection "Soil". Staind has shrouded Alice in Chains' melody "Nutshell" live, which shows up on the assemblage "", and furthermore composed a tune entitled "Layne", devoted to Staley, on the collection "14 Shades of Gray". Three Days Grace likewise plays out a front of "Chicken", which can be seen on the DVD "Live at the Palace". Different groups that have been affected by Alice in Chains incorporate Korn, Creed, Nickelback, Taproot, Stone Sour, Puddle of Mudd, Queens of the Stone Age, Rains, Theory of a Deadman, A Pale Horse Named Death, Smile Empty Soul, Avenged Sevenfold, Seether, Incubus, Hoobastank, Mudvayne, 10 Years, Breaking Benjamin, Days of the New, and Tantric. Metallica said they have for a long while been itching to visit with the band, refering to Alice in Chains as a noteworthy motivation for their 2008 discharge, "Demise Magnetic". 

Alice in Chains has additionally affected present day overwhelming metal. Their tunes were secured by different metal groups, for example, In Flames, Opeth, Dream Theater, Secrets of the Moon, Suicide Silence, 36 Crazyfists, Cane Hill, Ektomorf, Dritt Skitt, Grave and Thou, who depicted their 2018 EP "Rhea Sylvia" as "a melodic grunge, Alice in Chains reverence." In 2009, Anders Fridén of Swedish melodic passing metal band In Flames refered to Layne Staley as a motivation for his vocals on the band's later collections. Notwithstanding individual artists, the band has additionally gotten recognition from pundits, with Steve Huey of AllMusic calling them "a standout amongst the best metal groups of the '90s" after evaluating the 1999 aggregation "Nothing Safe". 

In 2009, the Vitamin String Quartet discharged the collection "The String Quartet Tribute to Alice in Chains", highlighting instrumental forms on viola, violin and cello of 12 of the band's greatest hits. 

In 2017, "Metal Injection" positioned Alice in Chains at number 1 on their rundown of "10 Heaviest Grunge Bands". 

In June 2017, Ozzy Osbourne positioned "Facelift" at number 9 on his rundown of "10 Favorite Metal Albums". 

The claymation dolls of the band individuals utilized in the music video for "I Stay Away" are in plain view at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame historical center in Cleveland, Ohio. 

Current individuals 

Previous individuals