Seri Rambai 

The Seri Rambai is a seventeenth century Dutch gun showed at Fort Cornwallis in George Town, the capital city of the Malaysian territory of Penang and an UNESCO World Heritage Site. It is the biggest bronze firearm in Malaysia, a richness image and the subject of legends and prediction. 

The gun's history in the Malacca Straits started in the mid 1600s, when Dutch East India Company officers offered it to the Sultan of Johor as an end-result of exchanging concessions. Not exactly 10 years after the fact Johor was annihilated, the sultan caught and the "Seri Rambai" taken to Aceh. Close to the finish of the eighteenth century the gun was sent to Selangor and mounted beside one of the town's peak fortifications. In 1871 privateers caught a Penang garbage, killed its travelers and group, and took the stolen vessel to Selangor. The British frontier government reacted by consuming the town, crushing its strongholds and taking the "Seri Rambai". 

The weapon was initially shown at George Town's Esplanade; during the 1950s it was moved to Fort Cornwallis. 

Southeast Asia swarms with stories of memorable gun: many are said to be instilled with otherworldly powers; some are adored for their social and profound importance; others are striking for having been available at pivotal occasions in the district's history. Burma's "Glass Palace Chronicle" relates an anecdote about the Burmese-Siamese war (1765– 1767) that shows the perfect properties attributed to certain gun. After endeavors to repulse Burmese assaults on the Siamese capital had demonstrated ineffective, the King of Siam requested that the city's watchman soul, an extraordinary gun called "Dwarawadi", be utilized to end the development. The firearm was ceremoniously lifted and gone for the foe's camp, however the powder neglected to light. Dreading the watchman of the city had relinquished them, the lord's authorities entreated their sovereign to surrender. 

A standout amongst Jakarta's best known fruitfulness images is the "Si Jagur", a Portuguese gun displayed beside the city's History Museum. The author Aldous Huxley portrayed the weapon as a "prostrate God" that ladies stroked, sat on the back of and appealed to for kids. Close to the passageway to Thailand's Ministry of Defense working in Bangkok is a gun known as the "Phaya Tani", a gigantic weapon caught from the Sultanate of Pattani in 1785. The gun is an image of social personality in Pattani and the significant feeling of misfortune brought about by its seizure is still felt today: when Bangkok would not restore the firearm and in 2013 sent a copy rather, suspected guerillas besieged the reproduction nine days after the fact. 

The "Seri Rambai" is a Dutch gun shown on the bulwarks of Fort Cornwallis in George Town, the capital city of Penang and an UNESCO World Heritage Site. Two articles about the gun have been distributed in the "Diary of the Malaysian Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society". The first was a short rundown of the firearm's history in the Malacca Straits; the second a nitty gritty investigation inquired about via Carl Alexander Gibson-Hill, a previous executive of Singapore's National Museum and leader of the city-state's Photographic Society. Papers have likewise talked about the gun: in 2013 the "Sunday Times" started an element about Penang with the remark "Guns don't frequently have names, however the Seri Rambai, on the dividers of Fort Cornwallis, is something rather uncommon". 

The "Seri Rambai" is a 28-pounder, 127.5 inches (3.25 m) long with a bore of 6.1 inches; (15 cm); the barrel estimates 118.75 inches; (3.02 m). It was thrown in 1603 and is the biggest bronze weapon in Malaysia. Before the dolphin handles is a beautiful band highlighting three sets of heraldic lions with long, spiraling tails. Each pair faces a vase containing blossoms. Between the handles and the Dutch East India Company's seal is a Javi engraving, trimmed with silver, praising the weapon's catch in 1613. The base ring is etched with the gunsmith's mark and date of production. 

The Dutch offer to control southeast Asia's flavor exchange depended on two essential procedures: the primary: the first was to legitimately assault Iberian resources in the district, including Portugal's fortification at Malacca and Spanish delivering among Manila and Acapulco; the second was to produce unions with nearby rulers and offer security in return for exchanging concessions. A vital coalition was united in 1603 when Dutch East India Company ships united with the Sultanate of Johor to catch the "Santa Clause Catarina", a Portuguese carrack traveling the Singapore Strait. The vessel's plundered payload was later sold in Europe for around 3.5 million florins, proportional to a large portion of the Dutch East India Company's paid capital and twofold that of the British East India Company. Not long after this triumph, potentially in 1605, Dutch officers displayed the "Seri Rambai" to Johor's sultan. 

One of Johor's principle rivals at the time was the Sultanate of Aceh, a cosmopolitan entrepòt and community for religious and ideological learning. Aceh's ascent to control started in the mid 1500s: amid the next decades the sultanate extended its domains in Sumatra and looked for military help from Suleiman the Magnificent in a mission to expel the Portuguese from Malacca. In 1613 Aceh propelled an assault of Johor, decimating its capital and taking as detainees the sultan, his family and escort. The "Seri Rambai" was caught amid the attack: a Javi engraving on the firearm's barrel records the occasion and the senior Acehnese officers included. 

There is no written history of the gun somewhere in the range of 1613 and 1795, when the Acehnese sent the "Seri Rambai" to Sultan Ibrahim of Selangor as a byproduct of his sibling's administrations in a military battle. The Selangor occurrence started in June 1871 when privateers held a Penang garbage, murdering its thirty-four travelers and team, and taking the vessel to Selangor. The British frontier government reacted quickly: a steamer and Royal Navy warship were dispatched to Selangor with directions to capture the privateers and recoup the stolen garbage. After a progression of engagements and the entry of help troops and big guns, the town was singed, the fortifications wrecked and the "Seri Rambai" taken to Penang. The loss of the gun was profoundly felt in Selangor: a nearby prediction keeps up that just when the weapon is returned will the town recover its previous distinction. 

As per legend the "Seri Rambai" was not formally emptied in Penang but rather cast into shallow waters off George Town and left for right around 10 years. The story portrays how it was in the end recovered by a Selangor aristocrat who tied a length of string to the firearm and requested it to drift aground. Until the 1950s the gun was shown at the Esplanade in the core of George Town, contiguous Fort Cornwallis. It was here that the weapon gained its Malay name, "Seri Rambai", and notoriety as a fruitfulness image. The gun was evacuated amid the Japanese occupation in World War II, yet reestablished to the Esplanade once threats had stopped. In 1953 an article in the "Straits Times" talked about designs to discover old gun for presentation at Fort Cornwallis, including that the gun at that point closest to the post was on the Esplanade, 200 yards away. By 1970 the "Seri Rambai" was mounted on the bulwarks of Fort Cornwallis, but missing a wheel for its carriage. 

Close to the ship terminal in Butterworth is an old, rusted gun that as indicated by a nearby Chinese custom was at one time the "Seri Rambai's" female accomplice. The story tells how it surrendered its "mate" and drifted over the channel from Penang to Butterworth. A Malay convention attributes an alternate history to the Butterworth gun, yet trusts the "Seri Rambai" is one of a couple. The likelihood that the "Seri Rambai" may have a twin or "relative" isn't unprecedented. A scientist concentrating Jakarta's "Si Jagur" found a comparable firearm in Lisbon's Military Museum and gathered that both had been thrown by Manuel Tavares Bocarro, a Portuguese organizer in Macau. An oft-recounted story holds that Pattani's "Phaya Tani" had a twin, the "Seri Negara". Both were caught amid Siam's victory of the sultanate and requested to be taken to Bangkok. One variant of the story portrays how the "Seri Negara" fell into Pattani Bay while being carried to the ship; another cases it was lost adrift when the Siamese vessel foundered and sank. 

Books/Monographs 

Diaries/Magazines 

Papers/News Agencies 

Sites