Thomas the Slav 

Thomas the Slav (,  – October 823) was a ninth century Byzantine military administrator, most remarkable for driving a wide-scale revolt in 821– 23 against Emperor Michael II the Amorian (). 

A military officer of Slavic birthplace from the Pontus district (presently north-eastern Turkey), Thomas rose to unmistakable quality, alongside the future heads Michael II and Leo V the Armenian (), under the insurance of general Bardanes Tourkos. After Bardanes' fizzled disobedience in 803, Thomas fell into indefinite quality until Leo V's ascent to the honored position, when Thomas was raised to a senior military order in focal Asia Minor. After the homicide of Leo and usurpation of the position of authority by Michael the Amorian, Thomas revolted, guaranteeing the honored position for himself. Thomas immediately verified help from the vast majority of the topics (areas) and troops in Asia Minor, crushed Michael's underlying counter-assault and finished up a union with the Abbasid Caliphate. Subsequent to prevailing upon the sea subjects and their boats also, he crossed with his military to Europe and laid attack to Constantinople. The supreme capital withstood Thomas' assaults via land and ocean, while Michael II called for assistance from the Bulgarian ruler khan Omurtag. Omurtag assaulted Thomas' military, yet despite the fact that repulsed, the Bulgarians incurred substantial setbacks on Thomas' men, who broke and fled when Michael took to the field a couple of months after the fact. Thomas and his supporters looked for asylum in Arcadiopolis, where he was before long barred by Michael's troops. At last, Thomas' supporters surrendered him in return for an acquittal, and he was executed. 

Thomas' disobedience was one of the biggest in the Byzantine Empire's history, yet its exact conditions are vague due to contending recorded accounts, which have come to incorporate cases manufactured by Michael to darken his adversary's name. Therefore, different thought processes and main impetuses have been ascribed to Thomas and his supporters. As condensed by the "Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium", "Thomas' revolt has been differently ascribed to a response against Iconoclasm, a social transformation and prevalent uprising, a revolt by the Empire's non-Greek ethnic gatherings, Thomas' own aspirations, and his longing to retaliate for Leo V." Its impacts on the military position of the Empire, especially versus the Arabs, are likewise questioned. 

The eleventh century "Theophanes Continuatus" states that Thomas was slid from South Slavs resettled in Asia Minor by progressive Byzantine heads, while the tenth century recorder Genesios calls him "Thomas from Lake Gouzourou, of Armenian race". Most present day researchers bolster his Slavic plunge and trust his origination to have been close Gaziura in the Pontus. 

Subsequently his appellation of "the Slav", which has been connected to him just in current occasions. Nothing is thought about his family and early life, then again, actually his folks were poor and that Thomas himself had gotten no training. Given that he was somewhere in the range of 50 and 60 years of age at the season of the insubordination, he was likely conceived around 760. 

Two unique records of Thomas' life are related in both Genesios and "Theophanes Continuatus". As indicated by the principal account, Thomas initially showed up in 803 going with general Bardanes Tourkos, and sought after a military vocation until propelling his revolt in late 820. In the second form, he came to Constantinople as a poor youth and entered the administration of a man with the high court rank of "patrikios". At that point, found attempting to submit infidelity with his lord's significant other, Thomas fled to the Arabs in Syria, where he stayed for a long time. Professing to be the killed sovereign Constantine VI (r. 780– 797), he at that point drove an Arab-supported attack of Asia Minor, however was vanquished and rebuffed. Established and Byzantine researcher J.B. Cover endeavored to accommodate the two accounts, setting Thomas' trip to the Abbasid Caliphate at around 788 and after that having him come back to Byzantine administration before 803, while the Russian researcher Alexander Vasiliev translated the sources as inferring that Thomas fled to the Caliphate at Constantine VI's affidavit in 797, and that his cooperation in Bardanes' revolt must be limited altogether. The second form of Thomas' story is expressly favored by Genesios and "Theophanes Continuatus", and is the just a single recorded in ninth century sources, to be specific the annal of George the Monk and the "Life of Saints David, Symeon, and George of Lesbos". By the by, the French Byzantinist Paul Lemerle came to think of it as a questionable later custom made by his opponent Michael II to dishonor Thomas, and rejected it out and out, wanting to depend on the main record alone. Most current researchers tail him in this translation. 

The primary convention relates that Thomas filled in as a "spatharios" (staff officer) to Bardanes Tourkos, the "monostrategos" ("single-general", for example president) of the eastern subjects, who in 803 rose in disobedience to Emperor Nikephoros I (r. 802– 811). Close by Thomas were two other youthful "spatharioi" in Bardanes' entourage, who framed an intimate affiliation: Leo the Armenian, the future Leo V, and Michael the Amorian, the future Michael II. As indicated by a later hagiographic custom, before propelling his revolt, Bardanes, in the organization of his three youthful protégés, is said to have visited a priest close Philomelion who was rumored to anticipate what's to come. The priest anticipated what might in fact occur: that Bardanes' revolt would fizzle, that Leo and Michael would both become heads, and that Thomas would be acclaimed sovereign and slaughtered. At the point when Bardanes did in truth ascend, he neglected to win any broad help. Leo and Michael before long relinquished him and surrendered to the majestic camp and were remunerated with senior military posts. Thomas alone stayed faithful to Bardanes until his surrender. In the repercussions of Bardanes' disappointment, Thomas vanishes from the hotspots for a long time. Cover recommends that he fled (for a second time as indicated by his translation) to the Arabs, a view acknowledged by various different researchers, for example, Romilly James Heald Jenkins. The student of history Warren Treadgold, in any case, contends that Thomas remained in the domain and that may have even stayed in dynamic military administration, and clarifies his lack of definition by Thomas' relationship with Bardanes, which hampered his profession. 

In July 813, Leo the Armenian moved toward becoming head and immediately remunerated his old buddies, giving them direction over tip top military powers. Michael got the "tagma" of the Excubitors (one of the expert gatekeeper rangers regiments positioned around Constantinople), and Thomas the "tourma" (division) of the "Foederati", positioned in the Anatolic Theme. 

On Christmas Day 820, Leo was killed in the castle house of prayer by authorities under the course of Michael the Amorian, who was immediately delegated head. At about a similar time, Thomas propelled an insubordination in the Anatolic Theme. Sources are separated on the accurate sequence and intentions of the revolt. George the Monk, the hagiographic sources, and a letter from Michael II toward the western sovereign Louis the Pious case that Thomas had ascended against Leo before Michael's usurpation. This order is trailed by practically all later Byzantine recorders like Genesios, "Theophanes Continuatus", and Skylitzes, just as various present day researchers like John B. Cover and Alexander Kazhdan. In his investigation of Thomas and the revolt, Paul Lemerle rejects this course of events as a later endeavor by Michael to legitimize his revolt as a reaction to Leo's inability to stifle the insubordination, and to exonerate himself of the early thrashings endured by the majestic powers. Some ongoing examinations pursue Lemerle and favor the record of Symeon Logothetes—for the most part considered the most precise of the tenth century sources—as per which Thomas revolted a couple of days after the homicide of Leo and in response to it. 

Subsequently, the realm wound up isolated in a battle that was less a defiance to the set up government and more a challenge for the position of royalty between equivalent contenders. Michael held Constantinople and the European regions, controlled the royal organization, and had been legitimately delegated by the Patriarch, however he had gone to the position of royalty through homicide, while Thomas picked up help and authenticity through his case to retaliate for the fallen Leo, and he won the support of topics both in Asia and later in Europe. Thomas was a notable, prominent, and regarded figure in Asia Minor, where Leo V had appreciated significant help. Michael, then again, was for all intents and purposes obscure outside the capital; his military record was unremarkable, he was uneducated and coarse of way, his falter earned him criticism, and he was rumored to feel for the shocking religious organization of the Athinganoi, to which his family had a place. 

Byzantine records of Thomas' disobedience express that he didn't in actuality guarantee the position of authority under his very own name yet accepted the personality of Emperor Constantine VI, who had been dismissed and killed by his mom, Irene of Athens, in 797. Most present day researchers pursue Lemerle, who rejects this so far another later manufacture. On the off chance that it contains any reality, it is conceivable that this story may begin from Thomas being delegated under the regnal name of "Constantine", yet there is no proof for such a demonstration. The conceivable appointment of Constantine VI's character is connected in some Byzantine sources with the explanation that Thomas was a reputed supporter of iconolatry, instead of Michael's help for iconoclasm: it was under Constantine VI that worship of the symbols was reestablished. In any case, the vague stating of the sources, the heathen leanings of numerous subjects in Asia Minor, and Thomas' partnership with the Arabs appear to oppose any open duty to symbol revere on his part. Without a doubt, given Michael II's placating methodology amid his initial rule, the symbol love debate does not appear to have been a noteworthy issue at the time, and in the perspective on present day researchers most likely did not assume a noteworthy job in Thomas' revolt. The picture of Thomas as an iconophile champion restricted to the maverick Michael II in later, Macedonian-period sources was most likely the consequence of their own enemy of skeptic predisposition. Warren Treadgold moreover recommends that assuming genuine, Thomas' case to be Constantine VI may have been minimal in excess of a story coursed to win support, and that Thomas sought after an "examined uncertainty" towards symbols, intended to pull in help from iconophiles. In Treadgold's words, "Thomas could be everything to all men until he had vanquished the entire domain, and after that he would have time enough to frustrate a portion of his adherents". 

The record of "Theophanes Continuatus" on Thomas' revolt expresses that in this time, "the hireling raised his hand against his lord, the fighter against his officer, the chief against his general". This has driven a few researchers, essentially Alexander Vasiliev and George Ostrogorsky, to view Thomas' revolt as a declaration of boundless discontent among the rustic populace, which endured under substantial tax assessment. Different Byzantinists, prominently Lemerle, expel country discontent as an essential factor amid the revolt. 

Genesios and different writers further express that Thomas won the help of "Hagarenes, Indians, Egyptians, Assyrians, Medians, Abasgians, Zichs, Iberians, Kabirs, Slavs, Huns, Vandals, Getae, the sectarians of Manes, Laz, Alanians, Chaldians, Armenians and each sort of different people groups". This has prompted present day guarantees that Thomas' disobedience spoke to an uprising of the realm's non-Greek ethnic gatherings, yet as indicated by Lemerle, this overstated record is one more bit of unfriendly disinformation. It is practically sure, in any case, that Thomas could rely on help among the domain's Caucasian neighbors, for the nearness of Abasgians, Armenians, and Iberians in his military is referenced in the close contemporary letter of Michael II to Louis the Pious. The explanations behind this help are misty; Thomas may have made unspecified guarantees to their rulers, yet Lemerle proposes that the Armenians may have to some degree been spurred by retribution for Leo, their killed brother. 

As administrator of the "Foederati", Thomas was based at Amorion, the capital of the Anatolic Theme. Albeit junior to the topic's "strategos" (military senator), his announcement got far reaching support all through Asia Minor. Inside a brief timeframe, all the Asian subjects bolstered Thomas, aside from the Opsician Theme under the patrician Katakylas, a nephew of Michael II, and the Armeniac Theme, under its "strategos", Olbianos. The Thracesian Theme faltered between the two opponents, yet at long last advocated Thomas. More than 66% of the realm's Asian armed force in the long run lined up with Thomas, while the abandonment of the commonplace duty authorities furnished him with much-required income. 

Michael's first reaction was to arrange the Armeniac armed force to assault Thomas. The Armeniacs were effectively vanquished in fight and Thomas continued through the eastern pieces of the Armeniac Theme to possess the boondocks area of Chaldia. His victory of the Armeniac region was left fragmented in light of the fact that the Abbasids, exploiting the Byzantine common war, propelled attacks via land and ocean against southern Asia Minor, where Thomas had left couple of troops. Rather than coming back to confront these attacks, Thomas propelled an extensive scale intrusion of his own against Abbasid domain in spring 821, either in Syria (as indicated by Bury and others) or in Arab-held Armenia (as indicated by Treadgold). Thomas at that point sent an emissary to the Caliph al-Ma'mun, who was adequately inspired by Thomas' show of power to get his recommendations, particularly in perspective on the Caliphate's very own issues with the resistance of the Khurramites under Babak Khorramdin. Thomas and Ma'mun closed a settlement of harmony and shared partnership. The Caliph enabled Thomas to select men from Arab-ruled domains, and gave leave for him to cross the fringe and travel to Arab-held Antioch, where he was delegated head by the iconophile Patriarch of Antioch, Job. In return, Thomas is said to have guaranteed to surrender unspecified domains and become a tributary vassal of the Caliph, however the understanding's careful terms are left vague in the sources. At about a similar time, Thomas received a young fellow of cloud source, whom he named Constantius and made his co-sovereign. 

In the interim, Michael II attempted to win support among the iconophiles by designating a relative of his as Archbishop of Ephesus, however his arrangement fizzled when the last wouldn't be blessed by the avowedly skeptic Patriarch Antony I Kassimates. With an end goal to unite his hang on the areas, and particularly the two Asian topics still faithful to him, Michael broadcasted a 25 percent decrease in duties for 821– 822. 

By summer 821, Thomas had merged his situation in the East, however the Opsician and Armeniac topics still escaped his control. He set his focus on a definitive prize, Constantinople, the ownership of which alone given full authenticity to a ruler. Thomas collected troops, accumulated supplies, and manufactured attack machines. To counter the incredible Imperial Fleet positioned in the capital, he assembled new ships to increase his current armada, which originated from the Cibyrrhaeot and Aegean Sea maritime subjects, and potentially included teams from the topic of Hellas. Thomas reviewed Gregory Pterotos, a general and nephew of Leo V whom Michael had ousted to the island of Skyros, and gave him order of the armada. By October, the topical armadas faithful to Thomas had got done with gathering at Lesbos, and Thomas' military started walking from the Thracesian Theme towards Abydos, where he planned to traverse into Europe. 

Now, Thomas endured his first inversion of fortune: before his takeoff for Abydos, he had sent a military under his receptive child Constantius against the Armeniacs. Constantius was trapped by "strategos" Olbianos and slaughtered, in spite of the fact that the military had the capacity to pull back with moderately couple of losses. Constantius' separated head was sent to Michael, who dispatched it to Thomas at Abydos. Thomas was steadfast by this generally minor misfortune, and traversed into Europe some time in late October or early November. There, Constantius was before long supplanted as co-head by another dark individual, a previous priest whom Thomas additionally embraced and named Anastasius. 

Foreseeing Thomas' turn, Michael had gone out at the leader of a military to the topics of Thrace and Macedonia in Constantinople's European hinterland and reinforced the battalions of a few strongholds there to verify the reliability of their people. At the point when Thomas handled, the general population of the European topics invited him with eagerness, and Michael was compelled to pull back to Constantinople. Volunteers, including numerous Slavs, rushed to Thomas' standard. As he set out towards Constantinople, recorders describe that his military swelled to somewhere in the range of 80,000 men. The capital was guarded by the majestic "tagmata", expanded by fortifications from the Opsician and Armeniac subjects. Michael had requested the city dividers to be fixed, and tied off the passageway to the Golden Horn, while the Imperial Fleet additionally watched the capital from the ocean. By the by, according to Michael's inactive position, his powers were substandard compared to Thomas's; Warren Treadgold gauges Michael's military to have numbered around 35,000 men. 

Thomas' armada landed at the capital first. Confronting no resistance from the Imperial Fleet, the renegades broke or detached the chain and entered the Golden Horn, taking station close to the mouths of the Barbysos waterway, where they anticipated the landing of Thomas and his military. Thomas arrived sooner than required December. Seeing his gigantic power did not dairy animals the capital's occupants: not normal for the regions, the capital's natives and battalion stood immovably behind Michael. To additionally support his troops, Michael had his young child Theophilos lead a parade along the dividers, conveying a bit of the True Cross and the mantle of the Virgin Mary, while a substantial standard was lifted over the Church of St. Mary at Blachernae, in full perspective on the two armed forces. 

In the wake of stifling the urban communities around the capital, Thomas made plans to assault Constantinople from three sides, maybe trusting his ambush would inspire its occupants or lead to rebellions. His appointees Anastasius and Gregory Pterotos would assault the Theodosian land and ocean dividers, separately, while he would lead the fundamental assault against the less impressive barriers securing Blachernae. The majority of Thomas' powers were abundantly provided with attack motors and slings, and his armada handled amounts of Greek flame notwithstanding vast shipborne launches. Every one of Thomas' assaults fizzled: the safeguards' gunnery demonstrated predominant and fended off Thomas' motors from the land dividers, while unfriendly breezes obstructed the armada from making any important move. Choosing that activities amidst winter were risky and far-fetched to succeed, Thomas suspended every further assault until spring and pulled back his military to winter quarters. 

Michael utilized the break to ship in extra fortifications from Asia Minor and fix the dividers of Blachernae. At the point when Thomas returned in spring, he chose to concentrate his assault on the Blachernae division. Prior to the hostile, Michael himself rose the dividers and tended to Thomas' troops, admonishing them to surrender their administrator and promising reprieve in the event that they would desert. Thomas' military saw the request as an indication of shortcoming, and progressed unhesitatingly to start the ambush, yet as they neared the divider, the protectors opened the entryways and assaulted. The abrupt assault drove back Thomas' military; in the meantime, the Imperial Fleet vanquished Thomas' ships, whose teams broke and fled to the shore in frenzy. This thrashing reduced Thomas' maritime quality, and in spite of the fact that he kept barring the capital via land, the misfortune discouraged his supporters, who started deserting. Gregory Pterotos, whose family was in Michael's grasp, made plans to betray Thomas, trailed by a little band of men faithful to him. He withdrew the dissident camp, traveled west, and sent a priest to educate Michael of his abandonment, however the priest neglected to go around the bar and achieve the capital. After learning of this absconding, Thomas responded rapidly: with a select separation, he pursued Gregory, crushed his troops and murdered the miscreant. 

Thomas abused this little triumph for all it was worth, broadly declaring that he had vanquished Michael's troops "via land and ocean". He sent messages to the subjects of Greece, whose help had been tepid until that point, requesting extra ships. The subjects reacted powerfully, sending their squadrons, purportedly numbering 350 vessels, to go along with him. Along these lines fortified, Thomas chose to dispatch a two dimensional strike against Constantinople's ocean dividers, with his unique armada assaulting the mass of the Golden Horn, and the new armada assaulting the south coast, looking towards the Sea of Marmara. Michael, be that as it may, did not stay inert: his very own armada assaulted the topical power not long after it touched base at its harbor in Byrida. Utilizing Greek flame, the Imperial Fleet crushed a significant number of the dissident vessels and caught the greater part of the rest of the boats. Just a couple figured out how to escape and rejoin Thomas' powers. 

Through this triumph, Michael verified control of the ocean, however Thomas' military stayed predominant ashore and proceeded with its barricade of Constantinople. Minor clashes followed for the rest of the year, with Michael's powers sallying forward from the city to assault Thomas' powers. Albeit the two sides asserted minor achievements in these conflicts, nor had the capacity to pick up an unequivocal preferred standpoint. 

Michael swung to the domain's northern neighbor, Bulgaria, for help. The two states were bound by a 30-year settlement marked under Leo V, and the Bulgarian ruler, khan Omurtag (r. 814– 831), was upbeat to react to Michael's solicitation for help. A later custom, revealed by Genesios and Theophanes Continuatus, holds that Omurtag acted voluntarily and without wanting to, yet this is all around rejected as a variant began or if nothing else energized by Michael, who did not wish to be seen empowering "savages" to attack the domain. The Bulgarian armed force attacked Thrace, likely in November 822 (Bury trusts that the Bulgarian assault happened in spring 823), and progressed towards Constantinople. Thomas raised the attack, and walked to meet them with his military. The two militaries met at the plain of Kedouktos close Heraclea (thus known as the Battle of Kedouktos in the Byzantine sources) . The records of the consequent fight contrast: the later sources express that Thomas lost the fight, however the close contemporary George the Monk expresses that Thomas "slaughtered numerous Bulgarians". Given the absence of Bulgarian movement after the fight, most present day researchers (with the prominent special case of Bury) trust that Thomas won the fight. 

Thomas was unfit to continue the attack: beside the substantial setbacks his military likely endured, his armada, which he had deserted in the Golden Horn, surrendered to Michael amid his nonattendance. Thomas set up camp at the plain of Diabasis some west of Constantinople, spending winter and late-winter there. While a couple of his men left, the mass stayed steadfast. At long last, in late April or early May 823, Michael walked with his troops against Thomas, joined by the commanders Olbianos and Katakylas with new troops from Asia Minor. Thomas walked to meet them and intended to utilize a stratagem to outmaneuver his adversaries: his men, apparently disheartened, would claim to escape, and when the magnificent armed force broke positions to seek after them, they would turn back and assault. In any case, Thomas' troops were at this point exhausted of the drawn out clash, and their accommodation was unfeigned. Many surrendered to Michael, while others fled to adjacent invigorated urban communities. Thomas looked for shelter in Arcadiopolis with an extensive gathering; his embraced child Anastasius ran with a portion of Thomas' men to Bizye, and others fled to Panion and Heraclea. 

Michael barred Thomas' urban areas of asylum however sorted out no strikes, rather expecting to catch them calmly by destroying their protectors. His methodology was propelled by the political and purposeful publicity practical of seeming forgiving—"so as to save Christian blood", as Michael himself place it in his letter to Louis the Pious—yet additionally, as indicated by the writers, by dread of exhibiting to the Bulgarians that the Byzantine urban communities' fortresses could tumble to assault. In Asia Minor, Thomas' partisans planned to bait Michael away by permitting the Arabs free section to assault the territories of Opsikion and Optimaton, which were faithful to the head. Michael was unaffected and proceeded with the bar. His troops banned access to Arcadiopolis with a discard. To monitor supplies, the barricaded troops sent away ladies and youngsters, trailed by those excessively old, injured, or generally unequipped for remaining battle ready. Following five months of bar, Thomas' supporters were in the end compelled to eat starved ponies and their covers up. Some started abandoning by bringing down themselves with ropes over the city dividers or bouncing from them. Thomas sent delegates to Bizye, where the bar was less close, to organize an alleviation endeavor by Anastasius. Before anything should be possible, be that as it may, the depleted troops at Arcadiopolis surrendered their pioneer in return for a magnificent exculpation. Thomas was conveyed to Michael situated on a jackass and bound in chains. He was prostrated before the head, who put his foot on his vanquished adversary's neck and requested his hands and feet cut off and his body skewered. Thomas argued for pardon with the words "Show benevolence toward me, goodness True Emperor!" Michael just requested that his hostage uncover whether any of his own senior authorities had dealings with Thomas. Before Thomas could react, the Logothete of the Course, John Hexaboulios, prompted against hearing whatever asserts a crushed dissident may make. Michael concurred, and Thomas' sentence was completed right away. 

At the point when the occupants of Bizye knew about Thomas' destiny, they surrendered Anastasius, who endured a similar destiny as Thomas. In Panion and Heraclea, Thomas' men held out until a quake struck in February 824. The tremor seriously harmed the mass of Panion, and the city surrendered. The harm at Heraclea was less extreme, however after Michael landed troops at its toward the ocean side, it also was compelled to surrender. In Asia Minor, Thomas' followers for the most part submitted gently, however in the Cibyrrhaeot Theme, opposition waited until smothered by "strategos" John Echimos. In the Thracesian topic, Thomas' officers swung to brigandage. The most genuine restriction was offered in focal Asia Minor by two officers, who had potentially served Thomas as "strategoi": Choireus, with his base at Kaballa northwest of Iconium, and Gazarenos Koloneiates, based at Saniana, southeast of Ancyra. From their fortresses, they spurned Michael's idea of an exoneration and the high title of "magistros" and assaulted the areas that had headed toward him. Before long, nonetheless, Michael's operators induced the occupants of the two strongholds to close their doors against the officers. Choireus and Koloneiates then endeavored to look for shelter in Arab region however were assaulted in transit by supporter troops, caught, and killed. 

The finish of Thomas the Slav's incredible defiance was set apart by Michael II's triumph, held in May 824 in Constantinople. While he executed Thomas' volunteers from the Caliphate and maybe additionally the Slavs, the sheer number of people included, the need of seeming merciful and saving with Christian lives, and the need to reestablish inner peacefulness to his domain constrained Michael to treat Thomas' crushed partisans with tolerance: most were discharged in the wake of being marched in the Hippodrome amid his festival, and just the most risky were ousted to remote corners of the realm. With an end goal to dishonor his adversary, Michael approved an "official" and vigorously twisted rendition of Thomas' life and revolt. The report was composed by the elder Ignatios and distributed in 824 as "Against Thomas". This report rapidly turned into the usually acknowledged adaptation of occasions. 

Thomas flopped notwithstanding his characteristics and the broad help he had picked up, which brought him control of a large portion of the realm. Lemerle holds that few components assumed a job in his annihilation: the Asian topics he didn't curb provided fortifications to Michael; Thomas' armada performed seriously; and the Bulgarian hostile redirected him far from the capital and debilitated his military. Be that as it may, the most definitive obstructions were the invulnerable dividers of Constantinople, which guaranteed that a sovereign who controlled Constantinople must be toppled from inside the city. 

Thomas' disobedience was the "focal residential occasion" of Michael II's rule, however it was not extremely damaging in material terms: with the exception of Thrace, which had experienced the delayed nearness of the opponent armed forces and the fights battled there, the bigger piece of the domain was saved the attacks of war. The Byzantine naval force endured extraordinary misfortunes, with the topical armadas specifically being crushed, while the land powers endured relatively couple of losses. This is customarily held to have brought about a military shortcoming and interior issue which was quickly abused by the Muslims: in the years after Thomas' insubordination, Andalusian outcasts caught Crete and the Tunisian Aghlabids started their triumph of Sicily, while in the East, the Byzantines were compelled to keep up a for the most part guarded position towards the Caliphate. Later grant has questioned how much the common war was in charge of Byzantine military disappointments amid these years, refering to different motivations to clarify them: Warren Treadgold opines that the realm's military powers recouped decently fast, and that clumsy military authority combined with "the remoteness of Sicily, the nonappearance of normal troops on Crete, the concurrence of the assaults on the two islands, and the administration's long-standing absence of enthusiasm for ocean control" were unmistakably progressively in charge of the loss of the islands.