Ian O'Brien 

Ian Lovett O'Brien (brought into the world 3 March 1947) is an Australian breaststroke swimmer of the 1960s who won the 200 metre breaststroke at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo in world record time. He won five Commonwealth Games gold awards and asserted an aggregate of nine individual and six hand-off titles at the Australian Championships, before resigning at 21 years old because of money related weights. 

In the wake of appearing at an early age, O'Brien was sent to Sydney to prepare under famous mentor Forbes Carlile and his breaststroke right hand Terry Gathercole. He contended in his first national titles in 1962 at 15 years old, winning the 220 yard breaststroke to pick up determination for the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Perth, where he won both the 110 and breaststroke and the 4 × 110 yd variety transfer. 

He won both breaststroke occasions at the 1963 Australian Championships, rehashing the accomplishment for the following three years. In 1964, O'Brien went to the Tokyo Olympics and originated from third at the 150 m imprint to win the gold decoration. He included a bronze in the variety hand-off. O'Brien effectively guarded the two his breaststroke titles at the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Kingston, Jamaica before resigning to help his family. Swimming authorities convinced him to make a rebound for the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, as Australia did not have a breaststroker, and after an accident diet, he completed 6th in the 100 m occasion yet neglected to achieve the last in the 200 m occasion. He at that point resigned and went into the broadcast business. 

O'Brien experienced childhood in the rustic town of Wellington, 360 kilometers (225 miles) from Sydney. Neither of his folks were gifted swimmers. His dad Roy realized just a single swimming stroke—the breaststroke—and his mom Thelma did not take her first swimming exercise until she was 55. O'Brien's sister Ann was a gifted swimmer in her youth years, yet she favored horseback riding. The nearby pool was an old-style office that had no siphon framework and was just physically depleted once per week. Matured four, O'Brien got his first swimming exercises from the neighborhood Learn to Swim program. There were relatively few non-brandishing exercises for kids in Wellington, and O'Brien played b-ball and rugby group, did games and swimming, and rode ponies. In 1954, a chlorinated pool was worked in the town, prompting the development of Wellington Swimming Club. At 10 years old, O'Brien started focused swimming under neighborhood mentor Bert Eslick, and dashed in territorial nation swimming festivals at Dubbo, Bathurst and Orange. 

Subsequent to winning all the breaststroke occasions at the nation titles, O'Brien was taken by his dad to the Ryde pool in Sydney in 1960, to be trained by Forbes Carlile and his aide, resigned world record-breaking breaststroker Terry Gathercole. Carlile was viewed as the main swimming mentor in Australia at the time. At age 13, O'Brien was at that point a substantial youngster, tipping the scales at 82.6 kg. He just prepared with Gathercole amid occasions, when his dad could take him to Sydney; Jim Wilkins, a Catholic minister in Bathurst, directed him as per Gathercole's program while he was in the wide open. Inside a year, O'Brien ascended from being a nation jamboree champion to a national-level competitor, in spite of the passing of his dad around the same time. 

In 1962, O'Brien picked up choice for the Australian swimming group at 15 years old when he won the 220 yard (yd) breaststroke at his first Australian Championships in the season of 2 minutes (min) 41.8 seconds (s). He included a second gold as a feature of the New South Wales group that won the 4 × 100 m variety transfer in a period of 4 min 18.3 s. His exhibitions picked up him choice for the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Perth. At his first universal challenge, he won gold in every one of his three occasions. He contended in the and breaststroke, vanquishing individual Australian William Burton in the two occasions with times of 1 min 11.4s and 2 min 38.1 s, separately. He at that point finished his crusade with a triumph in the 4 × 110 yd mixture transfer, consolidating with Julian Carroll, Kevin Berry and David Dickson to finish the race in a period of 4 min 12.4 s. 

In 1963, O'Brien caught the breaststroke twofold at the Australian Championships, setting individual bests in the two occasions, and was an individual from the New South Wales group that won the mixture transfer. His exhibitions earned him determination for an abroad visit to Europe with the Australian group, contending in the Soviet Union, Germany and England before visiting Japan and Hong Kong. O'Brien shielded his breaststroke twofold at the 1964 Australian Championships, bringing down his occasions to 1 min 8.1 s and 2 min 32.6 s for the 100 metres (m) and 200 m breaststroke individually. He topped off his crusade just as a third back to back mixture hand-off triumph for New South Wales. Inside a year, he had diminished his occasions in the two occasions by over 3%. As O'Brien was generally viewed as Australia's best breaststroker, he was chosen for the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo. O'Brien joined the remainder of the group for the national camp before the Olympics in Ayr in northern Queensland, where he prepared under head mentor Don Talbot. O'Brien portrayed Talbot as a "slavedriver", yet felt that the experience was important. 

Touching base in Tokyo, O'Brien was selected in the 200 m occasion and the mixture hand-off; the 100 m occasion was yet to be incorporated into the Olympic program. The top choices for the 200 m breaststroke were Chet Jastremski of the United States—the world record holder—and Georgy Prokopenko of the Soviet Union. Gathercole had displayed O'Brien's method on that of Jastremski, endeavoring to refine and smoothen it. A long time after O'Brien resigned, Harry Gallagher said that "Ian O'Brien has a practically perfect style and is an extraordinary case for Australian adolescents to duplicate". O'Brien was known for the quality that his middle produced, and his ground-breaking kicks; sports science tests demonstrated that his vertical bounce was particularly solid. O'Brien was likewise known for his effective begin off the square. He frequently picked up a lead of around a meter from his jump and submerged skim toward the begin, and had the capacity to finish 50 m in 31.0 s. 

Amid the last instructional courses in Tokyo, Talbot sorted out time preliminaries for the Australians, which were held before restriction swimmers trying to threaten them. O'Brien posted a period of 2 min 33 s, which Talbot felt had a negative mental impact on O'Brien's adversaries. At the point when rivalry began, O'Brien swam an Olympic record to win the primary warmth by 2.0 s. He posted a period of 2 min 31.4 s, lessening the past Olympic imprint by 5.8 s, a sign of how much the world record had fallen in the first four years. Be that as it may, in the following warmth, Egon Henninger of Germany promptly brought down the imprint, and before the finish of the warms, O'Brien was the fourth quickest qualifier for the elimination rounds, with both Prokopenko and Jastremski posting quicker occasions. O'Brien brought down Henninger's Olympic record by winning the second elimination round in a period of 2 min 28.7 s, after Jastremski had won the principal elimination round in a period that was 3.4 s slower than O'Brien. This made O'Brien the quickest qualifier for the last, with a period that was 1.0 s quicker than the following qualifier Prokopenko, who came next to him in the second elimination round. O'Brien intended to swim the race at an even pace and record even parts for the first and second 50% of the race. He was aware of not pursuing Jastremski, who was known for a forceful opening style, which brought about a quicker first half. 

In the last, Jastremski assaulted from the start not surprisingly, while O'Brien hustled with a naturally even pace. In the wake of being fourth at the midway imprint behind Jastremski, Prokopenko and Henninger, O'Brien terrified and quickened in the third 50 m and overwhelmed Jastremski, leaving the American in fourth spot. He at that point moved past Henninger, before overwhelming Prokopenko. O'Brien's speeding up in the third implied that he tired toward the end, yet he had enough vitality to fight off Prokopenko in the late stages to win the gold award in another world record time of 2 min 27.8 s, an edge of 0.4 s, with Jastremski a further 1.4 s falling behind financially. O'Brien had diminished his own best time by over four seconds amid the Olympics to guarantee an agitated success. 

The Australian mentors rested O'Brien for the warms of the 4 × 100 m variety transfer; Peter Tonkin swam the breaststroke leg. It ended up being a near fiasco for the Australians, as they completed fourth in their warmth and qualified seventh quickest, just 1.2 s from disposal. In the last, O'Brien was conveyed into the group to consolidate with Peter Reynolds, Berry and Dickson. Toward the finish of Reynolds' backstroke leg, Australia were 6th, 3.4 s behind the American chiefs. O'Brien made a plunge and finished his leg in 1 min 7.8 s, a breaststroke split bettered by just Henninger and Prokopenko. This dismantled Australia up to fourth position, 1.7 s financially past due of the Americans at the midway imprint. Australia advanced further to complete third behind the United States and Germany in a period of 4 min 2.3 s, missing the silver by 0.7 s. 

O'Brien finished a cap trap of breaststroke duplicates at the 1965 Australian Championships, yet in a year with no universal challenge, he swam much slower times of 1 min 11.1 s and 2 min 38.6 s separately. He finished a fourth back to back mixture hand-off win with New South Wales. At the 1966 Australian Championships, his occasions were again slower, at 1 min 11.8 s and 2 min 41.6 s individually, over 4% slower than his own bests, yet it was still enough to hold his titles and meet all requirements for the 1966 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Kingston, Jamaica. Faultfinders had kept in touch with him off, on the grounds that only a month and a half before the challenge, he was 16 kg overweight. Be that as it may, he came back to his pinnacle structure when the group achieved Jamaica, where he won both breaststroke occasions with times of 1 min 8.2 s and 2 min 29.3 s individually. His triumphant keep running in the 4 × 100 m variety transfer arrived at an end when the Australians were excluded for an illicit changeover. 

In 1967, O'Brien skirted the Australian Championships since he had no sponsorship and came up short on cash, constraining him to look for all day work. In 1968, regardless of Graham Edwards winning the National 200 m breaststroke title, the Australian Swimming Union influenced an overweight O'Brien to make a rebound in 1968 in light of the fact that Australia did not have a quality breaststroker for the Olympics. Experiencing an accident diet and work out schedule, O'Brien lost 12.7 kg in twelve weeks of exceptional preparing. O'Brien was unfit to recover both of his individual Australian titles, yet New South Wales again won the variety hand-off. By and by, he was chosen for his second Olympics. 

At the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, O'Brien set second in his warmth of the 200 m breaststroke in a period of 2 min 36.8 s, which put him thirteenth. He was disposed of, having been 2.9 s slower than the last-put qualifier for the last. The possible champ posted a period 0.9 s slower than that of O'Brien four years sooner. O'Brien improved in the recently presented 100 m occasion, winning his warmth in a period of 1 min 8.9 s to qualify second-quickest for the elimination rounds. O'Brien scratched into the last in the wake of coming next in his elimination round in a period of 1 min 9.0 s. It was the barest of edges; O'Brien was the slowest qualifier and couldn't be electronically isolated from the ninth-quickest semifinalist, with judges being utilized to choose the placings. O'Brien proceeded to complete 6th in a period of 1 min 8.6 s. 

O'Brien barely missed an award in the 4 ×  100 m mixture hand-off. Alongside Michael Wenden, Robert Cusack and Karl Byrom, the Australian group of four won their warmth and entered the last as the equivalent fifth quickest qualifier. In the last, O'Brien swam his leg in 1 min 8.6 s, which was just the fifth quickest breaststroke leg. Australia were fourth toward the finish of every leg, with the exception of O'Brien's, the point at which they were third. Australia in the end passed up the bronze by 0.1 s to the Soviet Union. O'Brien conceded that his preparation had been lacking for Olympic guidelines, taking note of that "I expected to put on another thousand kilometers in preparing". O'Brien likewise lamented the nonappearance of Talbot to inspire him to work, and had a further mishap at the Olympic Village when his fingers were hammered by an end window. Under challenge guidelines, he was not permitted to tie his hand amid rivalry. 

At age 21, O'Brien resigned after the 1968 Olympics, so he could focus exclusively on bringing home the bacon. Since his dad's passing in 1962, O'Brien's swimming vocation had caused significant money related worry for his family, with his mom pitching the family home to make a decent living. O'Brien had additionally been compelled to leave secondary school before he had finished his leaving declaration, with the goal that he could bolster the family's salary by wrapping packages. TV and camera work had constantly intrigued O'Brien, and he verified a vocation as a stagehand for Channel Nine in the wake of coming back from the Tokyo Olympics, which he held for over ten years. He at that point worked for Channel Ten for a long time, before working for an autonomous creation organization for an additional two years. In 1979, he began Videopak, which ended up one of the biggest exclusive TV narrative organizations in Australia. Videopak's sound stages were utilized by open and private TV organizations. O'Brien was enlisted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame in 1986. In 2000, he got an Australian Sports Medal.