Georges Vézina 

Joseph Georges Gonzague Vézina (; ; , 1887 – , 1926) was a Canadian expert ice hockey goaltender who played seven seasons in the National Hockey Association (NHA) and nine in the National Hockey League (NHL), all with the Montreal Canadiens. In the wake of being marked by the Canadiens in 1910, Vézina played in 327 continuous ordinary season diversions and a further 39 playoff recreations, before leaving right on time amid an amusement in 1925 because of ailment. Vézina was determined to have tuberculosis, and kicked the bucket on , 1926. 

The main goaltender to play for the Canadiens somewhere in the range of 1910 and 1925, Vézina helped the group win the Stanley Cup in 1916 and 1924, while achieving the Stanley Cup Finals three additional occasions. Nicknamed the "Chicoutimi Cucumber" for his quiet self-control while in objective, Vézina permitted the least objectives in the alliance multiple times in his profession: multiple times in the NHA and multiple times in the NHL. In 1918, Vézina turned into the first NHL goaltender to both record a shutout and gain a help on an objective. Toward the beginning of the 1926– 27 NHL season, the Canadiens gave the Vezina Trophy to the NHL as an honor to the goaltender who permitted the least objectives amid the season. Since 1981, the honor has been given to the most remarkable goaltender as controlled by a vote of NHL general supervisors. In Vézina's main residence of Chicoutimi, the games field is named the Center Georges-Vézina in his respect. At the point when the Hockey Hall of Fame opened in 1945, Vézina was one of the first nine inductees, and in 2017 the NHL included him on their rundown of the 100 biggest players allied history. 

Georges, the most youthful of eight kids, was conceived on , 1887, in Chicoutimi, Quebec, to Jacques Vézina, a nearby dough puncher and a settler from St. Nicolas de La Rochelle in France, and his better half Clara. Georges went to class at the Petit Séminaire de Chicoutimi until the age of fourteen, when he left the school to help at his dad's pastry kitchen. He played hockey since early on, taking an interest in casual road hockey matches with others his own age. Vézina shared in these matches in his shoes, and utilized skates out of the blue at age 16 when he joined the neighborhood group in Chicoutimi. As Chicoutimi was in a remote region of Quebec, in excess of 200 kilometers from Quebec City, the hockey club was in no composed group. Or maybe the club, known as the Saguenéens ("People from the Saguenay", the area where Chicoutimi is found), visited the territory, playing display recreations against an assortment of clubs. 

Vézina wedded Marie-Adélaïde-Stella Morin on , 1908, in Chicoutimi. After Vézina's demise, it was accounted for that he fathered 22 youngsters. This talk was begun when the Canadiens' administrator, Léo Dandurand, told journalists that Vézina "talks no English and has twenty-two youngsters, including three arrangements of triplets, and they were altogether conceived over the course of about nine years." In fact the Vézinas just had two kids and Georges talked broken English. In 1912 they had their first youngster, a child named Jean-Jules. A second child was brought into the world the evening of the Montreal Canadiens' first Stanley Cup win in 1916. To respect the occasion, Georges named the tyke Marcel Stanley. At the point when not playing hockey, Vézina worked a tannery in Chicoutimi, carrying on with a tranquil life. 

On February 17, 1910, the Chicoutimi Hockey Club played a display coordinate against the Montreal Canadiens. In spite of the fact that playing a second rate group the Canadiens neglected to score an objective, losing the diversion. This incited Joseph Cattarinich, goaltender for the Canadiens, to persuade his group to offer a tryout to Georges Vézina, who was Chicoutimi's goaltender. Vézina at first rejected the offer, remaining in Chicoutimi until the Canadiens returned in December of that year. This time they persuaded Georges, alongside his sibling Pierre, to come to Montreal. The two Vézina siblings touched base on , 1910. While Pierre neglected to make the group, Georges awed the Canadiens, particularly with the utilization of his stick to square shots. Vézina was marked to an agreement for C$800 per season, and made his expert presentation , 1910, against the Ottawa Senators. He would play every one of the 16 recreations for the Canadiens in the 1910– 11 season, completing with a record of eight successes and eight misfortunes, while permitting the least objectives in the group. 

The accompanying season Vézina again drove the group in objectives against, just as winning eight diversions, alongside 10 misfortunes. Vézina recorded his first profession shutout amid the 1912– 13 season, overcoming Ottawa 6– 0 on , 1913, for one of his nine successes in the season. The Canadiens completed first in the NHA without precedent for 1913– 14, in a tie with the Toronto Blueshirts. By and by, Vézina drove the alliance with the least objectives against, while posting 13 triumphs and seven misfortunes. Under the NHA rules, the primary spot group would play in the Stanley Cup Finals, however because of the tie for first, the Canadiens needed to play a two-amusement, all out objectives arrangement against Toronto. Vézina shut out the Blueshirts in the main diversion, a 2– 0 success for Montreal, however let in six objectives in the second amusement, enabling the Blueshirts to play for the Stanley Cup, which they won. 

Subsequent to losing 14 recreations and completing toward the end in the NHA in 1914– 15, Vézina and the Canadiens won 16 amusements amid the 1915– 16 season, setting the group first in the association. As class pioneers, the Canadiens earned the privilege to play in the 1916 Stanley Cup Finals, where they went head to head against the Portland Rosebuds, heroes of the opponent Pacific Coast Hockey Association. The Canadiens vanquished the Rosebuds three recreations to two in the best-of-five-amusements arrangement, winning the Stanley Cup without precedent for group history. Vézina's second child was brought into the world the evening of the fifth amusement, which combined with a reward of $238 every individual from the Canadiens got for the title, prompted him thinking about the arrangement as the apex of his profession. The accompanying season Vézina again drove the NHA with the least objectives against, the fourth time in seven years he did as such, helping the Canadiens to again achieve the Stanley Cup Finals, where they lost to the Seattle Metropolitans. 

The NHA offered route to the National Hockey League (NHL) in , with Vézina and the Canadiens joining the new association. On , 1918, he turned into the primary goaltender in NHL history to record a shutout, by blanking the Torontos 9– 0. On December 28, 1918, he turned into the primary goaltender to be credited with a help, on an objective by Newsy Lalonde, who had recently grabbed the puck after a spare by Vézina. He completed the season with 12 wins, permitting the least objectives against. Vézina likewise set a record, which was imparted to Clint Benedict of the Ottawa Senators, for the least shutouts expected to lead the alliance, with one. 

In 1918– 19 Vézina won 10 diversions and helped the Canadiens rout the Ottawa Senators in the NHL playoffs for the privilege to play for the Stanley Cup against the PCHA champion, the Seattle Metropolitans. Held in Seattle, the two groups were tied in the best-of-five arrangement when it was dropped because of the Spanish influenza pestilence, the first run through the Stanley Cup was not granted. In the 10 playoff amusements before the scratch-off, Vézina had won six diversions, lost three and tied one, with one shutout. Vézina recorded about indistinguishable records the following two seasons, with 13 wins, 11 misfortunes and an objectives against normal over four in both 1919– 20 and 1920– 21. He won 12 recreations the accompanying season, as the Canadiens again neglected to meet all requirements for the Stanley Cup. 

In the wake of winning 13 amusements in 1922– 23, Vézina drove the Canadiens into the NHL playoffs, where they lost the two-diversion, all out objective arrangement to the Senators, who might win the Stanley Cup. The accompanying season saw Vézina come back to driving the association in least objectives against. His normal of 1.97 objectives per amusement was the first run through a goaltender had found the middle value of less than two objectives against per diversion. With another 13-win season in 1923– 24, the Canadiens achieved the NHL playoffs, where they again confronted the Ottawa Senators. This time the Canadiens won the arrangement, at that point crushed the Vancouver Maroons of the PCHA before achieving the Stanley Cup Finals without precedent for a long time. Playing the Calgary Tigers of the Western Canada Hockey League, Vézina and the Canadiens won the best-of-three arrangement two recreations to none, as Vézina recorded a shutout in the second diversion. The title was the Canadiens' first as an individual from the NHL and second title as a club. After a 17-win season in 1924– 25 where Vézina recorded an objectives against normal of 1.81 to again lead the alliance, the Canadiens achieved the Stanley Cup Finals. The Canadiens just qualified after the Hamilton Tigers, the ordinary season champions, were suspended for declining to play in the playoffs except if they were paid more. Confronting the Victoria Cougars, the Canadiens lost the arrangement three diversions to one. 

Coming back to Montreal for preparing camp for the 1925– 26 season, Vézina was observably sick, however he didn't utter a word about it. When of the Canadiens' first amusement on against the Pittsburgh Pirates, he had shed 35 pounds in a range of about a month and a half, and had a fever of 102 Fahrenheit. In any case, he took to the ice, and finished the primary time frame without permitting an objective. Vézina started heaving blood in the interlude before returning for the beginning of the second time frame. He at that point crumbled in his objective region, and left the amusement, with previous U.S. Olympic group goaltender Alphonse Lacroix having his spot. 

The day after the diversion, Vézina was determined to have tuberculosis and encouraged to return home. He made a last stumble into the Canadiens' changing area on to express a last farewell to his colleagues. Dandurand would later depict Vézina as sitting in his side of the changing area with "tears moving down his cheeks. He was taking a gander at his old cushions and skates that Eddie Dufour [the Canadiens trainer] had organized in Georges' corner. At that point, he asked one little support—the sweater he had worn in the last world arrangement." Vézina came back to the place where he grew up of Chicoutimi with his significant other Marie, where he kicked the bucket in the early hours on Saturday, March 27, 1926, at l'Hôtel-Dieu emergency clinic. In spite of the fact that he played just a single period for the Canadiens amid the whole season, the group respected his whole $6,000 compensation, a demonstration of how essential Vézina had been to the group. 

One of the overwhelming goaltenders in the NHA and early NHL, Vézina drove the Canadiens to five Stanley Cup Finals appearances, where they won the title twice. Multiple times in his vocation, Vézina had the least objectives against normal in the group he played, and he had the second-best normal another multiple times. From when he joined the Canadiens in 1910, until being compelled to resign in 1925, Vézina never missed an amusement nor permitted a substitute, playing in 328 back to back normal season recreations and an extra 39 playoff diversions. Despite the fact that he played the greater part of his profession in a time when goaltenders couldn't leave their feet to make a spare (the standard was changed in 1918), Vézina is viewed as one of the best goaltenders in hockey history; the "Montreal Standard" alluded to him as the "best goaltender of the most recent two decades" in their tribute. 

All around loved in Montreal, Vézina was regularly observed as the best player on the ice for the Canadiens, and was regarded by his colleagues, who thought of him as the profound pioneer of the group. Alluded to as "le Concombre de Chicoutimi" (the "Chicoutimi Cucumber") for his cool manner on the ice, he was otherwise called "l'Habitant silencieux" (the "quiet Habitant", Habitant being a moniker for the Canadiens), a reference to his saved identity. He frequently sat in an edge of the group's changing area alone, smoking a pipe and perusing the paper. At the point when updates on Vézina's passing was reported, papers crosswise over Quebec paid tribute to the goalie with articles about his life and vocation. Several Catholic masses were held to pay tribute to the dedicated Vézina, and in excess of 1,500 individuals filled the Chicoutimi house of prayer for his burial service. 

An enduring heritage of Vézina was the trophy named after him. Toward the beginning of the 1926– 27 season, Léo Dandurand, Leo Letourneau and Joseph Cattarinich, proprietors of the Montreal Canadiens, gave the Vezina Trophy to the NHL out of appreciation for Vézina. It was to be granted to the goaltender of the group who permitted the least objectives amid the standard season. The debut champ of the trophy was Vézina's successor in objective for the Canadiens, George Hainsworth. He proceeded to win the trophy the following two seasons also. In 1981, the NHL changed the configuration of granting the trophy, rather offering it to the goaltender regarded best in the group dependent on a survey of NHL general directors. The Hockey Hall of Fame was built up in 1945 and among the initial nine inductees was Vézina. In 1998 Vézina was positioned number 75 on "The Hockey News"' rundown of the 100 Greatest Hockey Players. Out of appreciation for the principal proficient competitor to originate from Chicoutimi, the city renamed their hockey field the Center Georges-Vézina in 1965. At the point when the NHL declared its 100 biggest players related to the alliance's centennial 2017, Vézina was incorporated on the rundown.