Jake Gyllenhaal 

Jacob Benjamin Gyllenhaal (; conceived December 19, 1980) is an American on-screen character. An individual from the Gyllenhaal family and the child of executive Stephen Gyllenhaal and screenwriter Naomi Foner, Gyllenhaal started going about as a kid with a screen debut in "City Slickers" (1991), trailed by jobs in "A Dangerous Woman" (1993) and "Homegrown" (1998). His achievement execution was as Homer Hickam in "October Sky" (1999) and he accumulated an Independent Spirit Award selection for Best Male Lead for playing the title character in the outside the box faction hit "Donnie Darko" (2001), in which he played a mentally vexed young person, close by his more established sister, Maggie Gyllenhaal. He in this way showed up in another outside the box film, "The Good Girl" (2002) and the atmosphere fiction-fiasco film "The Day After Tomorrow" (2004), depicting an understudy got in a destructive atmosphere occasion. 

In 2005, Gyllenhaal depicted Anthony "Swoff" Swofford in "Jarhead", Harold Dobbs in "Confirmation", and Jack Twist in Ang Lee's "Brokeback Mountain." For his execution in "Brokeback Mountain," he got basic approval and won the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role and was designated for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role, the Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture, and the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. 

Gyllenhaal got further acknowledgment for his jobs in "Zodiac" (2007), "Siblings" (2009), "" (2010), "Love and Other Drugs" (2010), for which he was assigned for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, "Source Code" (2011), "End of Watch" (2012), "Detainees" (2013), "Foe" (2013), "Nightcrawler" (2014), "Southpaw" (2015), and "Nighttime Animals" (2016), for which he was designated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role. For "Nightcrawler", he got far reaching basic praise, and was named for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Drama, the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role, and the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role. 

Gyllenhaal was conceived in Los Angeles, California, the child of movie maker and screenwriter Naomi Foner (née Achs) and movie chief Stephen Gyllenhaal. On-screen character Maggie Gyllenhaal, his more seasoned sister, showed up with him in the film "Donnie Darko". Gyllenhaal's dad, who was raised as a Swedenborgian, is of Swedish and English plunge, and is a relative of the Swedish respectable Gyllenhaal family. Jake's last predecessor to be conceived in Sweden was his extraordinary incredible granddad, Anders Leonard Gyllenhaal. Jake's mom is Jewish, and was conceived in New York City to a Jewish family from Russia and Poland. Gyllenhaal has said that he views himself as Jewish. On his thirteenth birthday celebration, Gyllenhaal played out a "barmitzvah-like act, without the commonplace trappings", volunteering at a destitute safe house since his folks needed to give him a feeling of appreciation for his advantaged way of life. His folks demanded that he have summer employments to help himself and he in this manner filled in as a lifeguard and as a waiting assistant at an eatery worked by a family companion. Gyllenhaal said his folks energized creative articulation: "I do have guardians who always bolstered me in certain ways. In different ways, they were inadequate. Certainly, it's in articulation and imagination where my family has dependably been best at." 

As a youngster, Gyllenhaal was routinely presented to filmmaking because of his family's profound connections to the business. He made his acting introduction as Billy Crystal's child in the 1991 parody film "City Slickers". His folks did not enable him to show up in the 1992 film "The Mighty Ducks" since it would have expected him to leave home for two months. In ensuing years, his folks enabled him to try out for jobs however routinely disallowed him to take them in the event that he were picked. He was permitted to show up in his dad's movies a few times. Gyllenhaal showed up in the 1993 film "A Dangerous Woman" (alongside sister Maggie); in "", a 1994 scene of ""; and in the 1998 parody "Homegrown". Alongside their mom, Jake and Maggie showed up in two scenes of "Molto Mario", an Italian preparing appear on the Food Network. Before his senior year in secondary school, the main other movie not coordinated by his dad, in which Gyllenhaal was permitted to perform, was the 1993 film "Josh and S.A.M.", a little-known kids' experience. 

Gyllenhaal moved on from the Harvard-Westlake School in Los Angeles in 1998, at that point went to Columbia University, where his sister was a senior and from which his mom had graduated, to contemplate Eastern religions and rationality. Gyllenhaal dropped out following two years to focus on acting however has communicated aims to in the long run completion his degree. Gyllenhaal's first lead job was in "October Sky", Joe Johnston's 1999 adjustment of the Homer Hickam life account "Rocket Boys", in which he depicted a young fellow from West Virginia endeavoring to win a science grant to abstain from turning into a coal excavator. The film earned $32 million and was depicted in the "Sacramento News and Review" as Gyllenhaal's "breakout execution". 

"Donnie Darko", Gyllenhaal's second film, was not a film industry accomplishment upon its underlying 2001 discharge however in the end turned into a faction top pick. Coordinated by Richard Kelly, the film is set in 1988 and stars Gyllenhaal as a harried adolescent who encounters dreams of a tall rabbit named Frank who reveals to him that the world is arriving at an end. Gyllenhaal's execution was generally welcomed by faultfinders; Gary Mairs of Culture Vulture composed that "Gyllenhaal deals with the troublesome trap of appearing to be both insipidly typical and significantly aggravated, regularly inside a similar scene." 

After the basic accomplishment of "Donnie Darko", Gyllenhaal's next job was as Pilot Kelston in 2002's "Interstate" nearby Jared Leto. His execution was portrayed by one commentator as "senseless, exhausted and straight to video". Gyllenhaal had more achievement featuring inverse Jennifer Aniston in "The Good Girl", which debuted at the 2002 Sundance Film Festival; he likewise featured in "Dazzling and Amazing" with Catherine Keener. In the two movies he plays an unsteady character who starts a careless issue with a more seasoned lady. Gyllenhaal later portrayed these as "young person on the move" jobs. Gyllenhaal later featured in the Touchstone Pictures lighthearted comedy "Air pocket Boy", which was inexactly founded on the narrative of David Vetter. The film depicts the title character's experiences as he seeks after the adoration for his life before she weds the wrong man. The film was panned by pundits, with one considering it a "half-witted, riotous, absolutely dull abomination". 

Following "Air pocket Boy", Gyllenhaal featured inverse Dustin Hoffman, Susan Sarandon and Ellen Pompeo in "Evening glow Mile", as a young fellow adapting to the passing of his life partner and the sorrow of her folks. The story, which got blended audits, is approximately founded on author/chief Brad Silberling's own encounters following the homicide of his better half, Rebecca Schaeffer. 

Gyllenhaal was nearly given a role as Spider-Man for "Bug Man 2" because of executive Sam Raimi's worries about unique "Arachnid Man" star Tobey Maguire's wellbeing. Maguire recouped, be that as it may, and the continuation was shot without Gyllenhaal. (The on-screen characters—who later played siblings in "Siblings"— take after one sufficiently another that Gyllenhaal has flippantly grumbled about taxi drivers regularly calling him "Insect Man".) Instead, Gyllenhaal featured in the blockbuster "The Day After Tomorrow" in 2004, co-featuring Dennis Quaid as his dad. 

In his showy introduction, Gyllenhaal featured on the London arrange in Kenneth Lonergan's restoration of "This Is Our Youth" at the Garrick Theater in 2002. Gyllenhaal stated, "Each performing artist I turn upward to has done auditorium work, so I realized I needed out it an attempt." The play, which had been a basic sensation on Broadway, kept running for about two months in London's West End. Gyllenhaal got positive basic audits and an Evening Standard Theater Award in the classification "Exceptional Newcomer". 

In 2005, Gyllenhaal featured in the fundamentally applauded movies "Verification", "Jarhead", and "Brokeback Mountain". In "Verification", highlighting Gwyneth Paltrow and Anthony Hopkins, Gyllenhaal played an alumni understudy in arithmetic who attempts to persuade Paltrow's character to distribute a progressive evidence to an issue astounding the mathematicians' locale. In "Jarhead", Gyllenhaal played a savage U.S. Marine amid the main Gulf War. He likewise tried out to be Batman for the blockbuster "Batman Begins" and verged on getting the job, however Christian Bale was at last picked for it. 

In "Brokeback Mountain", Gyllenhaal and Heath Ledger play young fellows who meet as sheep herders and set out upon a sexual relationship that starts in the late spring of 1963 and goes on for a long time. The film was regularly alluded to in the media with the shorthand expression "the gay cattle rustler motion picture", however there was varying assessment on the sexual introduction of the characters. The film won the Golden Lion prize at the Venice Film Festival. The film proceeded to win four Golden Globe Awards, four British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) Awards, and three Academy Awards. Gyllenhaal was selected for an Academy Award in the classification of Best Supporting Actor for his execution yet lost to George Clooney for "Syriana". Gyllenhaal additionally won the Best Supporting Actor BAFTA for a similar job and got a Best Supporting Actor selection and Best Film Ensemble designation from the Screen Actors Guild. Additionally for "Brokeback Mountain", he and Ledger won a MTV Movie Award for "Best Kiss" in 2006. Not long after the 2006 Academy Awards, Gyllenhaal was welcome to join the Academy in acknowledgment of his acting vocation. 

Gyllenhaal communicated blended emotions about the experience of being coordinated by Ang Lee in "Brokeback Mountain" however for the most part had more commendation than analysis for Lee's coordinating style. While griping of the manner in which Lee would in general disengage from his performers once taping started, Gyllenhaal adulated his empowering course of the on-screen characters and touchy way to deal with the material. At the Directors Guild of America Awards on January 28, 2006, Gyllenhaal additionally applauded Lee for "his humbleness and his regard for everybody around him". 

At the point when gotten some information about his kissing scenes with Heath Ledger in "Brokeback Mountain", Gyllenhaal stated, "As an on-screen character, I think we have to grasp the occasions we feel generally awkward." When gotten some information about the more close scenes with Ledger, Gyllenhaal compared them to "completing a sexual moment with a lady I'm not especially pulled in to". Following the arrival of "Brokeback Mountain", bits of gossip flowed with respect to the on-screen character's sexual introduction. At the point when gotten some information about such tattle amid a meeting, Gyllenhaal stated: 

Gyllenhaal portrayed the 2005 short energized film "The Man Who Walked Between the Towers", in view of Mordicai Gerstein's book of a similar name about Philippe Petit's well known trick. In January 2007, as host of "Saturday Night Live", he put on a sparkly night dress and sang "And I Am Telling You I'm Not Going" from the melodic "Dreamgirls" for his opening monolog, devoting the tune to his "one of a kind fan base... the fanatics of "Brokeback"". 

In 2007, Gyllenhaal featured in David Fincher's puzzle spine chiller "Zodiac", which depended on a genuine story. He played Robert Graysmith, a "San Francisco Chronicle" political visual artist. In anticipation of his job, Gyllenhaal met Graysmith, and recorded him to consider his idiosyncrasies and conduct. Gyllenhaal featured inverse Meryl Streep, Alan Arkin and Reese Witherspoon in the October 2007 discharge "Version", a Gavin Hood-coordinated political spine chiller about the U.S. arrangement of unprecedented version. In 2009, he showed up with Tobey Maguire in Jim Sheridan's change of Susanne Bier's 2004 Danish language film "Siblings". In 2008, it was declared that Gyllenhaal would star in the parody "Nailed", which he recorded in South Carolina with Jessica Biel, just as Doug Liman's up 'til now untitled film about the race for lunar colonization. The next year, Gyllenhaal assumed the lead job in the of the computer game "", created by Jerry Bruckheimer and discharged by Disney on May 28, 2010, and in the rom-com " Love and Other Drugs", discharged on November 24, 2010, for which he got a Golden Globe Award selection. 

In 2012, Gyllenhaal featured nearby Michael Peña in David Ayer's film "End of Watch" around two Los Angeles road cops. The film was discharged on September 21, 2012 and got positive surveys, with Roger Ebert saying that ""End of Watch" is a standout amongst the best police motion pictures lately, a virtuoso combination of exhibitions and frequently alarming activity", and Salon.com's Andrew O'Hehir expressing that the film was "in any event the best cop motion picture since James Gray's "We Own the Night", and in all respects likely since Antoine Fuqua's important "Preparing Day" (which, not fortuitously, was composed by Ayer)". To prepare for the job, Gyllenhaal took strategic preparing and partook in genuine police drives with co-star Michael Peña to help set up the language of the characters. 

Gyllenhaal showed up in two movies coordinated by Denis Villeneuve in 2013 – Gyllenhaal portrayed gathering Villeneuve "as though I'd met a more established sibling". The first of movies to be discharged, the spine chiller "Detainees", featured Gyllenhaal as a criminologist named Loki looking for the abductor of two young ladies, one of which is fathered by Hugh Jackman's character. "Moving Stone" pundit Peter Travers applauded Gyllenhaal's "remarkable" execution in the film. In their second coordinated effort, Gyllenhaal featured in a double job as a history instructor and his doppelgänger in the spine chiller "Foe". In 2014, he created and featured in the wrongdoing spine chiller "Nightcrawler", accepting a Golden Globe and Screen Actors Guild Award assignment for the last job. In 2015, he featured in Antoine Fuqua's games show "Southpaw", Baltasar Kormákur's "Everest", a record of the 1996 Mount Everest fiasco, and Jean-Marc Vallée's rom-com dramatization "Destruction". He was additionally on the jury for the principle rivalry segment of the 2015 Cannes Film Festival. In 2016, he featured in Tom Ford's spine chiller film "Nighttime Animals". 

In 2017, Gyllenhaal featured in the sci-fi spine chiller film "Life", as space traveler David Jordan, assumed a supporting job in the activity experience film "Okja", and featured the dramatization "More grounded", about Boston Marathon shelling survivor Jeff Bauman. He featured in Paul Dano's dramatization "Untamed life" and the western "The Sisters Brothers". 

Gyllenhaal's next job will be funny book supervillain Mysterio/Quentin Beck in the continuation of "", set inside the Marvel Cinematic Universe set for discharge in 2019. 

Gyllenhaal's New York Off-Broadway debut happened in 2012 in Nick Payne's "If There Is I Haven't Found It Yet" at the Roundabout Theater Company's Laura Pels Theater. Gyllenhaal appeared on Broadway in 2014 in Payne's "Groups of stars" at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater inverse Ruth Wilson, additionally in her Broadway debut. 

Gyllenhaal joined John Mauceri and David Denby in Adam Gopnik's platform dialog in February 2016 at the David Rubenstein Atrium at Lincoln Center about Leonard Bernstein's achievement directing execution in Carnegie Hall on November 14, 1943; joined by Jeanine Tesori on piano, he sang "Maria" from "West Side Story". 

He showed up in four advantage show exhibitions of the Stephen Sondheim/James Lapine melodic "Sunday in the Park with George" at the New York City Center on October 24– 26, 2016. Annaleigh Ashford performed "Speck" and Zachary Levi was "Jules". Beginning in February 2017, Gyllenhaal and Ashford repeated their City Center exhibitions on Broadway at the revived Hudson Theater. 

He had been planned to show up in Lanford Wilson's "Consume This" on Broadway at the re-opened Hudson Theater under the bearing of Michael Mayer in 2017. It was reported in October 2016 that the generation has been deferred until the 2017-18 season, as a result of planning clashes with Gyllenhaal. Be that as it may, in December 2017, another generation of "Consume" "This" was booked for 2019 with Adam Driver in the job of Pale. Gyllenhaal's creation was accounted for to be "left". 

The child of chief Stephen Gyllenhaal and screenwriter Naomi Foner, Gyllenhaal's close family incorporates his sister, on-screen character Maggie, who is hitched to on-screen character Peter Sarsgaard, Gyllenhaal's co-star in "Jarhead" and "Interpretation" and his sibling Luke from his dad's second marriage. In December 2006, Gyllenhaal and his sister got away from a flame that annihilated Manka's Inverness Lodge, a renowned hotel and eatery in Inverness, California, at which they were traveling. The Gyllenhaals were among twelve or so visitors who fled after the flame, started by a falling tree, broke out at around 3 a.m. Co-proprietor and big name culinary expert Daniel DeLong said the pair were strong notwithstanding overcoming the breeze and cold. "Jake was helping me haul things out of the flame" DeLong said. 

Gyllenhaal's niece, Ramona Sarsgaard, was conceived on October 3, 2006. Gyllenhaal has both exacting godparents and what he depicts as "big name godparents". The late on-screen character and chief Paul Newman was his VIP adoptive parent, and performing artist Jamie Lee Curtis was the two his strict and VIP guardian. Different godparents of obscure status incorporate a gay couple and cinematographer Robert Elswit. 

Gyllenhaal himself is the adoptive parent of Matilda Rose Ledger (conceived October 28, 2005), girl of Heath Ledger and Michelle Williams, both of whom co-featured with him in "Brokeback Mountain". 

Gyllenhaal dated performing artist Kirsten Dunst for about two years, beginning in 2002. He later dated his "Version" co-star Reese Witherspoon from around 2007 to 2009. He dated vocalist musician Taylor Swift from October 2010 until March 2011, and show Alyssa Miller from July to December 2013. 

Gyllenhaal is politically dynamic. He shot a business for Rock the Vote and, alongside his sister, visited the University of Southern California to urge understudies to cast a ballot amid the 2004 U.S. race. He likewise battled for Democratic Presidential applicant John Kerry. He has stated, in any case, that "it disappoints me when on-screen characters talk governmental issues; I'm political and I settle on decisions in my motion pictures that I believe are political. I attempt and state things with what I do. Appropriately or wrongly, youthful performing artists have all the power." In a meeting for "Interpretation", he commented that "it's a tragic time when on-screen characters are government officials and lawmakers are on-screen characters". 

Brought up in a family worried about social issues, in 2003 Gyllenhaal took an interest in a publicizing effort by the American Civil Liberties Union, an association his whole family emphatically underpins. Naturally cognizant, he reuses routinely, and said in a meeting that he goes through $400 every year to have trees planted in a Mozambique backwoods, mostly to advance the Future Forests program. In the wake of recording "The Day After Tomorrow", he traveled to the Arctic to advance familiarity with environmental change. Gyllenhaal is the Honorary Chair of the New Eyes for the Needy Advisory Board, and has marked on to help the TV pledge drive Stand Up to Cancer. Gyllenhaal is on the top managerial staff for the Anti-Recidivism Coalition and volunteered in California adolescent confinement focuses with Scott Budnick. 

In his extra time, Gyllenhaal appreciates carpentry and cooking. At the point when gotten some information about being a Buddhist, he has stated, "I am not a card-conveying Buddhist, yet I do endeavor to rehearse care" and that it is his objective to contemplate each day. 

On December 19, 2011, he was declared as a jury part for the 62nd Berlin International Film Festival that was held in February 2012. 

Gyllenhaal was named one of "Individuals" magazine's "50 Most Beautiful People" in 2006. He was likewise recorded in "People's" "Most sultry Bachelors of 2006". A large number of gay and cross-sexual men were surveyed for the 2007 and 2008 "AfterElton.com Hot 100 List". Gyllenhaal was positioned at No.1 in both successive years. He was positioned at No.2 on the "Gay Wired Magazine" survey of male performers who have played gay characters in films. In April 2012, "Shalom Life" positioned him Number 6 on its rundown of "the 50 most capable, clever, amusing, and stunning Jewish men on the planet".