Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King? 

"Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?" is the seventh scene of the fourth period of the American TV therapeutic dramatization "Private Practice" and the show's 61st scene by and large. Composed by Shonda Rhimes and coordinated by Allison Liddi-Brown, the scene was initially communicated on ABC in the United States on November 4, 2010. "Private Practice" focuses on a gathering of youthful specialists working in a private restorative practice, and this scene manages the prompt repercussions of Charlotte King's assault. 

The scene, written as a team with the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network (RAINN), spun around KaDee Strickland's character, Charlotte, and was expected to precisely depict an injured individual's recuperation from assault. Nicholas Brendon visitor featured as Lee McHenry, and Blue Deckert showed up as analyst Joe Price. "Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?" earned Rhimes, Strickland, and the arrangement a few honors and assignments and was generally welcomed by pundits, with Strickland's character and execution adulated. The underlying communicate was seen by 10.18 million individuals, got a 3.9/11 Nielsen rating/share in the 18– 49 demographic, and had the fifth-most elevated number of watchers that night. 

The scene opens with St. Ambrose Hospital head of staff Charlotte King (KaDee Strickland) covering up in a supply storeroom in the wake of being assaulted in her office. Elective prescription pro Dr. Pete Wilder (Tim Daly) finds and looks at her, diagnosing a broken wrist, eye attachment and nose and a profound arm cut, and concedes her to the medical clinic. Lord misleads Wilder, revealing to him that she was harmed in a robbing. More stunning calls the police; King endeavors to get in touch with her beau, Dr. Cooper Freedman (Paul Adelstein), however can't contact him since he is out drinking with Dr. Amelia Shepherd (Caterina Scorsone) and Dr. Sam Bennett (Taye Diggs). At the police headquarters specialist Sheldon Wallace (Brian Benben) questions Lee McHenry (Nicholas Brendon), who was found with blood on his garments. After medical attendants photo King's wounds, Dr. Addison Montgomery (Kate Walsh) understands that King was assaulted and offers her an assault unit. Amid her pelvic examination, King declines the assault pack and advises Montgomery not to educate any other person regarding the assault. Freedman touches base with Shepherd and Bennett, and is amazed at the degree of King's wounds. Amid the CT output, King and Shepherd bond over their mutual illicit drug use when King rejects torment medicine. Shepherd concedes drinking liquor once more, and King offers to take her to Alcoholics Anonymous gatherings. Shepherd sutures King's injuries, which causes King extraordinary torment; Freedman feels frail, unfit to secure her. 

Met by Wallace, McHenry concedes being furious subsequent to finding his better half's unfaithfulness yet denies that the blood on his apparel is hers. Montgomery endeavors to persuade King to report her assault; King won't, disclosing to Montgomery that she doesn't comprehend what it resembles to be assaulted. More stunning uses elective medication to enable King to manage her torment. Therapist Violet Turner (Amy Brenneman) won't converse with King about the assault on account of similitudes to the fetal kidnapping she encountered a year sooner, and marvels if everybody in the training is reviled. Bennett needs to return home and rest, which enrages Montgomery. Ruler endeavors to form an update saying that she was assaulted on the emergency clinic grounds, however Freedman proposes that another individual from the staff do it for her; she yells at Freedman when he calls her an unfortunate casualty. After the contention, Freedman goes to King's office and sobs when he sees the result of her ambush. McHenry concedes assaulting a lady, striking Wallace before he is pulled away by the police. In the rescue vehicle sound, Bennett communicates his disarray about Montgomery's emotional episodes and suspects that she is concealing something from him; Montgomery requests that he guarantee never to disregard her. After Freedman encourages her dress, King says that she adores him and needs to return home. McHenry is held by the police for ambushing a cop amid his capture and Wallace amid his cross examination, however analyst Joe Price says that McHenry can't be accused of assault until charges are documented against him. The scene closes with King leaving the clinic with Freedman's assistance; flashbacks of the assault uncover that McHenry was the attacker. 

The 43-minute scene was composed by Shonda Rhimes and coordinated by Allison Liddi-Brown. Christal A. Khatib altered the music, and Gregory Van Horn was its creation architect. Johann Sebastian Bach's "Prelude and Fugue in C" was played amid the opening arrangement. Rhimes composed the scene as a team with the Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network (RAINN) to guarantee that King's recuperation was exhibited as precisely as could be expected under the circumstances. She later called it one of her top choices from the arrangement and stated, "I have a feeling that I changed as an author composing that scene." 

Drawn nearer by Rhimes about the idea, Strickland consented to the storyline on the conditions that it would not be constrained to a solitary scene and would essentially affect the character. She enjoyed the content, portraying it as "refining the people in question and just truly making an authentic encounter for the gathering of people such that you may not see on system TV". Just as speaking with RAINN agents, the on-screen character visited the Rape Treatment Center at UCLA Medical Center in Santa Monica and saw a young lady being conceded, which formed her execution. Strickland likewise explored responses to rape by survivors, their loved ones. The choice to depict King's protection from announcing her assault was come to after meeting with the Rape Treatment Center. Strickland protected the decision, considering it a basic part of King's character advancement. A large portion of the scene concentrated on King's mental reaction to the assault. As per Strickland, 

The on-screen character portrayed the taping of the assault as simpler than the scenes delineating its fallout, which she called "mentally ... [and] ... physically hard". Strickland and Brendon concurred on a safeword when they recorded the assault, because of its mercilessness. The scene influenced Strickland to the degree that she thought that it was hard to follow up on the set on which the assault was shot. The on-screen character called the shooting procedure "serious" and "honest", yet "in no way, shape or form is any of that even practically identical to anything that ladies and men have had involvement with". Brendon was given against sort a role as McHenry, King's attacker, since he is principally known for depicting the comedic Xander Harris in "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". Strickland said that Brendon's character ought not be translated as insane, in light of the fact that culprits of assault are "individuals who are around all of us the time"; she called Brendon's acknowledgment of the job "valiant". 

As per Strickland, each character on the show was influenced by King's assault. The scene investigated Freedman's personality and reaction as the accomplice of an assault injured individual, with Adelstein distinguishing his character as "a cognizant 21st-century male" in his collaborations with King. As indicated by Strickland, Montgomery's choice to utilize the assault pack on King without her insight would be a noteworthy storyline later on and Turner would end up tireless in getting help for King in the wake of finding out about the assault since the characters had comparable horrible encounters. An in the background highlight about the scene and others including King's assault, "An Inside Look: The Violation of Charlotte King", was incorporated on the fourth-season DVD and Blu-beam discharges. 

"Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?" was initially communicated on November 4, 2010 in the United States on the ABC arrange. The scene was seen by a sum of 10.18 million individuals, and had a 44 percent expansion from the past scene "All in the Family", which earned a normal rating of 7.68. Despite the fact that it was the fifth-most noteworthy appraised demonstrate that night (behind CBS's "The Big Bang Theory", "$h*! My Dad Says", "" and "The Mentalist"), its 3.9/11 Nielsen rating topped the 10:00 Eastern schedule opening for the rating and offer rates of the 18– 49 demographic. The scene was circulated with a message empowering watcher caution, because of its viciousness. The accompanying scene "What Happens Next" saw an abatement in evaluations, and was seen by an aggregate of 8.21 million individuals. 

The basic reaction was to a great extent positive, with a "television Guide" author positioning "Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?" one of 2010's best 25 TV scenes. Alec Stern of "The Michigan Daily" refered to the scene for instance of the show's improved quality, and The Futon Critic's Brian Ford Sullivan likewise included it in his rundown of 50 best scenes of 2010. Strickland's execution got an overwhelmingly positive reaction after the scene originally publicized. The analyst from "television Guide" felt that Strickland's execution was deserving of an Emmy, and that the first run through Freedman saw King's wounds was "like we weren't notwithstanding sitting in front of the TV any longer". A TVLine post later recorded Strickland as one of the Emmy Awards' 21 greatest censures. "E! News" Kristin dos Santos additionally commended Strickland's depiction of King, composing that she merited an Emmy designation, and Winston Mize of SpoilerTV composed that Strickland was "ransacked. of. all. the. grants". "Television Fanatic" Steve Marsi preferred the scene, saying that its pacing and Strickland's execution submerged the group of onlookers in spite of the troublesome topic. 

The treatment of assault in the scene has been broadly lauded by TV faultfinders. SpoilerTV's Winston Mize felt that it was a standout amongst Rhimes' best shows, and that it maintained a strategic distance from a sermonizing or too much sensational interpretation of assault. JeromeWetzelTV of Blogcritics found the scene "irritating, exceptional, terrible, and moving", with the assault took care of gently and dependably. "E! News"' Jennifer Arrow portrayed the assault scene as "the most sensible delineation of assault in media history" and noticed Brendon's giving a role as an abhorrent character conversely with his all the more carefree execution as Harris in "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". 

The portrayal of King's assault and its outcome was contrasted with comparative storylines on different shows. Bolt called it part of the "assault on-TV pattern", connecting King's assault with those of Gemma Teller Morrow of FX's wrongdoing dramatization "Children of Anarchy" and Naomi Clark of the CW high schooler show "90210". As indicated by Arrow, each of the three characters were "solid, simple women who for the most part overwhelm their surroundings" and did not report their assault. She approached if each show's choice for the injured individual not to report the assault was a piece of a bigger social conviction that "confides in ladies who keep their quiet". "Television Fanatic" Steve Marsi called the scene reminiscent of "" in its introduction of occasions progressively and accentuation on character responses. "The Michigan Daily" Alec Stern called rape "a brace Shonda Rhimes has swung to in each of the three of her arrangement", composing that the advancement of King's character was better than the storyline of Mellie Grant's assault on the ABC show "Outrage". 

The scene was refered to at the 2011 Television Academy Honors for epitomizing "TV with a Conscience". The Academy of Television Arts and Sciences commended the scene for "master[ing] the horrible wrongdoing of rape". "Private Practice" got the honor in 2010 for its way to deal with doctor helped suicide in the second-season scene, "Nothing to Fear", and a show arrangement Women's Image Network Award at the thirteenth yearly WIN grants. "Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?" was a finalist for the Sentinel for Health Award for Primetime Drama (Major Storyline) for its portrayal of assault, losing to the "Parenthood" scene "Characteristics and Difficulties" (which concentrated on Asperger disorder). The show was assigned for the PRISM Award for Drama Series Multi-Episode Storyline (Mental Health) for "Did You Hear What Happened to Charlotte King?" and the accompanying scenes, "What Happens Next" and "Can't Find My Way Back Home", losing to the initial two periods of "Parenthood". 

Rhimes and Strickland got a RAINN Hope Award in acknowledgment of "their endeavors in instructing general society about rape counteractive action". Strickland said that she considered presenting the scene, or the later scenes "Can't Find My Way Home" or "Visually impaired Love," for thought at the 63rd Primetime Emmy Awards, however she didn't get a selection. The performer got the Female Performance in a Drama Series Multi-Episode Storyline grant at the 2011 PRISM Awards. Rhimes got the NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Writing in a Dramatic Series at the 2011 NAACP Awards for her work on the scene. 

After its communicate, RAINN had a "500-percent expansion in administration demands" (which briefly smashed its site). Strickland took an interest in an open administration declaration to build familiarity with assault and sexual maltreatment, and said that she had gotten numerous messages from overcomers of rape. After her work on the scene, RAINN considered the performing artist a "vocal supporter for utilizing DNA proof in comprehending assault cases".