Boeing CH-47 Chinook in Australian administration 

The Australian Defense Force has worked Boeing CH-47 Chinook overwhelming lift helicopters for a large portion of the period since 1974. Thirty of the sort have entered Australian administration, containing twelve CH-47C variations, eight CH-47Ds and ten CH-47Fs. The helicopters have been worked by both the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) and Australian Army. 

An underlying request of eight Chinooks for the RAAF was set in 1962, however soon dropped for increasingly pressing needs. The Australian military still required helicopters of this sort, and twelve CH-47C Chinooks were requested in 1970. The CH-47s entered administration with the RAAF in December 1974. The eleven enduring Chinooks were resigned in 1989 as a cost-sparing measure, yet it was discovered that the Australian Defense Force's different helicopters couldn't supplant their abilities. Accordingly, four of the CH-47Cs were moved up to CH-47D standard, and came back to support in 1995 with the Australian Army. The Army obtained two more CH-47Ds in 2000 and another pair in 2012. The CH-47Ds were supplanted with seven new CH-47F airplane amid 2015, and another three were conveyed in 2016. 

The Chinooks have for the most part been utilized to help the Australian Army, however they have played out a wide scope of different errands. Three Chinooks partook in the Iraq War amid 2003, when they transported supplies and Australian exceptional powers. A unit of two Chinooks was likewise conveyed to Afghanistan amid the northern spring and summer a long time for every year somewhere in the range of 2006 and 2007 and 2008 to 2013, seeing broad battle. Two of the CH-47s sent to Afghanistan were decimated because of accidents. The helicopters have additionally every now and again been doled out to help recuperation endeavors following cataclysmic events and embraced a scope of regular citizen development assignments while being worked by the RAAF. 

Amid the mid 1960s the Australian Army and Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) considered new sorts of strategic transport airplane to supplant the RAAF's out of date Douglas Dakotas. The Army needed a basic and rough air ship that could be bought quickly, and squeezed for the securing of de Havilland Canada DHC-4 Caribous. The RAAF viewed the Caribou as lacking for the planned job and favored a progressively advanced flying machine, prompting delays in the determination procedure. 

This contradiction finished in September 1962. As a major aspect of the development of the military in light of Indonesia's strategy of "encounter" with its neighbors, the RAAF was guided by the Australian Government to lead a dire assessment of short departure and landing flying machine and overwhelming lift helicopters that could be acquired to improve the Army's strategic portability. A group of seven RAAF officers headed by Group Captain Charles Read, the chief of operational prerequisites, was quickly dispatched to the United States and evaluated the Sikorsky S-61, Boeing Vertol 107-II and CH-47 Chinook helicopters. The group made a decision about the Chinook to be obviously the most appropriate of these sorts, and prescribed that few be procured; this was in accordance with the Army's inclination. The Government in this way acknowledged a proposal made by the RAAF to obtain a bundle of twelve Caribou fixed-wing flying machine and eight Chinooks, and submitted a request for these flying machine inside long stretches of the assessment. The Chinook request was dropped by the Government when it was found out that it would take quite a long while for the helicopters to be conveyed, and the RAAF's requests of Caribous and Bell UH-1 Iroquois strategic transport helicopters were extended. 

The Australian military kept on considering alternatives to gain overwhelming lift helicopters all through the 1960s, and a formal program to accomplish this objective was started by the RAAF in 1969. As of now the helicopters were expected to be sent to South Vietnam as a component of the Australian commitment to the Vietnam War. Another group of Air Force officers headed out to the United States, and assessed the Sikorsky CH-53 Sea Stallion and the Chinook. The group head, Group Captain Peter Raw, suggested that CH-53s be requested. Senior RAAF officers and the Army were not satisfied with this result, and the Air Board dismissed Raw's report. Peruse, who was presently an air bad habit marshal and vice president of the air staff, was coordinated to audit the selection of helicopters, and again suggested that Chinooks be obtained. He legitimized this decision in light of the fact that the Chinook could convey more load than the CH-53 and was more qualified for tasks in the mountains of the Australian-managed Territory of Papua and New Guinea. Peruse's suggestion was acknowledged by the Government, and a request for twelve CH-47C Chinooks was put in August 1970. It was wanted to pivot the helicopters all through administration, six being accessible whenever. The request was suspended later in 1970 when a progression of motor issues influenced the United States Army's CH-47Cs, however was reestablished in March 1972 after these issues were settled. The complete expense of the buy was $A37 million. The request made Australia the CH-47's first fare client. 

The agreement for the Chinooks incorporated a counterbalance concurrence with Boeing through which the firm gave Australian organizations chances to fabricate segments of both the RAAF's helicopters and those bound for different clients. This was the first of a few such understandings that were incorporated into Australian military flying machine acquirement contracts amid the 1980s, the objective being to help the neighborhood guard industry to get to global markets. This understanding had a few advantages, as a few of the taking an interest Australian organizations redesigned their production lines to fabricate complex components of the CH-47. The balance contracts for the Chinook deduced in the mid 1980s, yet the improved gear and assembling forms were utilized in the undertaking to fabricate McDonnell Douglas F/A-18 Hornet warrior air ship in Australia somewhere in the range of 1985 and 1990. In accordance with the RAAF's acquisition and bolster rationality and the point of guaranteeing that the power was independent, an exceptionally substantial amount of extra parts for the CH-47Cs was additionally requested; in 1993 it was accounted for this was the second-biggest store of Chinook save parts after that held by Boeing, and was worth more than $A120 million. 

It was chosen to station the Chinooks at RAAF Base Amberley, Queensland, as it was situated at the midpoint between the Army's primary field developments that depended on the edges of Sydney in New South Wales and the north Queensland city of Townsville. Development started on help offices for the helicopters at Amberley not long after the request for them was affirmed in 1972. 

No. 12 Squadron was re-raised at Amberley on 3 September 1973 to work the Chinooks. This unit had flown planes somewhere in the range of 1939 and 1948 preceding being renumbered No. 1 Squadron. The twelve CH-47s were transported from the United States to Australia on board the plane carrying warship , and were emptied at Brisbane on 28 March 1974. No. 12 Squadron started preparing flights on 8 July 1974, and the unit was pronounced operational in December the following year. The squadron commonly had somewhere in the range of four and six CH-47Cs operational whenever all through the sort's administration, the armada being pivoted through long haul stockpiling at RAAF Base Amberley as arranged. In November 1980, eight Chinooks were at the same time operational out of the blue, and an arrangement flight was led to check the event. The CH-47Cs had a group of four, containing two pilots, a loadmaster and one other, and could transport up to 33 travelers or of payload. The helicopters were doled out sequential numbers A15-001 to A15-012. 

The Chinooks' primary job was to help the Army. The helicopters were utilized to transport troops, cannons firearms, ammo, fuel and different supplies. They additionally given piece of the aeromedical departure ability accessible to the Army. While the Chinooks by and large worked in Northern Australia, they made continuous arrangements to different pieces of Australia, and No. 12 Squadron led a yearly high-elevation flying preparing exercise in Papua New Guinea. As a major aspect of the safety efforts presented after the Sydney Hilton Hotel bombarding on 13 February 1978, Chinooks were utilized to transport Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser and a few other national pioneers from Sydney to Bowral for a Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting. In August 1980, a CH-47 was flown from Amberley to Malaysia, and used to recuperate a Royal Malaysian Air Force S-61 helicopter that had slammed in a remote area. This included an arrival outing of , which was accepted to have been the longest separation a helicopter had flown up to that time and remains the longest trip to have been directed by a RAAF helicopter. 

Amid their RAAF administration, the Chinooks additionally embraced a scope of non-military assignments. The helicopters as often as possible framed piece of the Australian Defense Force's reaction to cataclysmic events, including by conveying sustenance for individuals and domesticated animals cut off by floods. They were additionally utilized for non military personnel development errands, for example, emplacing beacons and conveying cooling plants to the highest point of tall structures. On two events Chinooks upheld Queensland Police Service sedate annihilation endeavors in remote pieces of the state by transporting fuel for RAAF Iroquois helicopters and conveying caught opiates. In August 1981, two CH-47s lifted compartments from the payload deliver "Waigani Express" to empower the vessel to be refloated after it steered into the rocks in the Torres Strait. A comparative task was attempted to free the "Anro Asia" when it steered into the rocks close Caloundra, Queensland, in November that year. Another strange errand was directed in December 1981 when a Chinook transported two bulldozers onto a grounded iron metal bearer close Port Hedland, Western Australia, with the goal that they could be utilized to reposition the ship's heap. 

The RAAF's Chinook armada endured two genuine mishaps. On 26 June 1975, A15-011 smashed when one of its motor turbines broke down; none of its group were harmed. No. 3 Aircraft Depot was allocated duty regarding fixing the helicopter, however it didn't reemerge administration until 21 May 1981 as the support unit needed involvement with significant helicopter fixes. On 4 February 1985, A15-001 struck electrical cables and collided with Perseverance Dam close Toowoomba, Queensland, while undertaking a route work out. The helicopter's pilot, a trade officer from the Royal Air Force, was executed and the other three aircrew endured minor wounds. The helicopter was discounted and utilized as a flame preparing help at Amberley. A court of request found that A15-001's group had been ignorant of the nearness of electrical cables in the territory as they were not set apart on the maps used to design the flight, and were hard to see from a moving helicopter. The request additionally passed judgment on that the mission had been insufficiently arranged, and suggested that No. 12 Squadron update the ace guide utilized for planning tasks in the Amberley area to guarantee that it incorporated every single flying peril. 

In November 1986 the Chiefs of Staff Committee and Minister for Defense Kim Beazley chose to exchange the majority of the RAAF's Iroquois and Sikorsky S-70 Black Hawk front line helicopters to the Army; the Chinooks stayed with the RAAF as of now. The decrease of the RAAF's helicopter armada expanded the expense of working the Chinooks because of the loss of economies of scale, and made it progressively hard to discover aircrew for No. 12 Squadron. The RAAF proposed exchanging the Chinooks, however the Army was reluctant to acknowledge them. The issues the Army was encountering keeping the Iroquois and Black Hawks operational may have impacted this position, the administration being hesitant to take on a much increasingly complex sort. 

The RAAF and Army together chose to pull back the Chinooks from administration in May 1989. This choice was made to diminish costs, the Army trusting that the Black Hawks would give adequate airdrop ability. No. 12 Squadron stopped flying on 30 June 1989, and was disbanded on 25 August that year. The CH-47Cs were put away at Amberley. 

While it was expected to sell the Chinooks after they were pulled back from administration, experience before long shown that the Black Hawks were unfit to completely supplant them. Specifically, it was discovered that overwhelming lift helicopters were expected to transport fuel supplies for the Black Hawks amid activities and tasks. Accordingly, plans to sell the Chinooks were put on hold in late 1989, and the Army and RAAF started exploring alternatives to reactivate them. The 1991 Force Structure Review suggested that somewhere in the range of four and six Chinooks—ideally moved up to CH-47D standard—be reactivated to help the Black Hawks. 

An arrangement to overhaul a few of the Chinooks was come to in June 1993. Under this course of action, seven of the enduring CH-47Cs were sold to the US Army for $A40 million, the assets being utilized to mostly take care of the expense of redesigning the staying four to CH-47D standard. The undertaking's all out expense was $A62 million, of which $A42 million was required to overhaul the four helicopters and the rest of extra parts, organization and new offices for the Chinooks at Townsville. It was additionally chosen as of now to exchange the Chinooks to the Australian Army, as the RAAF never again had critical aptitude in working the sort and such a change would focus all the ADF's combat zone helicopters with a similar administration. The CH-47D variation of the Chinook depended on the C variation's airframe, and had improved motors and rotors, just as redesigned aeronautics. These changes brought about the sort having prevalent execution just as lower working expenses. 

Every one of the eleven CH-47Cs were transported to the United States in September 1993, and the redesigned helicopters came back to Australia in 1995. The four CH-47Ds updated were the previous A15-002, 003, 004, and 006, presently renumbered A15-102, 103, 104, and 106 individually. They were relegated to C Squadron of the fifth Aviation Regiment, which was based at Townsville, and furthermore included two squadrons furnished with Black Hawks just as six Iroquois helicopters utilized as gunships. The Regiment's encounters amid the 1990s exhibited that four Chinooks were not adequate to address the ADF's issues, prompting a request for two recently manufactured CH-47Ds in 1998. These helicopters were conveyed in 2001, and assigned A15-201 and A15-202. 

Following their exchange to the Army, the Chinooks were utilized in comparative jobs to those they had attempted in RAAF administration. The main operational arrangement of the Army Chinooks started in October 1997, when two of the helicopters and three Black Hawks that were in Papua New Guinea as a feature of a preparation practice were entrusted with conveying nourishment supplies to the good countries of the nation following a serious dry season. The Chinooks were additionally used to transport fuel supplies for the other ADF airplane and helicopters engaged with this exertion. As of now, the sending of two Chinooks was the biggest conceivable given the need to hold other CH-47s for preparing undertakings and pivot the armada through upkeep periods. The Chinooks came back to Australia in March 1998. 

In 2003 a unit of three CH-47Ds was conveyed to the Middle East as a component of the Australian commitment to the attack of Iraq. The separation shaped piece of the Special Operations Task Group, and worked from Jordan to transport supplies and faculty for Australian extraordinary powers units. Two chronicles distributed in 2004 expressed that the helicopters entered Western Iraq all through the underlying phase of the contention. A 2005 history likewise expressed that one of the assignments embraced by the separation was flying commandos from the fourth Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment to Al Asad Airbase inside Iraq after the office was caught by Special Air Service Regiment units. In any case, an uncompleted interior Army history of the organization of Australian powers to the Iraq War—discharged in 2017 after an opportunity of data demand—expressed that as the Chinooks were not furnished with rocket countermeasure frameworks and their pilots had not been prepared to embed extraordinary powers behind foe lines, they had been denied from entering Iraq and stayed in Jordan all through the contention. This history expressed that "it is preposterous to expect to clarify the basis" for the arrangement of the CH-47s given their unacceptability for activities inside Iraq, and made a decision about that the fundamental accomplishment of the separation had been to free up British and American helicopters for different errands. 

Amid 2005 the Australian Government chose to send Chinooks to Afghanistan as a feature of the Australian powers in the nation. The need to plan for this undertaking added to a choice in October that year to dispatch Black Hawks as opposed to Chinooks to Pakistan as a feature of Australia's commitment to the global aid ventures which pursued the 2005 Kashmir tremor, regardless of the Chinooks being more qualified for tasks at the high elevations influenced by the catastrophe. In November 2005 the Government approved a program of critical moves up to the CH-47Ds to improve their battle preparation in front of being sent to Afghanistan. The updates included fitting the helicopters with additional defensive layer just as new electronic fighting and correspondences frameworks. The helicopters' automatic rifles were additionally supplanted with miniguns. A more drawn out term intend to redesign the helicopters, assigned Phase 5 of undertaking AIR 9000, was likewise set up right now. This was to include two sub-stages: under Phase 5A new motors were bought in December 2004, and were planned to be fitted in late 2006. It was likewise intended to put the helicopters through a midlife update as a component of Phase 5B, empowering them to stay in administration until around 2025. Following the RAAF's procurement of Boeing C-17 Globemaster III vast transport flying machine in 2007, the Chinooks were transported via air once in a while. Be that as it may, it took one and a half days worth of work to set up the CH-47Ds for air transport. 

A unit of two Chinooks worked in Afghanistan amid 2006 to 2007 and 2008 to 2013. The separation was assigned the Aviation Support Element amid 2006 and 2007, and renamed the Rotary Wing Group in 2008. The underlying separation touched base at Kandahar International Airport in March 2006, and was entrusted with supporting the Australian Special Forces Task Group in the nation. The updates the helicopters had gotten demonstrated effective, and enabled them to work in battle close by other Coalition CH-47s. After the Special Forces Task Group was pulled back in September 2006 the helicopters stayed in the nation and were utilized to help Coalition powers, with a specific accentuation on the Australian units situated in Urozgan Province. The separation was pulled back to Australia in February 2007, and did not convey again until February 2008. Amid this period each of the six helicopters got further updates, which included new motors and blue power tracker hardware. Amid consequent years the separation was pulled back to Australia over the Afghan winters, and redeployed every northern spring. As the Chinooks' entrusting was constrained by the International Security Assistance Force, the ADF sanctioned a Russian Mil Mi-26 somewhere in the range of 2010 and 2013 to furnish the Australian powers in Afghanistan with a committed heavylift helicopter. Before the finish of the last revolution on 14 September 2013, the helicopters had flown over 6,000 hours in battle and transported very nearly 40,000 work force. Planning for and continuing the Rotary Wing Group revolutions assimilated the majority of C Squadron's assets all through this period, and Chinooks were infrequently accessible for other Army preparing or operational errands. 

Two Australian CH-47Ds were annihilated in Afghanistan. On 30 May 2011, A15-102 smashed in Zabul Province, bringing about the demise of an Army unmanned flying vehicle pilot who was going on board as a traveler. As it was unreasonable to recoup the helicopter, it was demolished by Coalition powers. The official investigation into the accident found that it was brought about by a known issue in which Chinooks endured uncommanded pitch motions while flying through thick air, and that the aircrew had not been enough prepared to anticipate such episodes. A15-103 was discounted following a hard arriving in Kandahar Province on 22 June 2012; one of the group individuals endured minor wounds. Both of the Chinooks at Kandahar International Airport in April 2013 additionally endured critical harm when the airplane terminal was struck by a serious hail storm. Two ex-US Army CH-47Ds were obtained in December 2011 to supplant A15-102, and touched base in Australia in January 2012; these helicopters were assigned A15-151 and A15-152. 

A choice by the US Army in the mid-2000s to supplant all its CH-47Ds with new-form CH-47Fs by 2017 imperiled the feasibility of the Australian Chinooks. This was on the grounds that the Australian Army's game plans for the strategic help of its modest number of CH-47Ds were intensely utilized off those for the US Army's expansive armada. Accordingly, the Australian Army additionally settled an undertaking to secure CH-47F Chinooks in the mid-2000s. The Australian Government gave beginning endorsement to a CH-47F buy in September 2007. As a major aspect of this choice, the Government obtained the helicopters through the US Government's Foreign Military Sales program to limit potential dangers to the calendar and cost of the venture. 

Last endorsement to procure CH-47Fs was allowed by the Australian Government in February 2010, seven of the helicopters being requested. An agreement was marked on 19 March that year. The choice to expand the armada estimate from six to seven was made to improve the strength of the Army's helicopter limits, including by diminishing the effect of the loss of any of the helicopters. The all out expense of the CH-47F undertaking, including the development of new offices and the securing of two pilot test programs, was $A631 million. 

The CH-47F has commonly comparable execution to the CH-47D, and was intended to be simpler to keep up and send. Its fuselage involves few machined segments, instead of the many manufactured segments of sheet metal utilized in the D variation, which decreases vibration and basic breaking. The F variation incorporates further developed aeronautics just as configuration includes that empower the helicopters to be all the more immediately arranged for transport inside a payload airplane. The underlying seven Australian CH-47Fs are fitted with rotor brakes and other gear to all the more likely empower them to work from the Royal Australian Navy's "Canberra" class landing helicopter dock vessels, however are generally indistinguishable to those worked by the US Army. 

Australia's initial two CH-47Fs were conveyed toward the beginning of April 2015, eight months after the fact than initially expected, and entered administration with the fifth Aviation Regiment on 5 May that year. As of now it was anticipated C Squadron to be completely operational with the new Chinooks by January 2017. The seventh CH-47F was conveyed three weeks in front of plan for September 2015. These helicopters were assigned A15-301 to A15-307. 

A further three CH-47Fs were requested in December 2015 for $US150 million, including save parts, related hardware and some help costs. The ADF had recently expected to grow the CH-47F armada sometime in the future, however the request was put at short notice to utilize supports influenced accessible by an under-to spend on other Defense capacities. Every one of the three helicopters were conveyed in June 2016, two and half months sooner than arranged. The Chinooks were assigned A15-308 to A15-310. These helicopters are not fitted with rotor brakes as they were taken legitimately from the creation line of helicopters for the US Army. Starting at 2017, it was wanted to fit these helicopters with rotor brakes by 2020. 

C Squadron's air team attempted preparing to set them up to work the new sort utilizing the two pilot test programs, and the CH-47F armada accomplished introductory working limit in April 2016. Amid 2016, the CH-47s were endorsed to work from the "Canberra" class vessels after preliminaries demonstrated fruitful. The initial seven CH-47s achieved full working ability status in July 2017. C Squadron's activities were compelled as of now by work force deficiencies and an accumulation of upkeep assignments which at one point prompted four of the helicopters all the while being out of administration for profound support. These imperatives are relied upon to defer full working capacity status for the whole CH-47F armada to 2020. 

The CH-47Ds were resigned as they wound up due for profound upkeep checks, the remainder of the sort leaving administration in September 2016. Because of the numerous normal segments between the D and F variations, the helicopters were stripped for extra parts before being safeguarded in Australia. A15-202 was given over to the Australian War Memorial in April 2016, A15-104 will be shown at the Australian Army Flying Museum and the previous Air Force helicopter A15-106 was exchanged to the RAAF Museum. The other three enduring CH-47Ds were held by the Army for non-flying preparing, A15-151 and A15-152 for general and unique powers preparing separately, and A15-201 as a support frameworks preparing airframe. 

The "2016 Defense White Paper" and its supporting documentation expressed that the CH-47Fs will get alterations to all the more likely empower them to perform aeromedical departure errands by the 2025– 26 money related year, and that it is planned to normally update the helicopters after some time with the goal that they can keep on being bolstered through the US military's coordinations framework. This will include keeping pace with key changes acquainted with the American CH-47F armada, however there will be alternatives to adjust the helicopters to meet Australian prerequisites. Starting at 2017, the ADF planned to hold the CH-47Fs until 2040. The US Army has demonstrated that it will work the sort until the 2060s, which may prompt Australia doing likewise. 

The main abroad sending of Australian CH-47Fs started toward the beginning of March 2018. On 8 March, the Australian Government declared that three of the helicopters would be dispatched to Papua New Guinea to help the aid ventures for casualties of the 2018 Papua New Guinea quake. The Chinooks started tasks in the nation on 11 March, and the sending finished up in April that year.