Kaiman-class torpedo vessel 

The "Kaiman" class were high-oceans torpedo vessels worked for the Austro-Hungarian Navy somewhere in the range of 1904 and 1910. An aggregate of 24 vessels were worked by three shipbuilding organizations. Yarrow Shipbuilders manufactured the lead transport, Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino of Trieste fabricated 13 vessels, and Ganz-Danubius built the rest of the 10 water crafts at their shipyards at Fiume. The class was viewed as a fruitful structure, and all water crafts saw broad dynamic administration amid World War I, undertaking a scope of errands, including escort obligations, shore bombardments and minesweeping. All endure, albeit a few were harmed by maritime mines and impacts. One was torpedoed and gravely harmed by a French submarine, and two sank an Italian submarine. Every one of the water crafts were exchanged to the Allies and rejected toward the finish of the war, aside from four that were dispensed to the naval force of the recently made Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes. These were disposed of and separated somewhere in the range of 1928 and 1930. 

After the appointing of the remainder of four torpedo pontoons for the Austro-Hungarian Navy in 1900, there was a four-year break in Austro-Hungarian development of destroyers and torpedo water crafts. In 1904, a model of another torpedo pontoon was requested from Yarrow Shipbuilders at Poplar, London, and this turned into the lead vessel of the "Kaiman" class. Two Austro-Hungarian maritime shipbuilders at that point got plans and designing help from the British and initiated development; 13 pontoons were worked by Stabilimento Tecnico Triestino, situated at Trieste, and the rest of the 10 water crafts by Ganz-Danubius at their shipyards at Fiume. All water crafts utilized a solitary four-barrel vertical triple extension motor driving one propeller shaft utilizing steam produced by two coal-terminated Yarrow boilers. They had a waterline length of , a light emission and a typical draft of . They had a standard dislodging of about . The team comprised of 31 officers and enrolled men. Their hardware was appraised at and was intended to drive the water crafts to a top speed of . They conveyed of coal, which gave them a range of activity of at , or at . 

They were outfitted with four Škoda L/33 weapons and three torpedo tubes. The 47 mm weapons were permit assembled renditions of the British QF 3-pounder Hotchkiss firearm; they had a rate of shoot of 25 rounds for every moment and a powerful scope of . The 450 mm torpedoes were the L/5 type, which conveyed a warhead and had a scope of 3,000 m at a speed of . Later variations expanded the warhead to and the range to at . In 1915, one automatic weapon was included. The water crafts were at first given names, yet were redesignated with numbers on 1 January 1914, with three additions; E for the Yarrow vessel worked in England, T for the pontoons worked in Trieste, and F for the pontoons worked in Fiume. 

At the episode of World War I, the "Kaiman"- class torpedo water crafts were part between the first and second Torpedo Craft Flotillas, based at Cattaro and Pola individually. In the first Torpedo Craft Flotilla, the third Torpedo Craft Division had two gatherings of "Kaiman"- class pontoons: "50 E", "51 T" and "73 F" made up the second Torpedo Boat Group, and "53 T", "54 T" and "56 T" made up the third Torpedo Boat Group. In the second Torpedo Craft Flotilla, the fifth Torpedo Craft Division had three gatherings of the class: "55 T", "68 F" and "70 F" made up the fourth Torpedo Boat Group; "61 T", "65 F" and "66 F" included the fifth Torpedo Boat Group; and "64 F", "69 F" and "72 F" made up the sixth Torpedo Boat Group. Likewise in the second Torpedo Craft Flotilla, the sixth Torpedo Craft Division had three additional gatherings of "Kaiman"- class water crafts: "52 T", "58 T" and "59 T" were in the seventh Torpedo Boat Group; "60 T", "62 T" and "63 T" made up the eighth Torpedo Boat Group; and "57 T", "67 F" and "72 F" included the ninth Torpedo Boat Group. 

The "Kaiman" class was viewed as an entirely competent structure, and all pontoons saw noteworthy dynamic administration amid the war. All endure, albeit a few were severely harmed by maritime mines and impacts. On 8 August 1914, "72 F" went with the secured cruisers and the amid a shore assault of Antivari in Montenegro. This was pursued, on 2 September, by another shore assault of the Montenegrin coast by the "Huszár"- class destroyers and , helped by "64 F" and "66 F". On 16 September, "68 F" and "72 F" were associated with an assault and arriving at San Giovanni di Medua on the Albanian coast. On 14 February 1915, "68 F", the "Huszár"- class destroyer and another torpedo vessel shelled Dulcigno and Antivari on the Montenegrin coastline. On 2 March 1915, the "Huszár"- class destroyers "Ulan", "Csikos" and , joined by "66 F" and "67 F", barraged Antivari and sank the Montenegrin regal yacht "Rumija". After three days, "57 T" likewise assaulted Antivari. 

On 24 May 1915, a vast Austro-Hungarian power of three man of war vessels, six pre-man of war ships, and four destroyers, joined by fifteen "Kaiman"- class water crafts and four s, took an interest in the Bombardment of Ancona, a shore barrage task against the northern Adriatic bank of Italy. Around the same time, the pre-battleship , joined by "56 T" and "73 F", barraged Potenza Picena, Termoli and Campomarino. On 18 June, the heavily clad cruiser directed a barrage of a scaffold close Rimini, joined by "57 T", "58 T", "63 T" and "67 F". Around the same time, "Szigetvár", "64 F" and "69 F" barraged Colonnella, sinking one tanker amid the shelling, and sinking two engine yachts experienced off Rimini following the assault. On 9 September 1915, "51 T" was torpedoed and had her bow brushed off by the while she was watching off Palagruža. She was towed to port and probably fixed. 

On 9 July 1916, the scout cruiser , "54 T", "73 F" and another torpedo pontoon assaulted the Otranto Barrage, the Allied maritime barricade of the Strait of Otranto, which brought about the sinking of two vagabonds, and harm to two more. After ten days, "65 F" and "66 F" sank the Italian submarine "Balilla" off Lissa. On 8 October, "68 F" experienced the Italian off San Giovanni di Medua, yet after a concise pursue had the capacity to achieve the front of a shore battery. On 16 November 1917, "61 T" and "65 F" were a piece of a minesweeping power supporting the siege of an Italian shore battery at Cortellazzo close to the mouth of the Piave. All pontoons were expected to have their rearward torpedo tube supplanted by a solitary Škoda L/30 hostile to airplane firearm in late 1918, however it isn't evident whether this really happened. "52 T" steered into the rocks close Split in December 1918. Following World War I, the "Kaiman"- class water crafts were apportioned to Great Britain, Italy and the new Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (later renamed Yugoslavia). Extraordinary Britain and Italy rejected their vessels, yet the Yugoslavs held "54 T", "60 T", "61 T" and "69 F" as "T12", "T9", "T10" and "T11" individually. Every one of the four were disposed of and separated somewhere in the range of 1928 and 1930.