San Junipero 

"San Junipero" is the fourth scene in arrangement three of British sci-fi collection arrangement "Dark Mirror". Composed by showrunner Charlie Brooker and coordinated by Owen Harris, it debuted on Netflix on 21 October 2016, with the remainder of arrangement three. 

The scene is set in a shoreline resort town named San Junipero, where the independent Yorkie (Mackenzie Davis) meets the all the more cordial Kelly (Gugu Mbatha-Raw). The town is a piece of a mimicked reality the older can possess, even after death. "San Junipero" was the principal scene composed for arrangement three of "Dark Mirror"; starting drafts depended on wistfulness treatment and structured as a 1980s period piece, highlighting a hetero couple and a troubled consummation. Taping occurred in London and Cape Town over half a month. The soundtrack entwines 1980s melodies with a unique score by Clint Mansell. 

The scene has gotten basic recognition, with specific commendation for Mbatha-Raw's and Davis' exhibitions, its reproduced reality plot contort, and its inspiring tone and visual style. It had higher basic evaluations than the show's different scenes, and a few commentators thought of it as a standout amongst the best TV scenes of 2016. Notwithstanding a few different honors, "San Junipero" won two Primetime Emmy Awards in the Television Movie and Writing for a Limited Series, Movie, or Dramatic Special classes. 

In 1987, a timid lady named Yorkie (Mackenzie Davis) visits the dance club Tucker's in San Junipero. Kelly (Gugu Mbatha-Raw), a vivacious gathering young lady, trench Wes (Gavin Stenhouse), a man she recently engaged in sexual relations with, to converse with Yorkie. Kelly and Yorkie move, yet Yorkie winds up awkward and leaves the club. Kelly pursues and explicitly suggestions Yorkie, who decays, saying she is locked in. The next week, Yorkie comes back to the bar and watches Kelly playing with another man. Yorkie and Kelly rejoin in the washroom and have intercourse at Kelly's shoreline house. Yorkie admits that it was her first time engaging in sexual relations, and Kelly uncovers that she was once hitched. 

The following week, Yorkie visits another club, the Quagmire, searching for Kelly. Wes encourages her to "attempt an alternate time". Yorkie in the long run discovers Kelly in 2002, however Kelly rebukes Yorkie's advances. After Yorkie leaves, Kelly pursues and admits that she is biting the dust; Kelly had maintained a strategic distance from Yorkie on the grounds that she dreaded creating affections for her. The two have intercourse once more, and Yorkie reluctantly discloses to Kelly her genuine area with the goal that they can meet. 

San Junipero is uncovered to be a mimicked reality where the perished can live and the old can visit, all occupying their more youthful selves' bodies. Back in the physical world, the old Kelly (Denise Burse) visits Yorkie (Annabel Davis). She gains from Yorkie's medical caretaker, Greg (Raymond McAnally), that Yorkie was incapacitated at age 21 in the wake of smashing her vehicle when her folks responded ineffectively to her turning out. Yorkie wishes to be euthanised with the goal that she can live in San Junipero for all time, however her family protests; she means to wed Greg so he can assent for her. Kelly visits San Junipero and offers to wed Yorkie. Once Yorkie excitedly acknowledges, Kelly approves Yorkie's willful extermination. 

Amid Kelly's following visit to San Junipero, Yorkie requests that her stay full-time. In spite of the fact that Kelly does not have faith in a life following death, she intends to bite the dust without being transferred to the recreation. Kelly's significant other Richard dieed similarly on account of the demise of their little girl Alison at age 39 preceding San Junipero was accessible. Yorkie and Kelly contend, and Kelly leaves in her vehicle, which she crashes deliberately. Yorkie gets up to speed to her similarly as Kelly vanishes, her meeting time over for the week. 

Time passes, and Kelly concludes that she is prepared to enter San Junipero for all time. She is euthanised and covered nearby her better half and girl, and she joyfully reunites with Yorkie inside San Junipero. 

"San Junipero" is the fourth scene of arrangement three of "Dark Mirror"; each of the six scenes in this arrangement were at the same time discharged on Netflix on 21 October 2016. While arrangement one and two of "Dark Mirror" were appeared on Channel 4 in the UK, Netflix appointed the arrangement for 12 scenes (split into two arrangement of six scenes) in September 2015 with an offer of $40 million, and in March 2016, Netflix outbid Channel 4 for the privilege to disseminate arrangement three in the UK. Because of its turn to Netflix, the show had a bigger spending plan than in past arrangement, and a bigger scene request which enabled the show to differ its kind and tone more than past arrangement. Close by arrangement three scene "Plunge", "San Junipero" was first appeared 2016 in front of its Netflix discharge at the Toronto International Film Festival. 

"San Junipero" was the primary content created for arrangement three, composed by Charlie Brooker as a "cognizant choice to change the arrangement". The show recently centered around innovation's negative impacts; this scene filled in as confirmation that inspiring "Dark Mirror" scenes are conceivable. 

Brooker at first imagined a scene in which innovation is utilized to explore whether an existence in the wake of death exists, thinking about the class of frightfulness and extraordinary fiction. He later ended up enlivened by wistfulness treatment for more seasoned individuals. Brooker and official maker Annabel Jones felt that their idea of virtual cognizance, set up in the scene "White Christmas", had increasingly potential. One of Brooker's unique ideas depended on the scene "Be Right Back", in which expired people's identities are transferred into counterfeit elements in an amusement park that relatives can visit. This thought was rejected with the 2016 communicate of "Westworld", in which androids go around an amusement park. He at that point reviewed the 2010 BBC arrangement "The Young Ones", in which more seasoned famous people live in a home enriched in the style of the 1970s and end up restored by the setting. Having more than once suspected of composing a scene set previously, Brooker expressed "San Junipero" as a period scene. 

Brooker has said that he composed the content for the scene in four days. In the underlying draft, the romantic tale was about a hetero couple, yet Brooker transformed it to give the scene an additional reverberation, as same-sex marriage was not legitimate in 1987. He has said that having a wind makes the composition procedure simpler, as "when you realize that 85 percent of what's going on you can't uncover till later on, it quite of strait your choices conveniently". One draft of the scene contained a scene where Kelly visits a kindergarten in San Junipero, loaded with kids who had passed on, however it was evacuated in light of the fact that "it was excessively miserable and excessively impactful of a note to hit in that story". Brooker picked the setting of California, an area in America as opposed to Britain, as an approach to "overturn" individuals' predispositions of "Dark Mirror". One commentator noticed that the majority of the characters in "San Junipero" are American. 

The scene was initially to have a despondent closure. Brooker told "The Daily Beast" that in the unpleasant treatment, the scene finished with the scene where Kelly and Yorkie meet in the emergency clinic, however "when I sat down to really compose it, I was getting a charge out of it so much that I thought, "No, I'm going to continue onward"!" He imagined Yorkie's killing and developed Kelly's backstory, keeping in touch with her enthusiastic discourse to Yorkie in one sitting. The closure came about when Brooker heard "Paradise is a Place on Earth" off a gushing playlist while composing the content, and needed to permit the melody for the scene. Subsequent to tuning in to the tune and verses a few times, he went to the last shot, which demonstrates a bank of PC servers with glimmering lights, giving strict load to the tune's title. An unused thought for the completion had the group of onlookers see Kelly and Yorkie in various periods, for example, the 1920s. 

Following the scene's discharge, Brooker was gotten some information about a Reddit post estimating that Kelly is reproduced for Yorkie's advantage, as opposed to truly there; he answered "Off-base! They are as one", and remarked that "[t]hey have the most joyful consummation possible. [...] it is anything but a major rainbow sandwich, yet what seems, by all accounts, to be going on there, is going on there." 

The dance club settings highlighted arcade amusements, which Brooker looked into picking as he was a young person amid the 1980s and has filled in as a computer game columnist. Chief Owen Harris depicted the 1980s as a "period in life that was extremely hopeful". He picked the year 1987 "decently discretionarily" and referenced "quite certain motion picture publications" in the content. Brooker set up together a playlist of music from 1987 on Spotify. A few melodies, for example, Belinda Carlisle's "Paradise Is a Place on Earth" and the Smiths' "Better half in a Coma", allude to the scene's plot wind, as do arcade diversions "Time Crisis" and "The House of the Dead". Every melody must be cleared for approximately 15 years for Netflix. Each tune was effectively cleared aside from one by Prince. 

"Paradise Is a Place on Earth" plays at the scene's start and over the end credits. Brooker first heard it while running, and trusted it would be ideal for the last scene, conceding in a meeting he would have been "totally troubled" on the off chance that they had been unfit to utilize it. "Sweetheart in a Coma" includes in the scene "for around five seconds", yet cost "an over the top measure of cash", Brooker said. Jones said the melody's incorporation "was liberal and yet, it was important to the point that we set up that period so it felt extraordinary". Robbie Nevil's tune "What a life" was picked by Harris, as it was one of the principal singles he at any point obtained. 

The scene additionally highlighted a unique score by Clint Mansell. Mansell was drawn closer by Harris, and based the score around the recently picked tunes, including "Paradise Is a Place on Earth". He has said that the "quiet electronic" score was affected by John Hughes motion pictures and the passing of his sweetheart a year prior. In December 2016, Lakeshore Records discharged the score for downloading and spilling. 

Gugu Mbatha-Raw, who plays Kelly, had known about the show yet not seen it when she got the content, however she watched the arrangement two scene "Be Right Back" before the shoot. Mbatha-Raw read the whole content when she got it, on a transport venture from Oxford Circus to Brixton. Mackenzie Davis, who plays Yorkie, first observed the show with a companion who had pilfered it; they viewed "The National Anthem". Denise Burse plays the senior Kelly in reality, as utilizing prosthetics on Mbatha-Raw was immediately limited. Annabel Davis was given a role as senior Yorkie. 

The scene's executive was Owen Harris, who recently coordinated "Be Right Back" – a scene he portrayed as "unusually comparable" to this one as both seem to be "relationship-driven". Joel Collins filled in as creation fashioner. The 1986 teenager movies "Beautiful in Pink" and "Ferris Bueller's Day Off" were considered as motivation to grapple the gathering of people in "a spot they know". The scene was recorded in 15 days over a three-week time span, with shooting split similarly between London for the greater part of the inside shots, and Cape Town, South Africa for most outer scenes. They didn't film in the United States as a cost-cutting measure. Mbatha-Raw said there was brief period to practice, and she had little chance to meet Davis before shooting. Kelly's outfit was roused by VIPs of the 1980s, for example, Janet Jackson and Whitney Houston, while Yorkie's outfit "resembles her mum spread it out on her bed", as indicated by Davis. Her attire is consistent all through the scene to subvert a "changing nerd" figure of speech in fiction, likewise enabling her change to be inward as opposed to outside. 

The main day of recording was in London for the Quagmire dance club. For the club Tucker's, a 3D demonstrate was made, which Brooker and Harris saw with a computer generated simulation headset. Mbatha-Raw and Davis worked with a move choreographer and moved to Janet Jackson's "What Have You Done for Me Lately", however Alexander O'Neal's "Phony" was utilized in the last alter. The back road scene highlights downpour, which Harris demanded including in spite of Brooker's protestations that the recreated world would not have downpour. Harris said that Cape Town "has these extremely rich, wonderful settings" that enabled him to create a "marginally elevated" adaptation of California. He noticed that while shooting Kelly and Yorkie's contention on the shoreline, a "staggering fog came in from the sea", which made troubles however drove "some actually dazzling surface". Mbatha-Raw said that pretty much every scene was shot around evening time or sunset, especially the outside scenes. 

The scene contains clues paving the way to the uncover of the bend. For instance, the decision of the melody "Sweetheart in a Coma", and the utilization of the arcade diversions "Time Crisis" and "The House of the Dead" suggest the genuine truth of the scene. All the more clearly, Yorkie responds instinctively to seeing an auto collision in an arcade amusement, a component that Brooker was shocked was not gotten by watchers before. A factor considered amid the altering procedure was the manner by which unmistakable the insights ought to be. Annabel Jones said that "there might be visual signifiers that you believe were getting down to business and afterward didn't, so you need more work in the alter". Modifications were likewise made utilizing sound plan systems, for example, audio cues. 

The titles of the six scenes that make up arrangement 3 were declared in July 2016, alongside the discharge date. A trailer for arrangement three, highlighting an amalgamation of clasps and sound chomps from the six scenes, was discharged by Netflix on 7 October 2016. A short clasp "Orange Is the New Black Mirror", discharged by Netflix in 2017, is a hybrid between this scene and "Orange is the New Black", including characters Poussey and Taystee from the last rejoined in San Junipero. 

Commentators have portrayed "San Junipero" as a very idealistic, candidly established romantic tale and a work of sci-fi. It includes the primary same-sex couple in "Dark Mirror". Rebecca Nicholson of "The Guardian" composed that it "abandons you having confidence in the intensity of affection to battle agony and dejection". A few commentators noticed that the romantic tale "rises above awareness". The scene likewise has despondent components and has been classified "mixed". It summons wistfulness for the 1980s with its soundtrack and its style, and can be viewed as a period piece. It additionally brings up issues about death and the great beyond. "Esquire" analyst Emma Dibdin considered it a "cutting edge fantasy". 

At the season of its discharge, "San Junipero" was said to be the most not quite the same as other "Dark Mirror" scenes because of its increasingly cheerful tone. Tangle Elfring of "GameSpot" portrayed it as the main scene with "warmth to it", and "Computerized Spy" commentator Morgan Jeffery considered it the "most cheery and positive". Zack Handlen of "The A.V. Club" trusted that the past scenes' miserable tone uplifts the viability of "San Junipero", and Jacob Stolworthy of "The Independent" felt that it was therefore the show's most yearning scene. "Assortment" faultfinder Sonia Saraiya called attention to that innovation is depicted as great in "San Junipero", an irregularity in the show. "The Atlantic" commentator David Sims noticed that the scene pursues the season's darkest scene, "Shut Up and Dance". 

The scene subverts a typical figure of speech in TV of executing off lesbian characters: however Kelly and Yorkie kick the bucket, they have a cheerful closure. Its Emmy Award wins were considered by some to stamp a social move in connection to depiction of lesbianism, or as confirmation of idea that works managing LGBT characters don't need to be heartbreaking. "San Junipero" has likewise been refered to for instance of promiscuous lighting, in which neon pink and dark blue – the hues on the swinger pride banner – speak to androgynous characters. Amelia Perrin of "Cosmopolitan" reprimanded that this and the scene's club setting fortify a generalization of cross-sexuality as "a 'stage' or something test". 

The scene's plot brings up numerous philosophical issues, including the idea of cognizance and experience and the outcomes of carefully mimicked presence, however these issues are not the focal point of the scene. Commentators have addressed what San Junipero would intend to devotees to an existence in the wake of death, and what might happen to its occupants if there should arise an occurrence of specialized breakdowns. 

At the season of its discharge, "San Junipero" was "Dark Mirror"s most prevalent scene among fans, which has been ascribed to its emotive introduction of a romantic tale with a glad closure. It has been positively gotten by faultfinders, gathering a score of 91% on Rotten Tomatoes dependent on 22 surveys, with a normal score of 8.04 out of 10. The scene accumulated five stars out of five in the "Irish Independent" and An in "The A.V. Club". Alongside "Plunge", Benjamin Lee of "The Guardian" gave the scene four stars, while "The Telegraph" gave "San Junipero" three stars. It has been depicted by commentators as a standout amongst the "greatest hours" and a standout amongst the "most delightful, realistic scenes" of TV in 2016, while Paul Tassi of "Forbes" said Mbatha-Raw and Davis gave the best exhibitions of the third arrangement of "Dark Mirror". 

Mbatha-Raw's and Davis' exhibitions were all around adulated. Sims praised the couple's science and said the pair compactly convey "an entire lifetime of tension and wants". Mullane remarked that the solid acting keeps the gathering of people intrigued before the plot contort. Caitlin Welsh of "Junkee" complimented the "downplayed, pitch-impeccable" exhibitions for making the characters' relationship feel certified. Mbatha-Raw and Davis were commended for their passionate range, for giving "furious and powerless exhibitions", and for mooring the scene. 

Mbatha-Raw and Davis likewise gotten acclaim in negative audits. Robbie Collin of "The Daily Telegraph" reprimanded the characters' exchange however applauded that the completion is enthusiastic due to Mbatha-Raw's "vivacity and conviction". Aubrey Page of "Collider" inspected that the scene is predictable, yet this is repaid by the ideal throwing and feeling of the acting. In any case, Andrew Wallenstein of "Assortment" condemned Mbatha-Raw and Davis for a powerlessness to "pack the enthusiastic punch" required for the scene to emerge. 

The scene's plot bend, uncovering that San Junipero is a reenacted the truth, was praised by commentators. Pat Stacey of "Irish Independent" called the bend "brilliant" while Louisa Mellor of "Sanctum of Geek" portrayed it as "enamoring". Adam Chitwood of "Collider" noticed that there is something else entirely to the scene than its wind and applauded Harris for how the story unfurls. Thus, Alex Mullane of "Advanced Spy" said the improvements in the story are "invigorating" as they are not displayed as turns. Handlen enjoyed how the scene finds a harmony between uncovering data and making the gathering of people care about the characters. 

The scene's visual style and music, which summon the 1980s, were generally welcomed. IndieWire adulated both the creation structure and soundtrack. Mullane called Mansell's score "magnificently delicate". "The Wrap" analysts said that the scene was "outwardly dazzling" and its wistfulness for the 80s was "happy". 

Numerous commentators respected the feeling the scene brings out, and how it wandered into another classification for the show. Corey Atad of "Esquire" and Tim Goodman of "The Hollywood Reporter" both opined that the story would leave watchers in tears, and Adam David of CNN Philippines cried while watching it. Stacey found the scene "very moving". Scott Meslow of "GQ" called it "amazingly and tear-jerkingly human". Lee was shocked by the scene's strength, while Mellor composed that it is "truly moving". Mullane said the scene exhibited that the show can recount stories without a dull tone, and Jacob Hall of/Film agreed. Wallenstein called the scene "satisfyingly brave", despite the fact that he positioned it ineffectively in contrast with different scenes. 

The scene has additionally gotten negative analysis. Collin noticed that the scene's focal pride has been generally utilized inside the sci-fi class. Stolworthy censured the third go about as "over-burden" and remarked that "San Junipero", as opposed to "Detested in the Nation", ought to have been an hour and a half long. 

"San Junipero" showed up on numerous commentators' rankings of the 20 portions in the "Dark Mirror" arrangement, from best to most noticeably bad. 

The scene additionally shows up on faultfinders' rankings of the 19 scenes from arrangement 1 to arrangement 4: 

Rather than by quality, Proma Khosla of "Mashable" positioned the 19 scenes by tone, inferring that "San Junipero" is the second-least negative scene of the show after "Hang the DJ". 

Different pundits positioned the 13 scenes in "Dark Mirror"s initial three arrangement. 

"San Junipero" has been generally depicted as the best scene of arrangement three of "Dark Mirror". It has likewise showed up at different positions on commentators' arrangements of arrangement three scenes by quality. 

"San Junipero" shows up in different pundits' arrangements of the best scenes of TV from 2016. 

Different pundits recorded their most loved scenes of TV in 2016, without giving a request. "San Junipero" shows up on these rundowns: 

In 2017, "San Junipero" won two Primetime Emmy Awards, just as two BAFTA Television Craft Awards. It has likewise won or been selected for a few different awards: 

In August 2017, Brooker said there were no designs for a spin-off scene to "San Junipero". He told the "Los Angeles Times" that "we need to keep [Kelly and Yorkie] glad there". In a meeting with "NME", Brooker referenced that a few thoughts for the scene were later evacuated, for example, a scene with a kindergarten in San Junipero that "felt like an entire world all by itself". He raised completing a spin-off in "a totally unique structure, for example, a realistic novel or "an encounter". "San Junipero" has been implied through Easter eggs in resulting scenes: for instance, "Dark Museum" demonstrates Kelly's and Yorkie's dresses in plain view in a historical center, and highlights a clinic named Saint Juniper's.