Maine Centennial half dollar 

The Maine Centennial half dollar is a memorial coin struck in 1920 by the United States Bureau of the Mint. It was etched by Anthony de Francisci, following representations by an obscure craftsman from the U.S. territory of Maine. 

Authorities in Maine needed a memorial half dollar to circle as a promotion for the centennial of the state's admission to the Union, and of the arranged festivals. A bill to permit such a coin passed Congress without resistance, however then the state's centennial bonus chose to sell the coins at $1, twofold the assumed worth. The Commission of Fine Arts detested the proposed plan, and encouraged changes, yet Maine authorities demanded, and de Francisci changed over the portrayals to mortar models, from which coinage kicks the bucket could be made. 

Fifty thousand pieces, a large portion of the approved mintage, were struck for discharge to people in general. They were issued past the point where it is possible to be sold at the centennial festivals in Portland, yet in the end the mint pieces were altogether sold, however moderately few went to currency authorities. They list for hundreds to thousands of dollars, contingent upon condition. 

Senator Carl Milliken and the chamber of Maine needed a half dollar issued to honor the centennial of the state's 1820 admission to the Union. At first, the thought was to have a flowing memorial that could promote the centennial festivals in Maine. Afterward, after government approving enactment for the coin was endorsed by Congress, the centennial commission chose to sell the coins for $1 each, as opposed to giving them a chance to go from hand to turn available for use. 

That enactment for a Maine Centennial half dollar had been presented in the House of Representatives by the state's John A. Subsides on February 11, 1920, with the bill assigned as H.R. 12460. It was alluded to the Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures, of which Indiana Congressman Albert Vestal was the executive. At the point when the advisory group met, on February 23, 1920, Congressman Peters told individuals from the historical backdrop of the state and natives' longing to commend the centennial, incorporating with a memorial coin. He expressed that he had spoken with the Director of the Mint, Raymond T. Dough puncher, who had revealed to Peters that he and Treasury Secretary David F. Houston wanted to underwrite the bill, the content of which had been acquired from the bill approving the 1918 Illinois Centennial half dollar. Ohio's William A. Ashbrook reviewed that he had been an individual from the board of trustees that had endorsed the Illinois charge; he had favored it and now supported the Maine bill. Minnesota's Oscar E. Keller requested that Peters affirm there would be no cost to the central government, which Peters did. Dirt Stone Briggs of Texas needed to know whether the Maine bill's arrangements were indistinguishable to those of the Illinois demonstration, and Peters affirmed it. On March 20, Vestal recorded a report in the interest of his board of trustees, suggesting that the House pass the bill, and duplicating a letter from Houston expressing that the Treasury had no complaint. 

Three coinage charges—Maine Centennial, Alabama Centennial, and Pilgrim Tercentenary—were considered in a specific order by the House of Representatives on April 21, 1920. After Peters tended to the House for the Maine charge, Connecticut's John Q. Tilson asked if the proposed coin would supplant the current structure (the Walking Liberty half dollar) for the remainder of the year; Peters clarified that it would not, and that just 100,000 coins would bear the dedicatory plan. John Franklin Miller of Washington state solicited who might bear the costs from the coinage passes on, and Peters reacted that the territory of Maine would. Virginia's Andrew Jackson Montague inquired as to whether the Treasury Department had embraced the bill, and Peters educated him that both Houston and Baker had. Vestal asked that the bill be passed, however Ohio's Warren Gard had inquiries regarding what might happen to the coins once they entered flow; Peters expressed that they would, once issued, be treated as normal half dollars. In light of inquiries by Gard, Peters clarified that in spite of the fact that Maine would pay for the bites the dust, they would wind up national government property. Dwindles included that however there would be no statewide festival in Maine for the centennial, there would be nearby observances. Gard had no further inquiries regarding the Maine charge (he would likewise test the supporters of the Alabama and Pilgrim bills), and on Vestal's movement it go without recorded contradiction. 

The next day, April 22, 1920, the House announced its section of the Maine bill to the Senate. The bill was alluded to the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency; on April 28, Connecticut's George P. McLean announced it back with a proposal that it pass. On May 3, McLean asked that the three coin charges (Maine, Alabama and Pilgrim) be considered by the Senate quickly, expecting that however they were on the Senate's plan for that day, they probably won't be come to, and accepting dire activity was required. Utah Senator Reed Smoot questioned: Smoot's endeavor to raise an enemy of dumping exchange bill out of turn had quite recently been protested by Charles S. Thomas of Colorado. Smoot, in any case, expressed if the coin bills had not been come to by about 2:00 pm, there would presumably not be any complaint. At the point when McLean attempted again to propel the coin charges, Kansas' Charles Curtis inquired as to whether there was any direness. McLean answered that as the three coin bills were to check progressing commemorations, there was a need them approved and kick the creation procedure off. Each of the three bills passed the Senate without restriction and the Maine bill was authorized with the mark of President Woodrow Wilson on May 10, 1920. 

On May 14, 1920, four days after Wilson marked the bill, Director of the Mint Baker sent representations of the proposed plan to the executive of the Commission of Fine Arts, Charles Moore, for a sentiment as to its benefits. The structure had been set up by the authorities accountable for the centennial remembrance, and had been given to Baker by Peters. Moore sent the portrayals to the stone carver individual from the Commission, James Earle Fraser. Having gotten no answer, Moore on May 26 sent a message to Fraser revealing to him that the Maine experts needed the coins by June 28. Fraser quickly answered by message, that he disdained the structure as it seemed to be "standard", and that it was a mistake to affirm outlines; a mortar model ought to be made by an artist. Moore developed this in a letter to Houston the next day, "our new silver coinage has achieved a high level of flawlessness since it was structured by skilled men. We ought not come back to the low gauges which have once won." 

Moore in his letter asked a difference in configuration, expressing that the sketch, whenever converted into a coin, "would convey embarrassment to the general population of Maine". Be that as it may, Maine authorities won't and demanded the submitted representations. After dialogs among Peters, Moore, and different authorities, an understanding was come to whereby the representations would be changed over into mortar models, and Fraser connected with his onetime understudy, Anthony de Francisci, to take every necessary step. The more youthful stone worker finished the work by early July, and the models were affirmed by the Commission on July 9. The Engraving Department at the Philadelphia Mint made the coin passes on using de Francisci's models. Either Chief Engraver George T. Morgan, or his aide, future boss etcher John R. Sinnock, changed the moose and pine tree on the coin from being in help (as in de Francisci's models), to be indented into the coin. This was most likely trying to improve the striking nature of the coins, and provided that this is true, had restricted achievement, as the full detail would not show up on numerous coins. 

The front of the Maine Centennial half dollar portrays the arms of Maine, in light of the state's seal. At its middle is a shield with a pine tree, indented incuse into the coin, and beneath the tree a moose, resting. The shield is flanked by two male figures, one bearing a grass shearer and speaking to Agriculture; the other, supporting a stay, speaks to Commerce. Over the shield is the legend "Dirigo", Latin for "I direct", or more that a five-pointed star. Beneath the shield is a look with the state's name. Close to the edge are and . The invert contains a wreath of pine needles and cones (Maine is known as the Pine Tree State) around just as the different mottoes required by law to be available on the coinage. 

Numismatist Don Taxay, in his history of dedicatory coins, conjectured that "De Francisci did not inside and out support them". As indicated by Taxay, the two human figures on the front-side "were too little to even think about retaining their magnificence after decrease [from the mortar models to coin size] and appear to be insignificant. The invert, with its wreath of pine cones, is prominently deadened." Arlie Slabaugh, in his volume on commemoratives, noticed that the half dollar "does not take after the work by a similar artist for the Peace dollar the next year [1921]." 

Workmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule expostulated the Maine half dollar, yet did not accuse de Francisci, as the piece "was demonstrated by the stone worker as per required determinations and is in this way not thought about common of his specialty, or to be sure of any craftsmanship." Vermeule expressed, "it looks simply like a prize decoration for an area reasonable or school athletic day." Nonetheless, feeling that de Francisci could have demanded an increasingly imaginative plan, Vermeule found "the Maine Centennial was not his sparkling minute". 

Festivities for the state's centennial were held in Maine's biggest city, Portland, on July 4, 1920. Diminishes had would have liked to have the half dollars accessible for circulation at that point, but since of the structure debate, they were most certainly not. He kept in touch with Assistant Director of the Mint Mary M. O'Reilly on July 14, communicating his dissatisfaction at the deferral and expressing that however the Portland merriments had passed, the state could at present get some profit by the coins in the event that they got them amid 1920. Else, "we should hang tight for the following Centennial [in 2020] which I judge would be progressively advantageous and as per the speed at which we are going". He finished up by asking that the Mint let him know about the following deterrent early. Senator Milliken additionally composed, on July 20, reminding Mint authorities that the coin was approved by an exceptional demonstration of Congress, and asking when the main dispatch would be prepared. 

In the pre-fall of 1920, a sum of 50,028 Maine Centennial half dollars were created at the Philadelphia Mint, including 28 pieces saved for assessment and testing at the 1921 gathering of the yearly Assay Commission. No uncommon consideration was taken in the printing; they were shot out into canisters and many showcase sack marks. They were sent to Maine and set on special through the Office of the State Treasurer at a cost of $1. Thirty thousand sold quickly and they stayed on special through the treasurer's office until every one of the fifty thousand were distributed, however this did not occur until no less than 1929. Arbors theorized that had the full 100,000 approved coins been struck, the vast majority of the extra amount would have been come back to the Mint and liquefied for absence of purchasers. Numerous pieces were gone through in the years after 1920 and entered course. 

Generally few were sold to the mint piece gathering network, and most of enduring examples show the impacts of thoughtless taking care of. The 2015 grand release of Richard S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins" records the coin at $140 to $685, contingent upon condition—an outstanding piece sold for $7,050 in 2014.