Missouri Centennial half dollar 

The Missouri Centennial half dollar is a memorial fifty-penny piece struck by the United States Bureau of the Mint in 1921. It was structured by Robert Ingersoll Aitken. The U.S. province of Missouri needed a dedicatory coin to check its centennial that year. Enactment for such a coin went through Congress without restriction, and was marked on March 4, 1921 by President Warren G. Harding on his introduction day. The government Commission of Fine Arts enlisted Aitken to structure the coin, which portrayed Daniel Boone on the two sides. The invert configuration, appearing with a Native American, was likely expected to symbolize the dislodging of the Indians by white pioneers. 

To expand deals, a bit of the issue was delivered with the imprint 2★4, representative of Missouri being the 24th state. Albeit respected for the structure, the coins did not sell just as trusted, and very nearly 60 percent were come back to the Philadelphia Mint for softening. There are less coins with 2★4 than without, however they stay close equivalent in esteem. 

The State of Missouri, admitted to the Union in 1821 as a feature of the Missouri Compromise, needed a dedicatory coin available to be purchased at the Missouri Centennial Exposition and State Fair, to be held in Sedalia from August 8 to 20, 1921. Enactment for such a half dollar was presented in the Senate by that state's Selden P. Spencer on January 20, 1921, the bill being assigned S. 4893. It was alluded to the Committee on Banking and Currency. The bill was accounted for to the full Senate by Connecticut's George P. McLean on January 25 with an alteration diminishing the approved mintage from 500,000 to 250,000 and a proposal that it pass. VP Thomas R. Marshall, who was managing the Senate, inquired as to whether there was complaint to its section. The Minority Leader, Democrat Oscar Underwood of Alabama, said he didn't think there would be protest, yet that the bill ought to be perused first. Idaho Senator William E. Borah expressed he would question if there was to be talk of it, as the Senate had not had morning business in ten days. Borah inquired as to whether he expected there would be complaint to the bill, and McLean consoled the Idahoan. The bill, as revised, passed the Senate without recorded restriction. 

An indistinguishable bill, H. R. 15767, had been presented in the House of Representatives on January 17, 1921. On February 10, Indiana Representative Albert Vestal, administrator of the House Committee on Coinage, Weights and Measures (to which the bill had been alluded) detailed it back to the House with a revision indistinguishable to that affirmed by the Senate, and with a suggestion that the bill pass. S. 4983 had been alluded to that board of trustees after its receipt by the House, and on February 24 the Coinage Committee suggested the Senate charge pass the House, taking note of that the two bills were indistinguishable. 

S. 4893 was considered by the House of Representatives on March 2, 1921, with two days staying in the congressional session. Ohio's Warren Gard had made inquiries about past coin bills when they went through the House. Gard enquired of Vestal whether the Missouri bill was indistinguishable to the before bills, and whether it contained similar protections, and Vestal affirmed these. The bill was passed by the House without recorded complaint, and was sanctioned into law with the mark of the new president, Warren G. Harding, on his initiation day, March 4, 1921. 

While the enactment was all the while pending in Congress, on January 29, 1921, Senator Spencer kept in touch with Charles Moore, administrator of the Commission of Fine Arts, in regards to the bill. Moore answered on February 2, informing that one concerning the couple of American artists fit for planning a coin be contracted, and that the subsequent work be exposed to the neighborly analysis of different specialists. Spencer put James Montgomery, executive of the Missouri Centennial Commission, in contact with Moore, and on February 9, Moore made a few proposition for the plan, including a "prairie-schooner ... second, the heads of [pioneer Daniel] Boone and [early Missouri government official Thomas Hart] Benton; third, the state seal of Missouri; and fourth, the Indian pointing westbound". The contracted stone carver could pick among these ideas, Moore proposed, and choose which could be utilized to best impact, with Montgomery's endorsement and that of the Fine Arts Commission. Montgomery answered on February 16, proposing a "standing figure of Daniel Boone, coon skin top, deer skin garments, with an Indian sitting at his feet, the Missouri River streaming in front, with the feigns on inverse side, with one star with the figures '24' in focal point of star. This would imply first, that the white man had superseded the Indian in Missouri Territory." 

Montgomery additionally suggested that a star with the number "24" (Missouri being the 24th state) be incorporated into the structure, however be expelled from the bite the dust after 5,000 coins were struck. These would support continues, paying the stone carver's charge and the expense of the bite the dust, a cost assessed at $1,750. Montgomery composed again on March 22, recommending that the words "" show up on the coins, and if conceivable the centennial date of August 10 also. 

The Fine Arts Commission contracted Robert Ingersoll Aitken, a stone carver best known in numismatic hovers for his plan for the $50 Panama Pacific gold pieces. This was evidently not imparted to the Missouri commission as on May 17, James Earle Fraser, an individual from the Fine Arts Commission, revealed to Moore that he had heard that somebody related with the Missouri Centennial had made request with the Medallic Art Company of New York, went for contracting a stone carver. Regardless of whether Moore kept in touch with Montgomery is hazy, however he kept in touch with Spencer on May 26, prompting the congressperson that the plans had been to begin with endorsed. Commission individuals had recommended a few changes; these were actualized and, on June 9, the Fine Arts Commission affirmed the plan, a choice conveyed by letter that day to the Director of the Mint, Raymond T. Pastry specialist. To speed generation, the Medallic Art Company delivered center points from which working passes on to create the coins could be made. These centers were sent to the Philadelphia Mint on June 29, 1921. 

The bust of frontiersman Daniel Boone, who lived in Missouri for the last 25 years of his life, shows up on the front-side. Anthony Swiatek and Walter Breen, in their 1988 book on memorial coins, note theory that the front-side may have been motivated by Albin Polasek's molded bust of Boone in the Hall of Fame for Great Americans in New York City. Boone wears a deerskin coat and a coonskin top. The centennial dates, the name of the nation and the coin's division encompass the bust. The turn around portrays Boone with rifle and powder horn, and a Native American—Swiatek and Breen noticed that the frontiersman seems, by all accounts, to be sending ceaselessly the Indian, who bears a shield and harmony pipe, clearly performing Montgomery's craving to demonstrate the white man overriding the Indian in Missouri; Breen expressed "as if this was something to boast about". The 1921 "Report of the Director of the Mint" portrays the collaboration as "Daniel Boone, with powder and rifle, guiding the consideration of an Indian toward the westbound course of the white man". The Missouri Centennial half dollar, which demonstrates Boone on either side, is one of only a handful couple of coins in United States numismatic history to have a similar individual delineated on the two sides; other such portrayals incorporate Boone himself on the 1934– 1938 Daniel Boone Bicentennial half dollar, Lafayette on the 1900-dated Lafayette dollar and the frontiersman on the 1936 Elgin, Illinois, Centennial half dollar. 

The 24 stars on the turn around pass on a similar message that the 2★4 on the front-side of certain examples does—that Missouri was the 24th state to enter the Union. The name , the site of the centennial work, shows up in exergue. Aitken's adapted monogram, , is close to the rifle knob. The Missouri piece, and the Columbian half dollar of 1892– 1893, are the main U.S. dedicatory half dollars to endure none of the devoted mottoes generally found on U.S. coinage, that is , and . The structure was loved at the season of issue; a few examples were appeared respected at the 1921 American Numismatic Association tradition at Boston in August, not long after the coin's discharge. 

Craftsmanship history specialist Cornelius Vermeule, in his volume on U.S. coins and awards, appreciated Aitken's Missouri piece, composing that Aitken "turned into the main American medalist to apply the standards of Renaissance medallic plan to a coin of the United States and the principal such craftsman to make a frontiersman resemble a Medici sovereign". He proposed that the figures on the invert stand "like Roman officers in an Antonine help on the Arch of Constantine or Renaissance condottieri in an extensive fresco of court ceremonials." Mermeule noticed that "the lettering on the front-side pursues the structures and arrangement of Pisanello" and that "the coin all in all is a show-stopper as opposed to simply one more approach to advertise a silver fifty-penny piece since each of the three of the mottoes that typically trouble and tighten America's endeavors of numismatic workmanship are overlooked." The creator closed of Aitken's works, "his creative ability in choosing from the past to reword the present worked great in the United States memorial coinage". 

An aggregate of 50,028 Missouri Centennial half dollars was struck at the Philadelphia Mint in July 1921, 28 being held for review and testing at the 1922 gathering of the yearly Assay Commission. The primary coins showed the 2★4 on the front-side; a while later, this was ground off the bites the dust and the rest of struck without it. The Sedalia Trust Company circulated the coins at a cost of $1 in the interest of the centennial commission, selling the two assortments via mail and the plain ones at the article in August. There had been minimal development attention, and the composition occurred amid the Recession of 1921. The majority of the 2★4 coins sold, however when deals hindered of the plain assortment, 29,600 were come back to the mint for dissolving. Early promotions for the coin contained representations arranged by Aitken, demonstrating the front as issued, however delineating a switch bearing the state Seal of Missouri, that Aitken had surrendered when he discovered it didn't function admirably. Aitken, in a letter distributed to a limited extent in the December 1921 issue of "The Numismatist" (the diary of the American Numismatic Association) composed that "The outline that you distributed was produced using one of a few illustrations which I submitted to the Federal Art Commission. The Missouri board was educated that I would work thusly, however I was given full scope for any change I may prompt. The seal of the State did not work out well, so I built up the turn around with the two standing figures, which met with the moment endorsement of the Commission in Washington." 

The quantity of coins bearing the 2★4 is dubious. Swiatek and Breen composed that 5,000 were struck and were sold, implying that 15,400 of the plain ones were issued. Swiatek, in his 2012 volume on commemoratives, clung to these figures. Coin vendor David Bullowa wrote in 1937 that 10,000 of the 2★4 were issued, with which numismatic essayist Q. David Bowers agreed, taking note of that the two assortments are about equivalent in irregularity. The select version of R. S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins", distributed in 2018, gauges that 9,400 of the 2★4 were issued, and 11,400 of the plain. The two assortments sold at a higher cost than normal over the issue cost by 1925, and at the tallness of the main memorial coin blast in 1936, the 2★4 sold for $25 and the plain for $28. By 1940, the 2★4 sold for more than the plain, and at the stature of the second blast in 1980, the 2★4 conveyed $2,600 to the plain's $2,400. Yeoman's book records the 2★4 for somewhere in the range of $625 and $7,250, and the plain for somewhere in the range of $400 and $6,650, each relying upon condition. An excellent example of the plain assortment sold at sale in 2015 for $70,500. Something like one example in verification condition is known, sold at closeout in 1992.