California Pacific International Exposition half dollar 

The California Pacific International Exposition half dollar, here and there called the California Pacific half dollar or the San Diego half dollar, is a memorial fifty-penny piece struck by the United States Bureau of the Mint in 1935 and 1936. Robert I. Aitken planned the coin. Its front portrays Minerva and different components of the Seal of California; the invert demonstrates structures from the California Pacific International Exposition (held 1935– 1936), which the coin was issued to respect. 

Enactment for the half dollar traveled through Congress without resistance in mid 1935, and Aitken was enlisted to plan it. When his creation was affirmed, the San Francisco Mint delivered 250,000 coins, yet expected deals did not emerge. Left with more than 180,000 pieces they couldn't sell, the Exposition Commission returned to Congress for further enactment so it could restore the unsold pieces and have new coins, dated 1936, seeking after more noteworthy deals in the second year of the reasonable's run. Despite the fact that the Commission was fruitful in getting the enactment passed, it was less so in selling the coins, and 150,000 1936-dated pieces were come back to the Mint. The coins, of either date, sell in the low many dollars today. 

The California Pacific International Exposition was a world's reasonable held in San Diego's Balboa Park in 1935 and 1936. One of the biggest articles of its sort, it was hung on of land, and cost $20 million. The reasonable pulled in some 3.75 million guests amid its two-year run. 

Around then, dedicatory coins were not sold by the administration—Congress, in approving enactment, ordinarily assigned an association which had the selective appropriate to buy them without needing any proof and pitch them to the general population at a higher cost than normal. On account of the California Pacific Exposition half dollar, it was the California Pacific International Exposition Co. 

California's George Burnham presented a bill for a California Pacific Exposition half dollar into the House of Representatives on February 19, 1935. It was alluded to the Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures. John J. Cochran of Missouri, acting executive of that board of trustees, revealed back to the House on April 12 with the suggestion that it go after little specialized changes were made. The bill required the issuance of a limit of 250,000 half dollars. Cochran noticed that Congressman Burnham had showed up before the board of trustees, speaking to that there would be no cost to the legislature, and sent a letter (replicated in the report) expressing the equivalent. Burnham had likewise composed that the Exposition had impressive investment by the national government, and its authorities anticipated that 7 should 10 million individuals to visit. The next day, Cochran had the bill considered by the House, which passed the suggested correction and after that the charge itself with no discussion. 

The Senate got the bill on April 15, and alluded to its Banking and Currency Committee. On April 23, the board of trustees, through its executive, Duncan U. Fletcher of Florida, suggested that the bill go, with a report like that of the House. On April 26, the bill passed the Senate on Fletcher's movement with no dialog or contradiction. President Franklin D. Roosevelt marked it on May 3, 1935. 

California Senator William G. McAdoo, previous Secretary of the Treasury under Woodrow Wilson, kept in touch with the occupant Treasury Secretary, Henry Morgenthau, recommending that the late president show up on the half dollar; Morgenthau composed back calling the thought "fascinating" and proposed it be coordinated to the Exposition Commission, which was in charge of verifying structures. The January 1935 issue of "The Numismatist" (the diary of the American Numismatic Association), which went to press before the congressional activities, revealed that there were plans for 50,000 silver dollar and 150,000 half dollar coins delineating President Roosevelt. 

Artist Robert Aitken, maker of other memorial coins including the $50 Panama-Pacific issue, was enlisted to structure the California Pacific half dollar. He submitted mortar models to the Commission of Fine Arts, charged by a 1921 official request by President Warren G. Harding with making suggestions in regards to open works of art, including coins. Commission stone worker part Lee Lawrie led the pack in analyzing the models, and they were affirmed on July 5, 1935, however Lawrie scrutinized the lawfulness of having coins overlooking the mottoes and . Aitken in this way added to the front. After conclusive endorsement, the models were transported to the Medallic Art Company of New York for decrease to coin-sized center points, which were then sent to the Philadelphia Mint, where the working bites the dust were made. These bites the dust were thus were delivered to the San Francisco Mint. 

Aitken's front shows components of the California State Seal with a situated portrayal of Minerva. She wears a head protector and holds a staff with her correct hand, her left lays on a shield with on it. On the shield is an aegis, with the head of Medusa fastened; among goddess and shield is a cornucopia flooding with produce, representative of California's tremendous assets. A mountain bear is to one side of Minerva. Behind them, out there, is a cruising boat and gold digger, with the slopes of the Sierra Madre as foundation. The name of the issuing nation and the category encompass the focal structure, with under Minerva. The turn around shows two structures built for the Exposition, and part of the California State Buildings at the reasonable, the California Tower and Chapel of St. Francis (today the San Diego Museum of Man). The framework which encompasses the structures is said to recommend Spanish Mission engineering however Anthony Swiatek and Walter Breen, in their book on memorial coins, recognize it as a tressure, found on a some medieval gold coins. The name of the work encompasses the plan, with the date, (under which the mint imprint is found) and among the structures. 

Numismatic creator Don Taxay called the half dollar "an exceptionally separated coin aesthetically," and said of its turn around, "I can't think about another structural theme that has been dealt with so effectively on a United States coin." Art antiquarian Cornelius Vermeule preferred the California Pacific half dollar, regarding the Minerva "a standout amongst the most dominant employments of the confronting figure in American numismatic craftsmanship". He considered Aitken's plan affected by the pediments and different works he had etched amid the 1930s, including the pediment for the United States Supreme Court Building. He felt the delineation of the structures on the turn around was "sufficient for what it professes to appear," and noticed that the monogrammatic style of the craftsman's initials was imitated by Gilroy Roberts when marking his front-side of the Kennedy half dollar (1964). Vermeule noticed that the lettering "affirms the quality and equalization of the absolute visual experience". 

250,132 coins were printed in San Francisco in August 1935. 132 were sent to Philadelphia and held for review and testing at the 1936 yearly gathering of the Assay Commission. The 250,000 residual coins were sent from San Francisco to the Bank of America branch in San Diego, which took care of appropriation, and put marked down at the reasonable on August 12 at $1 each. In spite of extensive exposure, just somewhere in the range of 68,000 sold, 2,000 being held by the Exposition specialists. 

Albeit dedicatory currency gathering (and contributing) was getting to be well known in 1935, the mintage of a quarter million coins, far in overabundance of some different issues of the time, implied that speculators were apathetic regarding the California Pacific issue. With offers of the 1935– S half dollar grinding to a halt, the Exposition Commission was very much aware of this issue. In this way, they looked for help from Congress as a demonstration enabling them to return unsold half dollars for new ones, dated 1936. Mint piece gatherers would see this as another assortment and potentially purchase both, and softening the returned coins would diminish the supply and (ideally) increment the engaging quality of the staying 1935-S examples. 

As needs be, on January 6, 1936, Congressman Burnham acquainted enactment with achieve this. On February 17, the advisory group announced back through New York's Andrew Somers, taking note of that the bill gave that the trade would occur without cost to the United States, and suggesting that it pass. At the point when Burnham conveyed the issue to the House floor on March 16, Michigan's Jesse Wolcott asked how the trade would be managed without cost to the legislature, and Burnham insisted that the Exposition Commission would meet all costs. He clarified that the coins had been gotten so late in the year there had not been a great opportunity to sell many. There were no further inquiries, and the bill passed the House without complaint. 

The Senate board gave an account of April 17, including arrangements necessitating that the coins be dated 1936, paying little mind to when struck, and that they be delivered at just a single mint, picked by the Director of the Mint, in accordance with other memorial coin charges that advisory group had been detailing. Early numismatic creator David M. Bullowa noticed these arrangements, intended to keep the making of assortments, were in this manner embedded in a bill that itself made another assortment. The Senate thought about the bill on April 24, and it was altered and go without discussion or restriction. As the two renditions passed were not indistinguishable, the bill came back to the House of Representatives where, on April 27, that body at Burnham's movement, without discussion or resistance, consented to the Senate changes. President Roosevelt marked the bill on May 6. 

G. Aubrey Davidson, administrator of the Exposition Commission, wrote to Acting Director of the Mint Mary M. O'Reilly on May 16, 1936, asking that the coins (which were to be struck at the Denver Mint and bear its mint imprint "D") be stamped as fast as could be expected under the circumstances, as substantial participation was normal at the reasonable around Memorial Day toward the finish of May. The generation at the Denver Mint made the California Pacific half dollar the main memorial to be struck at San Francisco and at Denver, yet not at Philadelphia. It is the main pre-1954 memorial with that refinement. A sum of 180,092 of the 1936-D were created, speaking to the number restored (the most extreme permitted) in addition to 92 measure coins. The new coins were put on special at $1.50 each. 

There was a spike in costs for some memorial coins in 1936, however because of the moderately high mintages of both the 1935-S and 1936-D, the California Pacific coins sold severely, and when the Exposition shut in late 1936, less than 30,000 of the 1936-D had been sold. On January 27, 1937, Davidson kept in touch with the Director of the Mint, Nellie Tayloe Ross, soliciting her to permit the arrival from nearly 150,000 coins for discount, the excess accused on having a moderately brief period to offer them. When the Mint had allowed authorization, the Exposition Commission set the 1935-S and 1936-D pieces it retained from the mixture discounted at $3 each. Swiatek, in his 2012 volume on commemoratives, expressed that the cost increment was "to make the presence of interest and future irregularity. This didn't work." 

In 1938, Emil Klicka, treasurer of the Exposition, offered the 1936-D available to be purchased at $1 each, with a breaking point of ten. The 1935-S coins were accessible at $2. Huge crowds of the two dates were held by insiders for quite a long time, including one holding of 31,050 of the 1935-S, adding up to about a large portion of the surviving mintage. These were bit by bit scattered from the 1960s to the 1980s. In 1962, the 1935-S was worth $9 in uncirculated condition, and the 1936-D was worth $11. The release of the "Red Book" ("A Guide Book of United States Coins") distributed in 2018 records the 1935-S for somewhere in the range of $100 and $160, contingent upon condition, with the 1936-D from somewhere in the range of $100 and $225. A close immaculate 1935-S sold at sale in 2014 for $4,994.