Vendor Hurricane in Yugoslav administration 

In late 1937, the Royal Yugoslav Air Force (, VVKJ) put in a request with Hawker Aircraft for twelve Hawker Hurricane Mk I contenders, the main remote buy of the flying machine. The Royal Yugoslav Air Force (VVKJ) worked the British Hawker Hurricane Mk I from 1938 to 1941. Somewhere in the range of 1938 and 1940, the VVKJ got 24 Hurricane Mk Is from early generation clusters, denoting the primary remote closeout of the flying machine. Twenty extra air ship were worked by Zmaj under permit in Yugoslavia. At the point when the nation was drawn into World War II by the German-drove Axis attack of April 1941, an aggregate of 41 Hurricane Mk I's were in administration as warriors. They accomplished a few triumphs against "Luftwaffe" air ship, however all Yugoslav Hurricanes were crushed or caught amid the 11-day intrusion. 

In mid-1944, the Yugoslav Partisans framed two Royal Air Force squadrons, Nos. 351 and 352, which both worked Hurricane contender aircraft. No. 351 Squadron flew Hurricane Mk IICs amid preparing and was later outfitted with Hurricane Mk IVs, and No. 352 quickly flew Hurricane Mk IICs amid preparing before re-furnishing with Supermarine Spitfire Mk Vs. The two squadrons worked as a component of No. 281 Wing RAF of the Balkan Air Force, directing ground assault missions in help of Partisan activities until the finish of the war. Tropical storms stayed in administration with the post-war Yugoslav Air Force until the mid 1950s. 

In mid 1938, the Royal Yugoslav Air Force (, VVKJ) submitted a request with Hawker Aircraft for twelve Hawker Hurricane Mk I contenders, the primary outside buy of the flying machine. The British government was eager to supply abundance Hurricanes to countries that were probably going to restrict German extension on the grounds that the rate of creation of the airplane somewhat surpassed the ability of the RAF to present it at the time. The first of these flying machine bound for Yugoslav administration was No. 205 (some time ago L1751), which was flown from the United Kingdom to Belgrade through France and Italy, touching base on 15 December 1938. The main cluster of airplane were fitted with a Rolls-Royce Merlin II motor driving a two-sharp edge wooden propeller. The underlying request was trailed by a second request of twelve (N2718– N2729), which were fitted with Merlin III motors driving a three-edge variable-pitch propeller, and were conveyed in February and March 1940. In the meantime, the Yugoslav government connected to assemble progressively under permit. When the arrangements were effectively finished up, creation lines were built up at the Rogožarski plant in Belgrade and the Zmaj manufacturing plant in adjacent Zemun. The two plants were relied upon to construct forty and sixty of the air ship separately, at a rate of twelve every month. Of the privately assembled airplane, just twenty were finished by Zmaj; the Rogožarski plant did not deliver any. A sum of 44 flying machine were put into administration with the VVKJ. 

Once in administration, Hurricane Mk Is were utilized to prepare the 52nd Fighter Group of the second Fighter Regiment based at Knić, and the 33rd and 34th Fighter Groups of the fourth Fighter Regiment based at Bosanski Aleksandrovac. Tropical storms were additionally worked by the Independent Fighter Squadron of the 81st Bomber Group and by the Air Training School, both based at Mostar. These airplane were sent in the warrior/interceptor job. Quickly preceding the German-drove Axis intrusion of Yugoslavia in April 1941, 41 of the first 44 Hurricanes were useful. They were distributed as pursues: 

At 06:45 on 6 April 1941, the "Luftwaffe" propelled Operation Retribution, a progression of coordinated shelling assaults on Belgrade that harmonized with air and ground assaults all through the nation. A few floods of German flying machine moved toward Belgrade amid the day, at first Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" jump aircraft escorted by warriors. About 08:00, Hurricanes of the 52nd Fighter Group drew in the second wave as it withdrew in the wake of shelling the city; one of the jump aircraft was shot somewhere near three pilots from the 163rd Squadron. For the rest of the main day of the intrusion, the Hurricanes of the VVKJ saw little activity, regardless of steady watching between Čačak, Kraljevo, and Kragujevac. Maybe a couple of the flying machine had radio sets, so the warriors more often than not arrived past the point where it is possible to partake in the battling. Two fourth Fighter Regiment machines were entrusted with escorting Bristol Blenheim Mk I light aircraft to assault focuses in Austria, however they dismissed the planes in overcast spread. One of the pilots at that point endeavored to block some German Messerschmitt Bf 109 warriors. 

The next day, the second Fighter Regiment kept on patroling over focal Serbia, shielding plants at Kraljevo and Kragujevac from potential German air assaults that never happened. The fourth Fighter Regiment was likewise dynamic, watching over Bosnia and Croatia, yet observed little activity with the exception of endeavors to capture German observation airplane. Two of the Air Training School Hurricanes mixed to catch a little arrangement of Junkers Ju 88 aircraft as they flew over Mostar towards Sarajevo. They were both hit by return fire, injuring one pilot and constraining him to crash land. The other pilot kept seeking after the planes when he was assaulted by a gathering of German Bf 109s. He was seriously injured, salvaged, and in the long run kicked the bucket from loss of blood. Another Hurricane was likewise guaranteed by the Germans on 7 April. 

On 8 April, the principle VVKJ exertion was coordinated towards a German ground push through the Kačanik gorge in southern Kosovo. At this point, the VVKJ had lost more than 60 percent of its flying machine; 70 air ship from the leftovers of different plane and warrior units were collected for the assault. Sea tempests of the 52nd Fighter Group made up the keep going rush of assaults on the of firmly pressed escorts. Flying underneath low cloud in poor climate, the two squadrons strafed the Germans. One Hurricane was hit and crash-arrived by the street, its pilot sidestepping catch. In the north of the nation, watching Hurricanes of the fourth Regiment conflicted with German warriors on a few events, without result. Other fourth Regiment Hurricanes escorted another plane mission against focuses in southern Austria. The staying five Hurricanes of the 105th Squadron moved to Veliki Radinci, where other enduring flying machine had likewise thought. 

The next day, substantial snow fell in certain zones of Yugoslavia, establishing the 52nd Fighter Group Hurricanes at Knić. In the north, a noteworthy air fight created among Rovine and Bosanski Aleksandrovac, including Hurricanes of both the 106th and 108th Squadrons. The Yugoslavs shot down a couple Bf 109s, however lost two Hurricanes all the while. By 10 April, the VVKJ was deteriorating rapidly even with the fruitful German invasion, yet Hurricanes of the 105th Squadron had the capacity to get airborne in spite of the proceeding with poor climate, watching for and connecting with German flying machine without result. At Knić, bits of gossip about the methodology of German ground powers drove the 164th Squadron to endeavor to fly its Hurricanes to a more secure landing strip. Five machines got into the air, however very quickly two of them impacted, and another flew into a mountain wreathed in haze. The two enduring pilots returned securely to Knić. Then, the Hurricanes of the 163rd Squadron had been rendered unserviceable by their groups to keep their catch and use by the Germans. When it turned out to be evident that the bits of gossip about moving toward German powers were unwarranted, frantic endeavors were made to restore the flying machine to flying condition. That day, Hurricanes of the fourth Regiment scored a triumph over a Bf 109 while pursuing surveillance air ship over Bosnia. 

On 11 April, fourth Regiment Hurricanes effectively shot down a Messerschmitt Bf 110 overwhelming contender over Nova Gradiška. The next day, a few of the staying 105th Squadron Hurricanes were singed by ground groups at Veliki Radinci, while different machines from a similar squadron traveled to Bijeljina, where other airplane had concentrated. This move had just barely been finished when an expansive arrangement of German Bf 110s cleared over the landing strip and annihilated more than two dozen air ship, including everything except one of the 105th Squadron Hurricanes. At Knić, moving toward German vehicles caused the last two 163rd Squadron Hurricanes to scramble, traveling to Zemun. The primary pilot landed securely, yet was promptly caught by equipped "Volksdeutsche". The other pilot, seeing that Zemun was not protected, severed and endeavored to travel to Bjeljina, however came up short on fuel and was murdered when he attempted to crash-land close Valjevo. Indeed, even at this late stage, the fourth Regiment still had five or six airworthy Hurricanes. They kept on pursuing observation flying machine for the duration of the day, shooting down one Ju 88 close Banja Luka. At the point when German aircraft again assaulted the runways around Mostar, the one outstanding Hurricane of the Air Training School assaulted a Ju 88 yet was hit by return fire, compelling the pilot to salvage. 

The next day saw fourth Regiment Hurricanes again watching over Bosnia, bringing down another Bf 110, this time over Banja Luka. One air ship was obliterated on 13 April, the pilot being gravely injured. On 14 April, one Hurricane was as yet workable at Nikšić in Montenegro. This airplane conflicted with Italian contenders on 14 or 15 April and was hit multiple times. In spite of this, it was as yet airworthy on 16 April when its pilot endeavored to fly it to Greece, however he was compelled to return because of poor climate, after which the air ship was surrendered. Somewhere around two Hurricanes were caught unblemished by the attacking powers, yet this denoted the finish of the Hawker Hurricane in VVKJ administration, as all resistance to the Axis intruders stopped on 18 April, following the Yugoslav Supreme Command's unqualified surrender the earlier day. 

The raising of Yugoslav Partisan-kept an eye on squadrons inside the Royal Air Force (RAF) was examined between the Partisan chief Josip Broz Tito and the leader of the British mission to the Partisans, Brigadier Fitzroy Maclean, on 12 March 1944. Because of this dialog, an understanding was closed soon thereafter for the RAF to prepare Yugoslav staff who might man two squadrons, one of contenders and one of warrior aircraft. Subsequent to finishing preparing, these two squadrons were to direct tasks solely over Yugoslavia. It was concurred that the new squadrons would to a great extent be staffed by previous VVKJ work force who had fled the nation amid the intrusion and had later consented to join the Partisans. The main squadron was raised at a runway close Benghazi, Libya, as No. 352 (Yugoslav) Squadron RAF. Individuals made their Partisan vows on 21 May 1944. Until late June, this squadron was furnished with Harvard preparing airplane and Hurricane Mk IICs, which were then supplanted by Supermarine Spitfire Mk Vs, which it worked until the finish of the war. The Hurricane Mk IICs were given over to a second Partisan-kept an eye on squadron, raised as No. 351 (Yugoslav) Squadron RAF, which was likewise settled as a warrior aircraft unit in Libya on 1 July 1944. 

Amid its stir up preparing, No. 351 Squadron was re-furnished with Hurricane Mk IVs. It finished preparing, including ground-assault practice runs, by 23 September. By 2 October, the squadron had been exchanged to a landing strip close Cannae in Italy to join No. 281 Wing RAF of the Balkan Air Force, a consolidated Allied association. The move was joined by protests from the Partisan Supreme Command that the Hurricane was mediocre compared to the Spitfire currently being flown by No. 352 Squadron, and furthermore the Hawker Typhoon. The objections were disregarded by the RAF, and the squadron worked Hurricane Mk IVs until the finish of the war, as did No. 6 Squadron RAF, a British-kept an eye on squadron that likewise flew missions over Yugoslavia, despite the fact that the air ship had been removed from bleeding edge administration in the European venue in March 1944. No. 351 Squadron was cleared for battle activities on 13 October, and from 18 October the squadron by and large had 4– 8 flying machine put together at a runway with respect to the now Allied-held island of Vis in the Adriatic. 

No. 351 Squadron flew its first mission on 13 October 1944; it included six flying machine assaulting an Axis supply guard close to the town of Aržano. On 20 October, air ship from the squadron, bolstered by Spitfires from No. 352 Squadron, directed rocket and strafing assaults on foe sections close Metković that were pulling back even with the propelling Partisan 26th Dalmatian Division. The mission was a triumph, however one air ship was lost to ground fire. 

After nine days, Hurricanes, escorted by a couple of Spitfires from No. 352 Squadron, flew a watch over the island of Rab and adjoining zones of the Adriatic, yet were unfit to decidedly distinguish any objectives. On 4 November, flying machine from No. 351 Squadron, again escorted by two Spitfires, were entrusted with prohibiting street correspondences among Bihać and Knin. One air ship created motor inconvenience and needed to come back to base, yet the rest proceeded with the mission. They kept running into substantial enemy of airplane shoot close Knin, and one air ship was shot down, the pilot ransoming and being caught by the Germans. The following mission, on 9 November, was hampered by incredibly poor climate over the objective territory close Trebinje. One airplane flew into a mountain, executing the pilot, and another endured motor inconvenience and crash-arrived close Trebinje, the pilot getting away safe. 

On 3 December 1944, No. 351 Squadron completed a fruitful rocket assault against Axis seaside guards on the Island of Lošinj, propelling from Vis. This was trailed by a time of exploring and surveillance more than a few Yugoslav areas, hitting focuses of chance, in some cases escorted and bolstered by the Spitfires of No. 352 Squadron. No. 351 Squadron went generally, forbidding rail and street courses in eastern and western Bosnia and all through Dalmatia, and assaulting Axis sea traffic off the Adriatic coast and islands. As the year attracted to a nearby, activities turned out to be seriously hampered by the declining climate. 

In January and February 1945, much better co-appointment was accomplished between the two RAF squadrons and Partisan ground and sea powers. This was done through the arrangement of flying contact segments with the principle Partisan developments, at first with the eighth Corps and after that additionally the fifth Corps. On 4 January, four Hurricanes flew from Vis to assault an adversary guard going among Mostar and Sarajevo. The caravan was situated close Jablanica and seven trucks were decimated. The flying machine proceeded to assault the railroad station in Jablanica, harming one train and ten wagons. One Hurricane was harmed by against air ship fire amid the mission. On 22 January, Hurricanes escorted by Spitfires assaulted a ship of off the island of Rab, terminating sixteen rockets. Due to the insignificant "Luftwaffe" nearness over quite a bit of Yugoslavia, as a rule the Spitfire escorts from No. 352 Squadron were not expected to secure against adversary flying machine, so they additionally drawn in ground and sea focuses close by the Hurricanes of No. 351 Squadron. 

In February, the two squadrons offered help for the freedom of real towns, including Široki Brijeg, Nevesinje and Mostar, and watched and assaulted focuses of chance crosswise over Bosnia and Dalmatia. In particular, they upheld the Mostar task of the eighth Corps, crafted by the eleventh Corps clearing the foe from islands in the northern Adriatic, and furthermore fifth Corps activities. In spite of the nearness of contact areas with ground powers, techniques were not yet streamlined, and a few inviting flame occurrences happened amid the Mostar task. In help of eleventh Corps tasks, Hurricanes assaulted German home office, guards and maritime traffic nearby the islands of Pag and Krk. On 7 February, Hurricanes of No. 351 Squadron were supporting fourth and eleventh Corps and assaulted a section of German trucks and wagons out and about among Gospić and Bihać when two of the flying machine impacted, causing minor harm. Both airplane crash-an arrived in amicable area and were discounted, however the pilots got away safe. Amid February, No. 351 Squadron re-conveyed to Zemunik on the terrain close Zadar. 

Toward the beginning of March, the arrangement of the fourth Army was joined by the improvement of considerably closer coordination and contact with the two squadrons. Air marker boards started to be utilized to demonstrate the forward line of inviting troops and to recognize amicable vehicles, and contact groups were conveyed with the authorities of lower-level developments to discuss legitimately with supporting flying machine. Activities proceeded crosswise over Bosnia and Dalmatia in March, and were stretched out to incorporate help to progresses in the Lika locale and amid the catch of Sarajevo and Bihać. As Axis powers pulled back west towards Zagreb, the Hurricanes of No. 351 Squadron kept on harrying them, ambushing escorts and soaring gunnery positions. Between 1 January and 31 March 1945, the Hurricanes of No. 351 Squadron flew from Cannae and Vis, yet additionally from the landing strips at Zemunik and Prkos on the territory. In a similar period the squadron lost four air ship and endured harm to fifteen others. Of the lost air ship, two were decimated because of an impact, one was lost after motor disappointment, and just a single was lost to hostile to air ship fire. Four flying machine were harmed by hostile to air ship fire, the rest of harmed by pieces from their very own rockets. 

From the earliest starting point of April 1945, the battle tasks of No. 351 Squadron were focussed on supporting the offensives by the fourth Army in the Lika and Gorski kotar areas, along the Croatian coastline and in Istria. Specifically, there was hard battling in the islands of the northern Adriatic. On 5 April, one Hurricane was lost close Babin Potok when it flew into a mountain while supporting the nineteenth Dalmatian Division's assault on components of the eleventh Ustaše Division, bringing about the demise of the pilot. Amid this period, all tasks of No. 351 Squadron were done from the runway at Zemunik. Two air ship were decimated and eighteen harmed. Somewhere in the range of 2 and 8 May, which ended up being the latest seven day stretch of the war, the RAF did not allow the squadron to work because of political contemplations with respect to the future status of Trieste. 

Amid its reality, No. 351 Squadron flew 227 battle missions: 119 ground assault forays, 87 observation missions, 19 sea bans, and two pursuit and-salvage missions. Of the 23 pilots that went through the squadron, four were murdered and one caught. The squadron lost nine flying machine, and 38 others endured harm, for the most part from hostile to airplane fire. The squadron was discharged from RAF control on 16 May 1945. 

After the war, the Balkan Air Force's 16 enduring Hurricanes kept on being utilized by the Yugoslav Air Force (; JRV), the air arm of Tito's new socialist government. The Hurricanes flew with the first Fighter Regiment in 1945, trailed by the Reconnaissance Aviation Regiment in 1947– 1948, and the 103rd Reconnaissance Aviation Regiment somewhere in the range of 1948 and 1951. Typhoons stayed in administration with the post-war Yugoslav Air Force until the mid 1950s. 

A Hawker Hurricane Mk IV that flew as a feature of No. 351 Squadron is in plain view at the Museum of Aviation in Belgrade. This flying machine, sequential number 20925, was made in 1943, and stayed in task until it was pulled back from administration on 18 August 1952.