Dick Cresswell 

Richard (Dick) Cresswell, DFC (27 July 1920 – 12 December 2006) was an officer and pilot in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). He held direction of No. 77 (Fighter) Squadron twice amid World War II, and again amid the Korean War. Cresswell was credited with being the first RAAF pilot to shoot down a foe flying machine during the evening over Australian soil, the main man to fill in as boss of a RAAF squadron on three events amid wartime, and the primary officer to lead a fly prepared Australian squadron in battle. His execution in Korea earned him both the Commonwealth and the US Distinguished Flying Crosses. 

Conceived in Tasmania, Cresswell filled in as a student circuit repairman before joining the RAAF in July 1938. He at first told No. 77 Squadron from April 1942 to August 1943, flying P-40 Kittyhawks with regards to Australia's North-Western Area against Japanese plunderers. Cresswell asserted the squadron's first aeronautical triumph—the first by an Australian over the terrain—in November 1942. He was wing pioneer of No. 81 (Fighter) Wing in New Guinea from May 1944 to March 1945, all the while telling No. 77 Squadron for a second time among September and December 1944. In September 1950, amid the Korean War, Cresswell took direction of No. 77 Squadron in battle for the third time. He administered its transformation from P-51 Mustangs to Gloster Meteors, turning into the first RAAF leader of a stream squadron in war. Just as Meteors, Cresswell flew F-80 Shooting Star and F-86 Saber flies in battle while on connection to the United States Air Force in Korea. He gave over direction of No. 77 Squadron once and for all in August 1951, however flew six additional missions as a Meteor pilot in 1953. 

Cresswell was in charge of changing over pilots to stream contenders as boss of No. 2 Operational Training Unit in Australia from 1953 until 1956. He left the RAAF the next year, and flew with Bobby Gibbes' Sepik Airways in New Guinea before joining de Havilland Australia in 1959. At first connected by the organization as a pilot, he later turned into a sales rep. Cresswell left de Havilland in 1974, however kept up his association with military avionics, including No. 77 Squadron. He kicked the bucket in December 2006, matured eighty-six. 

Richard Cresswell was conceived in Franklin, close Launceston, Tasmania, on 27 July 1920. He was the single offspring of English workers George Cresswell, a designer, and his significant other Constance (née de Havilland). His dad kicked the bucket when Dick was three-and-a-half, and he later moved to Sydney with his mom. For a long time he lived with another family in Balgowlah, and initiated his tutoring at Manly West. He again lived with his mom in Potts Point somewhere in the range of 1931 and 1938, proceeding with his training at Double Bay and Randwick. Subsequent to leaving Randwick High School in 1935, he started specialized examinations at Ultimo as a feature of an electrical apprenticeship with Westinghouse. 

Terminated halfway by his mom's accounts of happiness flights in pre-war Britain, and a longing to turn into a flying watercraft chief for Imperial Airways, Cresswell connected to join the Royal Air Force (RAF) in September 1937. Getting no answer from the RAF, he connected for the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), and was acknowledged. He entered No. 1 Flying Training School at Point Cook, Victoria, as an air cadet in July 1938. Throughout the following a year he figured out how to fly in Avro Cadet, de Havilland Gipsy Moth and Westland Wapiti mentors, and graduated as a pilot officer. His first presenting was on No. 3 (Army Cooperation) Squadron at Richmond, New South Wales, where he started flying Hawker Demon contenders in July 1939. Cresswell reviewed a blend of fervor and frenzy inside the squadron when World War II broke out two months after the fact: "The second night we as a whole dozed on the shed floor by our airplane. Envision it: there was war over in Europe and here we were at activity stations!" 

After a short presenting on Point Cook in mid 1940, Cresswell embraced the educators' course at Central Flying School in Camden, New South Wales. He at that point turned into an educator at No. 2 Service Flying Training School, which was shaped at Wagga in July and worked Avro Ansons and CAC Wirraways. The school's authority, Frederick Scherger, prompted Cresswell to grow a mustache to defeat his energetic appearance. He was elevated to flight lieutenant in January 1941. Following the shelling of Darwin by Japanese powers on 19 February 1942, Cresswell was presented on Williamtown as a contact officer with the ninth Squadron of the US 49th Pursuit Group (later the 49th Fighter Group), which worked P-40 Kittyhawks and would in a matter of seconds exchange to Darwin to give air safeguard to the North-Western Area. 

The RAAF had then raised three warrior units—Nos. 75, 76 and 77 Squadrons—furnished with Kittyhawks as of late conveyed from the United States. Cresswell, recently elevated to squadron pioneer, accepted direction of No. 77 Squadron at Pearce, Western Australia, on 20 April. At twenty-one, he was more youthful than the vast majority of his work force. Drawing on his specialized involvement with Westinghouse, he urged his pilots to regard their air ship and the ground groups that looked after them. At first in charge of the air protection of Perth, No. 77 Squadron exchanged to Batchelor Airfield close Darwin in August, turning into the first RAAF contender unit to be positioned in the North-Western Area. It moved to another of Darwin's satellite runways, Livingstone, in September. Cresswell drove the squadron in the resistance of Darwin against Japanese marauders and guaranteed its first elevated triumph soon after 5 a.m. on 23 November 1942, when he obliterated a Mitsubishi "Betty" aircraft. It was the principal "execute" for an Australian squadron over the territory, and the main night triumph over Australia. When he came back to base and was asked what he felt like, Cresswell answered, "Breakfast". He souvenired the radio administrator's seat from the aircraft's destruction. 

In February 1943, after No. 1 (Fighter) Wing and its three Supermarine Spitfire squadrons ended up operational in the Darwin zone, No. 77 Squadron was exchanged to Milne Bay in New Guinea. It went under the control of the recently shaped No. 71 Wing, which was a piece of No. 9 Operational Group, the RAAF's principle versatile arrangement in the South West Pacific Area. The Japanese assaulted Milne Bay on 14 April, and Cresswell guaranteed one of four aircraft (and a contender) credited to No. 77 Squadron. The following month, No. 77 Squadron started moving to Goodenough Island, where it was constrained by No. 73 Wing. As Japanese contender restriction was constrained, Cresswell drove the squadron in a few ground-assault missions over New Britain. He was because of hand over direction to his assigned successor, Flight Lieutenant Daryl Sproule, on 2 August, however Sproule crash-arrived amid an assault that day and was caught and executed by the Japanese. Subsequently, Cresswell stayed in order an additional three weeks. 

On 28 August 1943, Cresswell was requested to answer to Port Pirie, South Australia, for "flying obligations", yet observed rather that he was to be court-martialled for "direct to the partiality of good request and Air Force discipline". The charge emerged from an occurrence in July 1942, when Cresswell had remained medium-term at Port Pirie's wreckage and had shot his pistol into the floor by the feet of another officer who evidently had been irritating him. Cresswell was discovered liable and lost three months' position. He considered leaving his bonus yet was appeased by the Air Member for Personnel, Air Commodore Frank Lukis. Cresswell was elevated to wing administrator in January 1944, predated three months to dispose of the punishment of his court-military. 

Subsequent to teaching at No. 2 Operational Training Unit in Mildura, Victoria, Cresswell was named wing pioneer of No. 1 Wing on 25 February 1944, at the particular solicitation of its authority, Group Captain Peter Jeffery, to help decrease Spitfire mishap rates. In March, No. 1 Wing briskly despatched two squadrons to Western Australia because of fears that a Japanese maritime power would strike the Perth zone; no assault followed, and the squadrons returned inside about fourteen days. Darwin was at this point free of Japanese assaults and Cresswell left on 12 May to progress toward becoming wing pioneer and impermanent leader of No. 81 (Fighter) Wing in Townsville, Queensland. Involving three Kittyhawk squadrons, including No. 77, the wing moved to Noemfoor in western New Guinea as a feature of No. 10 Operational Group (later First Tactical Air Force), which had taken over No. 9 Group's portable job and was supporting the US arrivals along the north shoreline of New Guinea. 

Cresswell landed at Noemfoor on 26 September 1944 to be educated by No. 81 Wing's new officer, Group Captain Gordon Steege, that he didn't require a wing chief. Rather, Steege allocated Cresswell to direction No. 77 Squadron, for the second time amid the war. Cresswell scrutinized the choice through authority channels, with the outcome that he held the situation of wing pioneer, just as the order of No. 77 Squadron. The wing flew 1,125 forays against Japanese structures, stores and transport in October and November, dropping over of bombs for the loss of fifteen airplane and eleven pilots. The next month, Group Captain Wilfred Arthur supplanted Steege as administrator of No. 81 Wing, and Cresswell gave over direction of No. 77 Squadron, while proceeding to fill in as wing pioneer. Arthur suggested Cresswell for a Distinguished Flying Cross, yet as indicated by biographer George Odgers this was "'lost' in the framework". 

The transfer of First Tactical Air Force to territories of activity circumvent by the fundamental Allied push towards the Philippines and Japan prompted poor confidence. Arthur delivered an "asset report" to exhibit that No. 81 Wing's battle results were not worth the expense in arms and setbacks, setting in train occasions that would come full circle in the purported "Morotai Mutiny" the next April, when eight senior pilots, including Arthur and individual pros Clive Caldwell and Bobby Gibbes, challenged by endeavoring to leave their bonuses. Cresswell was by then in Australia on leave, having posted out from No. 81 Wing in March. In spite of the fact that in total accord with the points of the "double-crossers", he trusted that endeavoring to leave their bonuses as once huge mob was not a fitting reaction. 

Cresswell was on the twelve-week War Staff Course at the RAAF Staff School in Mount Martha, Victoria, when threats finished in the Pacific; the course completed on 28 September 1945. He was then entrusted with building up a P-51 Mustang transformation course, to prepare pilots for administration with No. 81 Wing, containing three Mustang squadrons, including No. 77, as a feature of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force in Japan. On 1 February 1946, the team change unit, CCU (Fighter), was built up at Williamtown. Cresswell served at first as the CCU's central teacher, and afterward as boss from 29 March 1947. In the meantime, he took order of the Williamtown base, just as No. 78 (Fighter) Wing, which controlled two Mustang squadrons and a few subordinate units. He had hitched a war widow, Bettine Harrison-Owen (née Cotter), on 27 July 1946 at St John's Church in Toorak, Victoria. CCU (Fighter) disbanded on 7 July 1947, however Cresswell stayed in direction of Williamtown and No. 78 Wing until March 1948. 

After a presenting on Amberley, Queensland, Cresswell served on the coordinating staff of the initial two courses held at the recently framed RAAF Staff College, Point Cook. The school was the successor association to the wartime RAAF Staff School, and started its initial half year seminar on 13 June 1949. Cresswell had at this point returned to the position of squadron pioneer, as the aviation based armed forces and its wartime officer corps shrank drastically following deactivation. On 10 July 1950, he was named leader of No. 21 (City of Melbourne) Squadron, a Citizen Air Force unit based at Laverton and outfitted with Mustangs run by save pilots. Cresswell was disinterested by what he saw as the easygoing frame of mind shown by his low maintenance pilots and before long made them practice suitable contender strategies. 

At the point when the Korean War broke out on 25 June 1950, No. 77 Squadron was the main remaining RAAF unit of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force (BCOF) in Japan. Driven by Wing Commander Lou Spence, the squadron was getting ready to come back to Australia when it was put on backup for activity over Korea; it started tasks as a feature of the United Nations (UN) peacekeeping power seven days after the fact. Spence was executed in real life on 9 September, and Cresswell was despatched to supplant him as boss. Cresswell consequently turned into the main officer to lead the equivalent RAAF squadron on three events amid wartime. As indicated by George Odgers, his earlier order of the squadron in battle and long experience flying single-engined airplane, including the Mustang, implied that "it would have been exceptionally hard to discover a RAAF military pilot who could measure up to Squadron Leader Cresswell's capabilities". Alan Stephens, in the official history of the post-war Air Force, noticed that Cresswell was considered "a great coordinator and a 'goer'". In an unordinary move, the RAAF did not raise him to wing authority; he moved toward becoming No. 77 Squadron's longest-serving boss of the Korean War, yet additionally the just a single positioned squadron pioneer. This had the impact of positioning him beneath the US squadron authorities with whom he needed to coordinate and of abandoning him without an activities officer of squadron pioneer rank to whom he could assign a portion of the everyday undertakings of running his unit. 

Spence's misfortune was an overwhelming hit to the squadron, and Cresswell's first errand subsequent to touching base in Japan on 17 September 1950 was to reestablish confidence. Pilot Jim Flemming reviewed that Cresswell "drove from the front", undertaking four forays on 20 September, his first day of tasks. No. 77 Squadron moved from Iwakuni in Japan to Pohang, South Korea, on 12 October to help UN troops propelling northwards from the Pusan Perimeter following General Douglas MacArthur's land and/or water capable arriving behind North Korean lines at Inchon. On 20 October, the squadron turned into a segment of the RAAF's recently settled No. 91 (Composite) Wing, headquartered at Iwakuni, however was under the operational control of the US 35th Fighter-Interceptor Group. Cresswell trusted that the Iwakuni-based wing central station was not generally tuned in to bleeding edge necessities, and he frequently managed Lieutenant General Sir Horace Robertson, BCOF authority and the venue's senior Australian officer, and the RAAF's Deputy Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal Scherger, previous leader at Wagga. 

China entered the war in October 1950, and No. 77 Squadron embraced its first forays against Chinese ground powers on 1 November. It flew its first missions supporting the Australian Army four days after the fact, when Cresswell drove assaults on Chinese reinforcement restricting the 3rd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment, at Pakchon. The 3rd Battalion's Major Bruce Ferguson depicted No. 77 Squadron's nearby help as "the nearest I have ever observed". On 16 November, the Australians started pushing ahead with the 35th Group to Yonpo, close Hamhung. From Yonpo they flew missions against Chinese powers encompassing the US Marines at Chosin Reservoir; Cresswell by and by told a few night forays, assaulting Chinese positions with automatic rifles and rockets. The Communist development brought about the squadron being hastily pulled back to Pusan toward the beginning of December. Cresswell had tried instructions his squadron consistently amid the creating emergency to stay away from any frenzy emerging from unconfirmed bits of gossip; the officer of the US Fifth Air Force, Lieutenant General Earle E. Partridge, adulated him for his initiative. 

Since November 1950, the Communists had been working a Russian-structured cleared wing plane contender, the Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-15, that dominated every single other warrior in the venue aside from the new F-86 Saber. The MiGs were frequently flown via prepared Soviet Air Force pilots, whose organization was informal, and denied at the time by the Soviet Union. The RAAF attempted to buy Sabers to supplant No. 77 Squadron's Mustangs however conveyances couldn't start until 1954, so in December the Australian government consented to purchase British Gloster Meteor straight-wing plane warriors. In January and February 1951, while anticipating conveyance of the Meteors, Cresswell increased fly understanding by changing over to F-80 Shooting Stars and flying ten battle missions on connection to the USAF's eighth Fighter Group. This persuaded him that the Meteors would require radio compasses to explore in awful climate, and with the help of the USAF he prevailing with regards to having these fitted. No. 77 Squadron finished its keep going Mustang mission on 6 April 1951 and came back to Iwakuni the following day to start changing over to Meteors. Since July 1950 it had been credited with obliterating sixty reinforced vehicles and firearms, 600 different vehicles, and more than 2,000 structures. Sixteen Mustangs had been pulverized and thirteen pilots slaughtered. The squadron's misfortune rate in Korea was higher than it had supported in a comparable period amid World War II. On 20 April, the Americans granted Cresswell the Air Medal for "commendable administration" and the Distinguished Flying Cross for "prevalent flying capacity and phenomenal accomplishment". Authorization to wear the embellishments was gazetted on 22 June and 13 July, individually. 

Despite the fact that it had worked principally as a ground-assault unit with its Mustangs, No. 77 Squadron's essential job in the RAAF was block attempt, and it was trusted that with the Meteor it could again concentrate on contender obligations, especially as the USAF had just two squadrons of Sabers in Korea. Cresswell along these lines orchestrated the USAF to loan him a Saber to recreate a MiG-15 in battle preparing with the Meteors at Iwakuni; he confirmed that the Meteor's mobility and rate of trip enabled it to coordinate the cleared wing plane underneath , so the best aerial strategy is work working together with USAF Sabers working at abnormal state while the Australians flew at lower heights. On 20 July, No. 77 Squadron started moving to Kimpo, South Korea, where it was entrusted by the USAF's fourth Fighter-Interceptor Wing. 

Cresswell took the squadron on its first Meteor task on 29 July, a hostile breadth in "MiG Alley" between the Yalu and Chongchon Rivers on North Korea's fringe with Manchuria, making him the main officer to lead a RAAF fly squadron in battle. In the wake of experiencing poorly coordinated enemy of flying machine fire over Pyongyang, the Australians saw MiG-15s stopped in a runway on the Chinese side of the fringe—where UN powers were taboo to assault—in any case, to some degree to Cresswell's disturbance, the Communists would not take off and battle. He drove the squadron on further hostile scopes with USAF Sabers, and missions escorting B-29 Superfortresses, yet had no contact with MiGs noticeable all around before finishing his term as boss and giving over to Wing Commander Steege on 16 August 1951. 

Albeit never again instructing a squadron, Cresswell kept flying in Korea. He verified another connection to the USAF and changed over to the F-86 Saber toward the beginning of September 1951. Somewhere in the range of 22 September and 1 October, he flew ten battle missions in Sabers with the 336th Fighter Interceptor Squadron, dogfighting with MiG-15s on a few events and harming one. Cresswell left for Australia in the blink of an eye a short time later, having flown an aggregate of 144 fights amid the war: 110 in Mustangs, fourteen in Meteors, and ten each in Shooting Stars and Sabers. He was prescribed for the Commonwealth Distinguished Flying Cross for "administration of high request" on 23 October 1951; the honor was declared on 8 January 1952. As indicated by Alan Stephens, "numerous who knew about his execution thought the higher Distinguished Service Order would have been progressively proper. There were proposals that his periodic ostentatiousness, certainty and great battle experience were detested by increasingly person on foot senior RAAF officers". 

After coming back to Australia, Cresswell was elevated to wing administrator and selected Fighter Staff Member at the RAAF Directorate of Operations. In late 1952 he was "challenged" to fly from the Royal Australian Navy plane carrying warship HMAS "Sydney", and did as such in a Hawker Sea Fury in the wake of finishing change. In his ability as RAAF Fighter Staff Member, Cresswell came back to Korea in March– April 1953, flying six Meteor forays with No. 77 Squadron, and detailing lacks in instrument flying and air battle procedure among the pilots. A peace negotiation finished the Korean War on 27 July. 

Post-war grounding had seen the disbandment of all the RAAF's operational preparing units, and change of new pilots to battle air ship turned into the duty of bleeding edge squadrons. This training disturbed the squadrons' ordinary obligations, and the approach of the Korean War and the presentation of planes exacerbated deficits in operational preparing. Cresswell reviewed that as leader of No. 77 Squadron in Korea he needed to send a few substitution pilots back to Australia: "I don't accuse the pilots, yet I do accuse the Air Force framework. We had no operational preparing units, no operational preparing framework and, accordingly, the pilots came to Korea ineffectively prepared and without instrument appraisals. They just couldn't work in the region." 

The RAAF re-framed No. 2 Operational Training Unit (No. 2 OTU) in March 1952 to change over RAAF pilots to fly air ship and train them for contender tasks. Headquartered at Williamtown, No. 2 OTU was at first outfitted with Wirraways, Mustangs, and de Havilland Vampire planes. Cresswell accepted order on 21 May 1953. He set up the unit's Saber Trials Flight in November, to plan for the presentation into administration of Australian-constructed CAC Sabers. Just as execution testing, the flight was in charge of encouraging aerial battle strategies, to fill an ability void brought about by the takeoff of numerous veteran military pilots of World War II, and the RAAF's operational spotlight on ground assault as opposed to air battle in Korea. To encourage the preparation, Cresswell and another pilot built up the RAAF's contender battle educator course, which has kept on being regulated at Williamtown by No. 2 OTU's successor arrangement, No. 2 Operational Conversion Unit. 

On 3 December 1954, Cresswell drove a development of twelve No. 2 OTU Vampires in the state of two sevens over Sydney to welcome No. 77 Squadron upon its arrival from Korea on board the plane carrying warship HMAS "Retribution". His successor as leader of the change unit took over on 27 March 1956. Cresswell was presented on RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne, as Director of Air Staff Policy. The position place him in line for advancement to bunch skipper at the same time, as he conceded later, "I had irritated feet and I felt the Service had officially given me all the operational flying I was probably going to get." He chose to leave his bonus in December 1956, and was released from the RAAF on 30 April 1957. 

On 13 June 1957, Cresswell ended up provincial chief of a Melbourne firm rescuing metal from the war zones of New Guinea, however the organization wrapped up its tasks in Australasia scarcely a month later. Bobby Gibbes then offered him the situation of boss pilot with his New Guinea-based Sepik Airways. Cresswell flew Noorduyn Norseman and Junkers Ju 52 flying machine out of Goroka until October 1958, when he was hospitalized with hepatitis. He endeavored to rejoin the RAAF the next year yet was observed to experience the ill effects of intestinal sickness and dengue fever, just as the eventual outcomes of hepatitis. On 6 October 1959, he joined de Havilland Australia to fly DHC-2 Beavers in Antarctica. Cresswell's first marriage had bombed after his arrival from the Korean War in 1951. He wedded Margaret Schwennesen, a pilot, on 23 December 1959 at Toorak Presbyterian Church in Melbourne; the couple had two little girls. 

Cresswell started flying in Antarctica on 14 January 1960, mapping segments of the mainland guaranteed by Australia. The errand was stopped on 3 February, when the RAAF Antarctic Flight squeezed his Beaver into administration after three of its airplane were lost in a snowstorm at Mawson. De Havilland then relegated Cresswell to fly staff and gear for Australian Blue Metal in northern and focal Australia. Between November 1960 and March 1961 he was associated with another Antarctic undertaking, yet at last did small flying. De Havilland accordingly selected Cresswell its business delegate in Canberra; in this limit he voyaged abroad and on one event flew the DHC-4 Caribou, in a matter of seconds to be bought by the RAAF for strategic transport in the Vietnam War. 

After a progression of minor heart assaults and two detour tasks, Cresswell left de Havilland late in 1974 to live in South-East Queensland; his family chose to stay in Canberra. Cresswell proceeded with his enthusiasm for military aeronautics, keeping up his RAAF associations, and disparaging the Australian War Memorial (AWM) and the No. 77 Squadron Association. In April 1975 he gave the AWM the radio administrator's seat from the "Betty" he shot down in November 1942. In the wake of separating Margaret, he wedded a third time in 1979 however his new spouse kicked the bucket two years after the fact, and he came back to Canberra in the mid-1980s at the asking of his little girls. In 1992 he drove individuals from No. 77 Squadron in a walk through the avenues of Perth, which had allowed the unit opportunity of section in acknowledgment of its job in the city's protection fifty years sooner. Cresswell additionally embraced talking commitment, including the yearly veterans' symposium at the Australian Command and Staff College (ACSC). On 23 July 1998, he was at Williamtown for the formal introduction of the Republic of Korea Presidential Unit Citation that had been granted to No. 77 Squadron on 1 November 1951 for its execution in the Korean War. He visited the recently finished Bradbury Aircraft Hall at the AWM in August 2000, remarking, "The past has an exceptionally solid will to live". The next April, he was among thirty-two Korean War veterans chose to speak to Australia at fiftieth commemoration remembrances of the contention being held in South Korea. 

Cresswell passed on in Canberra of a heart assault on 13 December 2006, matured eighty-six, and was made due by his second spouse Margaret and their two girls. His memorial service was held at the Royal Military College, Duntroon, which was overflown by four F/A-18 Hornet fly warriors from No. 77 Squadron in a "missing man" arrangement. In 2007, an activity at the ACSC was named after Cresswell.