Postage stamps of Ireland 

The postage stamps of Ireland are issued by the postal administrator of the free Irish state. Ireland was a piece of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland when the world's first postage stamps were issued in 1840. These stamps, and all ensuing British issues, were utilized in Ireland until the new Irish Government accepted power in 1922. Starting on 17 February 1922, existing British stamps were overprinted with Irish content to give some definitives until independent Irish issues ended up accessible. Following the overprints, a customary arrangement of complete stamps was delivered by the new Department of Posts and Telegraphs, utilizing local plans. These definitives were issued on 6 December 1922; the first was a 2d stamp, portraying a guide of Ireland (counting Northern Ireland, which remained a piece of the United Kingdom). From that point forward new pictures, and extra qualities as required, have created of nine authoritative arrangement of various structures. 

These were the significant stamp creations for regular use. Dedicatory stamps initially showed up in 1929, and these now seem a few times each year, celebrating numerous parts of Irish life, for example, outstanding occasions and commemorations, Irish life and culture, and numerous popular Irish individuals. Some conclusive and memorial stamps have been created in little sheet, booklet and loop arrangements notwithstanding the basic sheet design. Postage contribution and airmails total the stamp issues of the two, consecutive, Irish stamp-issuing experts. Two styles of watermark were utilized however the overprinted issues accompanied the watermarks of the British stamps given to overprinting by the British Post Office. 

"Oifig a Phoist", the Irish Post Office, was the area of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs which issued every single Irish stamp up to 1984. After the division of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs into two semi-state associations in 1984, A Post assumed control over the duty regarding all Irish postal administrations including the issuing of postage stamps. 

To distinguish postage stamps utilized in Ireland somewhere in the range of 1840 and 1922, it is important to recognize the stamp dropping the stamp as being from an Irish town. Stamps utilized amid this period are alluded to as "Incredible Britain utilized in Ireland". 

From 1840 to 1844, the Penny Black, and different stamps issued, were crushed with the Maltese Cross wiping out. There was no content or numeral to help distinguish any of these drops as Irish, yet some Maltese Crosses are extraordinarily recognizable with certain Irish towns, including Belfast, Eyrecourt, Cork, Hollymount, Limerick and Mullingar. From 1844 on, the drops utilized included content or numerals that recognized the post town. Drops of the two kinds are simpler to recognize whether the stamp is as yet joined to a spread, since this makes the total stamp noticeable, yet a stamp never again fastened to a spread may in any case grant distinguishing proof of the town of utilization if enough of the stamp can be seen on the stamp itself. Numerals of Irish town drops were particularly set in a 4 pointed precious stone shape though town drops in England and Wales utilized an oval shape and Scotland utilized a rectangular structure. 

Somewhere in the range of 1922 and 1983 "Oifig a Phoist", the Irish Post Office, a segment of the Department of Posts and Telegraphs (P&T), issued all postage stamps in the 26 areas of Ireland. Amid this time they utilized a portion of the accompanying organizations to overprint or print the stamps: Dollard, Thom, Irish Government Printers, Waterlow and Sons (London), De La Rue and Co., Bradbury Wilkinson and Co., Ltd., (London), Harrison and Sons Ltd., (London) and Irish Security Stamp Printing Ltd. 

Since 1984, "A Post" has issued all Irish postage stamps. Most have been printed by Irish Security Stamp Printing Ltd., however a modest number were printed by Harrison and Sons Ltd., (London), Questa, Walsall Security Printing, Prinset Pty Ltd., (Australia) and SNP Cambec (Sprintpak) (Australia). 

In stamp gathering circles, "herald" as a rule depicts a postage stamp utilized amid the timespan before a district or region issues stamps of its own. In any case, in Irish reference books, for example, "Handbook of Irish Philately", the expression "trailblazers" more often than not alludes to political and purposeful publicity names. These frequently look like stamps, yet few of them were utilized on Irish mail and they had no lawful representing mail in Ireland. 

Four qualities, 1c, 3c, 24c (dark green), and 24c (mauve-purple) were delivered in New York by the Irish veterans of the US Civil War and are known as the 1865– 67 Fenian issue. The 1893 pilgrim configuration are informal papers and are classed as counterfeit. 

Somewhere in the range of 1907 and 1916, Sinn Féin, one of the patriot associations of the time, issued purposeful publicity marks symbolizing Irish nationhood. Their utilization as stamps was taboo by Post Office guidelines. The principal configuration was a Celtic Cross, like one later received for two complete stamps of 1923, and the second portrays a female figure and harp in an oval edge. In 1912, names engraved "Magnificent Union" showed up, with a plan of a bigger harp and female figure. These names, communicating unionist assumptions, are accepted to have been imprinted in Manchester as a counter to the Sinn Féin marks. After the Home Rule Bill for Ireland was passed in parliament, an Irish Republican body issued names in 1916 with the representations of three patriot saints known as "The Manchester Martyrs" against an Irish tricolor foundation. Imitations of these names are normal. Following the Easter Rising of 1916, American sympathizers printed eight "ERIE PUIST" names appearing of seven noticeable pioneers and a "harp and shamrock" mark. The incorrect spelling ERIE for ÉIRE could have been a direct result of rushed planning. 

The Irish Republican Army, that controlled a great part of the southern piece of the nation amid the Irish common war, issued a 1d, 2d and 6d name, for the most part in view of a stamp lack. These were imprinted in Cork and were to be put at a bargain in August 1922, however meanwhile the Irish Free State armed force arrived close Cork and the IRA set flame to their very own sleeping shelter before they withdrew from Cork, decimating a large portion of the names. 

The Postmaster General of the Irish Free State issued an encouragement to firms in Dublin and London on 1 February 1922 for the accommodation of plans for a changeless authoritative stamp issue, and by March a few structures had been submitted. The accompanying organizations and printers gave papers: Dollard Printing House Ltd., Hely Ltd., Perkins Bacon and Co., and O'Loughlin, Murphy and Boland. 

In 1922, as a between time measure before the first uniquely planned definitives were prepared, a progression of contemporary stamps of King George V were overprinted. The unoverprinted stamps were issued and being used in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland somewhere in the range of 1912 and 1922 and proceeded being used in Great Britain and Northern Ireland until 1936. Three printing firms held overprinting contracts: Dollard Printing House Ltd., Alex. Thom and Co Ltd., and Harrison and Sons. In June 1925 the Government Printers, Dublin Castle, acquired the agreement and finished all overprinting until 1937, when the last, high-esteem stamps were issued. 

Gathering and recognizing the overprints can be a strenuous assignment as there are various varieties in the overprint settings. Feldman states "the mind boggling subtleties of plating, shading, overprint hues, exact estimations, to specify a couple, frequently debilitate even the most eager gatherer". Three particular books, or index sections, (Freeman and Stubbs, Munk and Meredith), issued inside five years of issue have focused on this subject and Meredith is viewed as unequaled. 

Two unmistakable overprints were made, when the formal autonomy of the state on 6 December 1922. The Provisional Government of Ireland ("Rialtas Sealadach na héireann") overprints were at first issued on 17 February 1922, with eight low-esteem and three high-esteem stamps overprinted by Dollard and four by Thom. This overprint is made out of the four words "Rialtas Sealadach na héireann" and the numeral date "1922" masterminded in five lines of seriffed content. The unoverprinted stamps stayed substantial for postage in Ireland until 31 March 1922. 

The Irish Free State ("Saorstát Éireann") overprints appeared on 11 December 1922. This is a three-line overprint utilizing a sans-serif typeface and was finished by Thom, Harrison and the Government Printers. The last overprinted stamps were the Waterlow and Sons re-engraved King George V 2/6, 5/ - and 10/ - values that showed up in 1934 and were overprinted in 1937 for use in Ireland. 

On stamps, the name of the state has dependably been written in Irish and once in a while likewise written in English. The overprints were stepped first "Rialtas Sealadach na héireann" ("Provisional Government of Ireland") and later "Saorstát Éireann" ("Irish Free State"). Ensuing stamps about all utilized the name "Éire" ("Ireland"), despite the fact that this was not the name of the state until the 1937 Constitution produced results. The special cases were issued in 1949 and 1950, and utilized "POBLAĊT NA hÉIREANN" or "Poblacht na h-Éireann" ("Republic of Ireland"). This expression is the official "depiction" of the state determined in the Republic of Ireland Act, which came into power in April 1949; the state's "name" was not changed by the Act. Fianna Fáil crushed the active government in the 1951 race and relinquished the utilization of the portrayal, returning to the name on stamps and somewhere else. Initially, "Éire" was written in Gaelic sort; from 1952 to 1979, numerous stamps had the name of the state in Roman kind, generally in all tops, and frequently expressed "EIRE" as opposed to "ÉIRE", excluding the "síneadh fada" highlight over the underlying 'E'. In 1981 the Department of Posts and Telegraphs suggested the consideration of "Ireland" alongside "Éire" on stamps however the Department of the Taoiseach vetoed the thought on the premise it could cause "sacred and political repercussions" and that "the change could be unwelcome." 

Since 1922, nine Irish complete stamp arrangement have been discharged. Other than various structures, there were changes including the watermark and in the long run getting rid of watermarked paper, changes in cash were likewise pondered the stamps: decimalisation in 1971, and Euro changeover in 2002. 

The initial twelve stamps, the low qualities up to 1 peddling, were issued amid 1922– 1923, while the three high qualities, 2/6, 5/ - and 10/ - , did not show up until 8 September 1937. Plans included: "Sword of Light", "Guide of Ireland", "Celtic Cross", "Arms of the Four Provinces" and "St. Patrick". Watermark and additional qualities were made until new structures, known as the "Gerl definitives", utilizing early Irish craftsmanship themes, were created in 1968. These were the principal new plans in 31 years for the high qualities and 46 years for the low qualities. The Gerl arrangement was named at first in pre-decimal Irish pounds and later in decimal cash (both watermarked issues). It hitherto showed up as unwatermarked stamps. 

Somewhere in the range of 1982 and 1988 an arrangement dependent on Irish design through the ages was discharged, with line illustrations by Michael Craig and illustrations by Peter Wildbur. It contained twenty-eight stamps, with qualities going from 1p to £5. Stamps dependent on Irish social legacy pursued somewhere in the range of 1990 and 1995. Irish winged creatures highlight in the 1997 arrangement that range the transformation of money from the Irish pound, through double cash to the presentation of the Euro. These were the first definitives where all qualities were imprinted in full shading. On 9 September 2004 new stamps, highlighting blossoms local to the forests and hedgerows of Ireland, become accessible. These were supplanted in September 2010 by a seventh arrangement highlighting creatures and marine life utilizing photographic pictures. 

For the centennial of the 1916 Easter Rising an eighth arrangement of complete stamps were issued on 21 January 2016 and might be marked down for a time of one year. There are sixteen stamps separated into four gatherings of four classes named as: Leaders and Icons, Participants, Easter Week and The Aftermath. 

Following the withdrawal of the constrained release 1916 recognition definitives, the ninth arrangement made its presentation on 13 January 2017 with an underlying twelve plans dependent on articles depicted in "A History of Ireland in 100 Objects", a book by Fintan O'Toole. The presentation included eight distinctive SOAR (Stamps on a Roll), a scope of curl stamps, and a residential and a remote rate stamp booklet that each outline diverse items. A portion of the articles represented are the Tara Torcs, Broighter Boat and Old Croghan Man Armlet. The parity of the arrangement will be issued throughout the following five or six years. 

A few Irish definitives have been issued in booklet and loop arranges notwithstanding the typical sheet setup. 

Irish postage stamps have been discharged to honor a wide assortment of Irish points, for example, Irish prominent occasions and commemorations, parts of Irish life and culture, celebrated Irish individuals (statesmen, religious, scholarly and social figures, competitors, and so on.), fauna and greenery, gems, and Christmas. Europa postage stamps have been issued since 1960 to praise enrollment of the European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT), and worldwide occasions have additionally been honored. 

The main memorial, a lot of three Daniel O'Connell stamps, showed up on 22 June 1929. Until the mid-1990s, with just three special cases in 1943, 1977 and 1979 for Douglas Hyde, Louis le Brocquy and Pope John Paul II separately, it was arrangement to not delineate living people. This strategy has been set aside and since 1995 there have been a few such issues, for the most part delineating competitors; for example 30 stamps were issued appearing Irish sportsmen for the Millennium and a few golfers are appeared three 2006 Ryder Cup stamps. 

A few stamps were issued as a small sheet involving from one to sixteen stamps of a solitary, or various, structure from one issue imprinted on a similar sheet and sold in that position. The scaled down sheets are frequently created notwithstanding similar plans issued as single stamps. 

The main smaller than normal sheet of four stamp on stamp postage stamps was issued in 1972 to remember the 50th commemoration of the principal Irish postage stamp. 

This was trailed by a four-stamp sheet to celebrate the bicentenary of the United States Declaration of Independence; the stamps in this sheet were likewise accessible as single stamps. A lot of four stamps indicating Irish natural life was issued in sheet structure and furthermore as single stamps in 1980. 

Since 1983 smaller than usual sheets have been delivered with expanding recurrence, from no less than one every year at first to a few sheets all the more as of late. 

Seven Irish airmail stamps were issued somewhere in the range of 1948 and 1965 in the 1d, 3d, 6d, 8d, 1/ - , 1/3 and 1/5 esteems. No particular airmail rate existed for the 1d and 3d stamps however their utilization was allowed on non-airmail correspondence; all others paid a contemporaneous rate when originally delivered. These were the main airmail stamps issued however numerous definitives and commemoratives have been delivered in qualities that paid the postage rate for airmail administration. 

The stamps were structured by Richard J. Lord and break printed by Waterlow and Sons, London, until 1961, and from that point by De La Rue and Co, Dublin. The plans include the "Trip of the Angel Victor – Messenger of St. Patrick – conveying the Voice of the Irish 'Vox Hiberniæ' over the world" flying more than four surely understood Irish recorded tourist spots, one from every one of the four regions of Ireland: Lough Derg (3d and 8d values), Rock of Cashel (1d, 1/3 and 1/5 esteems), Glendalough (1/ - esteem) and Croagh Patrick (6d esteem). These were imprinted in sheets of 60 stamps with an 'e' watermark. 

Additional charges forced by the Irish mail station on mail bearing inadequate prepaid postage had the postage due gathered by the utilization of these names. Since 1925 there have been six arrangement printed, with the plan continuing as before until 1980, however the shading and watermarks have changed. The Irish word "pingin", for penny, is utilized in both £.s.d and decimal money, but since it has a similar significance in each, the incentive on the name does not demonstrate whether the mark was issued previously or after decimalisation. Subsequently, recognizing the issue of a name requires additional data: if gatherers knows the date of utilization, the presence of a watermark and if so which type, and the particular shading, distinguishing proof will be simpler. For instance, the 3d esteem was blue somewhere in the range of 1940 and 1969, and stone shading from 1971 until 1980; it transformed from a watermarked to a non-watermark paper in 1978. Moreover, the 1, 5 and 8 pence qualities are found in two unique hues relying upon the issue, while the d, 1d, 2d and 6d are seen with both watermark assortments. With the exception of the 6th issue, which has the word Éire in the structure, there is no unequivocal nation character on any of the others. The initial four arrangement utilize just Irish words. 

The principal issue comprised of four qualities discharged on 20 February 1925; d, 1d, 2d and 6d. Typographed by the Government Printers in Dublin Castle on 'se' watermarked paper. The sheets were imprinted in bigger sheets of 180 partitioned into three sheets of 60 names. The second issue had ten qualities: d, 1d, 1d, 2d, 3d, 5d, 6d, 8d, 10d and 1/ - , and were imprinted on 'e' watermarked paper somewhere in the range of 1940 and 1969. Different subtleties are the equivalent. 

A third issue was comprised of seven marks and issued in decimal cash in the accompanying qualities: 1p, 1p, 3p, 4p, 5p, 7p and 8p. In the fourth issue the 3p, 4p and 5p values were reissued in non-watermarked paper on 20 March 1978. Another plan, printed by photogravure, and showed up on 20 June 1980 out of ten qualities: 1p, 2p, 4p, 6p, 8p, 18p, 20p, 24p, 30p and 50p made up the fifth issue. The sheet design was two sheets of 100 separated by a canal edge. The 6th issue comprised of ten recently planned marks by "Q Design" and lithographically printed by ISSP on non-watermarked paper on 6 October 1988. The qualities were: 1p, 2p, 3p, 4p, 5p, 17p, 20p, 24p, 30p, 50p and £1. No Euro cash postage duty have been created. 

Stamp booklets were first put at a bargain on 21 August 1931. Booklet development was a lightweight cardboard spread sewed on the left-hand side with sheets of stamps (typically four sheets), promoting sheets and interleaving bound in. Until 1956 most booklets had half of the intro page dedicated to promoting, and until 1963 booklets additionally had sequential numbers on the title page: two numbers showed the time of issue and sequential number (in a specific order on the early issues yet with the request turned around for later issues), until 1963 when the sequential numbers stopped. 

Since 1983, most booklets are never again sewed; the stamp sheet, or sheets, are stuck into a collapsed card spread. 

Until 1988, when the Dublin Millennium booklet containing dedicatory stamps was issued, all booklets contained just authoritative stamps. From that point forward, A Post has issued both dedicatory and authoritative booklets, with three fold the number of memorial booklets issued. In 1990 A Post issued the principal booklet blending conclusive and dedicatory stamps in a single booklet and furthermore on a solitary sheet. 

Numerous booklet stamps can be distinguished by one non-punctured edge, however a couple are punctured on all edges. On booklets up to 1977, the printing plate development empowered both upstanding and reversed watermarks in equivalent amounts inferable from a drain partitioning lines 6 and 7 in the sheets of 12 × 10 stamps. The canal was utilized for sewing amid gathering, requiring columns 4– 6 and 10– 12 to be turned through 180 degrees so those sheets could be sewed on the left of the booklet. 

The Irish overprinted stamps came, as provided from the printers in London, with a watermark of the Royal Cipher of George V. The principal Irish watermark was a stylised structure of the two covering letters 's' and 'e' making a 'se' watermark speaking to the name of the nation "Saorstát Éireann". This watermark was suspended around 1940 when the nation's name changed to "Éire" (Ireland); it was supplanted with e watermark paper to speak to Éire. Stamps of the period may have the watermark in any of a few conditions of reversal and pivot inferable from the manner in which the paper was sustained into the printing machines. 

Around 1971, the utilization of watermarks was ceased by the Irish stamp-issuing expert, and ebb and flow stamps issued by "A Post" don't utilize a watermarked paper. 

Postal stationery have been created as enrolled envelopes, postal cards, envelopes, letter cards, paper wrappers, airletters and message shapes with various structures of inspired stamp connected to demonstrate that postage had been paid ahead of time. Aside from restricted early utilization of beforehand issued British postal stationery, which were not overprinted like the postage stamps, all post-paid awed stamps before 1984 depended on varieties of a plan demonstrating the nation's name in Irish, "Éire", with suitable qualities in content and numeral tablets revolved around an Irish harp theme. This was at first supplanted by a shamrock plan that later turned out to be approximately founded on the logo of wavy lines and "POST" utilized by A Post from 1984. A Post has additionally utilized a few plans dependent on postage stamps as post-paid inspired stamps on Irish postal stationery. 

A couple of early issued things were decorated yet commonly the post-paid awed stamps were typographed. The Revenue Stamping Branch, Dublin Castle, connected the awed indicia until 1984, when A Post utilized the typographic printing strategy. 

At autonomy, a King George V 5-pence enlisted envelope and 1-peddling wire structure were imprinted in green for use in Ireland until local items wound up accessible. Irish message frames were just created in 1/ - and 1/6 esteems. Enrolled envelopes have showed up in numerous qualities and sizes. The printed (yet non-stepped) enrolled envelopes were delivered by private firms and put away by the Irish mail station until required, so envelopes from previous periods, demonstrating obsolete expenses in the content, regularly got an inspired stamp for the current postal rate, making numerous subtypes for authorities. Different items have conveyed post-paid engraving, for example, dedicatory and exceptional issue postcards, including a progression of St. Patrick's Day cards issued yearly since 1984. 

Up to 1987, airletters (otherwise called aerograms) were created with no charge connected and were accessible free from post endless supply of the suitable rate in power for the postage stamp bought to mail the airletter. Most airletters with a paid ahead of time indicia have been sold at a little premium over the then-current aerogram postal rate. 

Known as the "stepping benefit", organizations, affiliations and people were allowed to present their very own structured and pre-printed envelopes, cards, letter sheets, and so on., to the Irish Post Office for awing with an official post-paid indicia. Window envelopes were well known for printed matter rate mail. The most productive client was the Electricity Supply Board which utilized meter perusing and arrangement cards for more than forty years. Stepped to-arrange postal stationery clients included Blackrock College, Córas Iompair Éireann, Esso, Great Northern Railway, and John Player and Sons, Dublin. No stepped to-arrange enrolled envelopes are known. Clearly A Post have pulled back the "stepping benefit" with no open notice, in light of the fact that stepped to-arrange postal stationery has only from time to time been seen since A Post assumed responsibility for the Irish Post Office in 1984, with just five clients recorded by Jung. Somewhere in the range of 1963 and 2000 a couple of philatelically impacted things are known delivered by six clients. 

Recently issued Irish postage stamps are accessible from the Philatelic Bureau of A Post in the Dublin, General Post Office. Dedicatory and extraordinary issue stamps are typically accessible for one year from the date of issue. Until the mid-1960s the Irish stamp-issuing approach was traditionalist, with just a couple of new ones every year; up to four or five commemoratives, for the most part of two qualities, in addition to the periodic refreshed, or new, definitives. Amid the 1970s and past, the amount delivered climbed significantly. 

A few gatherers attempt to gain a fundamental accumulation of the more typical stamps from 1922 onwards, however that can be troublesome now because of the amount issued. Numerous gatherers focus on one kind of stamp, for example, definitives or commemoratives, or even one issue, for example, Gerl definitives. The First Day covers, particularly commemoratives with full sets joined, are prevalent however the more established issues are more enthusiastically to discover on the grounds that not exactly a million of the high esteem stamps were imprinted in the early years (1929– 1940s) for a few issues, a far lower number than the 20-in addition to millions printed for the greater part of the low qualities amid a similar period. 

The overprints, which demonstrated extremely mainstream amid their initial years, are a perplexing point giving a propelled authority an incredible philatelic test. 

The Irish Post Office has never plugged an official stamp numbering framework for the postage stamps they issued, so gatherers utilize a stamp numbering framework from a standout amongst the most mainstream stamp lists, for example, Stanley Gibbons, Scott, MacDonnell Whyte, MDW (last version 1991), Hibernian or Michel. There are contrasts between these numbering frameworks that outcome in a fluctuating grouping of stamps in each posting, with certain stamps included on certain rundowns however not on others—as a rule assortments that the distributers think don't have a place in a general inventory. For example, Ireland's first postage stamp, the 2d "Guide of Ireland", issued in 1922 is numbered 68 by Scott, 43 by Michel, D4 by Hibernian and MacDonnell Whyte and 74 by Stanley Gibbons. 

Gatherers will in general utilize the lists delivered in their very own locale and language, so in the United States, Scott is utilized frequently as confirm by the utilization of Scott numbers in American stamp sell off inventories. Conversely, SG numbers are utilized in England and Ireland since Stanley Gibbons (a British distributer) creates the inventory of decision in those nations. Progressed and more master authorities have utilized the David Feldman, later called MacDonnell/Feldman, and later again called MacDonnellWhyte, indexes somewhere in the range of 1978 and 1991, and Hibernian lists (1972, 1976, 1980, 1983, 1985, 1986, 2002 and 2009 releases). 

Notes 

Sources 

Philatelic social orders