Endeavor to the Barrier Peaks 

Endeavor to the Barrier Peaks is a 1980 experience module for the "Prisons and Dragons" pretending amusement composed by Gary Gygax. While "Prisons and Dragons" ("D&D") is commonly a dream amusement, the experience incorporates components of sci-fi, and in this way has a place with the science dream type. It happens on a brought down spaceship; the ship's group has kicked the bucket of an unspecified sickness, however working robots and unusual animals still occupy the ship. The player characters battle beasts and robots, and accumulate the modern weapons and shaded access cards that are essential for propelling the story. 

"Endeavor to the Barrier Peaks" was first played at the Origins II tradition in 1976, where it was utilized to present "Cells and Dragons" players to the sci-fi amusement "Transformation Alpha". In 1980, TSR distributed the experience, refreshed for first release "Propelled Dungeons and Dragons" rules. The experience was not refreshed for later guidelines frameworks, yet a Wizards.com article provided a transformation to "Future Tech". It incorporated a different booklet of outlines, in both shading and highly contrasting. The experience is a bygone era most loved of many "Cells and Dragons" fans, including Stephen Colbert. It was positioned the fifth-best "Cells and Dragons" experience ever by "Prison" magazine in 2004, and got positive audits from "White Dwarf" and "The Space Gamer" magazines. Different undertakings in the "S" arrangement incorporate S1 "Tomb of Horrors", S2 "White Plume Mountain", and S4 "The Lost Caverns of Tsojcanth". 

"Undertaking to the Barrier Peaks" happens on a spaceship in the Barrier Peaks mountain scope of the "Universe of Greyhawk" crusade setting. In the experience's presentation, it is clarified that the Grand Duchy of Geoff is under steady assault by a progression of beasts that have been rising up out of a collapse the mountains. The Grand Duke of Geoff has enlisted the characters to find the starting point of the animals, and stop their attacks. 

The cavern is really a passageway to a brought down shuttle whose occupants have capitulated to an infection, abandoning them dead. A large number of the ship's robots are as yet working, be that as it may, and the players should either maintain a strategic distance from or rout them; some may likewise be overlooked. As later found in computer games, "plot coupons" should be gathered. The experience requires the players to accumulate shaded access cards (the "coupons") to progress to the following story curve: entering confined zones, ordering robots, and different activities are on the whole subject to the cards. "Endeavor to the Barrier Peaks" accompanies a booklet of 63 numbered representations, delineating the different beasts, innovative gadgets, and circumstances experienced in the experience. A significant part of the fine art for the experience, including the spread, was created by Erol Otus. A few of his commitments were imprinted in full shading. Jeff Dee, Greg K. Fleming, David S. LaForce, Jim Roslof and David C. Sutherland III gave extra representations to the experience. 

"Undertaking to the Barrier Peaks's" 32-page experience control is separated into six segments. These portray the team's quarters, the parlor region, the greenery enclosures and zoological garden, and the movement deck. En route, the characters discover hued get to cards and modern gadgets, for example, blaster rifles and suits of controlled protection that they can use to help their adventure. The initial two segments include different beasts, vegepygmys—short humanoid plant animals—who have held the group's quarters, and a fix robot that adheres to guidelines before its batteries run out. There is additionally a restorative robot attempting futile to discover a solution for the infection that executed the ship's team. In the parlor region, a "Feasting Servo Robot" still works, despite the fact that the "sustenance" it serves is presently mildew covered toxin. 

The patio nurseries and zoological garden territory incorporates an experience with an "adorable little bunnyoid on the stump". It would appear that a horned rabbit on a tree stump, however when drawn closer, the stump creates teeth and its underlying foundations become appendages, which it at that point uses to assault the characters. The following experience includes a froghemoth, a substantial outsider frog-like animal with limbs and three eyes on an eyestalk. In the 6th and last area, the movement deck, the players' characters must battle with different games robots, including a "boxing and wrestling mentor" and a "karate ace". In the event that the characters can speak with the karate ace and reveal to it that boxing is better than karate, it will assault the boxing robot until both are crushed, else they will both assault the characters. The last zone of the action deck is the stacking zone, where the characters can leave the spaceship. The experience at that point closes, with no postscript. 

While "D&D" is a dream pretending amusement, "Undertaking to the Barrier Peaks" brings sci-fi components into the diversion. Work on the experience started in 1976, when TSR was thinking about distributing a science dream pretending diversion. James M. Ward had demonstrated to them his unpleasant notes on "Transformation Alpha". Gary Gygax figured it would be a smart thought to present sci-fi/science dream ideas to D&D players using a competition situation at the 1976 Origins II gaming tradition in Baltimore, Maryland. Gygax began with his old Greyhawk Castle crusade material and included a spaceship, which Rob Kuntz helped him populate with beasts. Kuntz is additionally credited for "motivation" for the module; his "Machine Level" having been fused into Greyhawk Castle and Tim Kask having played in a D&D diversion with science dream content kept running by Kuntz at GenCon VII in 1974. 

As per Gygax, both the situation that progressed toward becoming "Campaign to the Barrier Peaks" and "Transformation Alpha" were effective at the tradition. Despite the fact that "Transformation Alpha" ended up accessible to the overall population in mid-1976, just a couple of duplicates of the "Campaign to the Barrier Peaks" competition experience made due after the tradition. 

At the point when "Transformation Alpha" was refreshed and ventured into "Gamma World", it appeared the correct time for Gygax to reintroduce "Campaign to the Barrier Peaks" to people in general. Said Gygax, "What could be more consistent than to make accessible a situation which mixes the two pretending approaches into a solitary structure?" Gygax refreshed the situation to "Cutting edge Dungeons and Dragons" (AD&D) rules, trusting it could fill in as an introduction on the best way to incorporate science into one's dream pretending diversion. In 1980, the refreshed rendition was distributed as "Undertaking to the Barrier Peaks". At the season of "Campaign to the Barrier Peaks'" discharge, every "Cells and Dragons" module was set apart with an alphanumeric code demonstrating the arrangement to which it had a place. The 32-page experience bears the code "S3" ("S" for "extraordinary"). The module incorporated a 36-page book and a 32-page book, with two external organizers; it was one of the primary fancy situation modules, and incorporated a book of representations expected to be appeared to the players amid the amusement, including four shading works of art. This module was incorporated as a feature of the "Domains of Horror" compressed accumulation delivered in 1987. Despite the fact that an article on the Wizards.com site provided a change to "Future Tech", the experience never got an official continuation and was not refreshed for the D&D variant 3.5 guidelines (Wizards of the Coast occasionally modifies the principles of Dungeons and Dragons and discharges another adaptation). It was made into a novel of a similar name by Roland J. Green for the Greyhawk Classics arrangement. The experience has likewise been referenced in the Nodwick comic arrangement. Not at all like the different S arrangement experiences, "Undertaking to the Barrier Peaks" was excluded in the "Prison Survival Guide" by creator Bill Slavicsek on the grounds that to him it was a "brilliant experience", yet not "a D&D experience. When you include beam weapons and power defensive layer to the amusement, you have an in a general sense diverse experience." Other items that have brought modern components into D&D incorporate the experience "City of the Gods" (1987) and the novel "Story of the Comet" (1997). 

Each of the four modules of the S-arrangement were incorporated as a major aspect of the "Cells of Dread" hardcover gathering, discharged on March 19, 2013. Lawrence Schick wrote in the foreword: "Vegepygmies and robots. What more would you be able to need to hear? How about we go! "S3 Expedition to the Barrier Peaks" was Gary in all out funhouse mode, having a high bygone era blending components of Jim Ward's Gamma World with dream to make a romping and important AD&D experience." 

"Undertaking to the Barrier Peaks" got good audits and was positioned the fifth most prominent "Prisons and Dragons" experience ever by "Cell" magazine in 2004, on the 30th commemoration of the "Cells and Dragons" amusement. Judge Bill Slavicsek felt the experience was an "exemplary conflict of classifications". It was not something he felt ought to be done regularly, however it made a "significant preoccupation". Judge Mike Mearls portrayed how he felt the first occasion when he read "Campaign to the Barrier Peaks". "I had this horrible, awful clash inside myself to promptly educate my companions regarding it at war with a twisted, urgent drive to keep it covered up no matter what." Judge Keith Baker was most inspired with the experience's specialty. He loved that it accompanied a different book of craftsmanship; specifically the when outlines of the meat eating plant with a "worked in bunny draw". This was later highlighted in a Wizards.com "Ask Wizards" portion. As indicated by the "Prison" editors, the experience's pivotal turning point was its froghemoth animal, and its full page shading representation. 

Tim Byrd checked on the experience in "The Space Gamer" No. 30, expressing that it "effectively consolidates dream with SF" and that it was "amazingly amusing to play [...] a standout amongst the best modules TSR has distributed". Two gaming magazines looked into "Undertaking to the Barrier Peaks" in 1981. Analyst Marcus L. Rowland said in "White Dwarf" #26 that he found the experience "truly agreeable, with thoughts and animals prominently appropriate for more extensive use". He gave it 9/10 generally speaking, yet grumbled that a portion of the maps were imprinted on the two sides of a similar sheet, making them pointless as a Dungeon Master's shield (a visual boundary that permits dice rolls and different exercises to be directed without the players knowing the result). He prescribed no less than seven days' investigation by the Dungeon Master before endeavoring to play it. He likewise noticed that the spread "uncovers the mystery of the animals". Kirby Griffis assessed the experience in "The Space Gamer" #36. Griffis noticed that it is brimming with "shocks and new beasts", and felt that its one disadvantage was that Gygax displayed standard "D&D" beasts as locals of different planets. In outline, he thought that it was fascinating and "loaded with zest and flavor"; prescribing it to anybody keen on "something new" or needing to incorporate sci-fi in their "D&D" diversion. 

As per Creighton Broadhurst, creator of "Models of Evil: Deadly Foes to Vex Your Heroes", the experience is a standout amongst the most mainstream "bygone era" Greyhawk undertakings. Amusement creator Daniel Kaufman recalls "the acclaimed in reverse shooting firearms" as one of the experience's features, and Stephen Colbert, who played "Cells and Dragons" as a tyke, picked this experience as his undisputed top choice.