Manor Park 

Manor Park is a football arena in Aston, Birmingham, England, with a seating limit of 42,682. It has been the home of Aston Villa Football Club since 1897. The ground is not exactly a mile from both Witton and Aston railroad stations and has facilitated sixteen England internationals at senior dimension, the first in 1899 and the latest in 2005. Estate Park has facilitated 55 FA Cup semi-finals, more than some other arena. 

In 1897, Aston Villa moved into the Aston Lower Grounds, a games ground in a Victorian carnival in the previous grounds of Aston Hall, a Jacobean stately home. The arena has experienced different phases of remodel and improvement, bringing about the present stand arrangement of the Holte End, Trinity Road Stand, North Stand and Doug Ellis Stand. The club has beginning arranging consent to redevelop the North Stand, which will build the limit of Villa Park from 42,682 to around 50,000. 

Prior to 1914, a cycling track went around the edge of the pitch where standard cycling gatherings were facilitated just as athletic occasions. Beside football-related utilizations, the arena has seen different shows organized alongside other games including fights and worldwide rugby alliance and rugby association matches. In 1999, the last ever last of the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup occurred at Villa Park. Manor Park additionally facilitated the 2012 FA Community Shield, as Wembley Stadium was being used for the last of the Olympic football competition. 

The Aston Lower Grounds, later renamed Villa Park, was not the main home of Aston Villa F.C. Their past setting, Wellington Road, confronted expanding issues including an uneven pitch, poor observer offices, an absence of access and excessive rents. Accordingly, in 1894 Villa's advisory group started exchanges with the proprietors of the Aston Lower Grounds, "the best games ground in the locale." Situated in the previous grounds of Aston Hall, a Jacobean stately home, the Lower Grounds had seen fluctuated utilizes throughout the years. Initially the kitchen patio nursery of Aston Hall's proprietor Sir Thomas Holte, after whom the Holte End stand was named, it later turned into a Victorian event congregation with an aquarium and an extraordinary corridor. The present pitch remains on the site of the Dovehouse Pool, an elaborate lake that was depleted in 1889. Instead of the pool, the proprietors of the Lower Grounds assembled a cycle track and sports ground that opened on 10 June 1889 for a consolidated cycling and games occasion before a horde of 15,000. Arrangements proceeded for a long time before the Villa advisory group achieved concurrence with the site's proprietor, Edgar Flower, to lease the Lower Grounds for £300 per annum on a 21-year rent with a choice to purchase the site anytime amid the term. The advisory group promptly drew in an engineer who started getting ready designs for the site, which included development of another concrete cycle track to supplant the current ash one. The fundamental stand was to be worked toward the east on the Witton Lane side, with the track and pitch completely encased by banking. Development of the last period of the arena started in late 1896 after dealings with contractual workers over the cost. A while behind timetable, the nearly total arena opened with an inviting against Blackburn Rovers on 17 April 1897, multi week after Aston Villa had finished the League and FA Cup 'Twofold'. The way toward fixing issues with the structure work proceeded for a while. As fabricated, the arena could house 40,000 observers, the greater part of whom remained in the open on the banking. 

Subsequent to winning the class title in 1899, Villa's record-breaking normal horde of 21,000 enabled the club to put resources into a two-arrange ground improvement program. The primary stage expanded the porch covering on the Trinity Road side at the expense of £887; the second expense £1,300 and included re-laying all terracing around the track to cure a structure defect that caused poor sightlines for most of the group. In 1911, Villa purchased the freehold of the ground for £8,250, the places of business in the old aquarium and vehicle leave territory for £1,500 and the carriage drive and bowling green for £2,000. This was the principal arrange in plans drawn up by Villa chief Frederick Rinder that saw the limit of Villa Park expanded to 104,000. In June 1914, another period of upgrades started at Villa Park to contend with enhancements at different grounds around the nation, including Everton's Goodison Park, where another two-layered stand had quite recently been finished. The main phase of upgrades saw the cycling track expelled, new banking at the Holte Hotel End (Holte End), and a re-profiling of all the terracing to convey it closer to the recently squared-off pitch. Rinder swung to the famous engineer Archibald Leitch to plan another Villa Park. Their joint plans included extensive banked end remains at the Holte and Witton closes and the fuse of the first Victorian Lower Grounds structures, including the aquarium and the recently obtained bowling greens. The flare-up of the First World War seriously hampered structure and development endeavors. 

Because of swelling, 1919 statements for the execution of the pre-war development plans came to £66,000, contrasted with the 1914 statement of £27,000. By March 1922 this cost had diminished to £41,775, and the executives pushed ahead with the designs for the new Trinity Road Stand. Development started in April 1922 with the stand in part opened in August. Development proceeded all through the 1922– 1923 season, with the stand authoritatively opened on 26 January 1924 by the then Duke of York, later King George VI. He remarked to Rinder that he had "no thought that a ground so finely prepared all around—and dedicated to football—existed." On culmination the Trinity Road Stand was viewed as one of the most fantastic in Britain, complete with recolored glass windows, Italian mosaics, Dutch peaks in the style of Aston Hall and a general staircase. A few observers including Simon Inglis believe it to be Leitch's magnum opus; a "Sunday Times" journalist portrayed it in 1960 as the "St Pancras of football." The last expense of the stand and related 1922– 1924 ground advancements was determined at £89,000, an entirety that irritated the club's chiefs who requested an examination concerning cost and in 1925 constrained Rinder's acquiescence. 

Manor Park stayed in much a similar state for an additional 30 years, with no significant advancements until the late 1950s. Amid the 1930s the earth and timber porches with wooden accident obstructions were totally supplanted by cement terracing and metal boundaries, a procedure initially started by Rinder. In 1936 he was casted a ballot back onto the board at 78 years old after the club were consigned to the Second Division. About 25 years after he had made his 1914 masterplan, Rinder restored it and hoped to complete the third period of his advancements. He kicked the bucket in December 1938 (Leitch had passed on in April), leaving his development business to his child, Archibald Junior. The total redevelopment and expansion of the Holte End started in mid 1939, administered by Archibald Junior. At the point when the Second World War broke out in September 1939, all development the nation over halted. Abnormally, given the severity measures set up at the time, Villa gained an uncommon license to proceed with development of the Holte End; Simon Inglis notes "How they accomplished this isn't recorded." Work on the ground was finished by April 1940, and the stand was promptly retired as Villa Park changed to its wartime job. The Trinity Road Stand turned into an air-strike sanctuary and ammo store while the home changing area turned into the brief home of a rifle organization from the ninth Battalion, Royal Warwickshire Regiment. German bombs caused £20,000 worth of harm to the Witton Lane Stand, which was helped by 1954. 

In the late 1950s, four undertakings were reported. The old Bowling Green structure on the Trinity Road turned into a medicinal focus, the cellar of the aquarium incorporating was changed over with an exercise center, four expansive floodlight arches were introduced, and a preparation ground was obtained from Villa Park. The floodlights were first utilized in November 1958 for an amicable match against the Scottish side Heart of Midlothian. In mid-1962, £40,000 was spent on a rooftop for the Holte End, the first to give spread to the conventional porch fans at Villa Park since 1922. The old barrel-molded rooftop on the Witton Lane Stand, the main outstanding component of the 1897 Villa Park, was evacuated in the mid year of 1963 and supplanted with a plain slanting rooftop in a similar style as the Holte End. Manor Park was picked by FIFA to have three counterparts for the 1966 World Cup depending on the prerequisite that the Witton Lane Stand turned into all-seater. The players' passage must be secured with a pen while the pitch was augmented by . Customary ground improvements and developments started from 1969 under the heading of the new executive, Doug Ellis, who begin redeveloping Villa Park for the advanced period. A great part of the arena had fallen into decay and needed modernisation; Villa's attendances and money related circumstance had likewise declined because of losing their First Division status in 1967 and going down to the Third Division without precedent for 1970. Ellis refreshed the foundation, introduced another open location framework, completed pipes work which included putting in new toilets, restored the patios, and fabricated another ticket office. His residency saw official parlors supplant the old workplaces in the Trinity Road Stand. 

Redevelopment of the Witton End stand started in the late spring of 1976, a year after Villa came back to the First Division following eight years away. The stand had not seen any significant work since 1924, and its back remained a hill of earth. Introductory redesigns saw the leveling of the earth and new solid porches built on the lower level in anticipation of the development of an upper level. Stage two started in February 1977 and was authoritatively opened in late October. The stand's structure and fittings were great for the time, including curiosities, for example, an 'AV' logo illuminated in hued seats and a twofold line of official boxes. Just as the new Witton End stand, renamed the North Stand, Villa Park experienced further remodels all through the ground. The expense of the work was £1.3 million. Subsequently, and likewise with the development of the Trinity Road Stand fifty years sooner, Villa were again troubled with obligation. An inward examination found that £700,000 of the £1.3 million worth of bills were unaccounted for. A later report by bookkeepers Deloitte Haskins and Sells found that the bills were swelled by just 10% yet that there were "not kidding ruptures of suggested codes of training and poor site supervision." 

In light of the Hillsborough catastrophe which brought about 96 fatalities, the Taylor Report of January 1990 prescribed that every single significant ground be changed over to turn out to be all-seater as a security measure by August 1994. Inside a couple of months of the Taylor Report being distributed, the primary changes were made in accordance with the report. The North Stand saw the option of 2,900 seats to the lower level of the remain instead of terracing, the Holte End's rooftop was stretched out in anticipation of more seats, the Trinity Road Stand had its rooftop supplanted, and the Witton Lane Stand had progressively corporate boxes included. At that point, every one of the four floodlight arches had been evacuated to clear path for boxes or in anticipation of seating, and new floodlights were introduced on new gantries on the Trinity and Witton stands. In February 1992, the club's application to the Council for authorization to destroy the Holte Hotel was rejected. Following a while of dealings, Villa picked up authorization for another remain to supplant the Witton Lane Stand. The new structure implied that the club needed to realign Witton Lane and, as a state of the arranging consent, pay £600,000 to mandatory buy the houses along Witton Lane and overhaul the street from a B to an A street, just as moving its utilities. The stand was completely operational by January 1994 at the expense of £5 million with 4,686 seats, which conveyed Villa Park up to a limit of 46,005. It was reported at the 70th birthday celebration function of administrator Doug Ellis that the stand was to be renamed the "Doug Ellis Stand", a move that caused some contention among Villa fans with some as yet alluding to it as the Witton Lane Stand. In any case, amid the 1993– 94 season, the recently reconstructed Witton Lane Stand turned into the Doug Ellis Stand. The Holte End was the main outstanding stand that did not meet the Taylor Report necessities, and a basic review uncovered that putting seats onto the current terracing would be uneconomical. Rather, the choice was taken to manufacture another stand comprising of two levels, only four years after development of the new rooftop. The decimation of the stand started on the most recent day of the 1993– 94 season. Its substitution started to open in August 1994 with 3,000 seats in the lower level involved for the main seating-just amusement at Villa Park. By December it was completely operational and had a limit of 13,501 seats, bringing the Villa Park ability to 40,310. Upon finishing, the Holte was the biggest single end remain in Britain. 

The following improvement at Villa Park was the Trinity Road Stand in 2000. It had remained since 1922 and seen a few redesigns and augmentations. The annihilation of the old stand started after the last round of the 1999– 2000 season, an occasion met with a component of pity from onlookers, for example, Simon Inglis who expressed that "the scene of English football will never be the equivalent." The new stand was bigger than the former one, taking Villa's ability from 39,399 to its present 42,682. It was formally opened in November 2001 by Prince Charles; his granddad George VI had opened the old stand, 77 years sooner, when he was as yet the Duke of York. 

Manor Park has 42,682 seats part between four stands. These four stands are the Holte End toward the south, the Trinity Road Stand toward the west, the Doug Ellis Stand inverse the Trinity Road Stand, and the North Stand behind the northern objective. The majority of the stands have two levels with the exception of the Trinity Road Stand, which has three. 

The Holte End is a huge two-layered remain at the south end of the arena. Initially an extensive terraced managing an account with settlement for in excess of 20,000 onlookers, the present stand was developed in 1994– 1995 and comprises of two levels with no official boxes. The two levels are somewhat bended in a parabola to give great sightlines from all seats. Inside there are three dimensions of concourse and the Holte Suite, an expansive accommodation space for supporters. The rooftop is a variation of the "Ruler Truss" framework and the front third inclines marginally forward. Two extensive staircases, pediments, Dutch peaks and a mosaic presented in the 2007 season in the style of the old Trinity Road Stand make up the exterior, itself roused by Aston Hall. The Holte End is the most prestigious remain at Villa Park among home and away group supporters. Customarily Villa's most vocal and enthusiastic supporters accumulate here, including some Aston Villa convict firms. 

Worked in 2000, the fundamental Trinity Road Stand is the most as of late finished at Villa Park and houses the changing areas, club workplaces and chief's cases. The stand is made out of three levels with a line of official boxes between the second and third levels. Albeit a lot bigger than different stands, the stand has generally a similar rooftop level as the other three sides. The players' passage and the specialized territory where the administrators and substitutes sit amid the match are amidst the remain at pitch level. The press and the executives' VIP zone are arranged in the focal point of the center level. The upper levels of the stand stretch out over Trinity Road, the road that cuts behind the ground. Trinity Road goes through a passage shaped by the Trinity Road Stand. 

The most seasoned remain at Villa Park is the North Stand, once in the past known as the Witton End, finished in 1977. It is a two-layered remain, with a twofold column of 39 official boxes running between the two levels. Upper level seats are claret with "AV" written in blue; the lower level comprises of sky blue seats. The North Stand was "the main real remain in Britain to utilize what is presently extensively named the 'goalpost' structure." The veneer of the stand is a "finished solid render" run of the mill of the time. Since the isolation of supporters during the 1970s, away fans had been arranged in the lower level of the North Stand. Previous administrator Martin O'Neill communicated his longing to have Villa fans situated in the North Stand to improve the climate at Villa Park. For the beginning of the 2007– 2008 season the club discharged cut-value season tickets for the lower level of the stand. This implied moving the away fans toward the northern end of the Doug Ellis Stand crosswise over the two levels. The Doug Ellis Stand, once in the past known as the Witton Lane Stand, is a two-layered remain with a line of official boxes between the levels. The rooftop was initially intended to be a goalpost structure, equivalent to the Holte End and North Stand, yet the plans were changed to a less complex cantilever structure. It saw slight restoration before the 1996 European Championships to unite the corners with the lower level of the North Stand, improve legroom and increment the bend of the terracing to improve sightlines. The primary TV camera perspective is on the midway line in the Doug Ellis Stand. 

In the south-west corner, between the Holte End and the Trinity Road Stand, there is a three-story structure like structure, which is utilized for corporate cordiality. There is a huge TV screen. On 28 November 2009, a bronze statue of previous Villa executive and Football League originator William McGregor was revealed outside the arena. Behind the North Stand is the "Manor Village" made up of club and ticket workplaces just as a club shop. The club purchased the structures from British Telecom during the 1990s. 

Aston Villa have beginning arranging authorization to modify the North Stand in a similar style as the Trinity Road Stand. A past proprietor, Randy Lerner, communicated his help for expanding the limit as normal attendances expanded. Whenever anticipated developments were finished, the limit of Villa Park would increment to around 50,000. Toward the beginning of the 2010 season, plans were at a reasonable stage, and due to a "multi-year exertion to consider business and supporter needs" there was no characterized date for development to begin. Meanwhile, the passage toward the North Stand, "R Block", was refurbished inside and remotely. The facelift has seen the bended sash over the gates supplanted with cladding and overhangs like those before the Holte Suite. The "R Block" concourse has been extended to make a bigger, more brilliant open space. In September 2017 Aston Villa CEO Keith Wyness uncovered designs to grow Villa Park, declaring that the club was concentrating a few intends to build the limit up to 60,000. 

Manor Park was the primary English ground to organize worldwide football in three unique hundreds of years and has facilitated coordinates in a few global competitions. Three 1966 World Cup matches were played at the ground and four matches amid Euro '96. The ground has facilitated England internationals, the first in 1899 and the latest in 2005. Sixteen universal matches have been facilitated at the arena altogether. 

Manor Park has been the scene for a few Cup rivalries. It has facilitated 55 FA Cup semi-finals, more than some other arena. The club facilitated the League Cup Final in 1980– 1981 when Liverpool beat West Ham 2– 1 of every a replay. In 1999, the arena facilitated the last of the European Cup Winners' Cup in which Lazio beat Real Mallorca 2– 1. Amid the development of the new Wembley Stadium somewhere in the range of 2001 and 2005, the FA Trophy Final was held at Villa Park. The 2012 Community Shield was held at Villa Park rather than Wembley because of Olympic Games at the arena. 

The setting has additionally facilitated two top of the line cricket matches. The first was the United North of England Eleven's last five star coordinate against a London United Eleven in June 1879. The second was visit coordinate played among Australia and an England XI side in May 1884. The ground additionally facilitated a 1897 Minor Counties Championship coordinate among Staffordshire and Northamptonshire and was the home ground for Aston Unity in the Birmingham and District Premier League from 1889 to 1954. 

Numerous games and cycle occasions occurred at the ground before the First World War, and boxing has been facilitated on a few events. On 28 June 1948, Dick Turpin, sibling of Randolph Turpin, turned into the first non-white fighter to win a British title in a battle against Vince Hawkins before 40,000 observers after the British Boxing Board of Control lifted their restriction on non-whites trying for titles. On 21 June 1972 Danny McAlinden crushed Jack Bodell in a British and Empire Heavyweight title battle. 

Incredible Britain verified the first historically speaking rugby group test arrangement at the ground when they crushed the visiting Australian Kangaroos side 6– 5 on 14 February 1909 before a horde of 9,000. A second rugby association diversion pursued three years after the fact on New Year's Day 1912 when 4,000 individuals swung up to see Australia beat Great Britain 33– 8. The arena has seen a few worldwide rugby association visit matches. On 8 October 1924, a North Midlands XV lost 40– 3 to the New Zealand side visiting Europe and Canada at the time. The second diversion occurred on 30 December 1953 when Midlands Counties played another New Zealand side on their 1953– 1954 voyage through United Kingdom, Ireland, France and North America. The Midlands side lost 18– 3. On 26 August 1985, it played host to the principal ever American football "Summerbowl," planned to be the English comparable to the Super Bowl. The amusement was played between the London Ravens and the Streatham Olympians, and the low participation of 8,000 implied that the Summerbowl was not rehashed in ensuing years. 

Manor Park was initially recorded as one of the six arenas that would hold Olympic football coordinates in the 2012 Summer Olympics. In 2009 it was declared that the arranging board for the recreations and the football club had chosen that vulnerability around development plans implied that the club were "unfit to submit completely to facilitating matches." 

Estate Park was picked as the setting for two pool coordinates in the 2015 Rugby World Cup. The first was a Pool B coordinate between South Africa and Samoa on 26 September 2015 with South Africa winning 46– 6 with 39,526 in participation. The second was a Pool A match among Australia and Uruguay the following day with Australia winning 65– 3 before 39,605 observers. 

Birmingham is the host city of the 2022 Commonwealth Games. Manor Park will have the Rugby Sevens challenge. 

Manor Park has been a setting for performers from numerous types just as ministers. The arena has facilitated a few shake shows, including Bruce Springsteen who played two shows in June 1988 as a major aspect of his Tunnel of Love Tour, and most as of late Bon Jovi, who had the arena in 2013 as influence of . Duran held a philanthropy show in 1983 to fund-raise for MENCAP. Different artists who have played at the ground incorporate Belinda Carlisle, Rod Stewart and Robert Palmer. The American evangelist Billy Graham pulled in 257,181 individuals to a progression of supplication gatherings held at the arena in mid-1984. Diocese supervisor Desmond Tutu held a religious social affair at the arena in 1989. 

The most noteworthy participation recorded at Villa Park was 76,588, on 2 March 1946 out of a FA Cup sixth round tie against Derby County. The most astounding participation in the all-seater period was 42,788 on 29 December 2009 of every a Premier League amusement against Liverpool. The most noteworthy normal post-Second World War participation at Villa Park was 47,168 in the 1948– 1949 season; the least normal post-war participation was 15,237 in the 1985– 1986 season. 

Manor Park is inside a short separation of two mainline railroad stations. Witton railroad station is around from Villa Park, and Aston rail line station is roughly . Under previous proprietor Randy Lerner, there have been dialogs on changing the name of Witton Station to Villa Park just like the case with West Bromwich Albion's neighborhood railroad station, The Hawthorns. Aston Villa's previous CEO, Bruce Langham, has said that the West Midlands Passenger Transport Executive (Centro) are agreeable to the thought as long as it is done to the detriment of the club. No move has yet been made.