Screw the Millennium 

"Screw the Millennium", now and then spelled "***K the Millennium", is an electronic dissent melody that was discharged as a solitary in 1997 by 2K (Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty, otherwise called The KLF and The Justified Ancients of Mu). In light of The KLF's corrosive house track "What Time Is Love?", it was advanced as a rebound single and discharged to stamp the tenth commemoration of Drummond and Cauty's first coordinated efforts; be that as it may, it was additionally to some extent expected to ridicule the thought of the rebound. It remains the main business discharge by the team since The KLF's 1992 retirement. The single came to #28 in the UK Singles Chart in October 1997. 

Drummond and Cauty's crusade to "screw the thousand years" additionally included an appearance by 2K at London's Barbican Arts Center and various shocking recommendations to 'recognize' the thousand years under the moniker "K2 Plant Hire". These exercises were expected to come full circle in the development of "The People's Pyramid", a - high structure worked from reused blocks, yet the pyramid was never manufactured. 

From 1987 to 1992, Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty discharged music under names including "The Justified Ancients of Mu" ("The JAMs") and "The KLF". Following a keep running of five sequential UK top-five singles, "The KLF" executed a prominent retirement from the music business and erased their whole back list, announcing that "For a long time to come, there will be no further record discharges from any past, present or future name appended to our exercises." Drummond and Cauty's ensuing workmanship venture, the K Foundation, discarded "The KLF's" income, including by copying one million pounds of it, cash which was initially temporarily reserved by the pair for millennial festivals. Bill Drummond: "Initially we would put the entire parcel in some capital development finance and spend everything on one major occasion, possibly at the thousand years". 

In the four years following "The KLF's" retirement, Drummond and Cauty's melodic yield comprised just of a restricted version single discharged in Israel and Palestine ("K Cera"), and a commitment to "The Help Album" ("The Magnificent"). 

In 1997, British craftsman Jeremy Deller spearheaded the Acid Brass idea, working together with the Williams Fairey Brass Band to translate and perform great corrosive house tracks as metal courses of action. Deller was depicted by one source as a prankster, a thought much of the time connected to Drummond and Cauty themselves. In February 1997, Drummond was reached by his previous Big in Japan bandmate Jayne Casey, why should sorting out an expressions celebration in Liverpool and had seen that Acid Brass' collection included "The KLF's" "What Time Is Love?". Drummond went to the celebration execution and heard "What Time Is Love?" executed as the reprise, amid which he called Cauty. Cauty and Drummond together went to a 19 April Acid Brass execution at the Queen Elizabeth Hall, London. Community work resulted between Drummond, Cauty, and Deller, in which the Acid Brass version of their track was consolidated into a piece intended to stamp the tenth commemoration of Drummond and Cauty's first work. 

A rebound of "The KLF" was suggested by two high contrast full-page adverts put in the 21 August 1997 issue of "Time Out". The principal declared "They're Back. The Creators of Trance. The Lords of Ambient. The Kings of Stadium House. The Godfathers of Techno Metal. The Greatest Rave Band In The World. Ever! 2K. For 23 minutes Only". The second expressed "'Jeremy Deller presents '1997 What The Fuck's Going On'", a reference to The JAMs' presentation collection "1987 (What the Fuck Is Going On?)". It proceeded, "Jimmy Cauty and Bill Drummond welcome you to a 23 minute act amid which the following 840 days of our lives will be talked about". "The Independent" anticipated the occasion, saying that "It was simply a question of time before Jimmy Cauty and Bill Drummond brought forth another trick and set a smile back on the substance of popular music." "You simply hurt for them to be No. 1 again...", they stated, yet "One expectations they are not going to shoot themselves in the foot" in light of the fact that "the thought navigates the precarious situation among lunacy and splendor... the pop world's commencement to the thousand years unquestionably begins here". 

"1997 (What The Fuck's Going On?)" was performed by 2K as a coincidental occasion at London's Barbican Arts Center on 17 September 1997 with Acid Brass, the Liverpool Dockers, Regia Anglorum, and Drummond's inventive partners Mark Manning and Gimpo, who showed up, separately, as "a hatchet using "salvationist" in a vicar's neckline and gold weak suit, and a shop steward character in a white coat with an amplifier". The execution started with a screening of "This Brick", a short 35mm film of a block produced using the powder of the K Foundation's million-pound blaze. Following a presentation by Factory Records originator Tony Wilson, Drummond and Cauty were then revealed as pajama-clad, wheelchair-utilizing retired people with silver hair and, tied to their brows, unmistakable horns that had been utilized consistently in The KLF's limited time recordings. Drummond was additionally observed culling quills from a dead swan. As indicated by an official statement issued by Mute/Blast First (Acid Brass' and 2K's record name), "Two older courteous fellows, smelling of Dettol, caused devastation in their mechanized wheelchairs. These old heretics, looking to some extent like messrs Cauty and Drummond, professed to have quite recently been asked along." The pair wheeled around the phase to the sound of Acid Brass' "What Time Is Love?". They were bolstered differently by a male choir's version of "K Cera", joined by musical drama vocalist Sally Bradshaw; the Viking Society in ensemble as lifeboatmen; and the politically topical Liverpool Dockers reciting "Screw the Millennium". Following the execution, each group of onlookers part got a "Screw the Millennium" T-shirt, publication, and guard sticker in a bearer pack. 

In a thorough evaluation, "The Observer" defended the exhibition: "They did what they generally do: such a large number of things in the meantime. Their focuses are lost alongside the plot. Along these lines, just to clarify: ... Bill and Jimmy were dressed as elderly people men as a remark on older pop gatherings making a rebound. The metal band playing house music tunes was sorted out by Jeremy Deller as a remark on class culture (regular workers band playing common laborers music). The dockers were asked along in light of the fact that their motivation is vital." "The Guardian" called the execution "a sublime, stunning chaos", and "The Times" 

remarked that "the most grounded point to support its was its quickness". "Select" stated, "There was no press furore the following morning—just the paltry delayed flavor impression left by 40-year-elderly people men emulating to a seven-year-old tune... 2K was undeniably a disappointment." 

A solitary, "Screw the Millennium" was along these lines discharged, a studio-based chronicle erroneously advanced as an altered variant of the Barbican execution. Contrasting the single and the live execution, "The Times" said that "On CD, things become increasingly conventional, however no less engaging, including a corrosive metal rendition of their work of art, What Time Is Love? furthermore, a young fellow yelling inconsiderate words." 

The unedited studio recording of "Screw the Millennium" is a 14-minute organization, a dissent tune based around The KLF's home music track "What Time Is Love?", drawing also on melodic avoids and ideas all through Drummond and Cauty's ordinance. The track contains three fundamental segued parts: a house area driven by the metal band Acid Brass, a choral version of the English song "Everlasting Father, Strong to Save", and a musically solidified remix of "What Time Is Love? (Unadulterated Trance Original)". The lead vocals when the song comprise for the most part of furious serenades, with many cases of "fuck". Aside from few harmony changes amid the segues, "Screw the Millennium" contains no new music. In any case, the verses and metal game plan are not found somewhere else in Drummond and Cauty's yield. 

The track is opened by Gimpo shouting "It's 1997: what the hell is going on?". There pursues a metal band rendition of "What Time Is Love? (Unadulterated Trance Original)", with a house beat included, alongside tests from The JAMs' 1987 accounts "All You Need Is Love", "Don't Take Five (Take What You Want)", "Whitney Joins The JAMs" and "Consume the Bastards". Drummond drives a horde of Liverpool Dockers in furious serenades: "Screw the thousand years! We need it now!". 

Among the voices singing the three stanzas of the song are keyboardist Nick Coler, Drummond and Cauty, numerous accounts of whom are overlain to reenact an assembly. Imprint Manning outreachingly portrays its verses, and between stanzas, Gimpo shouts for "Bill!" (Drummond) and "Jimmy!" (Cauty)— the main occurrence all through their music that both of them is alluded to without an alias. 

A "Select" writer enthused about the track with regards to the team's more extensive list: "When it begins you quickly recollect the fervor that originates from hearing a KLF record out of the blue. The first encompassing house tune kicks in – and it hasn't dated multi day. The melody is given an additional kick by Acid Brass' massed positions of horns and trumpets... It is very splendid." 

Around the season of the single's discharge, further full-page adverts showed up in the national press, this time asking perusers "***k The Millennium: Yes/No?", with a phone number—the "Thousand years Crisis Line"— accommodated casting a ballot: "In the event that you need to screw the thousand years, press '1'. If not, press '2'." The adverts were put under the nom de plume Plant Hire Ltd., who properly asserted that 18,436 (89%) of respondents wished to screw the thousand years. Subsequently, on 31 October 1997, K2 Plant Hire reported "The People's Pyramid", an expected - high structure worked from the same number of house blocks as there were British twentieth century births (assessed by the couple as 87 million), with no expense to the citizen. As indicated by "Song Maker", an announcement posted on K2 Plant Hire's site "distinctly contrast[ed] the proposed ideals of their People's Pyramid with the downsides of the formally supported Millennium Dome". "The Guardian" noted drily that the thought "would seem, by all accounts, to be fantastical even by their own guidelines" and "Arranging consent may represent an issue." The Pyramid was never assembled. 

K2 Plant Hire likewise contributed a short story, composed by Drummond, to editorial manager Sarah Champion's collection "Disco 2000". Entitled "'Let's Grind' or 'How K2 Plant Hire Went To Work'", the 1997 story is an anecdotal record of K2 Plant Hire's arrangement to crush Stonehenge on the eve of the thousand years. Likewise in 1997, Drummond and Cauty purportedly utilized K2 Plant Hire's outstanding assets to offer for buy of the Rollright Stones antiquated landmark. Psychogeographer Stewart Home asserted that regardless of K2 Plant Hire's offered being the most astounding, the proprietors of the landmark wouldn't exchange with the pair. 

Drummond and Cauty's works were both profoundly self-referential and overflowing with references to "The Illuminatus! Set of three" exclusive novel, from which The JAMs took their name. Their last work, as 2K and K2 Plant Hire, proceeded with a large number of these topics. Their incendiary disposition was displayed in their endeavor to undermine the pop rebound. They mutilated a mass of the National Theater the day after the Barbican execution: the spray painting "1997: What the screw's going on?" referenced their comparable spray painting of ten years sooner on a similar mass of expressions of the human experience foundation. The surprising show at the Barbican was regular of their past befuddling and clever costumed appearances; besides, the horns lashed to their temples were recently utilized in The KLF's cowl outfits. The publicizing efforts when the single's discharge continued Drummond and Cauty's trademark limited time strategy of enigmatic, monochrome full-page adverts set in UK national papers and music press. 

The team's tenth commemoration was noticeably suggested by the adverts and spray painting, and "Screw the Millennium" contains numerous examples from their most punctual works. The KLF's "What Time Is Love?"— a leap forward track for Drummond and Cauty on two events—is likewise utilized widely: "Screw the Millennium" contains the sum of "What Time Is Love? (Unadulterated Trance Original)", just as tests utilized in "What Time Is Love? (Live at Trancentral)". 

Marine was a common component of Drummond and Cauty's yield, in verses from "Who Killed The JAMs?", "The White Room" and "", and in symbolism used to represent The KLF's retirement press take note. Preceding entering the music business, Drummond had filled in as a trawlerman. Tests of evangelists likewise include in a few KLF Communications accounts: the collection "Relax" and the B-sides "What Time Is Love? (Computer generated Reality Mix)" and "America No More". "Screw the Millennium" was a studio track advanced as a live account and including tested group commotion, just like The KLF's self-named "Arena House Trilogy" of singles. The utilization of an English song is fundamental to The JAMs' "It's Grim up North". The majority of The KLF's graph singles either allude or insinuate time, a topic proceeded by "Screw the Millennium". 

2K's life expectancy was charged as the length of the Barbican execution, 23 minutes. The number is given numerological essentialness in "The Illuminatus! Set of three". The "Screw the Millennium" sleevenotes express that "The Justified Ancients of Mu show up politeness of The Five", a reference to the five Illuminati pioneers of the books. Drummond and Cauty took The JAMs' name from the anecdotal clique in "Illuminatus!", wherein the anecdotal JAMs are long-standing foes of the Illuminati. K2 Plant Hire's "The People's Pyramid" reviewed Drummond and Cauty's "Pyramid Blaster" logo (a ghetto blaster suspended before a pyramid), itself a reference to the all powerful eye symbol utilized in "Illuminatus!". 

In spite of the fact that the references to "Illuminatus!" and themselves were with regards to Drummond and Cauty's convention, this was additionally to some degree proposed to be a self-caricaturing dig of The KLF's "fantasy". Drummond's conclusions of the "stone 'n' move rebound" were recorded by him at the time and publicized in 2000: "The historical backdrop of shake 'n' roll has been covered with lamentable rebounds... No rebound has ever worked. The inspiration driving the rebound has never and will never be equivalent to when the gathering or craftsman initially slithered out of their sub-faction... In the event that there was new unique ability, it is presently drained and tried, just fit for flicking the wistfulness switch." Designing 2K's farce of the rebound, Drummond composed that he and Cauty were "getting absolutely into the establishment of The Comeback, drawing on the pitiful, despicable nature of the entire thing, the distress of all worried to abuse whatever they can from the myth...". 

Contemporary press response to 2K and their Barbican execution was blended yet generally negative. From that point forward, notwithstanding, The Observer have held up the Barbican appear as the model of a pop exhibition. "At one lamentably noteworthy Stereophonics gig ...", the paper stated, "the degree of Richard Jones' dramatic skill was to play his bass while remaining on a mat... this is not really the pajama-clad KLF, horns lashed to their heads, zooming around the Barbican in wheelchairs with Zodiac Mindwarp in a platform and many sacked Liverpool dockers hollering "Screw the thousand years!" at the highest points of their voices ..." Likewise, a 1999 component on Drummond and Cauty in "The Irish Times" announced their thousand years exercises with some glow. "As a study of the support soaked multi-million pound Millennium Dome," the article ran, "the 'general population's pyramid' is amazing." 

Relating the adventures of 2K, and the press response, in his book "45" (distributed in the thousand years year, 2000), Drummond stated: 

"Screw the Millennium" was given a worldwide single discharge on 13 October 1997. The record was not an accomplishment in contrast with The KLF's prior diagram topping undertakings, cresting at a moderate #28 in the UK Singles Chart. 

All arrangements contained no less than one variant of 2K's "Screw the Millennium" and one of Acid Brass' "What Time Is Love?". The arrangements and track postings are classified underneath: 

Key 

"Screw the Millennium" and "What Time Is Love?" were composed and created by Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty.