Super Columbine Massacre RPG! 

Super Columbine Massacre RPG! is a pretending computer game made by Danny Ledonne and discharged in April 2005. The amusement reproduces the 1999 Columbine High School shootings close Littleton, Colorado. Players accept the jobs of shooters Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold and showcase the slaughter, with flashbacks relating portions of Harris and Klebold's past encounters. The amusement starts upon the arrival of the shootings and pursues Harris and Klebold after their suicides to anecdotal undertakings in condemnation. 

Ledonne had spent numerous years conceptualizing amusements, however never made one because of his absence of diversion plan and programming information. He was motivated to make a computer game about Columbine by his very own experience being tormented and the impact the shooting had on his life. The diversion speaks to a study of how conventional media sensationalized the shooting (specifically the job of computer games), just as caricaturing computer games themselves. "Super Columbine Massacre" was made with ASCII's diversion advancement program RPG Maker 2000 and took around a half year to finish. Ledonne at first distributed the amusement namelessly, discharging a craftsman's announcement about the work after his personality was uncovered. "Super Columbine Massacre" was discharged for nothing on the web and pulled in little consideration until 2006, when broad media inclusion energized a huge number of downloads. 

Response to "Super Columbine Massacre" was negative; the title was censured as trivializing the activities of two killers and the lives of the blameless. The diversion's animation introduction and the side-plot into damnation were considered by commentators as darkening the amusement's message, however it got minor note as an amusement that rose above the cliché relationship of the medium as excitement for youngsters. "Super Columbine Massacre"s subjects and substance prompted it being incorporated into exchanges regarding whether computer games cause brutality; the title was later recorded as one of the conceivable rousing variables of the shooter after the 2006 Dawson College shooting. The amusement has been depicted as a workmanship diversion, and Ledonne has turned into a representative for computer games as an artistic expression, creating a narrative in 2008 called "Playing Columbine" about his diversion and its effect. 

"Super Columbine Massacre RPG!" is a pretending computer game. Players control the activities of youngsters Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold; the pair entered Colorado's Columbine High School on April 20, 1999 and slaughtered 13 individuals before turning their weapons on themselves in a library. A great part of the amusement happens in a third-individual view, with players controlling Harris and Klebold from an overhead point of view. The illustrations and characters are purposely reminiscent of a 16-bit-period computer game; while the substance is vicious, the viciousness isn't graphically rendered. 

At the point when players participate in fight, the screen changes to a first-individual perspective on the foe; foes are named by generalizations or occupations, for example, "Preppy young lady", "Janitor", "Math educator" and "Athlete Type". Battle has two alternatives: "auto play", where the diversion picks the weapon to utilize, or "manual play", in which the player chooses to utilize a hand-to-hand weapon, hazardous, firearm, or cautious move against adversaries. When a fight begins, it is difficult to keep away from or get away from; the player must execute the foe or kick the bucket. Content describes fight occasions and activities, for example, finding a sack or picking up a weapon. 

As the amusement continues, flashbacks happen appearing in Harris and Klebold's lives which may have made them submit murder; genuine occasions are compacted into the diversion's time allotment for story purposes. A great part of the plot is built around the occasions absolutely as they are accepted to have happened; lines of the shooters' exchange are frequently lifted verbatim from their works or from their own home recordings of one another. Rather than the 16-bit illustrations are digitized photos from the shooting or full voice tests from news reports; photographs of the school are utilized as sceneries amid fight scenes. 

The diversion starts as Eric Harris' mom wakes him on April 20, 1999. Harris telephones Dylan Klebold, and the pair meet in Harris' storm cellar to plot a progression of bombings that will go before their arranged shooting. The two think back about the harassing they encountered at Columbine High and express fury at those they see to be their tormentors. Harris and Klebold make a video, saying 'sorry' to their folks and approaching them not to reprimand themselves for what will pursue. The two young men gather their firearms and bombs, gather a duffel pack with weapons, and leave home. 

In the following scene Harris and Klebold are remaining outside their secondary school. The player guides them to the cafeteria to plant their coordinated propane bombs without being identified by surveillance cameras or corridor screens. After the explosives are set, the two stop for a minute on a slope outside the school, talking about their estrangement and threatening vibe. After the bombs neglect to detonate as arranged, Harris and Klebold choose to enter the school and murder the same number of individuals as they can; the last number executed is up to the player. In the wake of meandering around the school shooting blameless people, Harris and Klebold end it all. A montage of clasps appearing and Klebold's cadavers, understudies consoling one another, and youth photographs of the shooters plays. 

The diversion's second half discovers Klebold alone in Hell. In the wake of battling evil presences and beasts from the computer game "Fate", Klebold reunites with Harris, and they declare their energy for the chance to experience their most loved computer game. The pair wind up at the "Isle of Lost Souls", where they meet anecdotal characters, for example, Pikachu, Bart Simpson, Mega Man, Mario and genuine identities including J. Robert Oppenheimer, JonBenét Ramsey, Malcolm X, Ronald Reagan, and John Lennon. Next, they convey a duplicate of "Ecce Homo" to Friedrich Nietzsche before battling the "South Park" structure of Satan. Upon their triumph, Satan compliments them for their deeds. 

The amusement comes back to Columbine High School, where a public interview tends to the homicides. A portion of the discourse seems unequivocally as it was spoken after the real occasion, while different lines exaggeration the political powers at work in the repercussions of the homicides. The gathering references firearm control backing, religious fundamentalism, and the media's ramifications of Marilyn Manson and computer games as at fault in the shooting. 

"Super Columbine Massacre" was made by Danny Ledonne of Alamosa, Colorado, at that point an understudy and autonomous producer. As a secondary school understudy, the Columbine shootings resounded with Ledonne, who said that he himself had once been "a maverick", "a nonconformist" and "a tormented child" in secondary school like the shooters. "I was an obvious objective to be singled out, and that began in kindergarten", he said. "It was the sort of tormenting that most children who were harassed experienced [...] When you get pushed each day, and when you are alienated not once, not twice, however years in and out, your impression of the truth is mutilated [...] These things truly do twist your comprehension and your view of humankind in some practically unavoidable way", he said. 

In 1999, executive Stanley Kubrick's passing and the Columbine High School slaughter happened inside months of one another; Ledonne acknowledged the two occasions for transforming him. In the wake of seeing "A Clockwork Orange", Ledonne found that film could remark on culture; after the Columbine shootings, he understood he was going down a similar way as the shooters. "It was somewhat unnerving, when I became familiar with these young men, since it resembled I was looking in the mirror and I didn't need a similar destiny for myself", Ledonne said. He started taking hand to hand fighting, examining film, and saw an advisor. When he moved on from Alamosa High School, Ledonne had a 4.0 evaluation point normal and was casted a ballot "destined to succeed" by his companions. He contemplated film at Emerson College and moved back to Colorado to frame his very own generation organization, Emberwild Productions, which for the most part alters wedding recordings. 

In November 2004, Ledonne found a program called RPG Maker, which enables a designer to include pictures, content, story and targets to plan a diversion; RPG Maker makes the essential programming naturally. Ledonne had dependably conceptualized computer games all through his adolescence yet never delivered one because of his absence of specialized information; with RPG Maker he had the capacity to satisfy his aspiration. Ledonne chose to make a diversion that would investigate why the Columbine shootings happened, just as disproving unavoidable legends about the shooters and the supposed job computer games played in the slaughter. 

The examining, arranging, plan and programming of the amusement took around a half year and somewhere in the range of 200 and 300 hours of work. All the recording and pictures in the diversion were taken from the web. "Last Fantasy VI" affected the sprite-based plan. A considerable lot of the melodies in the diversion are MIDI renditions of 1990s grunge and elective groups, for example, Radiohead, Nirvana and the Smashing Pumpkins. Ledonne gave fastidious consideration to detail, including giving players access to the precise stock the shooters utilized on their frenzy. He watched recordings, read paper articles and pored more than 11,000 pages of reports discharged by the region government with respect to the slaughter and the executioners. 

Ledonne added components to the amusement to scrutinize subjects changing from open response to the fiasco, to cliché pretending diversion traditions. Each triumph in fight shows the message "another triumph for the Trenchcoat Mafia", in reference to the group that Harris and Klebold were erroneously partnered with by the media. Ledonne included the damnation portion and populated it with characters from the computer game "Fate", clarifying that "[having the shooters] fight these beasts in an interminable entertainment of their most loved videogame was an announcement all by itself." "Super Columbine Massacre" is the main computer game Ledonne has made, and he has no tentative arrangements to make another. 

The amusement was made accessible for download on April 20, 2005, the 6th commemoration of the Columbine slaughter. Ledonne tried to stay unknown at the amusement's presentation to maintain a strategic distance from any conceivable contention, which he would later lament as it made the impression he had something to stow away. Under the assumed name "Columbin", Ledonne normally connected with gamers and commentators alike on a message board he set up to talk about the diversion's delineation of the shooting and the more extensive ramifications of the shooting. Ledonne's character was uncovered by Roger Kovacs, a companion of one of the Columbine unfortunate casualties, Rachel Scott. Kovacs discovered Ledonne's name by giving to the webpage through PayPal; after his name and address were posted on the web, Ledonne ventured forward and was welcomed with solicitations for meetings. "That is the point at which I concluded that I needed to grow a spine and go to bat for my creation", Ledonne said. 

The amusement is circulated as freeware, with gifts in the measure of $1 mentioned to settle transfer speed costs. At first, the amusement pulled in little consideration, and was downloaded multiple times in its first year. In April 2006 Patrick Dugan of site Gamasutra expounded on the amusement subsequent to meeting its host at Game Developers Conference. Awed, Dugan sent an email to Georgia Institute of Technology educator Ian Bogost, who blogged about the amusement. Brian Crecente of gaming news site Kotaku and the "Rough Mountain News" along these lines talked with Bogost, and the Associated Press and predominant press grabbed the story. The expanded perceivability brought about expanded inclusion, contention, and downloads; in the primary portion of May 2006 the amusement was downloaded in excess of multiple times. Ledonne declared in September 2006 that the diversion was never again accessible for download straightforwardly through its site (rather giving download joins), as the title's notoriety cost an excessive amount to support; in a solitary day in September, he revealed 8,000 downloads. By March 2007, the amusement had been downloaded in excess of multiple times. 

Gathering of "Super Columbine Massacre" has been contrary among the predominant press and those actually influenced by the shootings. After uncovering Columbine's way of life as Ledonne, Kovacs said "One of the young ladies who passed on [in the shootings] was a companion of mine, Rachel. We were in a similar church gathering. Anybody playing this amusement can murder Rachel again and again." The dad of one injured individual commented to the press that the diversion "nauseates me. You trivialize the activities of two killers and the lives of the blameless." One casualty of the shooting played the diversion and voiced saved help, commenting that "It presumably sounds somewhat odd for somebody like me to state, yet I welcome the reality in any event somewhat that something like this was made." While he disagreed with what he saw as glamorization of the shooters, he additionally trusted it would help open an exchange about the shooting. 

"Super Columbine Massacre" was to a great extent denounced by the press. Betty Nguyen of CNN marked the amusement for instance of a subculture that venerates psychological militants. Papers called the diversion "exploitive" and an "enormity". "PC World" pronounced the diversion #2 on its rundown of "The 10 Worst Games of All Time." Even faultfinders who were steady of Ledonne's plan discovered the amusement difficult to play; Ben Kuchera of Ars Technica said that he left the amusement "shaken", yet that as an effectively misjudged amusement "the general population who are destined to pick up anything from it will never play it." Crecente felt that the message of the diversion was darkened by the animation designs of the medium. Ledonne has would not adjust the diversion as it speaks to his musings regarding the matter at a specific point in time, yet has urged others to revise the amusement themselves. 

The best audits of "Super Columbine Massacre" originated from pundits who acknowledged Ledonne's planned message. "Wired" magazine essayist Clive Thompson valued the amusement's consideration regarding account detail, composing that "the end result [of the game] is that Ledonne has completed a shockingly great job of painting the passionate scene of [the gunmen]—whipsawing from self indulgence to vainglorious pomposity and blinding fierceness, at that point back once more." Thompson called the diversion unobtrusive, including hits at the members and gaming society by utilizing the language of recreations as an approach to consider the killings. Composing for "The Courier Mail", Paul Syvret's recommendation to the individuals who found the diversion questionable and in awful taste was to "help up". Bogost summed up his survey of the amusement by stating "this diversion isn't fun, it is testing, and hard to play—not in fact troublesome, yet thoughtfully troublesome. We need a greater amount of that." David Kociemba, an educator at Emerson College, concurred with Bogost and remarked that "the contention ought to be that there aren't more recreations like "Super Columbine Massacre RPG!" that are as requesting and as creatively inventive." Dugan reacted to normal reactions of the amusement, including that the diversion was made in terrible taste, by composing a rejoinder on his blog: 

I think everybody who disses the "Columbine RPG" is gutless. Most haven't played the amusement, or have played it with such assumptions that they're blinded to the genuis [sic], the genuineness, the excellence of its social critique. "Super Columbine Massacre RPG" is loaded with configuration blemishes and has average illustrations by 1995, the producer of the amusement concedes this, yet it notwithstanding is a masterpiece. It places you in the outlook of the executioners and gives an unmistakable recommendation of why they did what they did; they were sanctioning an ideological exhibit through a psychological militant act, and the amusement sparkles light on this as a prosecution of the American dream and lifestyle agonizingly near the fundamental nerve. 

After the Dawson College shooting in September 2006, when shooter Kimveer Gill murdered one understudy and harmed 19 others, the "Toronto Sun" composed that Kimveer had self-revealed playing "Columbine Massacre" on a site. The story was gotten by media and detailed broadly. After hearing media reports of a connection to the diversion one of the shooting exploited people at Dawson College reached Ledonne and revealed to him that "I just endured various discharge wounds and I figure you should bring this amusement down." Ledonne communicated his response to the shooting and reestablished media consideration towards his amusement in a meeting seven days after the fact: 

In the event that one is keen on influencing something for people in general to see—to be it a canvas, a book, a collection, a film, or a computer game, should the POSSIBLE damage that may leave this work be justification for its concealment from society? This is, as it were, pre-wrongdoing. On the off chance that you trust in what you're doing and you need to communicate, the articulation ought to be essential and any elucidations that come after must dependably stay of auxiliary significance to the formation of the work itself. On another dimension, the whole connection between's the Dawson College shooting and my diversion is unwarranted. [...] What else did Kimveer like? Dark garments? Goth music? Pizza? [...] If anything, the Dawson College shooting is confirmation positive that recreations like ["Super Columbine Massacre"] "should" be made; until computer games are no longer among the "standard suspects" for destructive frenzies, the open needs to all the more cautiously think about why intuitive electronic media is some way or another the maker of Manchurian Candidates. 

Engineer Ryan Lambourn made a glimmer diversion called "V-Tech Rampage" in 2007, which enables players to control the activities of shooter Seung-Hui Cho in the Virginia Tech slaughter. Lambourn affirmed compassion for Cho, and said that he was an objective of tormenting in secondary school. "Nobody tunes in to you except if you have something electrifying to do. Also, that is the reason I feel compassion toward Cho Seung-Hui [sic]. He needed to go that far", Lambourn expressed. On the "V-Tech Rampage" site, Lambourn posted an explanation that he would remove the diversion from Newgrounds if gifts came to $1000; at $2000 in gifts he would bring the amusement down from the primary site and for another $1000 he would apologize for making it. Ledonne posted a remark on Lambourn's site after "V-Tech Rampage" attracted correlations with "Super Columbine Massacre", calling Lambourn's announcement commensurate to a "prisoner note", and requesting that bloggers consider "not whether a diversion about the Virginia Tech shooting SHOULD be made yet how we may approach making an amusement that achieves more than "V-Tech Rampage" does with the topic." Ledonne expressed that he messaged Lambourn thoughtfully, yet that the designer reacted to his messages with irreverence; he repeated that the two recreations had distinctive inspirations and were not effectively practically identical in substance. 

In October 2006, Sam Roberts, the Guerilla Gamemaker Competition executive of the Slamdance celebration, messaged Ledonne urging him to present the diversion to the challenge. Ledonne took a gander at the determination of the amusement as one of the challenge's finalists in December as proof that "all types of craftsmanship can be substantial devices for societal investigation (even difficult subjects like acts of mass violence)". The occasion's coordinator, Peter Baxter, reported the expulsion of the diversion from the celebration's "Guerrilla Gamemaker Competition" after its determination as a finalist. A few explanations behind the difference as a primary concern were given, including compromised support withdrawal, conceivable claims, and "good grounds"; Baxter denied that support weight caused the drop, rather avowing that "the shootings are as yet an extremely unstable subject, and which is all well and good. We must be delicate to [victims and their families'] emotions." An extra thought detailed was that anonymous gatherings may sue for copyright infringement in the diversion itself. The declaration denoted the first run through the celebration had pulled jury-chose content from the challenge; the occurrence was named "Slamgate" by the gaming press. 

Following the declaration, USC Interactive Media Division pulled back its sponsorship of the celebration. Seven of the fourteen finalist diversions were expelled from the challenge by their engineers in dissent: "Mesh", "Stream", "Quite a long time ago", "Toblo", "Regular Shooter", "Book and Volume" and "Palace Crashers" ("Toblo" was later reestablished by the DigiPen Institute of Technology, who possesses the rights to the amusement). Designer Jonathan Blow of "Mesh" expressed: "["Super Columbine Massacre"] needs empathy, and I discover the Artist's Statement guileful. Be that as it may, notwithstanding this, the diversion has reclaiming esteem. It provokes critical contemplations, and it pushes the limits of what diversions are about. It is made with more out of an eye toward workmanship than generally diversions. Plainly, it has a place at the celebration." Blow and different designers sent an open letter to the celebration, empowering the restoration of the amusement as keeping with the celebration's "trailblazing" endeavors. In spite of dissents, Baxter would not alter his opinion, refering to thought for the shooting's unfortunate casualties and their families. Ledonne told different finalists that he wanted to go to the celebration at any rate and disseminate duplicates of the diversion. Recognizing that the withdrawal of six finalists traded off the challenge, Roberts let the participants vote on whether any prizes would be granted; they chose not to. 

Brian Flemming, chief of "The God Who Wasn't There", saw Ledonne's demo of "Super Columbine Massacre" outside the celebration, and persuaded two individual Slamdance film hearers to grant the amusement an "Exceptional Jury Prize" for Best Documentary, an informal honor not supported by Slamdance itself. The legal hearers proposed to show the uncommon prize close by the honor for best narrative. In a matter of seconds before the function, Baxter educated Flemming that he couldn't present the honor because of "music leeway issues", and would not permit it notwithstanding Flemming's dissents. As per Ledonne, Flemming endeavored to hold his ground, however in the long run yielded to Baxter's solicitation. 

Ledonne created a narrative film dependent on his encounters after the arrival of "Super Columbine Massacre". Titled "Playing Columbine", the narrative uses the discussion encompassing the diversion to examine the huge issues confronting computer games as a vehicle for creative articulation. The film debuted at AFI Fest in Los Angeles, California on November 7, 2008. 

Because of the discussion of his amusement, Ledonne turned into an accidental representative for the diversions business, confronting the medium's rivals in discussions and gatherings. The tumult coming about because of Slamgate was gotten out by Ledonne and others in the media as a sign that computer games had not yet outgrown the conventional generalization of kids' amusements. Keith Stuart of "The Guardian" composed that in spite of being confounded and tacky, "Super Columbine Massacre" "symbolizes a developing understanding that videogames have more to state than 'shoot the adversaries and get wellbeing.'" Authors Andreas Jahn-Sudmann and Ralf Stockmann consider dubious computer games, for example, "Super Columbine Massacre" and the "Fabulous Theft Auto" "Hot espresso mod" proof of sociopolitical pressures present among gamers and more established ages. The amusement and others like it keep on being at the focal point of the computer games as craftsmanship discussion, and Gamasutra credited "Super Columbine Massacre" and Slamgate as having two profoundly positive and sweeping impacts; first, constraining print diversion reporting to concentrate on the issue; and second, the "proselytizing of the idea that recreations can be as significant and vital as other media, regardless of whether the model is hostile to the sensibilities of most Americans [...] To win is to lose, however to play is to encounter an advancement that can't be scored."