Jean Bolikango 

Jean Bolikango or Bolikango Akpolokaka Gbukulu Nzete Nzube (4 February 1909 – 17 February 1982) was a Congolese teacher, essayist, and traditionalist lawmaker. He served twice as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of the Congo (presently the Democratic Republic of the Congo), in September 1960 and from February to August 1962. Getting a charge out of considerable prevalence among the Bangala individuals, he headed the Parti de l'Unité Nationale and filled in as a key restriction part in Parliament in the mid 1960s. 

Bolikango started his vocation in the Belgian Congo as an educator in Catholic schools, and turned into a noticeable individual from Congolese society as the pioneer of a social affiliation. He composed an honor winning novel and functioned as a columnist before swinging to governmental issues in the late 1950s. Despite the fact that he held a top correspondences post in the provincial organization, he turned into a pioneer in the push for autonomy, making him one of the "fathers of freedom" in the Congo. The Republic of the Congo ended up free in 1960 and Bolikango endeavored to compose a national political base that would bolster his offer for a lofty office in the new government. He prevailing with regards to setting up the Parti de l'Unité Nationale and advanced both a unified Congo and solid ties with Belgium. More seasoned than a large portion of his counterparts and instructing huge regard—particularly among his Bangala peers, he was viewed as the Congo's "senior statesman". Notwithstanding, his endeavors to verify a situation in the administration fizzled and he turned into a main individual from the restriction in Parliament. 

As the nation wound up entangled in a residential emergency, the primary government was unstuck and prevailing by a few distinct organizations. Bolikango filled in as Deputy Prime Minister in one of the new governments before a halfway condition of steadiness was restored in 1961. He interceded between warring groups in the Congo and quickly served by and by as Deputy Prime Minister in 1962 preceding coming back to the parliamentary resistance. After Joseph-Désiré Mobutu took control in 1965, Bolikango turned into a clergyman in his administration. Mobutu before long expelled him however delegated him to the political authority of the Mouvement Populaire de la Révolution. Bolikango left the authority in 1970. He left Parliament in 1975 and kicked the bucket seven years after the fact. His grandson made the Jean Bolikango Foundation in his memory to advance social advancement. The President of the Congo after death granted Bolikango a decoration in 2005 for his long vocation in open administration. 

Jean Bolikango was conceived in Léopoldville, Belgian Congo, on 4 February 1909 to a Bangala family from Équateur Province. In 1917 he joined up with St. Joseph's Institute, graduating in December 1925 following six years of elementary school, two years of academic investigations, and one year of stenography and composing courses. He turned into an authorized grade teacher the next year. Bolikango educated at Scheutist schools lastly St. Joseph's Institute until 1958. He educated a sum of 1,300 understudies, including future Prime Minister Joseph Iléo, future Prime Minister Cyrille Adoula, future Minister of Finance Arthur Pinzi, future Minister of Social Affairs Jacques Massa, future producer Albert Mongita, and future Catholic Cardinal Joseph Malula. In 1946 he turned into the leader of the Association des Anciens élèves des pères de Scheut (ADAPÉS), a position he held until his demise. 

That year Bolikango, as the pioneer of the capital "évolués", worked intimately with evangelist Raphaël de la Kethulle de Ryhove to build up the Union des Interets Sociaux Congolais (UNISCO), a social society for pioneers of first class Congolese affiliations. He at that point turned into its VP. The association was seen positively by the provincial organization for its connection to Belgian social standards, however it would later turn into a gathering for progressive legislative issues. In 1954 Bolikango established and, for a period, filled in as general executive of the Liboka Lya Bangala, the first Bangala ethnic affiliation, situated in Léopoldville. By 1957 it included 48 subsidiary inborn associations and had 50,000 individuals. He wrote a novel in Lingala entitled "Mondjeni-Mobé: Le Hardi", which won an incidental award for experimental writing from the Conference on African Studies at the International Fair in Ghent in 1948. He likewise made an accommodation to the 1949 challenge, however no prize was granted. Bolikango before long become friends with Joseph Kasa-Vubu and supported his race as secretary-general of ADAPÉS so as to bring him into UNISCO, in this way facilitating the last's political standing. Bolikango in the long run wedded a lady named Claire. He additionally acquired a "carte de mérite civique" from the Belgian organization and served on the commission in charge of its task to meriting Congolese. 

Bolikango first traveled to another country when he went to Kethulle de Ryhove's burial service in Belgium in 1956. Amid his arrival trip he halted in Paris to meet African individuals from the French Parliament. That year he met a bunch of his previous understudies and other Congolese pioneers in his home. Together they drafted the main Congolese political proclamation, "Manifeste de Conscience Africaine". In 1958 he left his showing post and went to Brussels to speak to Catholic instruction at the Expo 58 occasion, holding obligation regarding advertising at the Missions Pavilion. This drove him to think about press, radio, TV, film, and mass instruction procedures at the Office of Information and Public Relations for the Belgian Congo and Ruanda-Urundi. In August 1959 he was designated Assistant Commissioner of Information in the workplace, making him one of just two Congolese to ever hold a second grade government employee position in the Belgian pioneer organization. In that limit he started a relative investigation of data benefits crosswise over Sub-Saharan Africa, accumulated subtleties on Congolese government officials, gave various discourses, and helped plan Bantu language courses at the University of Ghent. He normally composed for the Léopoldville month to month "La Voix du Congolais" and the Catholic paper "La Croix du Congo". In 1960 Bolikango began his own paper, "La Nation Congalaise". In his commitments he regularly upheld for equivalent pay among dark and whites for a similar work. 

Bolikango was more established than the majority of his political counterparts and was viewed as the Congo's "senior statesman". He was named preservationist and "expert Belgian". He considered the Senegalese artist and lawmaker Léopold Sédar Senghor to be a vital impact on his convictions. He additionally appreciated Félix Houphouët-Boigny of Côte d'Ivoire for his "insight and tranquility". Like different individuals from the first Congolese foundation, Bolikango looked for a continuous decolonisation process amid which the Belgian experts were to be genially consulted with. He trusted the Congo ought to be joined in an expansive style and bolstered the development of an association of African states. 

In 1953 Bolikango turned into a substitute individual from the Conseil de la region de Léopoldville. He served in the post for a long time. In December 1957 he fruitlessly entered Léopoldville's first civil decisions. The Bangala in general did not do well in the battle; their solitary type of association was Bolikango's Liboka Lya Bangala, a relationship with little union. Following the constituent thrashings, Bolikango chose to sort out the Interfédérale, a league among different territorial and ethnic gatherings of the northern Congo that turned into the premise of his new Parti de l'unité Congolaise. Very quickly after its creation the gathering fallen because of ethnic contrasts. In April 1959 Patrice Lumumba solicited Bolikango to move toward becoming executive from his patriot ideological group, the Mouvement National Congolais (MNC), yet he never dedicated to a choice. In the harvest time of 1959 the Interfédérale turned into a piece of the Parti National du Progrès (PNP). Bolikango did not tail them, rather establishing the Front de l'unite Bangala (FUB), an ideological group speaking to the Bangala individuals of the northeastern Congo. Among them he was a well known figure; Bangala epithets for him included "the Sage" and even "Moses". He trusted that by advancing the possibility of a "grande ethnie bangala" he could improve his political prospects. The Bangala were just brought together as a political group in the capital, so he started to search somewhere else for help. He was additionally a fellow benefactor of the brief Mouvement pour le Progres National Congolais, a gathering framed by participants of the Brussels piece. 

Bolikango before long made the Association des ressortisants du Haut-Congo (ASSORECO). From 20 January to 20 February 1960 Bolikango went to the Belgo-Congolese Round Table Conference in Brussels to talk about the Congo's future under Belgian principle, filling in as the main agent for ASSORECO. He was made an individual from the gathering's dresser. Amid the discourses he made a suddenly sharp censure of Belgian promulgation. He additionally went about as the representative for the Front Common, the political umbrella for all the Congolese assignments. In that limit on 27 January he openly uncovered that freedom would be conceded to the Congolese on 30 June. Following the gathering he made a trip with an associate to Bonn, Federal Republic of Germany to meet neighborhood government officials. 

To solidify his political power in Équateur Province, Bolikango gathered a congress to Lisala that kept going from 24 March to 3 April. Like his own gathering, the other political gatherings of Équateur came up short on the essential help to make noteworthy gains in the forthcoming autonomous races. Bolikango was anxious to win a noticeable government office and planned to shape a wide alliance with the Ngombe, Mongo, and Ngwaka people groups and different minorities in the region to accomplish it. This could be best cultivated, in his view, through his very own union gatherings, the FUB and ASSORECO, with UNIMO, FEDUNEC, UNILAC, and nearby boss who had not as of now put their help behind the PNP. 

In his opening location at the congress, Bolikango said that while "parties dependent on ethnic establishments" made the initial move toward a bound together Congo, the "national enthusiasm" of the nation settled upon a "solidarity of will". He counted this "does not imply that every ethnic gathering must desert its very own qualities, yet that through these distinctions one must undertaking to shape an agreeable outfit." The UNIMO initiative was wary of Bolikango's brought together viewpoint for the Congo and stayed autonomous, in spite of the fact that he verified the help of the Ngombe, a portion of the Ngwaka and Bangala, and boss from the Lisala, Bongandanga, and Bumba locales. The FUB made a collusion with ASSORECO and FEDUNEC, changing into the Parti de l'Unité Nationale (PUNA). Regardless of its endeavors to accumulate progressively national intrigue, the new party held its territorial inclination and neglected to store up generous outside help, costing Bolikango a lot of his support in Léopoldville. In any case, this improved political base enabled him to win a situation as a national appointee from the Mongala area in the May 1960 national race by 15,000 votes. He utilized his situation as the leader of PUNA to intervene a question between the gathering and minority collusions in Équateur and make an alliance common government. After the decisions PUNA step by step maneuvered separated into two unique wings, one driven by Bolikango and the other by Équateur Provincial President Laurent Eketebi. 

In the interim, the MNC strongly scrutinized Bolikango's associations with the Belgians, undermining his notoriety in both Équateur and the capital. The Alliance des Bakongo (ABAKO) likewise scorned him because of his help for Catholic missions and the observation that he was "professional white". He went through the long stretch of May visiting the Congo, asserting that he hosted the help of other gathering pioneers in a collusion against Lumumba and the MNC. This resistance collusion was before long reported as the Cartel d'Union Nationale. As Lumumba was gathering his proposed bureau, the Chamber of Deputies assembled on 21 June to choose its officers. Bolikango made an offer to be President of the Chamber, however lost the vote to the MNC competitor, Joseph Kasongo, 74 to 58. The consequent race of the Senate's officers likewise showed a MNC advantage. Understanding that Lumumba's alliance controlled Parliament, a few individuals from the Cartel wound up anxious to consult for an alliance government so they could share control, particularly Bolikango, who planned to verify the situation of Defense Minister. This did not happen, however he exacted a composed promise from Lumumba of help for his offer to turn into the principal President of the Republic of the Congo in return for his gathering's support of Lumumba's administration. 

Bolikango confronted his previous protégé, Joseph Kasa-Vubu of ABAKO, in the parliamentary vote in favor of the administration. Lumumba understood that the Belgians would possibly acknowledge him as Prime Minister if Kasa-Vubu held office, so he exchanged devotions, secretly rejecting Bolikango as a "pawn of Belgium and a protégé of the Catholics", and covertly embracing Kasa-Vubu. Bolikango lost the parliamentary vote 159 to 43 and was left chafed. Notwithstanding Lumumba's guile, Bolikango additionally endured in the race because of his ongoing relationship with the frontier organization and his breaking with the Cartel to consult with Lumumba. As indicated by his companion, Thomas Kanza, the misfortune was "the most severe disappointment in his whole profession." He at that point composed an enemy of MNC alliance in Parliament. 

Amid the Congo Crisis that pursued Congolese autonomy, Bolikango went about as a United States Central Intelligence Agency source. From the get-go in the emergency he blamed Prime Minister Lumumba for overlooking restriction gatherings and intentionally smothering difference; on 3 August he authoritatively decried Lumumba's arrangements. After five days he reported that he would bolster the development of a different republic in Équateur Province. Consequently, Lumumba blamed him for plotting the withdrawal of the locale. On 1 September Bolikango was captured in Gemena on Lumumba's requests, apparently to submit secessionist exercises and arranging deaths of both Lumumba and Kasa-Vubu, and conveyed to the capital. This prompted exhibitions by his supporters all through the city on the next day. Before long, President Kasa-Vubu rejected Lumumba from office and supplanted him with Joseph Iléo. Thoughtful troopers discharged Bolikango on 6 September. Amid Iléo's concise first term from 13 September to 20 September Bolikango filled in as Minister of Information and Minister of Defense. In December he went to a Francophone-African meeting in Brazzaville as a feature of a Congolese government assignment. 

Amid Iléo's second term from 9 February until 1 August 1961 Bolikango held the post of Deputy Prime Minister. By then he felt compromised by the unexpected breakdown of political solidarity in the Congo and upheld the administration's endeavors at re-centralisation. He took an interest in the Tananarive and Coquilhatville meetings of March and April 1961, speaking to Équateur and Ubangi, individually, to look for a trade off on established issues. All through June he worked close by Cyrille Adoula and Marcel Lihau to arrange a settlement between the focal government and an adversary Free Republic of the Congo in the eastern bit of the nation. This finished in a meeting in July that brought about the race of Adoula as Prime Minister. Bolikango was sure that he would likewise be chosen as President yet Kasa-Vubu held the workplace. 

After the gathering Bolikango intervened exchanges among Adoula and secessionist figure Moïse Tshombe, pioneer of the breakaway State of Katanga. Bolikango asserted that only he could resolve the circumstance by sitting "Bantu design with legs out extended" around a table with Tshombe. He planned a political gathering to occur in Stanleyville to make another ideological group with Antoine Gizenga with the goal of disengaging Kasa-Vubu and ABAKO in Parliament so he could expel the previous from the administration and supplant him. The plans broke down after Gizenga was captured in January 1962. On 13 February Bolikango was designated Deputy Prime Minister. On 12 July Adoula scaled back his legislature and expelled him from his post. He then reemerged the parliamentary resistance and, by August, was working with Rémy Mwamba and Christophe Gbenye (both ex-serves likewise rejected from Adoula's administration) to attempt and verify backing to oust Adoula. Bolikango was the restriction's most loved to supplant the Prime Minister. In 1963 after the annihilation of Katanga, he figured out how to arrange a restriction alliance to Adoula's administration, comprising of ABAKO, liberal supporters of Lumumba (by then murdered) and Gizenga, and Tshombe's Confédération des affiliations tribales du Katanga (CONAKAT). He additionally thwarted an endeavor by one of Adoula's clergymen to build up an ace government party in Équateur. That year Parliament was deferred and Bolikango's term as a national agent finished. In late 1963 Laurent Eketebi left PUNA and aligned himself with the Budja innate minority in the common get together, decimating the idea of a bound together Bangala clan that Bolikango had used to hoist his social and political standing. 

In 1962 Parliament consented to the dividing of the Congo's six territories into littler political units. The subdivision harmed PUNA's political clout, as it had a solid following in Coquilhatville, the Équateur capital, however not in the peripheral zones, where it depended on control of the common organization to guarantee its quality. Bolikango had contradicted the part of Équateur, and in 1965 he made commonplace reunification a key piece of his parliamentary crusade stage. In the 1965 races he was reelected to a second term in the Chamber of Deputies on a PUNA– Convention Nationale Congolaise (CONACO) ticket. He got 53,083 particular votes, making him the most well known Congolese agent of his individual body electorate, second just to Tshombe in southern Katanga. All things considered, his commonplace reunification proposition met solid opposition from the agents of Ubangi Province—one of the successor divisions to Équateur—and was not done. 

Joseph-Désiré Mobutu caught control in November 1965, and on 24 November Bolikango was named Minister of Public Works. Mobutu additionally interceded in a regional debate in the previous Équateur Province and granted challenged land to Ubangi over Moyen-Congo—the new territory Bolikango spoke to. Irritated with the result, Bolikango met a gathering of parliamentarians from the two territories in February 1966 to talk about the rebuilding of Équateur. His thoughts pulled in more help than amid his past endeavor, as there were common assemblymen in Ubangi previously requesting of their legislature for reunification and various CONACO lawmakers had started a crusade to take out Cuvette-Centrale Province subsequent to losing a neighborhood battle for power. With Mobutu's help, Équateur was reestablished on 11 April. 

On 4 April Mobutu expelled Bolikango from his ecclesiastical post, apparently for "absence of control and declining to pursue got orders." This terminating was the first of numerous Mobutu would use to weight set up Congolese legislators, however Bolikango was not left burdened for long; on 4 July 1968 he was named to the political agency of the Mouvement Populaire de la Révolution (MPR), the state party, serving there until 16 December 1970. Bolikango's second term as a national representative finished in 1967. From 1970 until 1975 he served a last term in Parliament, speaking to the Kinshasa locale. 

In his later life Bolikango filled in as overseeing executive of the Sogenco development organization and general agent to the Société zaïroise de Matériaux and STK parastatals. Amid a similar time he made continuous treks to Lisala, where he remained a famous figure. Gossipy tidbits surfaced in the capital that Bolikango was wanting to utilize his local political regard for incendiary purposes, so the Mobutu routine intently checked his exercises. Bolikango joined the MPR's focal board in September 1980. He kicked the bucket from a disease on 17 February 1982 in Liège, Belgium. 

Humanist Ludo De Witte composed of Bolikango as a "neo-pilgrim" government official who was "foolhardy and power-insane". Bolikango is recalled in the Congo as one of the "fathers of autonomy". The Fondation Jean Bolikango was made by Bolikango's grandson in his memory. The establishment centers around supporting training and social advancement. In 2005 President Joseph Kabila after death granted Bolikango an award for commitment to common administration. Bolikango was likewise a Commander of the National Order of the Leopard, individual from the Royal Order of the Lion, and a beneficiary of the Benemerenti decoration (1950), Medaille Commémorative du Voyage illustrious (1955), gold award of the Association Royale Sportive Congolaise, and bronze and silver awards for different demonstrations of open administration. On 22 February 2007 a function was held in Équateur to celebrate the 25th commemoration of his passing.