Marcel Lihau 

Marcel Antoine Lihau or Ebua Libana la Molengo Lihau (29 September 1931 – 9 April 1999) was a Congolese legislator, legal adviser, and law teacher who filled in as the debut First President of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Congo from 1968 until 1975 and was associated with the making of two practical constitutions for the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

Lihau went to the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium with the assistance of thoughtful Jesuit instructors, getting to be one of the primary Congolese to examine law. While there he urged Congolese government officials to shape a partnership that enabled them to verify the freedom of the Congo from Belgium. He served quickly as an equity authority and moderator for the Congolese focal government before being selected to lead a commission to draft a perpetual national constitution. He was made dignitary of law staff at Lovanium University in 1963. The next year he conveyed the Luluabourg Constitution to the Congolese, which was embraced by choice. In 1965 Joseph-Desiré Mobutu caught all out control of the nation and coordinated Lihau to create another constitution. After three years Lihau was designated First President of the new Supreme Court of Justice of the Congo. He held the position, supporting for legal autonomy, until 1975 when he would not constrain a brutal sentence upon understudy dissidents. Lihau was summarily expelled from his post by Mobutu and put under house capture. Winding up progressively contradicted to the administration, he helped found the change situated Union pour la Démocratie et le Progrès Social. Mobutu reacted by suspending his rights and banishing him to a country town. 

His wellbeing in decay, Lihau looked for shelter from political oppression in the United States in 1985, tolerating an occupation as a teacher of established law at Harvard University. He kept on upholding for majority rule government in the Congo and came back to the nation in 1990 to talk about political change. He returned to the United States to look for medicinal treatment and kicked the bucket there in 1999. 

Marcel Lihau was conceived on 29 September 1931 in Bumba, Équateur Province, Belgian Congo, the oldest of eight kids. After his optional instruction at the Bolongo theological school, he went to the Jesuit University Center in Kisantu, moving on from the school's managerial sciences division. One of Lihau's instructors, humanist Willy De Craemer, made plans to enable him to take on the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium, a school for the most part inaccessible to Congolese. To do this, De Craemer coached him in Latin, Greek, and Flemish so he could take the Jury Central selection test. Lihau breezed through the test with a high score and was admitted to the college. Since it was his objective to think about law (not allowed to Congolese understudies at the time), De Craemer and a few thoughtful Jesuit teachers masterminded Lihau to take the important classes under the front of contemplating Roman philology. He additionally contemplated financial matters and theory. For the span of his investigations he remained with the group of a previous executive of Léopoldville Radio, Karel Theunissen. Lihau filled in as leader of the little Congolese-Ruanda-Urundi understudies' association in Belgium, Association Générale des Étudiants Congolais en Belgique (AGEC). 

In 1958 a meeting of Belgian ministers was held to talk about extending tertiary instruction in the Congo. As a welcomed speaker, Lihau urged Belgian pastorate to join the side of Congolese activists and forsake what he alluded to as a mentality of "administrative paternalism". In 1962, in the wake of investing energy in the Congo, Lihau came back to Louvain to finish his examinations. That year confinements on Congolese training were slackened and Lihau turned into a Doctor of Philosophy law understudy. By the next January he had turned out to be one of the main Congolese to get a law degree, winning it with unique excellence. 

On the eve of the Belgo-Congolese Round Table Conference in Brussels in January 1960, Lihau prompted the Congolese political assignments to shape a "Front Commun". They did, and the choice altogether fortified their dealing position with the Belgian government. Lihau went to the political bit of the meeting as an onlooker in the interest of the AGEC. While there, he exhibited two papers gathered by the AGEC. The primary, entitled "The Congo Before Independence", drove the leader of the gathering to make one commission to talk about the eventual fate of the Congo's political organizations and another to address the up and coming decisions. The second paper, entitled "The Internal Political Organization of the Congo", analyzed the benefits of Federalism and Unitarianism and recommended that the Congolese receive one framework or the other to guarantee the future uprightness of their nation. Before the gathering broke down, the Front Commun acknowledged the idea of the autonomy of the "Republic of the Congo" on 30 June 1960. In April and May, Lihau partook in the gathering that tended to the Congo's arranged monetary change. 

Not long after freedom, a boundless insurrection in the military and the withdrawal of a few areas brought about a local emergency. In August Lihau met with an UN official in New York who urged him to scatter backing of a compromise between the focal government and the experts of the insubordinate "Territory of Katanga". President Joseph Kasa-Vubu expelled Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba in September 1960 yet the last would not leave his post, making a political impasse. Accordingly, Colonel Joseph-Desiré Mobutu propelled an overthrow and dislodged the parliamentary framework. On 20 September he declared the development of the "School of Commissioners-General", an administration made up of college understudies and graduates. Lihau was selected Commissioner-General of Justice. The College was broken down on 9 February and supplanted by another legislature under Prime Minister Joseph Iléo. Lihau was made Secretary of State for Justice. Amid this time he every now and again worked with Belgian guides. 

Lihau headed out to Katanga in November 1960 to consult with the insubordinate territory's pioneers. He helped with arranging and along these lines partook in the Léopoldville Conference in January 1961 to examine political trade off and change. He additionally partook in the Tananarive Conference in March and the accompanying Coquilhatville Conference in April in the interest of Iléo to attempt and achieve a compromise among the nonconformist groups in the Congo. As consequence of the last gathering, Iléo made a commission to set up another constitution for the Congo and delegated Lihau to seat it. Lihau assumed a key job in the drafting procedure starting now and into the foreseeable future. In June he joined Cyrille Adoula and Jean Bolikango in consulting with the delegates of the Stanleyville government. Their gatherings proceeded into July and brought about the reconvening of Parliament and the Stanleyville government consenting to disband. In January 1963 Lihau was procured to be educator and dignitary of the workforce of law at Lovanium University (later the National University of Zaire). He urged his understudies to receive a constitutionalist way to deal with law. 

On 27 November 1963 President Kasa-Vubu declared the development of another "Protected Commission". The commission met on 10 January 1964 in Luluabourg, with Lihau filling in as its secretary. A draft was finished by 11 April, however its introduction to the open was deferred as Kasa-Vubu's legislature and the commission bantered over which group held the privilege to make amendments. Kasa-Vubu in the long run yielded and the constitution was submitted for confirmation to the Congolese electorate toward the finish of June. The "Luluabourg Constitution", as it was known, was embraced with 80 percent endorsement. On 26 July Lihau was made an individual from the Congolese area of the International Commission of Jurists. In 1965 another time of government loss of motion drove Mobutu to catch complete control of the nation. He mentioned that Lihau draft another constitution, which was received on 24 June 1967. 

On 14 August 1968 Lihau was named First President of the new Supreme Court of Justice of the Congo. He was formally introduced in the situation on 23 November. In his debut discourse, Lihau mentioned "the conscientious regard of the considerable number of experts of the Republic the status of the magistracy ensuring autonomy in the activity of its capacities." after two years he progressed toward becoming manager of the new law diary "La Revue Congolaise de Droit" and furthermore filled in as general representative to the Office Nationale de la Recherche et du Developpement for its legal, political, and social research division. Marcel Lihau before long embraced the name Ebua Libana la Molengo Lihau, according to the supported Africanisation as per Mobutu's strategy of "Authenticité". As a judge, he trusted that the expression "law" connected "not exclusively to authoritative acts, yet additionally to administrative acts which are at any rate not unlawful, just as universal arrangements and approved understandings". In 1971 Lihau was enlisted into the official council of the state-authorized gathering, Mouvement Populaire de la Révolution (MPR). After three years he was made an official of its political authority. That year another constitution was declared that thought the administration's position in Mobutu as President. Lihau bolstered the freedom of the legal executive and, in spite of Mobutu's centralisation, translated the report as just veiling such self-rule, not disposing of it. He clarified that the constitution's references to the "Legal Council" (an area of the MPR) instead of the past term "Legal Power" were, however muddling, done just for political reasons and meant no genuine change. He inferred, "[T]he attributions of courts and councils have continued as before as previously, regardless of whether the soul in which they proclaim the law will fundamentally be extraordinary." However, this elucidation negated Mobutu's standards. In June 1975 Lihau would not uphold an unforgiving sentence imposed against understudy dissenters. He was in this way rejected from the Supreme Court, expelled from his showing position, and put under house capture. 

In 1980, 13 individuals from Parliament distributed a letter scrutinizing Mobutu's routine and were captured for "exasperated treachery". Lihau affirmed for their benefit amid the resulting preliminary. After two years he went along with them in establishing the Union pour la Démocratie et le Progrès Social (UDPS) as a resistance to Mobutu; Lihau before long turned into the new party's leader. Mobutu was especially irritated by Lihau's participation in the gathering since, as a local of Équateur Province, he added to the geographic assorted variety of the association and thusly its political clout. In striking back, Mobutu detained him, suspended his rights, appropriated his own property, and in the long run exiled him to the town of Yamake in Équateur Province. In August 1983 Lihau joined a few of his partners in endeavoring to intrude on a gathering between government authorities and United States congressmen at the Hotel InterContinental in Kinshasa while wearing Western formal outfits (at that point restricted by Mobutu). A savage battle between the UDPS individuals and Mobutu's security police followed in full perspective on the American assignment and got a lot of media consideration in the United States. 

By 1985 Lihau's wellbeing had decayed and he was endeavoring to look for political refuge abroad. His application to Belgian specialists was cannot. Harvard University welcomed him to turn into a meeting researcher at its grounds in the United States. David Heaps, administrator of the leading group of Human Rights Internet, persuaded Mobutu to let Lihau leave the nation. He was along these lines allowed political shelter in the United States, and moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts, to turn into a teacher of sacred law at Harvard. In the interim in the Congo Mobutu aggrieved the UDPS initiative, making it almost incomprehensible for Party President Étienne Tshisekedi to take part in political exercises. In mid 1988 twelve gathering officials ventured out to Boston and persuaded Lihau to accept the administration of the UDPS. The next year Lihau established a political gathering with the objective of democratizing the Congo. 

In April 1990 Mobutu reported he would oblige multi-party governmental issues. Lihau, who was at the time directing a gathering of banished legislators in Brussels, requested that before restriction components came back to the nation Mobutu's administration ensure the resilience of a certified multi-party framework, consent to sort out a round table meeting for political compromise, and start disbanding state security powers. On 22 May he visited the United States Department of State in Washington D.C.. Lihau came back to the Congo and wound up one of four chiefs of the UDPS under an improved authority display. The UDPS at that point entered an alliance with other resistance gatherings to shape the Union Sacrée de l'Opposition, and he served on the association's decision chamber. He joined the UDPS in embracing the arrangement of a "Gathering Nationale Souveraine" to talk about political change in the nation. One before long met, however Lihau challenged the vast number of agents brought by Mobutu to take an interest, blaming him for attempting to stack the portrayal in his own support. All through the meeting's presence Lihau led its established bonus. At a certain point amid the meeting, he condemned the apparent Baluba predominance of the UDPS and joined the Alliance des Bangala (ALIBA), a gathering with money related help from Mobutu that advanced government officials from Équateur. In the end the protected commission delivered a draft proposal of a government framework that was expected to keep up the national respectability of the Congo while regarding its assorted variety. The gathering disbanded in December 1992 having extraordinarily revitalized popularity based idea in the nation at the end of the day neglecting to establish huge institutional change. Lihau returned to the United States to get therapeutic treatment. 

In June 1993 Lihau conveyed a discourse on TV and radio, impugning the Kasaian ethnic strength of the UDPS and Tshisekedi's initiative. The UDPS at that point marked him a "backstabber" for his relationship with ALIBA and reported that it translated his announcements as a renunciation from the gathering. Kasaians near Tshisekedi were exasperated by Lihau's remarks and considered killing him and fixing fault on Mobutu and Prime Minister Faustin Birindwa. 

Lihau wedded future government official Sophie Kanza on 26 December 1964. They had six little girls: Elisabeth, Anne, Irene, Catherine, Rachel and Sophie. The couple isolated in the late 1970s and Lihau saw little of his family amid his years in the United States. In Lihau's later life a youthful lawmaker named Jean-Pierre Kalokola professed to be his ill-conceived child. Accordingly, Lihau effectively documented a claim against him. After Lihau's demise, Kalokola lawfully embraced his surname. Lihau's little girls criticized the activity as a ploy by Kalokola to promote his own political vocation. 

Lihau passed on 9 April 1999 in Boston, seven days after the demise of his better half in Kinshasa. He was at first covered in a Boston burial ground before his body was unearthed and buried in Gombe, Kinshasa, on 12 May. Lihau's family never mentioned that a post-mortem examination be performed on the body. In 2001 Kalokola, apparently in the interest of the Lihau family, documented a grievance against obscure people with the Attorney General of Kinshasa, asserting that Lihau had been killed. He put together his affirmation with respect to an abnormal visit that Lihau as far as anyone knows had with somebody the day after the demise of his better half and on bizarre signs that were seen on Lihau's body when it was conveyed to Kinshasa. 

John Dickie and Alan Rake portrayed Lihau as "saved and rather uncommunicative" yet possessing a "magnificent legitimate personality". As indicated by representative Jean-Claude N. Mbwankiem, he was "a standout amongst the best constitutionalists that the [Congo] has ever known". In 2009 a service was held in memory of Lihau in Kinshasa amid which a court was committed in his name. Three of Lihau's and Kanza's girls sorted out a mass of thanksgiving in their folks' respect in Gombe on 28 March 2015. A few noticeable government officials went to the service, including Léon Kengo wa Dondo and José Endundo Bononge.