fifteenth Tank Corps 

The fifteenth Tank Corps was a tank corps of the Soviet Union's Red Army. It shaped in 1938 from an automated corps and battled in the Soviet attack of Poland, amid which it took part in the catch of the Grodno and Augustów Forest from Poland. The corps was disbanded in January 1940 at Wilno and Soleczniki. 

The corps was re-shaped in 1942 under the order of Major General Vasily Koptsov and turned out to be a piece of the third Tank Army. It previously observed battle in the fruitless Kozelsk Offensive recently August and early September, a generally little task to encompass a German notable, which brought about the corps taking substantial misfortunes in extent to the region picked up. Subsequent to spending the remainder of the year for possible later use, accepting new supplies and gear, the corps was exchanged toward the southern front in southwestern Russia to battle in the Ostrogozhsk– Rossosh Offensive amid January 1943, in which it had a noteworthy job by shaping influence of the powers that encompassed a large number of Axis troops on the center spans of the Don River. 

In February 1943, the unit battled in Operation Star, accomplishing its target of catching the key city of Kharkov in eastern Ukraine. As the Soviet development surpassed its supply lines, the corps was gradually worn out and was practically wrecked in the wake of being encompassed by a German counteroffensive in the Third Battle of Kharkov amid late February and early March. Koptsov was among those executed in the battling. The corps was modified in the next months and turned out to be a piece of the recently made third Guards Tank Army, battling in Operation Kutuzov, the Soviet counteroffensive after the Battle of Kursk, in late July. For its activities in the hostile, the corps was changed over into the seventh Guards Tank Corps. 

The fifteenth Tank Corps framed in 1938 from the fifth Mechanized Corps at Naro-Fominsk in the Moscow Military District, acquiring the honorific "named for (Konstantin) Kalinovsky", a Soviet military scholar. Directed by "Komdiv" (proportional to Lieutenant General) Mikhail Petrovich Petrov, the corps incorporated the second Light Tank Brigade (beforehand the fifth Mechanized Brigade), the 27th Light Tank Brigade (once in the past tenth Mechanized Brigade), the twentieth Motor Rifle and Machine Gun Brigade (some time ago 50th Rifle and Machine Gun Brigade), and the 401st Separate Communications Battalion, a help unit. Not long after its arrangement, the corps was exchanged to the Belorussian Special Military District, its base camp situated in Borisov. The second and 27th Light Tank Brigades were situated in Borisov, and the twentieth Motor Rifle and Machine Gun Brigade was situated in Mogilev. The 89th Separate Air Liaison Flight framed as a major aspect of the corps at Borisov on 4 August, working Polikarpov R-5 and U-2 biplanes. 

The corps battled in the Soviet intrusion of Poland in September 1939, as a component of Ivan Boldin's Dzerzhinsky Cavalry-Mechanized Group (KMG). The intrusion was led under the terms of the Molotov– Ribbentrop Pact, which separated Poland between the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany and ensured that neither one of the countries would assault the other. Toward the start of the crusade, the second Brigade had 234 BT-7 light tanks and 30 BA reinforced vehicles, the 27th Brigade had 223 BT-7s and 31 BAs, and the twentieth Brigade had 61 BAs; the corps accordingly handled 461 tanks and 122 defensively covered autos. On 17 September, at 05:00, the corps, progressing on the KMG's southern flank, crossed the state outskirt, overran the Polish fringe monitors, and started a fast development without obstruction; a large portion of the Polish troops in the east had been exchanged west to battle against the German attack of Poland prior in the month. By 12:00, the 27th Brigade had come to Mir and Ajucavičy, invading the basically undefended NowosiółkiKajszówki division of the Baranovichi Fortified Region. Before the day's over, the 27th Brigade had crossed the Servach River in the Lubanichi territory, the second Brigade had crossed the Usza River, and the twentieth Brigade had progressed to the fringe at Losha. Amid the day, the corps endured setbacks of one killed and two wounded.On 18 September, the 27th Brigade progressed from the line of Rudašy and Zaberdowo, however was hindered for a few hours while traveling through the zone close Golewicze. Subsequently, it didn't achieve the Jarniewo zone, west of Slonim, until the morning of 19 September. After the withdrawing Polish army severed one of the two ties over the Shchara River, the second Brigade entered Slonim and incapacitated 80 policemen. On 19 September, the detachment came to Vawkavysk, and the corps was requested to take Grodno and Sokółka before the day's over, related to the cruiser units of the fourth and thirteenth Rifle Divisions. In the meantime the 27th Brigade caught Dvorets, incapacitating 400 individuals and catching 300 rifles, yet fuel deficiencies kept the corps extended along the SlonimVawkavysk street anticipating refueling. The twentieth Brigade drew nearer Slonim from the east, further obstructing the streets and postponing the entry of supply units. 

Subsequent to accepting fuel from 07:00 on 20 September, the units of the corps started to progress on Grodno in various waves. At 13:00, 50 tanks from the 27th Brigade achieved the southern edges of the city, starting the Battle of Grodno. By 14:00, the second Brigade had taken Sokółka, and its development units had come to Dąbrowa. Toward the day's end, cruiser units of the fourth Rifle Division and contingents of the twentieth Motor Rifle and Machine Gun Brigade, which had all been postponed by fuel deficiencies, had achieved the city. Grodno was safeguarded by an understrength power of up to 3,000 Polish officers, gendarmes, and volunteers who had cut off the ties over the Neman. The 27th Brigade's observation legion propelled the primary assault with 12 tanks and a defensively covered vehicle, and was later joined by two tank regiments with a sum of 36 tanks. By 19:00, two forces of the thirteenth Rifle Division's 119th Rifle Regiment had touched base at Grodno, and on the morning of 21 September they were fortified by two units of the fourth Rifle Division's 101st Rifle Regiment and the mechanized separation of the sixteenth Rifle Corps, the last of which was subjected to the corps for the term of the fight. Before the finish of 20 September, the consolidated powers had caught the southern piece of Grodno. 

At 07:00 on 21 September, the mounted guns batteries of the two rifle regiments and the twentieth Brigade started shooting from the southern bank of the Niemen, obliterating the primary Polish strongpoints—garisson huts, places of worship, and channels—on the northern bank of the Niemen. The 119th Regiment at that point crossed toward the north bank and revamped an extension for the tanks to utilize. Subsequent to overcoming a gathering of Polish officers in the Poniemuń locale, the regiment caught the eastern piece of the city. In the interim, the 101st Regiment and a tank organization from the 27th Brigade, which crossed the stream behind the 119th, annihilated a gathering of around 250 officers shielding the lush slopes east of the city, at that point propelled upper east and caught the railroad station before the day's over. The twentieth Brigade caught the southwestern piece of the city, however was unfit to propel northward in light of solid Polish obstruction in the houses and channels close to the extension and the tobacco manufacturing plant. The Soviet advances on 21 September brought about the concealment of vast pockets of obstruction, and amid the night, remainders of the Polish protectors withdrew toward Sapotskin and Suwałki. 

Grodno was cleared of Polish troops on 22 September. The 27th Brigade lost two consumed and 12 harmed BT-7 light tanks in the fight, some to Molotov mixed drinks tossed by the protectors from lofts and channels, and its setbacks totaled 19 slaughtered and 26 injured. The twentieth Brigade lost a BA-10 to Molotov mixed drinks, enduring setbacks of 3 murdered and 20 injured. The sixteenth Rifle Corps' mechanized separation lost 25 slaughtered, 110 injured, and a consumed tank. Amid the fight, the corps executed 320 officers, 20 non-appointed officers, and 194 troopers, a large number of whom were smashed by tanks in the eastern piece of the city. Somewhere in the range of 20 and 21 September, they had caught 38 Polish officers, 20 non-dispatched officers, and 1,477 enrolled men, just as 514 rifles, 146 assault rifles, a mortar, and an enemy of air ship firearm. 

One separation from the second Brigade, under the order of Major F.P. Chuvakin, was made out of an automatic weapon and rifle legion and 45 tanks, 37 of which were from the detachment and the rest from the KMG. It was joined to the KMG to wipe up residual obstruction in the Augustów Forest and to keep the Poles escaping to Lithuania. On 22 September, in the region of Sapotskin, the separation drew in units of the Polish 101st and 102nd Uhlan Regiments, just as the 110th Reserve Uhlan Regiment, and different units withdrawing from Grodno. A large portion of the Polish troops got away into the timberland on account of the moderate development of the separation. Around three organizations of Polish troops were scattered and a few officers were executed, among them the Grodno protection administrator, Józef Olszyna-Wilczyński. The withdrawing Polish powers left mines, which exploded four BT-7 tanks. Chuvakin's troops additionally lost 11 murdered and 14 injured. 

The separation progressed to Sejny and on 23 September achieved the Augustów Canal at Vulka, where it was halted by Polish troops on the left bank, who had cut off the tie over the trench. A tank organization forded the channel and constrained the protectors to withdraw, leaving nine dead. In the battling of 22 and 23 September, the separation slaughtered around 40 officers and numerous warriors, and caught in excess of 500 troops, 300 rifles, and 12 automatic weapons. On 23 September, the twentieth Brigade moved to Dąbrowa, where it wiped out remainders of Polish units in the Augustów Forest. After two days, 15 shielded vehicles were confined from the unit to calm German troops garrisoning the Osowiec Fortress, which fell in the Soviet range of prominence under the Molotov– Ribbentrop Pact. Somewhere in the range of 23 and 26 September, a unit of 20 tanks and defensively covered vehicles from the 27th Brigade and a rifle force moved along the street from Grodno to Augustów, and back once more, catching 300 detainees en route. Amid the battle, the corps executed 78 officers, 133 non-charged officers, and 2,337 fighters. It caught 322 officers, 30 non-charged officers, and 352 fighters, just as 814 rifles, 153 automatic weapons, a mortar, two guns, and 15 vehicles. 

By 2 October, the KMG was disbanded and the corps was subjected to the third Army. On 10 October, the corps base camp and the tank units were positioned at Wilno, and the twentieth Brigade was at Soleczniki. The fifteenth was disbanded alongside the other tank corps in January 1940; the Main Military Council considered the tank corps' execution in Poland inadmissible, trusting them to be inconvenient and hard to control. 

The corps was re-shaped in May 1942 at the Moscow Armored Training Center, almost a year after Germany had relinquished the Molotov– Ribbentrop Pact and attacked the Soviet Union. Real General Vasily Koptsov took direction of the arrangement, which incorporated the 96th and 113th Tank Brigades, the 105th Heavy Tank Brigade, the seventeenth Motor Rifle Brigade, and the fifth Reconnaissance Battalion. The corps was doled out to the third Tank Army on 25 May, and as at 2 June included 150 tanks, containing 30 KV tanks, 60 T-34 tanks, and 60 T-60 light tanks. The corps gathered in the Tula zone with the remainder of the military, leading serious preparing works out. After Axis powers propelled the Case Blue summer hostile in southern Russia in late June, Stavka trusted that an assault by Army Group Center on the Oryol hub was conceivable, and requested the military to gather in the Yefremov territory. On 6 July, the military was requested to think toward the west in the Chern zone, drawing nearer to the front. The movement was finished by 9 July, and the fifteenth Tank Corps was situated in the zone of the Agnichnoye State Farm, Dupny, Bolshoy Kon, Gremyachevo, Yasnyy Lug, and Korotky, where it occupied with battle preparing and made a protective line in status to rebuff a German assault. Late that month, the 96th Brigade was exchanged to the Bryansk Front, and it was supplanted by the 195th Tank Brigade somewhere in the range of 10 and 12 August. 

Toward the beginning of August, the second Panzer Army propelled a restricted hostile towards Sukhinichi trying to wipe out a Soviet notable. The assault was at first effective, however before long hindered despite decided Soviet opposition. To dispense with the infiltration and surround the lead powers of the second Panzer Army, the Kozelsk Offensive was propelled by the third Tank Army on the eastern flank of the remarkable. On 14 August, the request was given to move to the Kozelsk region in anticipation of the assault; the military started moving the next night, the tanks being transported by rail. The hostile was planned to start on 19 August, however was deferred to 22 August after downpours turned the ways to mud, postponing the landing of the mechanized infantry and vehicles from the morning of 16 August to late on 17 August. Railroad calculated challenges brought about the exchange of work force and hardware being finished just on 21 August, and freight just before the finish of 24 August. Soviet arrangements for the assault were recognized by German insight, and the German troops in the remarkable were strengthened and started getting ready solid guarded lines. Toward the start of the hostile, the corps was at full quality, with 24 KV tanks, 87 T-34s, and 48 T-60 and 21 T-70 light tanks, an aggregate of 180 tanks. 

For the assault, Koptsov was set in order of a gathering comprising of the fifteenth Tank Corps and the 154th Rifle Division, fortified by help units. The gathering's prompt goal was to progress towards Meshalkino, Myzin, Marino, and Belyi Verkh, at that point cross the Vytebet River and build up a bridgehead on its west bank. It was a while later to encompass and annihilate German troops in the zone of Trostyapka, Perestryazh, and Belyi Verkh, working related to the sixteenth and the 61st Armies. On the main day of the assault, the 154th and 264th Rifle Divisions were sent into the assault first, however couldn't get through. The twelfth Tank Corps was focused on the battle, yet went under overwhelming German air assault and was ceased. At 12:00, a report was gotten that the third Tank Corps had seized Smetskiye Vyselkami and propelled westwards. Taking into account that the primary development was stopped by German obstruction, Western Front officer Georgy Zhukov requested the migration of the fifteenth Tank Corps to that part. The corps was to progress towards Slobodka and Belyi Verkh, yet the report of Smetskiye Vyselkami's catch ended up being false, and the fifteenth's vanguard endured substantial misfortunes moving toward the town. The 105th Heavy Tank Brigade and seventeenth Motor Rifle Brigade caught Smetskiye Vyselkami from the 56th Infantry Division's 192nd Infantry Regiment in furious battling by 17:00, yet the corps was unfit to make an achievement, getting to be postponed by troubles in crossing swampy territory, getting lost while traveling through timberland trails, and running into minefields. 

The deferrals in the development made the defensive layer linger behind the infantry, and the tank sections went under overwhelming German air assault before achieving the battle on 23 August. For the following two days, the corps progressed gradually close by different units, defeating difficult German obstruction, before at long last clearing the timberlands east of the Vytebet River of German troops on 25 August. The corps was unfit to cross the stream because of the firm German safeguards on the opposite side. The following day, to end German opposition on the left flank, where the assaults of the twelfth Tank Corps and 154th Rifle Division were ineffective, the corps was requested to pull back from the front in the Zhukovo zone and reconcentrate in the timberland west of Myzin. It was then to catch Sorokino related to the twelfth Tank Corps and 154th Rifle Division. In the wake of moving to its new beginning positions, the corps assaulted at first light on 26 August, however was again frustrated by the woodland territory. 

That day, the twelfth Tank Corps and 264th Rifle Division went under substantial weight from German tank counterattacks. On 27 August, armed force leader Prokofy Romanenko, dreading an achievement from the south, requested the fifteenth Corps to gather in the woods north of Novogryn, in availability to counterattack if a German leap forward occurred. In the occasion, before the day's over, the Soviet lines had held and the fifteenth was not required in that segment. That night, it was moved from the Myzin territory to the Pakom zone, where, together with the 61st Army's twelfth Guards Rifle Division, it was to break German opposition close Leonovo, at that point build up the leap forward towards Ukolitsa into the back of the German troops safeguarding against the 154th and 264th Rifle Divisions and the twelfth Corps at Bogdanovsky and Goskovo. On the evening of 28 August, the corps assaulted following a 30-minute big guns siege and airstrikes, however was quickly slowed down by an enemy of tank jettison ensured by minefields and big guns. Amid the night, sappers and mechanized infantry figured out how to make sections through the dump, however when the hostile was continued the following morning, the fifteenth had progressed just before it was ceased by a second enemy of tank jettison. It attempted to get through amid the day, yet couldn't cross the discard. 

The evening of 29/30 August, the corps was hauled out of the line and moved in the timberland a kilometer south of Meshalkino to do an assault on Sorokino related to the 154th Rifle Division and twelfth Tank Corps. The assault was dropped because of the overwhelming misfortunes endured by both the twelfth Tank Corps and 154th Rifle Division in the past battling, and the fifteenth additionally expected time to redesign. Amid the day the corps' 195th Tank Brigade directed the main battle activity, a fruitful task to alleviate two circled regiments of the 61st Army's 156th Rifle Division. While the primary powers of the third Tank Army had been battling at Sorokino, the third Tank Corps had made a proportion of progress, crossed the Vytebet River, and started battling to catch Volosovo. Thus, the fifteenth Corps and the 154th were moved to the Kumovo zone on the correct flank, and the fifteenth was entrusted with misusing the leap forward to catch Perestryazh. 

The reestablished assault started on 2 September yet was deferred by German air assaults. Then, a regiment from the 264th Rifle Division demonstrated unfit to cross the Vytebet River and catch the town of Ozhigovo, which was fundamental for the fifteenth Corps to misuse the leap forward. This constrained Koptsov to submit the seventeenth Motor Rifle Brigade and the 113th and 195th Brigades' engine rifle regiments to the fight. The engine rifle units crossed the Vytebet River after a short mounted guns flood and caught Ozhigovo before the day's over. The 195th Brigade's tank units moved over the Vytebet River and assaulted Perestryazh the following day, however were unfit to catch the town since they were first stopped by a gorge secured by German gunnery, and were then counterattacked to their left side flank by 40 German tanks. In spite of the fact that they shocked the counterattack and decimated 13 tanks, the 195th's development was ceased. On 4 September, after the third Tank Corps was hauled out of the line because of misfortunes and the principle powers of the 264th touched base to hold Ozhigovo, the fifteenth's seventeenth and 113th Brigades were moved to the Volosovo zone, having gotten requests to progress on Trostyanka close by the 342nd Rifle Division. From 5 to 9 September, the corps endeavored to progress, however was more than once rebuffed, continuing losses and enduring fuel and ammo deficiencies. The Kozelsk Offensive finished on 9 September with the joined Soviet tank units from every one of the three armed forces left with just 200 tanks out of the 700 they initially handled. 

The corps was migrated to the backwoods west of Kaluga starting on 20 September 1942 after the third Tank Army turned out to be a piece of the Reserve of the Supreme High Command. Around this time, the seventeenth Motor Rifle Brigade was exchanged to another unit, and the 105th Brigade turned out to be a piece of the fifth Tank Army. A couple of days in the wake of touching base in the Kaluga zone, Major General Pavel Rybalko supplanted Romanenko, who moved toward becoming leader of the fifth Tank Army. The fifteenth rested and directed preparing while at the same time refitting with provisions and hardware for the following a while, and was moved to the Plavsk district on 22 October, staying there until 26 December. The 88th Tank Brigade joined the corps toward the finish of November and the 52nd Motor Rifle Brigade participated in mid-December, conveying the corps back up to quality. On 22 December, the corps and the military started movement to the Kalach and after that the Kantemirovka territories, some portion of the Voronezh Front, to partake in the forthcoming Ostrogozhsk– Rossosh Offensive, which was intended to vanquish Axis powers on the Upper Don. From 29 December to 13 January 1943, the corps was emptied at the Kalach railroad station. The migration of the whole armed force was finished just on 15 January, because of a deficiency of trains and railroad blockage. 

For the hostile, the corps was strengthened by the 368th Fighter Anti-Tank Artillery Regiment, the 71st Anti-Aircraft Artillery Regiment, and the 47th Engineer Battalion. They were to make an achievement on the principal day in the region between the development of the 48th Guards and 184th Rifle Divisions, seizing Yekaterinovka and progressing on Varvarovka and Alexeyevka before the day's over. The assault was booked to start on 12 January 1943, yet was moved back two days attributable to railroad delays. By 13 January, 122 tanks from the military—most having a place with the corps' 113th and 195th Brigades—were as yet deferred by upkeep issues. This was on the grounds that the Voronezh Front's underlying hostile arranging commanding that just the twelfth Tank Corps would battle in the principal assault, which brought about the new tanks of the fifteenth being exchanged to the twelfth and the twelfth's exhausted tanks to the fifteenth, despite the fact that it was later chosen that the whole armed force would battle in the task. The fifteenth along these lines had significantly less time to redesign in anticipation of the attack, and because of the 113th and 195th Brigades touching base in the fixation regions on 13 January with just 10 to 12 tanks due to the deferrals, the majority of the useful tanks were exchanged to the 88th Tank Brigade, which was raised to a quality of 74 tanks. This single detachment established the whole of the corps' protected troops engaged with the primary day's assault, as the 113th and 195th were put in armed force save until their tanks arrived. 

The corps battled in the hostile from 14 January, entrusted with progressing into the Axis back and connecting up with the 40th Army assaulting from the north. On the principal day, the corps assaulted the XXIV Panzer Corps, invading its order post and killing its administrator amid a development. In the wake of taking Alexandrovka, the corps cut the RossoshAlexandrovkaRovenki expressway on 15 January by catching Yeremovka. As indicated by the fifteenth Tank Corps' reports, it had slaughtered up to 600 Axis troops, caught 98 detainees, 17 firearms, 10 mortars, and 279 engine vehicles, and impaired five weapons and 14 automatic rifles. This included some significant downfalls of eight murdered, 38 injured, and one tank and three engine vehicles demolished. The fifteenth at that point battled in the region of Olkhovatka and Sheliakino, amid which it announced murdering up to 950 German troops, catching 2,100 detainees, 1,200 engine vehicles, 1,856 rifles, 75 automatic rifles, 20 firearms, and eight tanks. The fifteenth endured misfortunes amid this time of 11 killed, 41 injured, and one tank and one protected vehicle impaired. Working related to the twelfth Tank Corps, the fifteenth got through German guards and on 17 January shut the enclosure ring, connecting up with troops from the 40th Army's 305th Rifle Division at Alexeyevka. This remove the retreat for the Italian Alpini Corps and a great many Hungarian and German troops. Amid the activity, it detailed murdering 6,506 Axis troops, catching 11,168, and catching or crushing a lot of big guns, weapons, hardware and transport, while losing 132 executed, 212 injured, 39 missing, 14 tanks, six firearms, two mortars, three defensively covered vehicles, 10 engine vehicles, and six automatic rifles. Until the finish of 25 January, the corps battled in the decrease of the Axis take north of Alexeyevka and started reconcentrating on the morning of 29 January. In the wake of walking in two days, it gathered in the Valuyki zone. 

The corps proceeded with its development towards Kharkov after the finish of the Ostrogozhsk– Rossosh Offensive, against progressively hardening opposition from the SS-Panzer Corps. On 2 February, Operation Star started, the corps in the second echelon of the military as it required refitting. The fifteenth went enthusiastically on 3 February, multi day sooner than arranged, without its refitting finished, as armed force administrator Lieutenant General Pavel Rybalko enlivened the pace of the hostile to forestall German fortifications building up a guarded line on the Donets. The fifteenth Tank Corps progressed with the 160th Rifle Division towards Veliky Burluk and the Donets intersections at Pechengi. The corps crossed the Burlik River on 3 February and the following day caught Veliky Burluk from the second SS Panzer Division Das Reich. In the meantime the lead power of the 195th Tank Brigade, progressing in front of the rest of the corps, achieved German positions held by the first SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler (LSSAH) inverse Pechengi. The detachment endeavored to catch a traverse the Pechengi with help from the 160th amid the night, yet was rebuffed with substantial misfortunes. The remainder of the fifteenth Corps and 160th Division touched base there amid 5 February, and at first light on 6 February, they assaulted after a short mounted guns barrage, however were again repelled. The evening of 9/10 February, the corps and the 160th Division verified the intersection locales and caught Pechengi. The corps revealed 650 German troopers murdered amid the battling, at an expense of 350 executed and injured. The fifteenth then sought after the withdrawing units of the LSSAH however the development was ceased by German protections at Rogan just east of Kharkov. 

On 12 February, Rybalko started another assault with the fifteenth Corps, 48th Guards Rifle Division, and the 160th assaulting the eastern piece of Kharkov. They drove the LSSAH back to the inward guarded line of the city and achieved the manufacturing plant region in the city's eastern rural areas. After two days, front leader Colonel General Filipp Golikov requested a last strike, and the corps together with the 160th restored the assault from the east. They entered eastern Kharkov itself late on 15 February, taking an interest in substantial road battling with the powers of the Das Reich Division. The city was recovered the following day, the 88th Tank Brigade taking Dzerzhinsky Square and connecting up with the 40th Army's 183rd Rifle Division. 

The fifteenth then sought after withdrawing German powers toward Poltava. Late on 16 February, it caught Zalyutino and drew in German troops at Pesochnya making a course for Liubotyn. In the wake of catching Pesochnya two days after the fact, the fifteenth started the fight for Liubotyn against troops of the Grossdeutschland Division, however moved toward becoming impeded in overwhelming battling for the city. The corps' 195th Tank Brigade and the 160th Division were requested to sidestep the city and endeavor to catch Staryi Merchik. On 21 February, they progressed on Liubotyn from the west, and the Grossdeutschland Division started its retreat from the city on the following day. In the fight for Liubotyn between 21 and 22 February, the corps revealed slaughtering 400 German officers and obliterating 12 tanks, while enduring misfortunes of 360 executed and injured and six tanks. 

On 23 February 1943, German troops from the fourth Panzer Army counterattacked the Southwestern Front troops misusing the achievement toward the south of Kharkov, enclosing numerous and driving the rest of retreat towards the Donets, starting the Third Battle of Kharkov. The third Tank Army was requested to assuage the surrounded troops, and the fifteenth Tank Corps altered course, progressing towards Krasnograd. Amid the most recent long periods of February, the corps battled in a furious gathering commitment with the LSSAH and 320th Infantry Division. Working nearby the 111th Rifle Division, the fifteenth caught Novaya Vodolaga and on 26 February continued its development south, leaving the 195th Brigade to hold Novaya Vodolaga. 

Before the finish of 28 February, related to the 219th Rifle Division, the corps had caught Kegichevka, at the expense of overwhelming misfortunes for the 88th Tank Brigade. The 88th was left with three T-34 tanks and two T-70s, and different units were down to comparative quality, leaving the whole corps with 19 tanks. Koptsov was seriously injured amid the battling on 28 February, and corps head of staff Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Lozovsky ended up acting authority. By 2 March, the corps had been encompassed by the SS Panzer Corps east of Krasnograd and German tanks were in its back at Lozovaya. Koptsov requested the corps to guard the region around Kegichevka, the area of its central command. The third Tank Army was totally encompassed and couldn't be diminished as it contained the majority of the front's troops. Koptsov requested a breakout, and few troops with light weapons got away from the circle, the majority of the corps' 25 remaining tanks being lost. Koptsov himself was quickly caught on 2 March before kicking the bucket of the injury he had gotten four days sooner. 

In the interim, the 195th Tank Brigade's administrator took direction of 32 fixed and recouped tanks from the twelfth and fifteenth Corps at Novaya Vodolaga, guarding the town nearby the 253rd Rifle Brigade. There, they withstood three days of assaults from LSSAH until 6 March, when their positions started to be circled by LSSAH and the SS-Totenkopf Division. Amid the following couple of days the unit withdrew north of the Mzha River to Rakitnoye, which was abandoned 9 March. The 195th at that point took up protective positions in the Ozeryanka zone. 

As indicated by a report by the third Tank Army's central command, the fifteenth Tanks Corps' quality on 14 March 1943 was just 1,000 men. By the next day, the leftovers of the fifteenth had been packed in the Belyi Kholodets zone, and on 21 March were moved to the Nikitovka, Samarino, and Chepukhino district for rest and refitting. On 31 March the corps was requested to turn out to be a piece of the Reserve of the Supreme High Command in the Tambov region by 4 April. Rather, by the start of May it had been exchanged to the Moscow Military District. The corps turned out to be a piece of the new third Guards Tank Army inside the month, and Major General Filipp Rudkin took direction on 11 June. By 1 July, the corps had been modified to a quality of 209 tanks and 16 self-pushed weapons. 

On 13 July, the corps turned out to be a piece of the Bryansk Front alongside its military, and was requested to pack in the Novosil zone before the finish of 15 July, in anticipation of Operation Kutuzov, the Soviet counteroffensive after the Battle of Kursk. In the wake of finishing a walk to its hopping off point, the corps assaulted on the morning of 19 July. The twelfth and fifteenth Tank Corps crossed the Oleshen River in the main echelon of the attack and progressed before the day's over, helped by big guns and air support. At night, the fifteenth's development was ceased by the eighth Panzer Division. Amid the battling on 19 July, the leader of the 113th Tank Brigade, Leonid Chigin, was slaughtered in real life. The solid German opposition amid the day diminished the corps to 32 T-34 and 42 T-70 tanks from a quality of 129 T-34s and 68 T-70s toward the beginning of the day. 

The next day, the corps moved northwest to catch Otrada, cutting the MtsenskOryol expressway in the Vysokoye zone. At night, the 52nd Motor Rifle Brigade crossed the Oka River, catching a bridgehead close Novaya Slobodka. Before the finish of 21 July, the corps touched base to help the twelfth Tank Corps and the 91st Separate Tank Brigade in the intersection of the Optushka River, deferred by extraordinary German air assaults and tank counterattacks. The following morning, every one of the three units started crossing the stream. The 195th Tank Brigade's administrator, Vasily Lomakin, was executed in real life driving his unit on 22 July. Both Chigin and Lomakin were after death granted the title Hero of the Soviet Union. On 23 July, the German safeguards on the Optushka were broken, and the interest started. Before the day's over, the corps had achieved the line of Semendyaevsky, Karpovsky, Aleksandrovka, Safonovo, and Neplyuevo. 

The activities of the hostile had still neglected to create an unequivocal achievement for the military, and on 23 July the assault was moved south, the fifteenth being requested to walk to fixation focuses at Zarya and in the Petrovo region. The walk occurred the evening of 23/24 July, the troops landing on the morning of 24 July. The development was restored the following day, the fifteenth in the second echelon behind the twelfth Corps. On 26 July 1943, the corps was changed over into the seventh Guards Tank Corps all the while with the twelfth Tank Corps, winding up some portion of the world class Soviet Guards, in acknowledgment of the "valor and boldness" of its activities in the hostile. 

The corps' first development was directed by the accompanying officer: 

The corps' second development was told by the accompanying officers: