Last Fantasy IX 

Last Fantasy IX is a 2000 pretending computer game created and distributed by Squaresoft for the PlayStation computer game support. It is the ninth diversion in the fundamental "Last Fantasy" arrangement and the keep going to make a big appearance on the first PlayStation. The plot focuses on the outcomes of a war between countries in a medieval dreamland called Gaia. Players pursue highwayman Zidane Tribal, who hijacks Alexandrian princess Garnet Til Alexandros XVII as a major aspect of a gambit by the neighboring country of Lindblum. He joins Garnet and a developing cast of characters on a mission to bring down her mom, Queen Brahne of Alexandria, who began the war. The plot shifts when the player discovers that Brahne is a pawn of an all the more threatening risk, Kuja, who imparts a strange history to Zidane spreading over two universes. 

The diversion was created nearby "Last Fantasy VIII". Imagined by engineers as a review for the arrangement, it left from the advanced settings of "Conclusive Fantasy VII" and "Last Fantasy VIII" by coming back to the medieval style of the initial six portions. Subsequently, it was impacted vigorously by the first "Last Fantasy", and highlights suggestions to the remainder of the diversions. In spite of this methodology, the diversion introduced new highlights to the arrangement, for example, "Dynamic Time Event" cutscenes, "Mognet", and aptitude frameworks. 

"Last Fantasy IX" was discharged to basic recognition. It is regularly refered to by pundits and fans as a standout amongst the best "Last Fantasy" diversions, and holds the most astounding Metacritic score of the arrangement. "Last Fantasy IX" was economically fruitful, selling more than 5.5 million duplicates worldwide by February 2016. It was re-discharged in 2010 as a PS1 Classic on the PlayStation Store; this form was good with PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable, and PlayStation Vita support touched base in 2012. Ports highlighting minor ongoing interaction and graphical upgrades were discharged for different stages in the late 2010s. 

In "Conclusive Fantasy IX", the player explores a character all through the diversion world, investigating regions and cooperating with non-player characters. A large portion of the amusement happens on "field screens" comprising of pre-rendered foundations speaking to towns and prisons. To help investigation on the field screen, "Last Fantasy IX" presents the "field symbol", a shout mark showing up over their lead character's head, flagging a thing or sign is adjacent. Players talk with moogles to record their advancement, reestablish life vitality with a tent and buy things—a deviation from past portions, which utilized a spare point to play out these capacities. Moogles can likewise be reached from the world guide; with a thing called a "Moogle woodwind". Moogles may demand the playable character convey letters to different Moogles through Mognet, playable characters may likewise get letters from non-playable characters. 

Players venture between field screen areas on the world guide, a three dimensional, scaled back portrayal of "Definite Fantasy IX"s world exhibited from a top-down point of view. Players can openly explore far and wide guide screen except if confined by landscape like waterways or mountain ranges. To defeat topographical confinements, players can ride chocobos, cruise on a watercraft or pilot carriers. Like past "Conclusive Fantasy" portions, traverse the world guide screen and unfriendly field screen areas is hindered by arbitrary foe experiences. 

"Last Fantasy IX" offers another way to deal with town investigation with the presentation of Active Time Events (ATE). These enable the player to see occasions unfurling at various areas, giving character improvement, extraordinary things and prompts for key story-adjusting choices. ATE are at times used to all the while control two groups when the gathering is separated to understand astounds and explore labyrinths. 

At whatever point the playable character experiences an adversary, the guide changes to the "fight screen". On the fight screen, the adversary shows up on the contrary side of the characters; each fight utilizes the well-known Active Time Battle framework that was first included in "Definite Fantasy IV". The character's direction list is displayed in a window inverse the ATB measure list; while all characters can physically assault the adversary or utilize a thing from the player's stock, they additionally have interesting capacities. For instance, the hoodlum Zidane can take things from the adversary, Eiko and Garnet can bring "eidolons" to help the gathering and Vivi can utilize dark enchantment to harm the restriction. 

These character-explicit directions change when the player goes into "Daze mode", which is actuated for a brief span when a wild measure fills as character supports harm in a style like the Limit Breaks utilized in "Definite Fantasy VII". At the point when the check is full, the character's quality is intensified, and the player can choose unique assault directions. Zidane's "Expertise" order list, for instance, changes to "Dyne", enabling him to execute incredible assaults; Vivi's "Dark Magic" direction develops into "Twofold Black", enabling him to cast two enchantment spells at the same time. Through the Configuration screen, the player can change the Battle Style from Normal to Custom, which enables two players to control any mix of characters amid fight. In any case, two controllers must be connected to the PlayStation. 

A character's act in fight is controlled by numerical qualities ("measurements") for classifications like speed, quality and mysterious power. Character measurements are driven by understanding; when players win fights, they are granted "experience focuses", which aggregate until characters gain "experience levels". At the point when characters "level up", the insights for their qualities for all time increment, which may likewise be enhanced by the kinds of gear the character is wearing. Winning fights additionally grants the player cash (Gil), Tetra Master playing a game of cards, things and capacity focuses (AP). 

"Last Fantasy IX" goes amiss from the style of customisable characters included in the last two recreations by resuscitating the character class idea, which assigns a character to a specific job in fight. For instance, Vivi is assigned as a dark mage and is the main character who can utilize dark enchantment, and Steiner is a knight and is the main character who can utilize sword aptitudes. 

The fundamental capacity of hardware in "Definite Fantasy" recreations is to build character qualities; equipping Zidane with a Mythril Vest, for instance, expands his base barrier measurement. In "Definite Fantasy IX", weapons and shield incorporate extraordinary character capacities, which the character may utilize when the thing is prepared (allowing the capacity coordinates their class). When the character collects enough capacity focuses in fight, the capacity winds up usable without keeping the thing prepared. Notwithstanding allowing capacities the gear in "Definite Fantasy IX" decides the measurable development of the characters at the season of level up. Protection raises base barrier or avoidance measurements as well as raises safeguard and additionally different insights at level up. 

Capacities are ordered without hesitation and bolster classes. Activity capacities expend enchantment focuses (MP) and incorporate enchantment spells and unique moves that are utilized in fight. Bolster capacities give works that stay as a result uncertainly and must be furnished with enchantment stones to be utilitarian. The most extreme number of these stones increments as the characters level up. 

"Tetra Master" is a card-based minigame that can be started with different non-playable characters in the field. Players amass a deck of five cards, which can be gotten by means of chests, given as a reward, or earned from battling beasts. Each card has different bolts which point to the four sides and four corners of the card, and different details that change between cards, with rarer cards being all the more dominant. Players take it in swings to deliberately put cards on a 4x4 playing lattice dependent on the accessible bearings. Fights can happen when players place a card alongside another card, contingent upon where the player places it. In the event that the guarding card has no bolts while the assaulting card has a bolt pointing towards it, that card is set under the player's control. At the point when two bolts meet with one another, the cards do fight dependent on their point esteems, with the losing card going under the triumphant player's control, some of the time activating combos that put different cards in the champ's control. After all cards are played, the champ is the player who has the most cards under their control, with a draw happening in the event that they have a similar number of cards. The triumphant player may pick a card from their rival's deck out of the ones they put under their control. On the off chance that the triumphant player scores an ideal win in any case, in which each of the ten cards are put under their control, they will win every one of the five cards from the adversary's deck. 

"Last Fantasy IX" happens basically on a world named Gaia. The majority of Gaia's populace dwell on the Mist Continent, named after the thick Mist that covers the swamps. Expansive mountain ranges go about as characteristic outskirts that different its four countries: Alexandria, Lindblum, Burmecia, and Cleyra. Alexandria is a warmongering government that controls the eastern portion of the landmass. One of its urban areas is Treno, a social nexus under interminable starlight that is home to numerous nobles and poor people alike. The mechanically progressed Lindblum, a center point of carrier travel, is settled on a level toward the southwest. The two nations are populated by a blend of people, humanoids, and human creatures. Burmecia, a kingdom showered by interminable downpour, is in the northwest; Cleyra, a neighboring locale that withdrew from Burmecia because of the last's thankfulness for war, hails from a mammoth tree in the desert and is secured by an amazing dust storm. Both are occupied by human rodents with an affection for move and lance battling. 

Players in the end investigate the Outer, Lost, and Forgotten Continents also. Civic establishments on the Outer Continent incorporate Conde Petie, home of the dwarves; Black Mage Village, a shrouded settlement of aware mystical performer automatons; and Madain Sari, when home to a close wiped out race of horned humanoid summoners who invoke otherworldly elements called eidolons. Likewise on the Outer Continent is the Iifa Tree, which scatters the Mist to different landmasses through its underlying foundations. This Mist invigorates the battling intuition in humanoids and adds to Gaia's ridiculous history. The Lost and Forgotten mainlands are littered generally with old vestiges. Dispersed all through the bogs of Gaia are the Qu: expansive, frog-eating, and apparently gender ambiguous humanoids who are viewed as extraordinary gourmands. Late in the amusement, players quickly travel to the parallel universe of Terra and the fantasy domain of Memoria. 

The fundamental playable characters are: Zidane Tribal, an individual from a gathering of criminals called Tantalus who are taking on the appearance of a theater troupe; Garnet Til Alexandros XVII (pseudonym Dagger), the Princess of Alexandria who is really from Madain Sari; Vivi Ornitier, a youthful, bashful, and kind dark mage with an existential emergency; Adelbert Steiner, a reckless Alexandrian knight commander and faithful worker of Princess Garnet; Freya Crescent, a Burmecian dragoon hunting down her lost love; Quina Quen, a Qu whose ace needs him/her to venture to the far corners of the planet so s/he will find out about food; Eiko Carol, a young lady living in Madain Sari, and, alongside Garnet, one of the last two summoners; and Amarant Coral, an abundance seeker contracted to return Garnet to Alexandria. Other vital characters incorporate Cid Fabool, the alluring Regent of Lindblum; Brahne, Garnet's mom and the eager for power Queen of Alexandria; General Beatrix, the incredible pioneer of the female knights of Alexandria; Garland, an old Terran male entrusted with sparing his reality; and foe Kuja, an arms vendor and pawn of Garland with his very own existential emergency. 

In Alexandria, Zidane and Tantalus grab Princess Garnet by request of Cid. Garnet does not avoid, for she was at that point wanting to escape and caution Cid of Queen Brahne's inexorably sporadic conduct. Vivi and Steiner join the gathering amid the departure. In transit to Lindblum, the gathering finds that Brahne is utilizing a town to make cruel dark mage officers that seem to be like Vivi. In Lindblum, Cid affirms that he contracted the gathering to shield Garnet from Brahne's recently discovered animosity. In the wake of discovering that Alexandria has attacked Burmecia with the dark mages, Zidane and Vivi collaborate with Freya to examine, while Garnet and Steiner covertly come back to Alexandria to prevail upon Brahne. 

Zidane's group finds that the Alexandrian powers, headed by Beatrix, the leader of Brahne's knights, vanquished Burmecia with assistance from Kuja, and the evacuees have fled to Cleyra. Brahne detains Garnet and concentrates her eidolons; she utilizes one to pulverize Cleyra while Zidane's gathering is shielding the city. The gathering escapes on Brahne's carrier, rendezvous with Steiner, and salvages Garnet. In the mean time, Brahne handicaps Lindblum with another eidolon. Cid clarifies that Kuja is providing Brahne with the dark mages and learning to utilize eidolons. The gathering becomes a close acquaintence with Quina and tracks Kuja to the Outer Continent, a land for the most part without Mist and consequently difficult to reach via aircraft. Brahne contracts a couple of abundance seekers, Lani and Amarant, to pursue the gathering and take Garnet back to Alexandria. On the Outer Continent, the gathering massacres Lani and meets Eiko, a summoner who lives with a gathering moogles in the generally unfilled summoner town of Madain Sari. Eiko drives the Zidane and the others to the Iifa Tree. Inside, they discover that Kuja utilizes Mist to make the dark mages, and that Vivi was a model. The gathering routs the wellspring of the Mist inside the Tree, and the substance clears from the Mist Continent. While sitting tight for Kuja's backlash at Madain Sari, Lani and Amarant endeavor to hijack Eiko however are thwarted by Zidane and the moogles. Amarant then difficulties Zidane to a duel to Zidane and loses. He at that point joins the gathering, and Garnet learns of her summoner legacy. Kuja touches base at the Tree, however Brahne additionally shows up and endeavors to slaughter Kuja with an eidolon so she can govern unopposed; he assumes responsibility for it and devastates her and her military. 

After Garnet's crowning ordinance, Kuja assaults Alexandria stronghold. Garnet and Eiko bring an incredibly amazing eidolon in barrier; Kuja endeavors to take the eidolon as a way to murder his lord, Garland, yet the last arrives and annihilates it. Looking to stop the quarreling scalawags, the gathering pursues Kuja on a carrier from Cid that keeps running on steam instead of the now-cleared Mist. They in the end open an entryway to Terra, where the objectives of the opponents are uncovered. The Terrans made Garland to combine the diminishing scene with Gaia; Garland, thusly, made mindful, cruel vessels called Genomes. For centuries, Garland has been utilizing the Iifa Tree to supplant perished Gaian spirits with the resting Terran spirits, transforming the previous into Mist all the while; this will enable the Terrans to be renewed into the Genomes after the planetary union. Kuja and Zidane are Genomes made to quicken this procedure by conveying war and tumult to Gaia. Kuja had deceived Garland to abstain from getting to be involved by a Terran soul. Kuja routs Garland, who uncovers before biting the dust that the previous has a constrained life expectancy at any rate: Zidane was intended to be his substitution. Infuriated, Kuja devastates Terra and getaways to the Iifa Tree. 

At the Iifa tree, the gathering enters Memoria and achieves the root of the universe: the Crystal World. They rout Kuja, keeping him from obliterating the first precious stone of life and subsequently the universe. In the wake of crushing Necron, a power of death, the Tree is decimated; the gathering escapes, while Zidane remains behind to protect Kuja. After one year, the cast's destiny is uncovered: Tantalus touches base in Alexandria to put on an exhibition; Vivi's life expectancy has terminated, however he has deserted various 'children'; Freya and Fratley are reconstructing Burmecia; Eiko has been received by Cid; Quina works in the palace's kitchen; Amarant and Lani are voyaging together; and Garnet directs as ruler of Alexandria, with Steiner and Beatrix as her watchmen. In the peak of Tantalus' execution, the lead performing artist uncovers himself as Zidane in mask and is brought together with Queen Garnet. 

Improvement of "Definite Fantasy IX" started before Square had completed advancement on "Conclusive Fantasy VIII". The amusement was created in Hawaii as a trade off to designers living in the United States. As the arrangement's keep going amusement on the PlayStation, Sakaguchi imagined a "reflection" on the more established rounds of the arrangement. Paving the way to its discharge, Sakaguchi called "Last Fantasy IX" his top pick "Last Fantasy" diversion as "it's nearest to [his] perfect perspective on what "Last Fantasy" ought to be". This move was additionally a reaction to requests from fans and different engineers. Moreover, the group needed to make a reasonable story with profound character improvement; this prompted the formation of Active Time Events. The situation for the amusement was composed by Sakaguchi. He started early anticipating it around July 1998. Chief Hiroyuki Ito had the plan to make the hero Zidane coquettish towards ladies. 

In the diversion's applied stage, the designers clarified that the title would not really be "Last Fantasy IX", as its break from the authenticity of "Definite Fantasy VII" and "Last Fantasy VIII" may have distanced groups of onlookers. This drove fans to conjecture that it would be discharged as a "gaiden" (side story) to the principle arrangement. By late 1999, notwithstanding, Square had affirmed that the diversion would surely be distributed as "Conclusive Fantasy IX", and by mid 2000, the amusement was almost wrapped up. The designers made a few acclimations to the amusement, for example, changing the consummation multiple times. Chief Ito had planned the fight framework utilized in the diversion. 

The amusement's designers tried to make the diversion's condition more "dream arranged" than its PlayStation antecedents. Since the makers needed to keep the arrangement from following a repetitive setting, "Last Fantasy IX" unmistakably parts from the advanced styles of "Conclusive Fantasy VII" and "Last Fantasy VIII" by reintroducing a medieval setting. In the diversion, steam innovation is simply starting to turn out to be broadly accessible; the populace depends on hydropower or wind control for vitality sources, however here and there outfit Mist or steam to control further developed motors. Proceeding with the medieval subject, the amusement's setting is roused by Norse and Northern European folklore. As indicated by Ito, "[The advancement group is] pulled in to European history and folklore on account of its profundity and its show". The principle "Last Fantasy IX" site says the improvement of the diversion's reality fills in as a climax of the arrangement by mixing the "effective components of the past, for example, an arrival to the dream roots," with more current components. The makers made the characters a high need. The arrival to the arrangement's underlying foundations likewise influenced the characters' plans, which brought about characters with "comic-like looks". Writer Nobuo Uematsu remarked that the structure staff endeavored to give the characters authenticity while as yet seeming comic-like. To achieve this, and to fulfill fans who had turned out to be utilized to the practical plans of "Definite Fantasy VIII", the creators focused on making characters with whom the player could without much of a stretch relate. 

The music of "Conclusive Fantasy IX" was composed by arrangement customary Nobuo Uematsu. In early discourses with amusement chief Hiroyuki Ito he was approached to create topics for the eight fundamental characters alongside "an energizing fight track, a melancholy, risk bringing out piece, and around ten different tracks." Uematsu spent an expected year making and delivering "around 160" pieces for "Conclusive Fantasy IX", with 140 at last showing up in the diversion. 

Amid composing sessions he was offered a movement reprieve in Europe for motivation where he invested energy respecting antiquated engineering in spots like Germany. Uematsu has refered to medieval music as a noteworthy impact on the score of "Conclusive Fantasy IX". He went for a "basic" and "warm" climate and consolidated unprecedented instruments like the kazoo and dulcimer. In contrast to the obvious authenticity of its forerunners", VII" and "VIII", the high dream undercurrents of "Definite Fantasy IX" took into consideration a more extensive range of melodic styles and mind-sets. Uematsu made basically with a piano and utilized two differentiating strategies: "I make music that fits the occasions in the amusement, however some of the time, the [developers] will modify a diversion occasion to fit the music I've officially composed." 

Uematsu fused a few themes from more established "Last Fantasy" diversions into the score, for example, the first fight music introduction, an improved "Well of lava Theme" from "Conclusive Fantasy" and the Pandemonium topic from "Definite Fantasy II". Tantalus' band is likewise heard playing "Rufus' Welcoming Ceremony" from "Conclusive Fantasy VII" close to the start of the diversion. 

Uematsu has expressed on a few events that "Last Fantasy IX" is his most loved score. "Tunes of Life" is the signature tune of "Definite Fantasy IX", and offers its primary song with pieces habitually utilized in the amusement itself, for example, the overworld topic, and a children's song that is sung by Dagger. It was performed by Emiko Shiratori in both the Japanese and English forms and orchestrated by Shirō Hamaguchi. 

"Last Fantasy IX"s discharge was postponed to maintain a strategic distance from a simultaneous discharge with then opponent Enix's "Mythical beast Quest VII". On October 7, 2000, a demo day for the North American form of "Conclusive Fantasy IX" was held at the Metreon in San Francisco, California. The main American arrival of the amusement was likewise at the Metreon; constrained version stock was incorporated with the diversion, and fans cosplayed as "Definite Fantasy" characters in festivity of the discharge. In Canada, a generation blunder left duplicates of "Conclusive Fantasy IX" without an English adaptation of the guidance manual, inciting Square to transport duplicates of the English manual to Canadian stores a few days after the fact. 

The amusement was intensely advanced both when its discharge. Beginning on March 6, 2000, "Last Fantasy IX" characters were utilized in a line of PC produced Coca-Cola plugs. Dolls of a few characters were likewise utilized as prizes in Coca-Cola's advertising effort. That equivalent year, IGN granted "Last Fantasy" dolls and puppets for prizes in a few of their challenges. 

"Last Fantasy IX" was likewise the benchmark of Square's intelligent PlayOnline administration. PlayOnline was initially created to cooperate with "Conclusive Fantasy X", however when those plans fell through it turned into a system website for "Definite Fantasy IX". The webpage was intended to supplement BradyGames' and Piggyback Interactive's legitimate procedure guides for the amusement, where players who purchased the print manage approached "catchphrases" that could be scanned for on PlayOnline's website for additional tips and data. This caused anger among purchasers of the guide, as they felt bamboozled for the costly print control. The bumble made GameSpy's "Main 5 Dumbest Moments in Gaming" rundown, and Square dropped the thought for "Conclusive Fantasy X", which was a work in progress at the time. 

On December 18, 2012, the diversion was re-discharged as a major aspect of the "Last Fantasy 25th Anniversary Ultimate Box" Japanese bundle. On February 10, 2016, a remaster was discharged for iOS and Android.<ref name="iOS/Android"></ref> The remaster highlights HD motion pictures and character models, an auto-spare element, 7 diversion sponsors and accomplishments. A port for Microsoft Windows was discharged on April 14, 2016. In September 2017, the Windows port was discharged on PlayStation 4. It was likewise discharged on the Nintendo Switch, Xbox One, and Windows 10 in North America on February 13, 2019, and in different districts the next day. 

"Last Fantasy IX" sold over 2.65 million duplicates in Japan before the finish of 2000, making it the second-most elevated selling round of the year there. Despite the fact that it was a top-merchant in Japan and America, "Last Fantasy IX" did not sell just as "Conclusive Fantasy VII" or "Last Fantasy VIII" in either Japan or the United States. In 2001, the amusement got a "Gold" accreditation from the Verband der Unterhaltungssoftware Deutschland (VUD), for offers of something like 100,000 units crosswise over Germany, Austria and Switzerland. As of March 31, 2003, "Last Fantasy IX" had sold 5.30 million duplicates around the world. The amusement was casted a ballot the 24th-best round ever by perusers of the Japanese magazine "Famitsu". It sold over 5.5 million duplicates worldwide by February 2016. 

"Last Fantasy IX" was discharged to basic praise both in Japan and the US. On the audit aggregator Metacritic it has accomplished a score of 94%, the most noteworthy score for a "Last Fantasy" amusement on the site. On GameRankings it has gotten a score of 93%, the second most elevated of any Final Fantasy diversion, behind "Definite Fantasy VI" for the Super NES. 

Over the surveys, acclaim was given to the designs and nostalgic components. Commentators brought up the quality of the diversion inside its ongoing interaction, character advancement, and visual portrayal. GameSpot noticed that the expectation to absorb information is effectively gotten a handle on, and that the capacity framework isn't as mind boggling as in "Definite Fantasy VII" or "Last Fantasy VIII". Every player character has one of a kind capacities, which ruins the improvement of an over-controlled character. GameSpot depicts the fight framework as having a strategic nature and notes that the extended party takes into account more collaboration among players and between adversaries. In any case, IGN detested the extensive battle pace and the rehashed fights, portraying it as "exasperating", and RPGFan felt the Trance framework to be incapable as the meter development is moderate and capricious, with characters Trancing just before the adversary is murdered. 

The characters and designs got positive surveys. In spite of the fact that IGN felt that the top to bottom character qualities in "Conclusive Fantasy IX" could be commonly found in other "Last Fantasy" amusements, despite everything it observed the characters to draw in and thoughtful. GameSpot found the characters, up to their discourse and attributes, interesting and brimming with funniness. IGN additionally noticed that the Active Time Event framework extends the player's comprehension of the characters' identities as they question numerous thoughts and feelings. Their semi-disfigured appearance, which likewise covers beasts of each size, contain point by point liveliness and structure. They offered acclaim to the pre-rendered foundations, taking note of the watchful consideration given to the fine art, development in livelinesss and character intelligence. The motion pictures are viewed as emotive and convincing, and the consistent progress and joining to the in-diversion illustrations moved the plot well. 

Commentators recognized that the general storyline was predominantly based upon components found in past "Conclusive Fantasy" portions, for example, abhorrent realms and perplexing scalawags. The principle scalawag, albeit considered by GameSpot to be the least compromising in the arrangement, was seen by IGN as a flawless blend of "Kefka's chortling villainy" and "a lot of the bishonenosity that made Sephiroth such a hit with the women". Blended responses were given to the sound parts of the amusement. A few commentators, for example, RPGFan felt that the music was "deadened and dull" though "GamePro" commended the sound for summoning "feelings all through the story, from fights to catastrophe to satire". Some analysis was leveled on author Nobuo Uematsu who reused a few tracks from past emphasess of the arrangement. In any case, commentators have come to concur that this and numerous different components are a piece of the general exertion to make a nostalgic amusement for fanatics of the more established "Last Fantasy" diversions. 

The procedure manage additionally gotten analysis; it encouraged purchasers to sign onto an online website to pick up the data, rather than giving it inside the real guide. The book's given connections are never again available on the PlayOnline site. Tetra Master was seen by GameSpot as second rate and confounding contrasted with "Conclusive Fantasy VIII"s minigame Triple Triad, as the tenets for it were just dubiously clarified in the amusement and there were not many prizes earned from playing it regardless of its sweeping nature. 

Notes