Last Fantasy X 

Set in the dreamland of Spira, a setting affected by the South Pacific, Thailand and Japan, the diversion's story spins around a gathering of globe-trotters and their mission to crush a rampaging beast known as Sin. The player character is Tidus, a star competitor in the anecdotal game of blitzball, who ends up on the planet Spira after his home city of Zanarkand is devastated by Sin. Not long after touching base to Spira, Tidus joins the summoner Yuna on her journey to crush Sin. 

Advancement of "Conclusive Fantasy X" started in 1999, with a financial plan of more than US$32.3 million (US$ million in dollars) and a group of in excess of 100 individuals. The diversion was the first in the primary arrangement not by any stretch of the imagination scored by Nobuo Uematsu; Masashi Hamauzu and Junya Nakano were marked as Uematsu's kindred authors. "Last Fantasy X" was both a basic and business achievement, selling more than 8 million units worldwide on PlayStation 2. It is generally viewed as one of the best computer games ever. On March 3, 2003, it was trailed by "Conclusive Fantasy X-2", making it the main "Last Fantasy" amusement to have an immediate diversion spin-off. 

Like past amusements in the arrangement, "Last Fantasy X" is exhibited in a third-individual point of view, with players legitimately exploring the principle character, Tidus, around the globe to interface with items and individuals. In contrast to past amusements, be that as it may, the world and town maps have been completely coordinated, with landscape outside of urban areas rendered to scale. As Tidus investigates the world, he haphazardly experiences foes. At the point when a foe is experienced, nature changes to a turn-based fight territory where characters and foes anticipate their swing to assault. 

The ongoing interaction of "Definite Fantasy X" contrasts from that of past "Conclusive Fantasy" amusements in its absence of a top-down point of view world guide. Prior recreations highlighted a small portrayal of the far reaching territories among towns and other unmistakable areas, utilized for long-remove voyaging. In "Definite Fantasy X", practically every one of the areas are basically nonstop and never become dim to a world guide. Local associations are for the most part straight, shaping a solitary way through the amusement's areas, however an aircraft winds up accessible late in the diversion, enabling the player to explore Spira quicker. Like past amusements in the arrangement, "Last Fantasy X" includes various minigames, most prominently the anecdotal submerged game "blitzball". 

"Last Fantasy X" presents the "Restrictive Turn-Based Battle" framework instead of the arrangement's conventional "Dynamic Time Battle" framework initially utilized in "Definite Fantasy IV". While the ATB idea includes constant components, the CTB framework is a turn-based configuration that delays the fight amid every one of the player's turns. Along these lines, the CTB configuration enables the player to choose an activity without time weight. A graphical course of events along the upper-right half of the screen subtleties will's identity getting turns straightaway, and how different moves made will influence the ensuing request of turns. The requesting of turns can be influenced by various spells, things, and capacities that exact status impacts upon the controlled characters or the adversaries. The player can control up to three characters in fight, however a swapping framework enables the player to supplant them with a character outside the dynamic party whenever. "Farthest point Breaks", exceptionally harming unique assaults, return in "Conclusive Fantasy X" as "Overdrives". In this new manifestation of the element, a large portion of the strategies are intelligent, requiring catch contributions to expand their adequacy. While at first the Overdrives can be utilized when the character gets a lot of harm, the player can adjust the prerequisites to open them. 

"Last Fantasy X" presents an upgrade of the calling framework utilized in past rounds of the arrangement. While in past titles a called animal would arrive, perform one activity, and after that withdraw, the "Ages" of "Conclusive Fantasy X" arrive and altogether supplant the fight party, battling in their place until either the age wins the fight, is crushed itself, or is rejected by the player. Ages have their very own measurements, directions, extraordinary assaults, spells, and Overdrives. The player secures five ages throughout the diversion through the finish of Cloister of Trials astounds, however three extra ages can be acquired by finishing different side-missions. 

Likewise with past titles in the arrangement, players have the chance to create and improve their characters by vanquishing foes and gaining things, however the conventional experience point framework is supplanted by another framework called the "Circle Grid". Rather than characters picking up pre-decided measurement rewards for their traits subsequent to step up, each character gains "Circle Levels" in the wake of gathering enough Ability Points (AP). Circle Levels enable players to move around the Sphere Grid, a pre-decided framework of interconnected hubs comprising of different measurement and capacity rewards. "Circles" are connected to these hubs, opening its capacity for the chose character. 

The Sphere Grid framework likewise enables players to completely tweak characters rather than their expected fight jobs, for example, transforming the White Mage-roled Yuna into a physical powerhouse and the swordsman Auron into a healer. The "Universal" and PAL adaptations of the diversion incorporate a discretionary "Master" form of the Sphere Grid; in these variants, the majority of the characters begin amidst the network and may pursue whichever way the player picks. As an exchange off, the Expert lattice has less hubs altogether, accordingly diminishing the all out measurement overhauls accessible amid the diversion. 

Blitzball is a minigame that requires technique and strategies. The submerged game is played in an extensive, floating circle of water encompassed by a bigger crowd of spectators. The player controls one character at any given moment as they swim through the circle performing passes, handles, and endeavors to score. The ongoing interaction is like that of the fundamental diversion in the manner in which that the controlled character travels through the region until they experience a foe. For this situation, the foe is an individual from the contradicting group. Status impacts are additionally executed in the minigame as every player can learn systems that are proportionate to capacities in the fundamental diversion. 

Blitzball is first presented in the start of the amusement amid one of the early artistic successions in which Tidus, the fundamental character who is portrayed as a star blitzball player, is a piece of a serious diversion. It is the main minigame that assumes a job in the general plot line as it isn't just a principle part of Tidus' character, but at the same time it's in the primary scene where the amusement's fundamental adversary, Sin is appeared. Not at all like with the different minigames, playing blitzball is compulsory close to the start of the amusement, however it is later discretionary. 

"Last Fantasy X" is set in the anecdotal universe of Spira, comprising of one extensive landmass partitioned into three subcontinents, encompassed by little tropical islands. It highlights assorted atmospheres, running from the tropical Besaid and Kilika islands, to the mild Mi'ihen locale, to the sub zero Macalania and Mt. Gagazet zones. Albeit overwhelmingly populated by people, Spira highlights an assortment of races. Among them are the Al Bhed, an innovatively progressed however disappointed sub-gathering of people with unmistakable green eyes and one of a kind language. The Guado, which are less human in appearance, with stretched fingers and other arboreal highlights. Still less human are the lion-like Ronso and the frog-like Hypello. A subset of Spira's aware races are the "unsent", the solid willed spirits of the dead that stay in bodily structure. In Spira, the dead who are not sent to the Farplane by a summoner come to begrudge the living and change into "beasts", the beasts that are experienced all through the amusement; notwithstanding, unsent with solid connections to the universe of the living may hold their human structure. Other fauna in Spira, beside those drawn from genuine creatures, for example, felines, puppies, winged animals, and butterflies, incorporate the huge, land and/or water capable shoopufs (which are like elephants); and the emu-like chocobo, which shows up in most "Last Fantasy" diversions. Spira is altogether different from the predominantly European-style universes found in past "Conclusive Fantasy" diversions, being substantially more firmly displayed on Southeast Asia, most prominently as for vegetation, geography, engineering, and names. 

There are seven fundamental playable characters in "Conclusive Fantasy X", beginning with Tidus, a merry youthful adolescent and a star blitzball player from Zanarkand, who looks for a route home after an experience with Sin transported him to Spira. To do as such, he joins Yuna, a summoner on a voyage to get the Final Eon and thrashing the colossal whale-like "Sin". Traveling with them are: Kimahri Ronso, a youthful warrior of the Ronso clan who looked out for Yuna amid her adolescence; Wakka, a blitzball player whose more youthful sibling was murdered by Sin; and Lulu, an unemotional dark mage near Yuna and Wakka. Amid the adventure, they are joined by Auron, a previous warrior priest, who worked with both Tidus' and Yuna's dads to overcome Sin 10 years earlier; and Rikku, Yuna's cousin, an energetic Al Bhed young lady and the principal amicable individual Tidus meets after touching base in Spira. 

Tidus holds up with his partners outside the remnants of an old city. He portrays the occasions that prompted the present, crossing the vast majority of the amusement's storyline. It starts in his home city, the cutting edge city of Zanarkand, where he is an eminent blitzball player and child of the acclaimed blitzball star, Jecht. Amid a blitzball competition, the city is assaulted by a huge animal that Auron, a man not initially from Zanarkand, calls "Sin". Sin obliterates Zanarkand and takes Tidus and Auron to the universe of Spira. 

After touching base in Spira, Tidus is safeguarded by Al Bhed salvagers, who talk a language that is unfamiliar to Tidus. One of them, Rikku, talks a similar language as Tidus and uncovers that Sin wrecked Zanarkand 1,000 years prior. After Sin assaults once more, Tidus is isolated from the jumpers and floats to the tropical island of Besaid, where he meets Wakka, commander of the neighborhood blitzball crew, and shows off his blitzball aptitudes. Wakka acquaints Tidus with Yuna, a youthful summoner going to go on a journey to acquire the Final Eon and thrashing Sin with her watchmen Lulu, a mage of dark enchantment, and Kimahri, an individual from the Ronso clan. In the mean time, Tidus joins to help Wakka in the up and coming blitzball competition to discover a path back home. The gathering makes a trip crosswise over Spira to accumulate ages, shielding against assaults by Sin and its "posterity" called Sinspawn. After the competition, they are joined by Auron, who persuades Tidus to turn into Yuna's gatekeeper. He uncovers to Tidus that Yuna's dad, Lord Braska; Tidus' dad, Jecht; and himself made a similar journey to overcome Sin ten years back. Tidus thought his dad had passed on adrift ten years sooner. Following another assault from Sin, they are joined by Rikku, later uncovered to be Yuna's cousin. 

At the point when the gathering touches base in the city of Guadosalam, the pioneer of the Guado, Seymour Guado, proposes to Yuna, saying that it will facilitate Spira's distress. At Macalania Temple, the gathering finds a message from the soul of Seymour's dad, Lord Jyscal; he announces that he was executed by his own child, who currently means to devastate Spira. The gathering reunites with Yuna and executes Seymour in fight; soon a short time later, Sin assaults, isolating Yuna and sending the others to Bikanel Island. While scanning for Yuna at the island's Al Bhed settlement, Tidus has a passionate breakdown when he discovers that summoners pass on subsequent to bringing the Final Eon, prompting his longing to figure out how to vanquish Sin while keeping Yuna alive. The gathering discovers Yuna in Bevelle, where she is being compelled to wed the unsent Seymour. They crash the wedding and getaway with Yuna. The gathering makes a beeline for the remnants of Zanarkand, found in the presentation of the diversion. 

In the blink of an eye before arriving, Tidus discovers that he, Jecht, and the Zanarkand they hail from are brought elements much the same as ages dependent on the first Zanarkand and its kin. Quite a while in the past, the first Zanarkand combat Bevelle in a machina war, in which the previous was crushed. Zanarkand's survivors moved toward becoming "fayth" with the goal that they could utilize their recollections of Zanarkand to make another city in their picture, expelled from the truth of Spira. One thousand years after its creation, the fayth have turned out to be depleted supporting the "Fantasy Zanarkand", however are unfit to stop because of Sin's impact. 

When they reach Zanarkand, Yunalesca—the first summoner to overcome Sin and unsent from that point forward—tells the gathering that the Final Eon is made from the fayth of one near the summoner. Subsequent to crushing Sin, the Final Eon executes the summoner and changes into another Sin, which has made its cycle of resurrection proceed. Yuna rules against utilizing the Final Eon, because of the vain penances it conveys and the way that Sin would even now be reawakened. Frustrated by their goals, Yunalesca attempts to murder Tidus' gathering, yet she is crushed and evaporates, finishing any expectation of consistently achieving the Final Eon. After the battle, the gathering discovers that Yu Yevon, a summoner who lost his mankind and brain, is behind Sin's cycle of resurrection. This leads the gathering to invade Sin's body to fight Seymour, and Jecht's detained soul. With Sin's host crushed, Tidus' gathering vanquishes Yu Yevon. Sin's cycle of resurrection closes, and the spirits of Spira's fayth are liberated from their detainment. Auron, who had been uncovered to be unsent, is sent to the Farplane. Dream Zanarkand and Tidus vanish, presently that the liberated fayth halted the calling. A short time later, in a discourse to the residents of Spira, Yuna takes steps to help reconstruct their reality since it is free of Sin. In a post-credits scene, Tidus stirs submerged. He at that point swims towards the sea surface, and the screen blurs to white. 

"Last Fantasy X"s advancement started in 1999, costing roughly ¥4 billion (around US$ million in dollars) with a team of more than 100 individuals, the vast majority of whom chipped away at past diversions in the arrangement. Official maker Hironobu Sakaguchi has expressed that in spite of the fact that he had worries about the change from 2D to 3D foundations, the voice acting, and the progress to ongoing narrating, the accomplishment of the "Last Fantasy" arrangement can be credited to always testing the improvement group to attempt new things. Maker Yoshinori Kitase was likewise the main chief of "Definite Fantasy X", while the bearing of occasions, maps and fights was part up between Motomu Toriyama, Takayoshi Nakazato and Toshiro Tsuchida, individually. The advancement of the content for the amusement took three to four months, with a similar measure of time devoted to the voice recording a short time later. Kazushige Nojima teamed up with Daisuke Watanabe, Toriyama and Kitase on composing the situation for "Conclusive Fantasy X". Nojima was especially worried about setting up an association in the connection among player and primary character. Consequently, he wrote the story with the end goal that the player's advancement through the world and developing information about it is reflected in Tidus' own comprehension and portrayal. 

Character originator Tetsuya Nomura has recognized the South Pacific, Thailand and Japan as real impacts on the social and geographic structure of Spira, especially concerning the geographic area of the southern Besaid and Kilika islands. He has likewise said that Spira goes amiss from the universes of past "Definite Fantasy" recreations in the dimension of detail fused, something he has communicated to have attempted to keep up amid the structure procedure. Kitase felt that if the setting returned to a medieval European dream, it would not appear to enable the improvement to group advance. While he was considering distinctive world situations, Nojima proposed a dreamland that consolidated Asian components. Sub-character boss fashioner Fumi Nakashima's center was to guarantee that characters from various locales and societies bore particular qualities in their garments styles, with the goal that they could be rapidly and effectively recognized as individuals from their separate sub-gatherings. For instance, she has said that the veils and goggles of the Al Bhed give the gathering a "weird and offbeat" appearance, while the clothing of the Ronso loan to them having the capacity to effectively take part in fight. Tidus' association with his dad Jecht was based "stories all through the ages, for example, the old Greek legends." This would in the end uncover the key of Sin's shortcoming and inevitable thrashing. 

"Last Fantasy X" highlights advancements in the rendering of characters' outward appearances, accomplished through movement catch and skeletal liveliness innovation. This innovation enabled illustrators to make practical lip developments, which were then customized to coordinate the discourse of the amusement's voice on-screen characters. Nojima has uncovered that the incorporation of voice acting empowered him to express feeling more capably than previously, and he was hence ready to keep the storyline basic. He additionally said that the nearness of voice performing artists drove him to roll out different improvements to the content, so as to coordinate the voice on-screen characters' identities with the characters they were depicting. The incorporation of voice, be that as it may, prompted challenges. With the diversion's cutscenes as of now customized around the Japanese voice work, the English limitation group confronted the trouble of setting up English-arranged discourse and the impediment of joining this changed wording with the musicality and timing of the characters' lip developments. Confinement authority Alexander O. Smith noticed that they needed to keep the limited sound record inside the length of the first Japanese, as longer documents would make the diversion crash. He depicted the way toward fitting regular sounding English discourse into the amusement as "something much the same as composing four or five motion pictures of exchange totally in haiku structure [and] obviously the performers needed to act, and act well, inside those restrictions." 

The amusement was at first going to include online components, offered through Square's PlayOnline administration. The highlights, be that as it may, were dropped amid generation, and web based gaming would not turn out to be a piece of the "Last Fantasy" arrangement until "Definite Fantasy XI". Guide chief Nakazato needed to actualize a world guide idea with a more reasonable methodology than that of the customary "Last Fantasy" amusement, in accordance with the authenticity of the diversion's 3D foundations, rather than pre-rendered foundations. As a player of the amusements in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement, fight chief Tsuchida needed to reproduce components he discovered fascinating or engaging, which in the end prompted the evacuation of the "Dynamic Time Battle" framework, and rather, consolidated the technique centered "Contingent Turn-Based Battle" framework. Initially, "Last Fantasy X" was going to include meandering foes obvious on the field map, consistent changes into fights, and the choice for players to move around the scene amid foe experiences. Fight workmanship chief Shintaro Takai has clarified that it was his aim that fights in "Definite Fantasy X" appear to be a characteristic piece of the story and not a free component. Be that as it may, because of equipment impediments, this thought was not utilized. Rather, a trade off was made, whereby a few advances from the field guide to the fight map were made moderately consistent with the usage of a movement obscure impact that would occur toward the finish of an occasion scene. The longing for consistent changes additionally prompted the usage of the new bringing framework found in the diversion. Kitase has clarified that the reason behind the Sphere Grid is to give players an intelligent methods for expanding their characters' properties, to such an extent that they will almost certainly watch the advancement of those characteristics firsthand. The designers experienced trouble with the scene of Tidus and Yuna kissing, as they were not used to enlivening sentiment scenes. Visual Works chief Kazuyuki Ikumori expressed this was because of the utilization of 3D models in the scene. Due to the negative reaction from female individuals from staff, the scene was revamped on different occasions. 

"Last Fantasy X" denotes the first run through ordinary arrangement arranger Nobuo Uematsu has had any help with forming the score for an amusement in the principle arrangement. His kindred writers for "Conclusive Fantasy X" were Masashi Hamauzu and Junya Nakano. They were picked for the soundtrack dependent on their capacity to make music that was unique in relation to Uematsu's style while as yet having the capacity to cooperate. PlayOnline.com first uncovered that the diversion's signature tune was finished in November 2000. As Square still had not uncovered who might sing the melody, GameSpot by and by asked Uematsu, who facetiously addressed "It will be Rod Stewart." 

The amusement highlights three tunes with vocalized components, including the J-pop song "Suteki da ne", which means "Would it say it isn't Wonderful?". The verses were composed by Kazushige Nojima, and the music was composed by Uematsu. The melody is performed by Japanese people vocalist Rikki, whom the music group reached while scanning for an artist whose music mirrored an Okinawan air. "Suteki da ne" is likewise sung in Japanese in the English adaptation of "Conclusive Fantasy X". Like "Eyes on Me" from "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" and "Songs of Life" from "Definite Fantasy IX", an organized rendition of "Suteki da ne" is utilized as a feature of the closure subject. Different tunes with verses are the overwhelming metal opening subject, "Otherworld", sung in English by Bill Muir; and "Psalm of the Fayth", a common piece sung utilizing Japanese syllabary. 

The first soundtrack traversed 91 tracks on four plates. It was first discharged in Japan on August 1, 2001, by DigiCube, and was re-discharged on May 10, 2004, by Square Enix. In 2002, Tokyopop discharged a rendition of "Definite Fantasy X Original Soundtrack" in North America entitled "Last Fantasy X Official Soundtrack", which contained 17 tracks from the first collection on a solitary plate. Other related CDs incorporate "feel/Go dream: Yuna and Tidus" which, discharged in Japan by DigiCube on October 11, 2001, included tracks dependent on Tidus' and Yuna's characters. "Piano Collections Final Fantasy X", another accumulation of music from the amusement, and "Last Fantasy X Vocal Collection", an aggregations of selective character discoursed and tunes were both in Japan in 2002. 

The Black Mages, a band driven by Nobuo Uematsu that orchestrates music from "Definite Fantasy" computer games into a stone music style, have masterminded three pieces from "Conclusive Fantasy X". These are "Battle With Seymour" from their self-titled collection, distributed in 2003, and "Otherworld" and "The Skies Above", the two of which can be found on the collection "", distributed in 2004. Uematsu keeps on playing out specific pieces in his "Dear Friends: Music from Final Fantasy" show arrangement. The music of "Conclusive Fantasy X" has additionally showed up in different authority shows and live collections, for example, "20020220 Music from Final Fantasy", a live account of a symphony performing music from the arrangement including a few pieces from the amusement. An odd note; the unreleased/promotion CD-R (Instrumental) form of Madonna's "What It Feels Like For A Girl" done by Tracy Young was utilized in the blitzball arrangements. Furthermore, "Swing de Chocobo" was performed by the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra for the "Far off Worlds – Music from Final Fantasy" show visit, while "Zanarkand" was performed by the New Japan Philharmonic Orchestra in the "Visit de Japon: Music from Final Fantasy" show arrangement. Autonomous yet authoritatively authorized arrivals of "Conclusive Fantasy X" music have been made by such gatherings as Project Majestic Mix, which centers around masterminding computer game music. Choices additionally show up on Japanese remix collections, called "dojin music", and on English remixing sites. 

The Japanese adaptation of "Conclusive Fantasy X" incorporated an extra plate entitled "The Other Side of Final Fantasy", which included meetings, storyboards, and trailers for "Blue Wing Blitz", "Kingdom Hearts", and "", just as the primary film of "Definite Fantasy XI". A global form of the amusement was discharged in Japan as "Definite Fantasy X International" in January 2002, and in PAL areas under its unique title. It highlights content not accessible in the first NTSC discharges, incorporating fights with "Dull" adaptations of the amusement's ages and an aircraft battle with the superboss "Compensation". The Japanese arrival of "Conclusive Fantasy X International" likewise incorporates "Unceasing Calm", a 14-minute video cut spanning the tale of "Definite Fantasy X" with that of its spin-off, "Conclusive Fantasy X-2". The video cut was incorporated into a reward DVD for "Boundless Saga Collector's Edition" under the name "Everlasting Calm, Final Fantasy X-2: Prologue". It was first discharged in Europe on October 31, 2003, and highlighted English voice-overs. 

The universal and PAL renditions incorporate a reward DVD called "Past Final Fantasy", a circle incorporating interviews with the amusement's engineers, and two of the diversion's English voice on-screen characters, James Arnold Taylor (Tidus) and Hedy Burress (Yuna). Likewise included are trailers for "Conclusive Fantasy X" and "Kingdom Hearts", an idea and special craftsmanship exhibition for the diversion, and a music video of "Suteki da ne" performed by Rikki. In 2005, an aggregation highlighting "Last Fantasy X" and "Last Fantasy X-2" was discharged in Japan as "Definite Fantasy X/X-2 Ultimate Box". 

Square likewise delivered different kinds of stock and a few books, including "The Art of Final Fantasy X" and three "Ultimania" guides, a progression of artbooks/methodology guides distributed by DigiCube in Japan. They include unique fine art from "Definite Fantasy X", offer ongoing interaction walkthroughs, develop numerous parts of the amusement's storyline and highlight a few meetings with the diversion's architects. There are three books in the arrangement: "Last Fantasy X Scenario Ultimania", "Last Fantasy X Battle Ultimania", and "Last Fantasy X Ultimania Ω". On December 18, 2012 the diversion was re-discharged as a major aspect of the "Last Fantasy 25th Anniversary Ultimate Box" discharge. 

On September 13, 2011, Square Enix declared that "Last Fantasy X" would be re-discharged in superior quality for the PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Vita, in festivity of the diversion's 10-year commemoration. In January 2012, creation of the amusement had begun. Maker Yoshinori Kitase was by and by engaged with the generation of the amusement, wishing to chip away at its quality. On February 18, 2013 the primary film of the PlayStation Vita rendition of "Definite Fantasy X HD" was discharged, flaunting HD models of Tidus, Yuna, Bahamut and Yojimbo. On March 19, it was affirmed that the PS3 rendition of the amusement would likewise incorporate its continuation "X-2", and that it would be remastered in HD. The two HD remastered diversions for the PS3 were discharged under the title "Last Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster" on a solitary Blu-beam plate amusement, and was sold independently on diversion cartridges on Vita in Japan and sold together in North America, Europe and Australia as a set, with "FFX" being on a cartridge and "FFX-2" being incorporated as a download voucher. Downloadable forms are accessible for the two frameworks. Square Enix propelled an official site for the two HD remastered titles in March 2013. The recreations contain all the substance found in the "Global" variant, including "Interminable Calm" and "Last Mission". Amid the PlayStation China question and answer session that occurred in Shanghai on December 11, 2014, Square Enix affirmed "Last Fantasy X/X-2 HD Remaster" would be discharged for the PlayStation 4 in Spring 2015. It was discharged in North America on May 12, Australia and Japan on May 14 and Europe on May 15, 2015. It included upgraded designs in full HD (1080p), the alternative to change to the first soundtrack and the capacity to exchange spare records from the PS3 and PS Vita variants. After one year on May 12, 2016, it was discharged for Microsoft Windows by means of Steam. It incorporates an auto-spare element, 5 diversion promoters, 3 parameter changes, the choice to skip FMVs/cinematics, 4K goals help, sound settings and realistic alternatives. 

Square anticipated that the amusement should sell no less than two million duplicates overall attributable to the decreased PlayStation 2's fanbase, making it littler than the last three discharged titles. Be that as it may, inside four days of its discharge in Japan, the diversion had sold over 1.4 million duplicates in pre-orders, which set a record for the quickest selling console RPG. These figures surpassed the exhibitions of "Conclusive Fantasy VII" and "IX" in a tantamount period, and "Last Fantasy X" turned into the principal PlayStation 2 diversion to achieve two million and four million sold duplicates. In October 2007, the diversion was recorded as the eighth smash hit amusement for the PlayStation 2. "Last Fantasy X" sold over 2.26 million duplicates in Japan alone in 2001, and sold 6.6 million duplicates worldwide by January 2004. By July 2006, it had sold 2.3 million duplicates and earned $95 million in the United States (US$ million in ). "People to come" positioned it as the eleventh most elevated selling diversion propelled for the PlayStation 2, Xbox or GameCube between January 2000 and July 2006 in that nation. As of March 2013, the diversion had dispatched over 8.5 million duplicates worldwide on PS2. Starting at 2017, the PS2 adaptation of the diversion has sold more than 8 million duplicates around the world. 

"A definitive Hits" deal reissue of the amusement in September 2005 sold more than 131,000 duplicates in Japan before the finish of 2006. In October 2013, Square Enix declared "Last Fantasy X" and its continuation "Last Fantasy X-2" have together sold more than 14 million duplicates worldwide on PlayStation 2. 

"Last Fantasy X" got basic recognition by the media. The Japanese computer game magazine "Famitsu" and "Famitsu PS2" granted the diversion a close flawless 39/40 score. Another Japanese gaming magazine, "The Play Station", gave the diversion a score of 29/30. "Famitsu", "Famitsu PS2", and "The Play Station" communicated especially good reactions toward the diversion's storyline, illustrations, and motion pictures. The diversion keeps up a 92 out of 100 on Metacritic. Maker Shinji Hashimoto expressed that the general gathering to the diversion was "amazing", having gotten recognition and grants from the media. 

IGN's David Smith offered acclaim for the voice performing artists and the advancements in interactivity, especially with the modified fight and call frameworks, the alternative to change party individuals amid fight, and the character improvement and stock administration frameworks. They additionally felt that the amusement's designs had enhanced its forerunners inside and out, and that the diversion in general seemed to be "the most attractive round of the arrangement [and] seemingly the best-playing also". Greg Kasavin of GameSpot lauded the amusement's storyline, calling it shockingly intricate, its completion fulfilling, and its evasion of pretending diversion buzzwords honorable with Tidus saw as an engaging hero. He likewise commended the music, feeling it was "differing and appropriate to the different scenes in the amusement". Also, "GamePro" portrayed its character building framework and fight framework as "two of the best advancements in the arrangement". The visuals of the amusement were complimented by GameSpy's Raymond Padilla, who alluded to them as "choice", just as offering applause to the character models, foundations, cutscenes, and livelinesss. The voice throwing was adulated by Game Revolution who noted the majority of them were "better than expected" and called the music "rich". 

"Edge" evaluated the diversion significantly lower, reprimanding numerous parts of the amusement for being dreary and uninnovative and portraying the discourse as "disgusting", especially panning Tidus. Andrew Reiner of "Amusement Informer" reprimanded the diversion's linearity and that players were never again ready to venture to the far corners of the planet by chocobo or control the carrier. Eurogamer's Tom Bramwell noticed that the diversion's riddle fragments were "discouraging" and "pointless", and that in spite of the fact that the Sphere Grid was "a pleasant touch", it took up a lot of the amusement. The linearity of the diversion was emphatically remarked on by "GamePro" who expressed that a player would not be required to take an interest in side-missions or the small amusement to achieve the amusement's decision, discovering some of them unappealing. Diversion Revolution grumbled that cutscenes couldn't be skipped, some notwithstanding being excessively long. 

"Last Fantasy X" got the Best Game Award from the Japan Game Awards for 2001– 2002. In GameSpot's "Ideal and Worst Awards" from 2001, it came seventh in the class "Top 10 Video Games of the Year". Perusers of "Famitsu" magazine casted a ballot it the best round ever in mid 2006. "Last Fantasy X" came in fifth on IGN's "Main 25 PS2 Games of All Time" list in 2007 and 6th in "The Top 10 Best Looking PS2 Games of All Time". In a comparable rundown by GameSpy, the diversion assumed the 21st position. 1UP.com recorded its disclosure amid the completion as the third-greatest computer game spoiler, while IGN positioned the consummation as the fifth best pre-rendered cutscene. In a Reader's Choice made in 2006 by IGN, it positioned as the 60th-best computer game. It was likewise named one of the 20 basic Japanese pretending recreations by Gamasutra. It likewise set 43rd in "Amusement Informer"s rundown of "The Top 200 Games of All Time". In 2004, "Last Fantasy X" was recorded as a standout amongst the best amusements at any point made by GameFAQs, while in November 2005 it was casted a ballot as the twelfth "Best Game Ever". In a general outline of the arrangement, both GamesRadar and IGN recorded "Last Fantasy X" as the fourth best amusement. At the 6th yearly Interactive Achievement Awards in 2003, it was assigned for "Exceptional Achievement in Animation" and "Support Role-Playing Game of the Year". Toward the finish of 2007, it was named the ninth top of the line RPG by "Guinness World Records". Perusers from GameFaqs additionally casted a ballot it as Game of the Year amid 2001. In 2008, perusers of "Dengeki" magazine casted a ballot it the second best amusement at any point made. It was casted a ballot ahead of everyone else in "Famitsu"s and "Dengeki"s surveys of most tear-actuating rounds ever. Both Tidus and Yuna have been prevalent characters in diversions when all is said in done because of their identities and their sentimental relationship. 

Because of its business and basic achievement, Square Enix discharged an immediate spin-off of "Definite Fantasy X" in 2003, titled "Last Fantasy X-2". The spin-off is set two years after the finish of "Conclusive Fantasy X", setting up new clashes and quandaries and settling remaining details left by the first diversion. Despite the fact that the spin-off did not sell just as the first, 5.4 million units versus more than 8 million units, it can at present be viewed as a business achievement. Because of the title's prominence, Yoshinori Kitase and Kazushige Nojima chose to set up a plot-related association between "Definite Fantasy X" and "Last Fantasy VII", another generally welcomed" Final Fantasy" diversion. In 2013, after the arrival of the HD Remaster, Nojima expressed that he might want to see a second spin-off of "X", and if there were interest for it, it could occur. The minigame of blitzball has made it into different recreations, for example, "Last Fantasy X-2", and was referenced as a probability for "". 

The headways in depicting sensible feelings accomplished with "Definite Fantasy X" through voice-overs and point by point outward appearances have since turned into a staple of the arrangement, with "Conclusive Fantasy X-2" and other resulting titles, (for example, "", "Last Fantasy XII", "XIII" and its spin-offs, and "XV") additionally including this improvement. Crossing ongoing 3D conditions rather than an overworld map has likewise turned into a standard of the arrangement. "Last Fantasy X" can be viewed as a pioneer in 3-D RPG maps. 

As per Square Enix maker Shinji Hashimoto, cosplays of the characters have been well known. Takeo Kujiraoka, executive from "Dissidia Final Fantasy NT", respected "Last Fantasy X" as his most loved diversion from the establishment dependent on its passionate effect on the players just as the various measure of playable substance that outperforms 100 hours. Kujiraoka noticed that the staff got various demands by fans to incorporate Tidus' and Yuna's "Will" look as an elective plan yet Nomura said it was impractical as the organization would initially need to create "Last Fantasy X-3".