Last Fantasy VIII 

Last Fantasy VIII is a pretending computer game created and distributed by Square for the PlayStation support. Discharged in 1999, it is the eighth fundamental portion in the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. Set on an anonymous dreamland with sci-fi components, the diversion pursues a gathering of youthful soldiers of fortune, driven by Squall Leonhart, as they are drawn into a contention started by Ultimecia, a sorceress from the future who wishes to pack time. Amid the journey to vanquish Ultimecia, Squall battles with his job as pioneer and builds up a sentiment with one of his companions, Rinoa Heartilly. 

Advancement started in 1997, amid the English limitation of "Definite Fantasy VII". The diversion expands on the visual changes conveyed to the arrangement by "Definite Fantasy VII", including the utilization of 3D illustrations and pre-rendered foundations, while likewise leaving from many "Last Fantasy" conventions. It is the principal "Last Fantasy" to utilize reasonably proportioned characters reliably, include a vocal piece as its signature music, and do without the utilization of enchantment focuses for spellcasting. 

"Last Fantasy VIII" was for the most part generally welcomed by pundits, who applauded its creativity and visuals while censuring a portion of its interactivity components. It was casted a ballot the 22nd-best round ever in 2006 by perusers of the Japanese magazine "Famitsu". The amusement was a business achievement; it earned more than US$50 million in deals amid its initial 13 weeks of discharge, making it the quickest selling "Last Fantasy" title until "Definite Fantasy XIII", a multi-stage discharge. A Microsoft Windows port followed in 2000, with the expansion of the "Chocobo World" minigame. "Last Fantasy VIII" was re-discharged worldwide as a PSOne Classic on the PlayStation Store in 2009, for PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable, with help for PlayStation Vita in 2012. It was re-discharged by means of Steam in 2013 and in Japan in 2014. As of December 2013, it has sold more than 8.5 million duplicates around the world. 

Like the "Last Fantasy" recreations before it, "Last Fantasy VIII" comprises of three fundamental methods of play: the world guide, the field map, and the fight screen. The world guide is a 3D show in which the player may explore uninhibitedly over a little scale rendering of the amusement world. Characters traverse the world guide in an assortment of ways, including by foot, vehicle, Chocobo, train, and aircraft. The field map comprises of controllable 3D characters overlaid on at least one 2D pre-rendered foundations, which speak to natural areas, for example, towns or woods. The fight screen is a 3D model of an area, for example, a road or room, where turn-based battles between playable characters and CPU-controlled adversaries occur. The interface is menu-driven, as in past titles, yet with the commonplace weapon and protective layer frameworks evacuated and new highlights present, for example, the Junction framework. Additionally highlighted is a collectible card-based minigame called "Triple Triad". 

For "Definite Fantasy VIII", Hiroyuki Ito structured a fight framework dependent on brought beasts, called "Gatekeeper Forces", contracted in-amusement as "GF". Allocating ("junctioning") a GF onto a character enables the player to utilize fight directions past "Assault" with the fundamental weapon, for example, Magic, GF (to have a junctioned GF play out an activity), and Item. Past "Conclusive Fantasy" titles furnished each character with a constrained pool of enchantment focuses that were devoured by each spell; in "Definite Fantasy VIII", spells are procured ("drawn") either from adversaries in fight, Draw Points circulated all through the conditions, or by refining things and cards. Spells are then supplied on characters as evaluated stock (up to 100 for every spell and constrained to 32 particular spells for every character) and are expended one by one when utilized. Characters can likewise intersection (prepare) these spells onto their insights, for example, Strength, Vitality, and Luck—for different rewards, gave the character has junctioned a Guardian Force. The intersection framework's adaptability bears the player a wide scope of customization. 

These extended mechanics for request were a flight for the arrangement; in past titles, summons were consigned to a solitary activity amid fight. The intersection framework likewise goes about as a substitute for protection and embellishments, which were utilized in before amusements to alter character measurements. In addition, where prior titles expected weapons to be prepared and custom fitted to the character, each significant character in "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" includes a one of a kind weapon which can be updated, influencing its appearance, power, and Limit Break. 

As in "Definite Fantasy VII", characters in "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" have one of a kind capacities called "Point of confinement Breaks", which go from incredible assaults to help spells. While the characters in "Definite Fantasy VII" get Limit Breaks subsequent to bringing about noteworthy harm, in "Conclusive Fantasy VIII", Limit Breaks become accessible just at low wellbeing (hit focuses) under ordinary conditions. The enchantment spell "Emanation" expands the likelihood of Limit Breaks showing up, paying little respect to a character's residual hit focuses, while different status torments can avert Limit Breaks. They are like the Desperation Attacks of "Definite Fantasy VI", but progressively visit. "Last Fantasy VIII" likewise acquainted intelligent components with supplement Limit Break activitys. These intuitive successions, which change between character, weapon, and Limit Break, go from arbitrarily chosen enchantment spells to unequivocally planned catch inputs. Effectively finishing an intuitive arrangement expands the strength of the Limit Break. 

"Last Fantasy VIII" includes an encounter point (EXP) framework very unique in relation to past titles. The basics stay unaltered: characters gain EXP subsequent to crushing adversaries, which are regularly experienced haphazardly all through the amusement's surroundings. Acquiring a set measure of EXP makes the character gain a dimension, which expands their general insights. While past titles highlight an EXP bend that increments with each dimension (for example getting the chance to level 2 requires 200 EXP, level 3 requires 400, and so on.), characters in "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" gain a dimension in the wake of aggregating a level rate of 1000 points. Adversary levels depend on the gathering's normal dimension; in many RPGs, foe levels stay dormant. A few supervisors have level tops to keep the primary mission from winding up excessively troublesome. More elevated amount adversaries are fit for incurring and withstanding essentially more harm, may have extra unique assaults, and convey extra enchantment spells, taking into account Junctioning rewards which themselves far surpass the rewards conferred by level-gain. The amusement's one of a kind EXP and level framework enables a player to crush to most extreme Level 100 preceding notwithstanding starting the plot, however this will result in unmistakably increasingly amazing adversaries. 

Notwithstanding picking up levels, Guardian Forces win Ability Points (AP) after fights, which are naturally dispensed to extraordinary capacities that Guardian Forces can learn. At the point when a Guardian Force has taken in a capacity, that capacity winds up accessible for any character or the character party, just like the case with field capacities. These capacities enable characters to assault all the more effectively, refine enchantment spells from things, get detail rewards after step up, get to shops remotely, and utilize extra fight directions. 

The vast majority of "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" is determined to an anonymous dreamland. The setting is profoundly European in plan and highlights a mix of current and cutting edge regions. The planet contains five noteworthy landmasses, with Esthar, the biggest, covering the greater part of the eastern bit of the guide. Galbadia, the second-biggest mainland, deceives the west, and contains a considerable lot of the diversion's areas. The northernmost landmass is Trabia, an Arctic area. Situated generally amidst the world guide lies Balamb, the littlest mainland, the island on which the diversion starts. The rest of the landmass is little and generally forlorn, filled with harsh, rough territory brought about by the effect of a "Lunar Cry", an occasion where beasts from the moon tumble to the planet. The southernmost landmass incorporates an archipelago of broken segments of land that have floated separated. Islands and marine structures substance out the amusement world, and a bunch of off-world areas round out the playable regions. 

The six fundamental heroes of "Definite Fantasy VIII" are: Squall Leonhart, a maverick who maintains a strategic distance from weakness by concentrating on his obligation; Rinoa Heartilly, a straightforward and enthusiastic young lady who pursues her heart; Quistis Trepe, an educator with a genuine, quiet disposition; Zell Dincht, a lively military craftsman with an affection for sausage; Selphie Tilmitt, a bright young lady who adores prepares and pilots the carrier "Ragnarok"; and Irvine Kinneas, a marksman and consummate women's man. Everything except Rinoa are individuals from "SeeD", a world class military power based out of cutting edge establishments called Gardens. Briefly playable characters incorporate Laguna Loire, Kiros Seagill, and Ward Zabac, who show up in "flashback" arrangements; SeeD cadet-turned-foe Seifer Almasy; and sorceress Edea Kramer. The fundamental adversary is Ultimecia, a sorceress from the future who wishes to pack time. 

Squall and Seifer scar one another while preparing outside Balamb Garden. Then, the Republic of Galbadia attacks the Dollet Dukedom, driving Dollet to enlist SeeD. The school utilizes the mission as a last, most important test for its cadets; with the assistance of his teacher, Quistis, Squall passes the mission's essential and is gathered with Seifer and Zell. Selphie replaces Seifer mid-mission when the last defies requests and deserts his group. SeeD stops the Galbadian advance; Squall, Zell, and Selphie graduate to SeeD status, yet Seifer is taught for his defiance. Amid the graduation party, Squall meets Rinoa, whose identity is the inverse of his. At the point when doled out with Zell and Selphie to help Rinoa's opposition in Galbadian-involved Timber, Squall discovers that Sorceress Edea is behind Galbadia's ongoing threats. Compelled from Garden, Squall and his friends—joined by Rinoa, Quistis, and Irvine—endeavor to kill Edea. Amid the endeavor, Squall's gathering likewise discovers that Seifer has left Garden to turn into Edea's second-in-order. Edea endures the endeavor, cuts Squall in the shoulder with an ice shard, and keeps the gathering. 

After Squall's gathering get away, Edea crushes Trabia Garden in a retaliatory rocket strike and gets ready to assault Balamb Garden. Selphie postpones the dispatch while Squall's group comes back to Balamb Garden and actuates its versatile capacities to avoid the rockets. Greenery enclosure can't be controlled, be that as it may, and it collides with the docks at Fishermans' Horizon. While Garden is being fixed, Galbadia attacks the town looking for a young lady named Ellone, who had been remaining at Balamb Garden. Prior to leaving, Ellone uncovers that she has been "sending" Squall and his group into flashbacks set 17 years sooner in a vain exertion to adjust history. The scenes focus on Laguna and his companions as he develops from Galbadian fighter to town defender to pioneer of an Estharian opposition against Sorceress Adel. Ellone in the end escapes to Esthar, the world's mechanical superpower. 

In the mean time, Squall faces his own nerves energized by progressing improvements, for example, Headmaster Cid designating him as SeeD's new pioneer, and his expanding appreciation for Rinoa. Squall and his confidants discover that they, alongside Seifer and Ellone, were altogether raised (aside from Rinoa) in a shelter kept running by Edea; after inevitable partition, they later created amnesia because of their utilization of Guardian Forces. Cid and Edea had set up Garden and SeeD basically to crush degenerate sorceresses. After these disclosures, the powers of Balamb Garden rout the Galbadian Army, driven by Seifer, on board Galbadia Garden. Edea is likewise vanquished by SeeD; in any case, the gathering discovers that Edea is simply a reluctant host for Ultimecia, who intended to utilize Ellone to help accomplish time pressure. Ultimecia exchanges her forces to Rinoa; Edea endures, however Rinoa enters a trance like state. Squall goes to Esthar to discover Ellone, as he trusts that she can help spare Rinoa. 

While Rinoa is being treated on Esthar's space station, Ultimecia utilizes her to free Adel from an orbital jail. Ultimecia then requests Seifer to actuate the Lunatic Pandora office, impelling a Lunar Cry that sends Adel's control gadget to the planet. Having chosen Adel as her next host, Ultimecia deserts Rinoa in space. Squall saves her, and they profit to the planet for an abandoned starship and offer a sentimental minute; Ellone is caught by Galbadia presently. In the wake of getting, the gathering experiences Laguna, presently President of Esthar; he uncovers Dr. Odine's arrangement to permit Ultimecia to cast time pressure on their terms so that Ellone can send SeeD into Ultimecia's timespan. At Lunatic Pandora, Squall's group massacres Seifer, salvages Ellone, and kills Adel; Ultimecia has Rinoa and starts throwing time pressure. Ellone sends Squall's group into Ultimecia's period, where she is vanquished before time pressure can be completely accomplished. 

A diminishing Ultimecia makes a trip back so as to pass her forces to Edea, however Squall incidentally educates Edea of the ideas of Garden and SeeD that she will make. Squall is almost lost in the stream of time as he observes the starting points of the amusement's story, sporadic nebulous visions of Rinoa, and a nondescript picture of himself. With Rinoa's assistance, he recalls his recollections and comes back to the present. An apologetic Seifer reunites with Raijin and Fujin, Laguna and his companions visit his darling's grave, the SeeD celebrate at Balamb Garden, and Squall and Rinoa share a kiss under the twilight. 

Improvement of "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" started in 1997, amid the English-language interpretation of "Definite Fantasy VII". Similarly as with a significant part of the generation of "Definite Fantasy VII", arrangement maker and veteran Hironobu Sakaguchi filled in as the official maker, working essentially on the advancement of "" and leaving bearing of "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" to Yoshinori Kitase. Shinji Hashimoto was alloted to be the maker in Sakaguchi's place, while the diversion and fight framework were structured by Kitase and Hiroyuki Ito, separately. One of the improvement challenges experienced was having three ongoing characters investigating a situation in the meantime. The card amusement Triple Triad was imagined and executed by developer Kentarow Yasui. The idea was gotten from exchanging cards which is a famous leisure activity in certain pieces of Japan. Triple Triad was intended to keep the player's enthusiasm amid extended lengths without cutscenes. Initially, it was essentially about gathering cards however Yasui considered this excessively separated from the primary diversion and "asked" for the incorporation of a capacity to change cards into things. The diversion's absolute advancement costs were roughly ¥3 billion, which likened to around $16 million without expansion. The staff comprised of around 180 individuals. American confinement master Alexander O. Smith expressed because of an absence of correspondence with the advancement group, they were shocked that an IT worker utilized a GameShark to get to content documents for limiting to Western gatherings of people. 

From the earliest starting point, Kitase realized he needed a topical mix of imagination and authenticity. To this end, he intended to incorporate a cast of characters who had all the earmarks of being conventional individuals. Character planner and fight visual chief Tetsuya Nomura and craftsmanship executive Yusuke Naora endeavored to accomplish this impression through the consideration of practically proportioned characters—a takeoff from the overly twisted structures utilized in the past title. Also, Naora endeavored to improve the authenticity of the world through dominatingly brilliant lighting impacts with shadows circulated as suitable. Different estimates taken included actualizing rental vehicles for movement in-diversion, and the utilization of movement catch innovation to give the amusement's characters exact developments in the diversion's full movement video arrangements. The FMV groupings were made by a group of about 35 individuals, with the complete true to life run-time being assessed at over 60 minutes, around 20 minutes longer than the FMV arrangements in "VII". Movement catch was utilized to give a general authenticity to character development, yet the group favored manual activity over depending on movement catch. A noteworthy test was the specialized advances made since the arrival of "VII", and the go for increasingly reasonable characters. A noteworthy issue with the cutscenes was having ongoing character models moving crosswise over situations inside a FMV. 

In a meeting with "Famitsu", Naora portrayed that the diversion was commonly intended to be a "brilliant, new "Last Fantasy"." The fundamental reason was that the group had managed dim and "bizarre" symbolism with "VII". The planners wanted to reverse the environment of past diversions in the arrangement, which had sentiments of "light rising up out of dimness". This choice was simple for the designers to make, in light of the fact that the greater part of them had chipped away at "Definite Fantasy VII" and felt that another heading was adequate. The world plans were likewise created with the information that the majority of the staff were currently used to PC illustrations, which was not the situation with "Definite Fantasy VII". The engineers additionally noticed that with "Conclusive Fantasy VIII", they endeavored to "blend future, reality and dream." As a component of a subject wanted by Kitase to give the amusement a remote air, different structures were given to its areas utilizing the style of globally well-known spots, while likewise keeping up a dream climate. Motivation ran from antiquated Egyptian and Greek engineering, to the city of Paris, France, to an admired cutting edge European culture. Banners were likewise given to certain groups, their structures dependent on the gathering's history and culture. 

To keep up an outside environment, the characters of the amusement were intended to have dominatingly European appearances. The principal "Last Fantasy VIII" character made was Squall. Wanting to add a one of a kind edge to Squall's appearance and underscore his job as the focal character, Nomura gave him a scar over his forehead and the extension of his nose. As there was not yet a point by point history considered for the character, Nomura left the clarification for Squall's scar to situation author Kazushige Nojima. Squall was given a gunblade, an anecdotal revolver– sword cross breed that capacities principally as a sword, with an additional harming vibration highlight initiated by utilization of its weapon component, like a vibroblade. His character configuration was supplemented by a hide lining along the neckline of his coat, joined by Nomura as a test for the amusement's full movement video fashioners. Moreover, a few plans Nomura had recently drawn, yet had not yet utilized in a "Last Fantasy" amusement, were fused into "Conclusive Fantasy VIII". These were the plans of Edea, Fujin and Raijin. The last two had initially been intended for use in "Definite Fantasy VII", yet with the consideration of the Turks characters in that amusement, it was felt that Fujin and Raijin were superfluous. Nomura had structured Edea before the improvement of "Conclusive Fantasy VII", in view of the style of Yoshitaka Amano. For the Guardian Forces, Nomura felt they ought to be extraordinary creatures, without garments or other human-like ideas. This was risky, as he didn't need them to "become the real beasts", so he took incredible consideration in their structure. Leviathan was the first GF, made as a test and incorporated into an amusement demo. After it got a positive response from players, Nomura chose to make the rest of the groupings along these lines. 

The plot of "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" was brought about by Kitase, with the narratives for the characters given by Nomura and the real situation composed by Nojima. Amid the diversion's pre-generation, Nomura proposed the amusement be given a "school days" feel. Nojima as of now had a story as a primary concern in which the fundamental characters were a similar age; their thoughts coincided, accepting structure as the "Greenery enclosure" military foundations. Nojima arranged that the two playable gatherings highlighted in the diversion (Squall's present day gathering and Laguna's gathering from an earlier time) would be profoundly stood out from each other. This thought was passed on through the age and experience of Laguna's gathering, versus the adolescent and guilelessness of Squall's gathering. Nojima has communicated that the dynamic of players' associations with the hero is essential to him. Both "Last Fantasy VII" and "Last Fantasy VIII" include held, calm heroes as Cloud Strife and Squall. With "Conclusive Fantasy VIII", be that as it may, Nojima attempted to give players real understanding into what the character was considering; an immediate stand out from his treatment of "Definite Fantasy VII", which urged the player to conjecture. 

In March 1999, one month after the diversion's discharge, "Last Fantasy VIII Ultimania" was distributed, a book that includes an inside and out manual for "Definite Fantasy VIII" and meetings with the designers. An origami book was discharged in November 1999. On September 22, 1999, a CD-ROM titled "Last Fantasy VIII Desktop Accessories" was discharged. It contains work area symbols, PC backdrops, screensavers, and an email application. It moreover includes an independent version of the Triple Triad minigame, which enabled players to contend with each other through a neighborhood. 

Likewise in 1999, the partner dance scene of "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" was highlighted as a specialized demo for the PlayStation 2. In 2000, a PC adaptation was discharged for Windows. This port highlighted smoother designs, improved sound, and the incorporation of "Chocobo World", a minigame featuring Boko, a Chocobo included in one of the side-journeys in "Definite Fantasy VIII". For most North American and European players, the PC rendition of the amusement was the main methods for playing "Chocobo World", as the diversion was initially intended to be played by means of the PocketStation, a handheld support never discharged outside Japan. In 2009, "Last Fantasy VIII" was included to the PlayStation Store the PlayStation Network. 

On December 18, 2012, the diversion was re-discharged as a component of the "Last Fantasy 25th Anniversary Ultimate Box" Japanese bundle. An upscaled PC form was declared May 17, 2013, and was discharged on Steam December 5, 2013. 

Normal arrangement author Nobuo Uematsu composed the soundtrack for "Conclusive Fantasy VIII". He attempted to put together the tunes with respect to the enthusiastic substance of the scenes in which they would be played, declaring that communicating the feelings he wanted could easily compare to improving aptitudes: "I figure it will be a disgrace on the off chance that we won't most likely cry as we play our own amusement". He couldn't decide a character's feelings exclusively dependent on the plot, rather utilizing pictures of appearance and clothing—"It's imperative to know when their feelings are at their tallness, yet it more often than not takes until a month prior to discharge for them to complete the closure dialog...!" When IGN Music expressed that the music of "Definite Fantasy VIII" was dull and maybe impacted by the plot of the amusement, Uematsu said "the environment of music shifts relying upon story line, obviously, but on the other hand it's my aim to put different kinds of music into one diversion". The nonattendance of character topics found in the past two diversions was expected to Uematsu finding those of "Definite Fantasy VI" and "Last Fantasy VII" incapable. Uematsu thinks of it as sensible to have character topics if each character has a "feature" in the diversion, however he discovered "Last Fantasy VIII" just centered around Squall Leonhart and Rinoa Heartilly as a team, bringing about the "Eyes on Me" subject. 

The first soundtrack was discharged on four reduced plates by DigiCube in Japan on March 10, 1999, and by Square EA in North America as "Conclusive Fantasy VIII Music Collection" in January 2000. It was republished worldwide by Square Enix on May 10, 2004. A collection of symphonic courses of action of chosen tracks from the diversion was discharged under the title "Fithos Lusec Wecos Vinosec Final Fantasy VIII" on November 19, 1999, by DigiCube, and in this manner distributed on July 22, 2004, by Square Enix. The pieces were masterminded and led by Shirō Hamaguchi for a live ensemble. A gathering of piano plans performed by Shinko Ogata was discharged under the title "Piano Collections: Final Fantasy VIII" by DigiCube on January 21, 2000, and therefore re-distributed by Square Enix on July 22, 2004. 

The score is best known for two melodies: "Liberi Fatali", a Latin choral piece that is played amid the prologue to the diversion, and "Eyes On Me", a pop tune filling in as the amusement's subject, performed by Chinese vocalist Faye Wong. Close to the finish of the creation of "Conclusive Fantasy VII", the designers proposed to utilize a vocalist, however surrendered the thought because of an absence of thinking dependent on the diversion's topic and storyline. Be that as it may, Nobuo Uematsu figured a number would intently identify with the subject and characters of "Definite Fantasy VIII". This brought about the diversion's engineers sharing "endless" craftsmen, in the long run settling on Wong. Uematsu claims "her voice and inclination appear to coordinate my picture of the melody precisely", and that her ethnicity "fits the universal picture of Final Fantasy". After arrangements were made, "Eyes on Me" was recorded in Hong Kong with an ensemble. The tune was discharged as a CD single in Japan and sold more than 400,000 duplicates, setting the record for most noteworthy selling computer game music plate at any point discharged in that nation at the time. "Liberi Fatali" was played amid the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens amid the ladies' synchronized swimming occasion. 

The music of "Definite Fantasy VIII" has showed up in different authority "Last Fantasy" shows. These incorporate 2002's "20020220 Music from FINAL FANTASY", in which the Tokyo Philharmonic Orchestra played "Liberi Fatali", "Don't Be Afraid", "Love Grows", and "The Man with the Machine Gun", the 2004 "Visit de Japon" arrangement, which highlighted "The Oath", the "Dear Friends" arrangement that started that equivalent year and included "Liberi Fatali" and "Love Grows", and the 2005 "Additional Friends" show, which notwithstanding "Perhaps I'm a Lion". Later shows incorporate the "Voices – Music from Final Fantasy" 2006 show exhibiting "Liberi Fatali", "Angler's Horizon", and "Eyes on Me" and the universal "Far off Worlds" show visit that keeps on dating, which incorporates "Liberi Fatali", "Angler's Horizon", "Man with the Machine Gun", and "Love Grows". A few of these shows have delivered live collections too. Music from the diversion has likewise been played in non "Last Fantasy"- explicit shows, for example, the "Play! A Video Game Symphony" world visit from 2006 onwards, for which Nobuo Uematsu formed the opening exhibition that goes with every execution. 

"Last Fantasy VIII" got basic praise. Inside two days of its North American discharge on September 9, 1999, "Last Fantasy VIII" turned into the top-selling computer game in the United States, a position it held for over three weeks. It was likewise a hit in Japan and the UK. It netted an aggregate of more than $50 million in the 13 weeks to pursue, making it the quickest selling "Last Fantasy" title. In Japan, it sold generally 2.5 million units inside the initial four days of discharge. More than 6 million units were sold altogether before the finish of 1999. As of March 31, 2003, the amusement had sent 8.15 million duplicates around the world: 3.7 million in Japan and 4.45 million abroad. The opening cut scene in "Conclusive Fantasy VIII" was positioned second on "Amusement Informer"s rundown of "Top 10 Video Game Openings", and first by IGN. GameSpy recorded it as the fifteenth best realistic minute in computer games. IGN named the amusement's completion the third best of any diversion for the PlayStation, while UGO.com named it one of the arrangement's ideal and most paramount minutes. "Last Fantasy VIII" was casted a ballot by perusers of Japanese magazine "Famitsu" as the 22nd best round ever in 2006, and named one of the 20 basic Japanese pretending recreations by Gamasutra, expressing "[t]here's a ton that "Last Fantasy VIII" fouls up, however there's much more that it does well". As of December 2013, it has sold more than 8.5 million duplicates around the world. As indicated by Steam Spy, another 703,000 duplicates of the PC variant were sold by April 2018. 

Audits of the interactivity have been blended. IGN felt that it was the weakest part of the diversion, refering to its Guardian Force assault arrangements as "staggeringly realistic" however repetitive, slants resounded by "Electronic Gaming Monthly". They additionally viewed the fight framework as strongly muddled, yet refreshingly imaginative and something that "RPG devotees love to fixate on". "Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine" asserts that the diversion's Junction framework is a noteworthy imperfection because of dreary stocking of spells, while the computer game magazine "Edge" remarked that the fight framework comprises of a "befuddling" number of complicated choices and strategies that "most gamers will [...] relish". GameSpot lauded the amusement's fight framework, remarking that the "potential outcomes for customization [with the Junction system] are monstrous". 

When all is said in done, "Last Fantasy VIII" has been contrasted positively with its antecedents. In spite of the fact that scrutinizing the amusement's absence of voice overs for its characters, Game Revolution commended its storyline and consummation. As far as it matters for them, "Edge" named "Last Fantasy VIII" "an unquestionably more practiced amusement than "FFVII"". Then again, the magazine likewise felt that the amusement's length left its story unfit to "offer reliably solid exchange and sub-plots". Furthermore, it discovered a portion of the story's plot turns "not... reasonably controlled and arranged", abandoning it "hard not to welcome such... minutes with anything besides aloofness". Generally, "Edge" considered "Last Fantasy VIII" to be "one more remarkable version of SquareSoft's a long way from-conclusive dreams", condensing it as "tastefully surprising, infrequently not exactly convincing, and close unbeatable in degree and execution". "Electronic Gaming Monthly" offered comparative remarks, expressing that the amusement's character improvement "is the best of any RPG's" and that ""Final Fantasy VIII" is the apex of its classification." UGO.com expressed that while no other diversion in the arrangement had mixed the discussion that "Last Fantasy VIII" had and that it was defective, "Last Fantasy VIII" was a "challenging, pivotal amusement [...] distinctly the most unique reassure style RPG ever made". In 2002, IGN named it the seventh best title for the PlayStation, putting higher on the rundown than "Definite Fantasy VII"; the distribution felt that "Last Fantasy VIII" enhanced the qualities of its antecedent. 

The PC port got blended gathering. "Most extreme PC" lauded the full movement video successions as "marvelous", including that while the ongoing interaction took becoming acclimated to, they appreciated the cooperation stressed by it, and that the amusement's visual introduction added to its allure. GameSpy expressed that while the diversion was not an "enormous jump forward" from the past title, its ongoing interaction and visual intrigue worked for its advantage, however that on a PC the pre-rendered foundations seemed hazy and the controls at time troublesome with a console. GameSpot censured the diversion for not exploiting the capacities stood to PCs at the time, depicting the PlayStation form as both looking and sounding unrivaled, and prescribing that the title was "not worth purchasing period" for the PC. UGO.com likewise portrayed the port as substandard compared to its unique partner, including that its introduction was thus hindering to the gathering the amusement got overall. "PC Gaming World" commended a portion of the progressions made to the amusement in light of past titles and the incorporation of the Triple Triad sub-diversion, however vigorously reprimanded the port as "languid" and "disillusioning", expressing that it just served to underscore the first amusement's imperfections. Notwithstanding their protests, they named it the twentieth best round of 2000.