Assemblage Beth Elohim 

Assemblage Beth Elohim (), otherwise called the Garfield Temple and the Eighth Avenue Temple, is a Reform Jewish gathering situated at 274 Garfield Place and Eighth Avenue, in the Park Slope neighborhood of Brooklyn in New York City, United States. 

Established in 1861 as an increasingly liberal breakaway from Congregation Baith Israel, for the initial 65 years it endeavored four mergers with different gatherings, incorporating three with Baith Israel, all of which fizzled. The gathering finished its present Classical Revival synagogue working in 1910 and its "Jewish Deco" (Romanesque Revival and Art Deco) Temple House in 1929. These two structures were contributing properties to the Park Slope historically significant area, recorded as a New York City Landmark region and recorded on the National Register of Historic Places. 

The gathering experienced troublesome occasions amid the Great Depression, and the bank nearly abandoned its structures in 1946. Participation dropped altogether during the 1930s in light of the Depression, developed after World War II, and dropped again during the 1970s because of statistic shifts. Projects for youthful youngsters helped step Jewish families once again into the area and revive the participation. 

By 2006, Beth Elohim had more than 1,000 individuals, and, , it was the biggest and most dynamic Reform gathering in Brooklyn, the "most established Brooklyn assembly that keeps on working under its corporate name", and its podium was the most seasoned in nonstop use in any Brooklyn synagogue. In 2009, it was recorded by "Newsweek" as one of America's 25 "Most Vibrant" Jewish gatherings. 

Assemblage Beth Elohim was established on September 29, 1861 by 41 German and Bohemian Jews at Granada Hall on Myrtle Avenue, individuals from Congregation Baith Israel who had moved toward becoming alienated after they endeavored and neglected to change practice there. The synagogue name was picked by a vote of the enrollment, and the administrations were driven by George Brandenstein, who filled in as cantor, and was paid $150 (today $) a year. Brandenstein was procured as cantor, not rabbi, on the grounds that "the assemblage thought having a cantor was increasingly imperative", however by and by he filled the two jobs. A "shamash" (the likeness a sexton or beadle) was likewise enlisted for $75 every year. 

While looking for a lasting area, the gathering kept on meeting and hold administrations at Granada Hall. People sat together, in contrast to the conventional separate seating, and administrations were led in German and Hebrew. Inside a couple of months, the previous Calvary Protestant Episcopal church on Pearl Street, among Nasau and Concord, was obtained for $5,100 (today $) and redesigned for another $2,000 (today $). The new structure was devoted on March 30, 1862, and the assemblage wound up known as "the Pearl road synagogue". By 1868, enrollment had expanded to 103, and by 1869, just about 100 understudies went to the Sunday school. 

Beth Elohim had initially directed its administrations in the customary way, yet on February 19, 1870 "introduced the moderate change administrations." While trying to stem rebellions and make the synagogue progressively alluring to existing and potential individuals, that equivalent month the assembly obtained, for $55,000 (today $), the structure of the Central Presbyterian Church on Schermerhorn Street close Nevins Street. Adequate quantities of new individuals did not, in any case, appear, and the assembly was compelled to surrender its new structure, relinquish its $4,000 (today $) store, and come back to the Pearl Street building. Rather, the Pearl road building was remodeled, and an organ and choir included. 

Beth Elohim casted a ballot to resign Brandenstein in 1882, an activity which made some contention both inside the gathering, and among other Brooklyn synagogues. More youthful individuals from the gathering found no particular blame with Brandenstein, however needed "a change", and prevailing with regards to expelling him and choosing a completely new leading group of officers. The last vote was 29 in support, 21 against, out of a complete enrollment of 53 or 54 (just the male heads of families were considered individuals amid this time). Solomon Mosche was enlisted to supplant Brandenstein. 

In April 1883, Baith Israel, Beth Elohim, and Temple Israel, Brooklyn's three driving synagogues, endeavored an amalgamation. This was the third such endeavor; the past two had fizzled when the individuals couldn't concede to synagogue custom. The joined gathering, which would buy new premises, would have 150 individuals; individuals would be discounted a large portion of the price tag of the seats in their current structures. Mosche and the rabbi of Temple Israel were to part the workplaces of rabbi and cantor: Baith Israel, at the time, had no rabbi. Despite the fact that this endeavor likewise bombed, in the next year the three assemblages did consolidated exercises, including an outing and a festival of the 100th birthday celebration of Moses Montefiore. Participation around then still drifted around 50. 

Mosche became sick in 1884, and subsequent to being unfit to serve for a half year, was supplanted by 26-year-old William Sparger. Regardless of his ailment, Mosche lived until age 75, kicking the bucket on November 3, 1911. 

Sparger was Hungarian by birth, an alum of the Prince Rudolph University of Vienna, and, as indicated by a contemporary "New York Times" article, "belong[ed] to the outrageous liberal school of Hebrew philosophy". He acquainted changes with the administrations, including improving the choir, getting another petition book, including Friday night administrations, and the "radical change" of making the lesson the most imperative piece of the administration. He spoke to more youthful gatherers, and, under his bearing, the synagogue encountered a vast increment in participation. 

In spite of the fact that more seats had been added to the synagogue by narrowing the passageways, because of Sparger's advancements Beth Elohim exceeded its Pearl Street building, and another one was looked for. Following a three-year seek, in 1885 Beth Elohim acquired the structure of the Congregational Church at 305 State Street (close Hoyt) for $28,000 (today $), and moved in that year. 

In 1891, Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan offered Sparger a compensation bigger than Beth Elohim could match, and he moved there. Beth Elohim in this way split the workplaces of cantor and rabbi, procuring G. Taubenhaus as rabbi and the Mauritz Weisskopf as cantor. 

Conceived in Warsaw, Taubenhaus could peruse the Pentateuch easily in Hebrew at age four, and started concentrating the Talmud at age six. He went to the "Berlin religious theological school" (likely the Hochschule für pass on Wissenschaft des Judentums) for a long time. After emigrating to the United States, he served at Kehillah 

Kodesh Bene Yeshurum in Paducah, Kentucky, Temple Israel in Dayton, Ohio, and Congregation B'nai Israel in Sacramento, California, before turning into the rabbi of the Shaari Zedek ("Gates of Hope") synagogue in New York. Contrasts with the last assembly prompted his renunciation there in a matter of seconds before being procured by Beth Elohim. Taubenhaus' sibling Joseph would be delegated rabbi at Baith Israel, Beth Elohim's parent gathering, in 1893, and another sibling, Jacob/Jean Taubenhaus, was a popular French chess ace. 

When of Taubenhaus' enlisting, Beth Elohim was, as per the "Brooklyn Eagle", "perceived as the main Hebrew synagogue of Brooklyn". The perspectives on the assemblage in regards to "kashrut" (the Jewish dietary laws) were by then very liberal; in 1892, when Hyman Rosenberg was removed as rabbi of Brooklyn's Beth Jacob synagogue for eating ham, Taubenhaus expressed that he didn't trust his gathering would oust him for doing likewise. 

In 1895, Samuel Radnitz succeeded Weisskopf as cantor, a job he filled until his demise in 1944. 

By the turn of the twentieth century English had supplanted German in the administrations and authority minutes, and the second long periods of occasions wiped out. The synagogue had 106 individuals and yearly incomes of around $8,000 (today $), and its Sunday School had roughly 300 understudies. 

Taubenhaus left the assemblage in 1901, and the next year Alexander Lyons was procured as the gathering's first American-conceived rabbi. Lyons proceeded to serve the assembly for a long time, until his passing in 1939 at 71 years old. 

In 1907, the ladies' assistant was established; up to that point, however seating was blended, ladies had little state in the running of the synagogue. That year the gathering had 110 part families and yearly incomes of $9,259.55 (today $). The congregational school, which held classes one day seven days, had 15 educators and 200 understudies. 

In 1908, the assemblage obtained a by part on the upper east corner of Garfield Place and Eighth Avenue. Plans were made to erect another synagogue working there with a haven seating 1,500 individuals, at a foreseen expense of $100,000 (today $). The structure was planned and worked by the Manhattan engineering firm of Simon Eisendrath and B. Horowitz (or Horwitz). Development started in 1909 and finished in 1910. Planned in the Classical Revival style, this "great model" of "somber neo-Classical glory" had five sides, speaking to the five books of Moses, an asylum that eventually sat 1,200, and was topped by a saucer arch. The passage confronted the side of Garfield and Eighth, and cut in stone over it was the Biblical refrain part (). The cellar held study halls, an amphitheater, and regulatory workplaces, and behind the Torah ark was a blend Rabbi's examination/Board meeting room. The State Street building was sold to Congregation Mount Sinai. 

1909 was likewise the year Judah Leon Magnes proposed and established his "Kehilla", an "exhaustive common association for the Jews of New York", which worked until 1922. Lyons restricted its creation, contending that Jews in New York were excessively assorted to coincide in one association with a solitary arrangement of measures, that Jews ought not sort out as Jews for anything aside from absolutely religious purposes, and that in any occasion Reform Judaism was the future and Orthodox Judaism would not endure. As Lyons put it, 

To me Reform Judaism is a powerful conviction. I trust it to be the religion of the Jewish future, while I view conventionality as a survival that may have an electrifies life once in a while, yet in general is damned. 

By 1919, Beth Elohim had 133 part families. The congregational school, which held classes once per week, had 305 understudies and 16 instructors. 

Arrangements to converge with Union Temple (the successor to Temple Israel) were begun in 1925. An affirmation vote in the end passed, and the approaching merger was declared in the "Brooklyn Eagle". Be that as it may, more youthful gatherers dreaded lost character, and constrained a withdrawal. 

Rather, the gathering raised assets for a second structure, and in 1928– 1929 constructed the six-story Temple House (utilized for every single congregational action) on the corner inverse the primary asylum. Structured by Mortimer Freehof and David Levy, the cast stone structure's engineering style was "Jewish Deco", a blend of Romanesque Revival and Art Deco enhancing shapes that was regular in Jewish structures of the period. Romanesque highlights incorporated the fenestrations, while an unmistakable Art Deco include was "the figure of Moses and the Tablets of Law, accentuating the side of the rooftop parapet." The entryway and overhang at the east end of the structure had "a particularly Moorish flavor, highlighting representative trimming: the Star of David, the Menorah, and the Lion of Judah." The names of real figures from the "Tanakh" (Hebrew Bible) were engraved on the Garfield Place veneer, and the Biblical stanzas "" () on the Eighth Avenue exterior. The structure was additionally brightened with bas-reliefs of Jonah being gulped by an incredible fish and Babylonian charioteers. It housed a 125-situate church, an extensive dance hall, social lobbies, study halls for the religious school, meeting rooms, regulatory workplaces, a library, handball courts, a gym, and a pool. 

Lyons took on various causes during the 1920s. He worked with Bishop David Greer and Rabbi Stephen Wise to uncover conditions in New York's apartments, separated himself from Tammany Hall hopefuls, attempted to verify a re-preliminary for Leo Frank, and restricted a portion of the perspectives on Samuel Gompers. In 1912, Lyons was an establishing individual from the Eastern Council of Reform Rabbis, an association of Reform rabbis from the Eastern United States that was made notwithstanding restriction from the Central Conference of Reform Rabbis. In 1919 he pulled back from the Brooklyn Victory Celebration Committee (praising the Allied triumph in World War I) and asked that his contributed assets be given rather to the Red Cross; numerous board individuals inevitably surrendered in challenge over the obvious politicization of the occasion, and its control by William Randolph Hearst. 

Isaac Landman, an alum of Hebrew Union College, joined Lyons as rabbi of Beth Elohim in 1931. Conceived in Russia in 1880, Landman had gone to the United States in 1890. In 1911, with the help of Jacob Schiff, Julius Rosenwald, and Simon Bamberger, he established a Jewish ranch settlement in Utah, and amid World War I he was "said to be the principal Jewish minister in the United States Army to serve on outside soil". An innovator in Jewish– Christian ecumenism, he was proofreader of "American Hebrew Magazine" from 1918, filled in as the agent of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations (presently Union for Reform Judaism) to the 1919 Paris Peace Conference, and in the late 1930s and mid 1940s was editorial manager of the new ten volume "All inclusive Jewish Encyclopedia". 

Landman had additionally been a noticeable adversary of Zionism: when, in 1922, the United States Congress was thinking about the Lodge– Fish goals in help of the Balfour Declaration, Landman and Rabbi David Philipson had exhibited the Reform development's (at that point) hostile to Zionist position to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. Landman additionally printed numerous feelings against the goals and Zionism in his "American Hebrew Magazine". The bill was in the long run consistently bolstered by the two places of Congress, and affirmed by President Harding. 

Amid the Great Depression synagogue participation diminished fundamentally; encountering budgetary challenges, the assembly quit paying its home loan. By and by, Beth Elohim was not totally doomed; in 1931 it opened its Academy of Adult Jewish Education, which "offered courses in Bible, religion and contemporary Jewish life", and worked all through the Depression. By 1937 the assembly had chosen Lyons "rabbi forever". 

In 1938 Lyons made normal reason with Thomas Harten, the dark minister of Holy Trinity Baptist Church. Addressing a blended black– Jewish gathering of people at the congregation, Lyons educated the audience members that he was intending to go to the second Joe Louis versus Max Schmeling confining match request to dissent Adolf Hitler's "see that a session between a German and a Negro was inappropriate". Lyons impugned the Nazi racial thoughts, which he noted oppressed blacks just as Jews, and urged the crowd to blacklist all German-made products until "Hitler wakes up". 

Lyons kicked the bucket the next year, and Landman filled in as sole rabbi. After his passing, the Central Conference of American Rabbis depicted Lyons as the "senior member of the Brooklyn rabbinate from the perspective of administration". 

The synagogue's fortunes improved during the 1940s, however in 1946, its bank took steps to abandon its structures, fully expecting their deal to the neighborhood Catholic ward, as the assembly had not paid the home loan in numerous years. The assembly prevailing with regards to persuading the bank to re-arrange its home loan, and lessen the extraordinary advance, and Max Koeppel drove a drive to pay it off totally. 

Eugene Sack, the dad of Second Circuit Court of Appeals judge Robert D. Sack, joined Landman as rabbi in 1946. While filling in as associate rabbi of Congregation Rodeph Shalom of Philadelphia, Sack had been instrumental in the establishing of the Reform development's National Federation of Temple Youth in 1939, and had displayed a paper at its first biennial tradition. Beginning in 1943 he went through year and a half in the Pacific Theater of Operations of World War II as a military pastor; at one point he needed to substitute peach juice for Passover wine. 

Sack had likewise recently been associated with against Zionist endeavors among the Reform rabbinate. In 1942 the Central Conference of American Rabbis had relinquished its previous enemy of Zionist position, and received a goals supporting the formation of a Jewish armed force in Palestine, to battle nearby other Allied armed forces, and under Allied order. Sack and other noticeable Reform rabbis contradicted this; meeting on March 18, 1942, they concurred "there was a need to revive Reform Judaism, to restrict Jewish patriotism, and to promote their perspective". They arranged "for a gathering of non-Zionist Reform Rabbis to talk about the issues that go up against Judaism and Jews on the planet crisis", to be held in Atlantic City. 36 rabbis in the end went to the two-day meeting on June 1, 1942, including Beth Israel's Landman. The gathering prompted the development of the counter Zionist American Council for Judaism, "the main American Jewish association shaped for the particular reason for battling Zionism and contradicting the foundation of a Jewish state in Palestine." 

Landman passed on abruptly in 1946, leaving Sack to head Beth Elohim alone; Sack would inevitably fill in as rabbi for a long time. Richard Harvey additionally joined as cantor during the 1940s; he would serve until his demise during the 1970s. 

After the war, Beth Elohim enabled ladies to turn out to be full individuals, conceding them full casting a ballot benefits and enabling them to hold office. The gathering in this manner chose Jeanette Marks as a trustee. As of now the causes of the participation started to change, as Jews of Eastern European drop began joining the gathering. 

In the late 1940s the focal vault roof of the primary asylum split, and must be fixed. Around then the podium was likewise reconstructed, with the goal that the rabbi and cantor had separate lecterns. Underneath the haven ran an underground stream which would consistently flood, prompting flooding issues. The flooding was fixed during the 1950s with the establishment of check valves, and a solid chunk floor was introduced. Despite the fact that the plan was to give usable space in the storm cellar, it was infrequently utilized. 

By 1953, Beth Elohim had developed to more than 700 families, and the religious school had more than 550 understudies. During the 1960s, be that as it may, enrollment declined, as youthful families moved to suburbia. 

In 1970, the gathering again experienced challenges, "looked with diminishing enrollment and distressing prospects". The individuals, notwithstanding, made one of the most punctual nursery schools in the area, which, alongside the Brownstone Revival development in Park Slope, helped move Jewish families over into the sanctuary and renew the enrollment. One of those youthful families was that of Gerald I. Weider, a youthful rabbi who joined the synagogue's staff in 1978. 

A local of the Bronx, Weider moved on from Rutgers University, and was appointed at Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati in 1973 (he would be conceded a Doctor of Divinity degree by Hebrew Union College in 1998). Before joining Beth Elohim, he filled in as Assistant Rabbi of Temple Ohabei Shalom of Brookline, Massachusetts, and as the Associate Rabbi of Washington Hebrew Congregation in Washington, D.C. At Beth Elohim, he concentrated on programming and administrations for urban Jewish families. Under his initiative, Beth Elohim opened after– school and early youth focuses in 1978, and multi day camp the next year, all housed in the Temple House. 

The 1970s likewise observed an arrival to increasingly customary practices in the administration, under Weider's direction. A few individuals started wearing head covers in the asylum, some Hebrew supplications were added to the Sabbath administration, and the Reform development's new High Holy Days petition book "The Gates of Repentance" was received. The synagogue building and Temple House were contributing properties to the Park Slope architecturally significant area, which was recorded as a New York City Landmark locale in 1973, and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1980. 

In 1985, Weider and Beth Elohim, in collaboration with the rabbis of the Park Slope Jewish Center and Congregation Baith Israel Anshei Emes, proposed opening a liberal Jewish day school in Brooklyn. In spite of the fact that housed at Beth Elohim, it would not be associated with a particular Jewish development, and was expected for kids from all parts of Judaism. Arranging started vigorously in 1994; the school was demonstrated on New York's Abraham Joshua Heschel School, as an outgrowth of Beth Elohim's preschool program. The aim was to begin with just first grade in 1995, however reach out to eighth grade by 2000. At the time Beth Elohim had around 500 part families and 141 kids in the preschool. The school opened in 1995, and proceeded for a long time, developing to 38 understudies, before moving to new premises and getting to be autonomous under the name "Hannah Senesh Community Day School". 

During the 1990s Beth Elohim's structures were fixed and revamped various occasions. The asylum roof split in the mid 1980s, and administrations were held in Temple House for a period. The assemblage mounted a "Spare our Sanctuary" crusade in 1982, and fixed the roof. During the 1980s Beth Elohim additionally restored the Moses recolored glass window, and painted the primary asylum. The assembly reestablished and remodeled its structures in 1990, and in 1992 did crisis reclamation work to the exterior of Temple House and reestablished the seats. In 1997 the synagogue started its "Kadimah Capital Campaign", which was planned to raise assets to fix and redesign the structures. By 1999, the gathering had reestablished Temple House's exterior, remade the crumbled Garfield St. entrance, made passage into the synagogue incapacitated available, included a multipurpose space and study halls in the storm cellar of the asylum, and wanted to include a fifth floor for more study halls. That year Sack (by then Rabbi Emeritus) passed on; the year prior to his demise his child, Robert, at his acceptance as a Second Circuit judge, had portrayed his dad as "the most receptive man he had ever known". 

Janet Leuchter joined as cantor in 2001. A local of Vineland, New Jersey, and 1999 alumni of Hebrew Union College, she had recently filled in as cantor of Temple Avodah in Oceanside, New York. 

Weider resigned as senior rabbi in 2006, following 28 years of administration. He was prevailing by Andy Bachman. Around then, Beth Elohim had more than 500 individuals. In 2007, the synagogue was a victor of the Union for Reform Judaism's Congregation of Learners grant for medium size synagogues, for "those synagogues that give an outstanding situation of fluctuated and exhaustive learning openings and have pervaded their synagogue networks with a culture of learning". 

In 2009, Beth Elohim was depicted as the biggest and most dynamic Reform assembly in Brooklyn. Noticeable individuals included U.S. Representative Chuck Schumer. In April of that year, Beth Elohim was recorded by "Newsweek" as one of America's 25 "Most Vibrant" Jewish assemblies. In September, only four days before Yom Kippur, a piece of the asylum roof crumbled. Nobody was harmed, yet the asylum must be shut. The adjacent Old First Reformed Church—with which Beth Elohim had close ties since the 1930s—offered its premises for the occasion (Sunday night and Monday), and obliged more than 1000 admirers. The day preceding the occasion, the synagogue was picketed by individuals from the Westboro Baptist Church, who yelled racist and hostile to gay trademarks. 

, Beth Elohim was the "most seasoned Brooklyn assembly that keeps on working under its corporate name", and its podium was the most seasoned in nonstop use in any Brooklyn synagogue. Its rabbis were Andy Bachman, Shira Koch Epstein, and Marc Katz, the rabbi emeritus was Gerald Weider, and the cantor was Joshua Breitzer. 

Bachman, an alum of University of Wisconsin– Madison with a 1996 rabbinic appointment from Hebrew Union College, moved toward becoming Beth Elohim's first new senior rabbi in 25 years on October 25, 2006. Before getting to be senior rabbi he had recently been an instructor there from 1993 to 1998. A supporter of more conventionalism in the Reform development, in 2002 he began a little, increasingly customary, Hebrew-centered spinoff petition gather at Beth Elohim, and has spoken for a progressively conventional sacrament. Bachman and his significant other, Rachel Altstein, have been instrumental in bringing 20-and 30-year-olds into the synagogue, and in December 2007, Bachman was named one of "The Forward's" "Forward 50". In 2008 he was an ordinary supporter of the Washingtonpost.Newsweek Interactive site. Epstein, conceived in the Bronx and brought up in New Milford, Connecticut, went to Wesleyan University and Hebrew Union College, and filled in as the organizer of the Institute for Reform Zionism. In 2008 she was an individual from "Rabbis for Obama", a cross-denominational gathering of in excess of 300 American rabbis supporting Barack Obama's 2008 presidential crusade. Barrington Rhode Island local Marc Katz moved on from Tufts University and learned at Hebrew Union College in Jerusalem before getting to be Beth Elohim's rabbinic understudy in 2009. He at present fills in as the gathering's Associate Rabbi. 

On September 22, 2013, Beth Elohim commended its 150th commemoration and devoted another "Sefer Torah". Individuals from Beth Elohim expressed it was "the main Torah in New York City to be finished by a lady". 

In June 2015, Andy Bachman left to join the 92nd Street Y as the Director of Jewish Content and Community Ritual, and furthermore, he established "Water Over Rocks," a non-benefit committed to memory and city obligation. In July 2015, Rachel Timoner turned into the Senior Rabbi. 

Brooklyn Eagle, no byline 

New York Times, no byline 

Other