Carnivàle 

Carnivàle is an American TV arrangement set in the United States Dust Bowl amid the Great Depression of the 1930s. The arrangement, made by Daniel Knauf, kept running for two seasons somewhere in the range of 2003 and 2005. In following the lives of different gatherings of individuals in a voyaging fair, Knauf's story consolidated a disheartening environment with components of the dreamlike in depicting battles among great and detestable and between unrestrained choice and predetermination. The show's folklore drew upon topics and themes from conventional Christianity and gnosticism together with Masonic legend, especially that of the Knights Templar request. 

"Carnivàle" was created by HBO and publicized between September 14, 2003, and March 27, 2005. Its maker, Daniel Knauf, likewise filled in as official maker alongside Ronald D. Moore and Howard Klein. Jeff Beal formed the first accidental music. Scratch Stahl and Clancy Brown featured as Ben Hawkins and Brother Justin Crowe, separately. The show was taped in Santa Clarita, California and adjacent Southern California areas. 

Early surveys lauded "Carnivàle" for style and inventiveness however scrutinized the methodology and execution of the story. The primary scene set a group of people record for a HBO unique arrangement and drew strong appraisals through the principal season. At the point when the arrangement demonstrated unfit to support these evaluations in its second season, the arrangement was dropped. An expected six-season run was along these lines stopped by four seasons. 

On the whole, 24 scenes of "Carnivàle" were communicated. In 2004 the arrangement won five Emmys out of fifteen designations. The show got various different assignments and grants somewhere in the range of 2004 and 2006. 

The two periods of "Carnivàle" happen in the Depression-time Dust Bowl somewhere in the range of 1934 and 1935, and comprise of two fundamental plotlines that gradually merge. The first includes a young fellow with weird recuperating powers named Ben Hawkins (Nick Stahl), who joins a voyaging jamboree when it goes close to his home in Milfay, Oklahoma. Before long, Ben starts having surrealistic dreams and dreams, which set him on the trail of a man named Henry Scudder, a wanderer who ran into the jamboree numerous prior years, and who obviously had irregular capacities like Ben's own. 

The second plotline spins around a Father Coughlin-esque Methodist minister, Brother Justin Crowe (Clancy Brown), who lives with his sister Iris (Amy Madigan) in California. He shares Ben's prophetic dreams and gradually finds the degree of his own ridiculous forces, which incorporate twisting people to his will and making their transgressions and most prominent disasters show as unnerving dreams. Sure that he is doing God's work, Brother Justin completely dedicates himself to his religious obligations, not understanding that his definitive enemy Ben Hawkins and the fair are inflexibly moving nearer. 

Daniel Knauf considered the underlying content for the show somewhere in the range of 1990 and 1992 when he was unsatisfied with his activity as a Californian medical coverage merchant and wanted to turn into a screenwriter. He had dependably been keen on fairs and noticed that this subject had seldom been performed on film. Knauf's encounters of growing up with an incapacitated dad who was not generally acknowledged as an ordinary human unequivocally educated the story and its treatment of monstrosities. 

Knauf named the expected element film content "Carnivàle", utilizing a surprising spelling for an increasingly amazing look. Knauf had plotted the story's general terms just as a few plot subtleties from right off the bat and knew the story goal until the last scene. Nonetheless, the subsequent 180-page long content was double the length of an average element film content, Knauf still felt that it was too short to even think about doing his story equity. He in this manner retired the screenplay as a learning background. Meanwhile, Hollywood studios dismissed everything except one of Knauf's different contents, regularly to be "excessively strange." 

In the mid-1990s, Knauf met a couple of Writers Guild TV scholars who urged him to reexamine "Carnivàle" as a TV arrangement. Knauf transformed the content's first demonstration into a pilot scene, in any case, having no contacts in the TV business, he was compelled to hold the task again and come back to his ordinary occupation. A couple of years after the fact, subsequent to understanding that his protection profession was not working out, he chose to give his screenwriting endeavors a last shot by offering the "Carnivàle" pilot on his site. The content was in this manner sent to Howard Klein by Scott Winant, a shared companion of the two men. After a few gatherings and discussions, Klein felt sure that "Carnivàle" would make a decent rambling TV arrangement that could keep going for a long time. Klein conveyed it to the consideration of Chris Albrecht and Carolyn Strauss of HBO, who were promptly open. The system esteemed Knauf excessively unpracticed in the TV business to give him full command over the financial plan, and designated Ronald D. Moore as showrunner. (Knauf supplanted Moore after one season when Moore left for the reconsidered "Battlestar Galactica".) 

The pilot scene, which was shot over a time of 21 days, filled in as the reason for extra tweaking of planned story lines. Long inventive exchanges occurred among the scholars and the system, prompting the delay of the shooting of the second scene for fourteen months. One noteworthy change was the expansion of additional material for Brother Justin's side of the story. Sibling Justin was initially imagined as a settled evangelist, and as a repetitive character as opposed to a customary one. In any case, in the wake of examining the fundamental form of the pilot, Knauf and the makers understood that there was no space for Justin to develop in a TV arrangement. Thus, it was chosen to make Brother Justin a conventional Methodist clergyman in a community, setting him back in his vocation by around a couple of years. Growing Brother Justin's job opened new potential outcomes, and his sister Iris was made as a supporting character. Little was changed on Ben Hawkins' side with the exception of the expansion of the cootch (striptease) family; a "Carnivàle" advisor had elated the makers by pointing out his exploration about families overseeing cootch appears during the 1930s. 

The "Carnivàle" story was initially expected to be a set of three of "books", comprising of two seasons each. This arrangement did not work out as intended, as HBO dropped the show after the initial two seasons. Each season comprises of twelve scenes. 

Airing on HBO profited "Carnivàle" in a few different ways. Since HBO does not depend on business breaks, "Carnivàle" had the imaginative opportunity to differ in scene length. Despite the fact that the scenes found the middle value of a runtime of 54 minutes, the scenes "A sleeping disorder" and "Old Cherry Blossom Road" were 46 minutes and 59 minutes, individually. HBO planned roughly US$4 million for every scene, significantly more than most TV arrangement get. 

"Carnivàle" 1930s' Dust Bowl setting required huge research and verifiable advisors to persuade, which was made conceivable with HBO's solid budgetary sponsorship. Subsequently, surveys adulated the look and creation plan of the show as "immaculate," "marvelous" and as "a flat out visual shocker." In 2004, "Carnivàle" won four Emmys for craftsmanship heading, cinematography, ensembles, and hairstyling. 

To give a feeling of the dry and dusty condition of the Dust Bowl, smoke and earth were continually blown through cylinders onto the set. The on-screen characters' garments were worn out and soaked in earth, and "Carnivàle" had around 5,000 individuals costumed in the show's first season alone. The imaginative group tuned in to 1930s' music and radio and read old Hollywood magazines to get the period's sound, language, and slang right. The workmanship office had a broad research library of old indexes, among them a unique 1934 Sears Catalog, which were bought at insect markets and old fashioned stores. The East European foundation of certain characters and Asian topics in Brother Justin's story were consolidated into the show. Beside the show's heavenly components, a verifiable expert considered "Carnivàle" notable precision to be superb with respect to the characters' lives and garments, their nourishment and facilities, their vehicles and all the material culture. 

"Carnivàle" insides were shot at Santa Clarita Studios in Santa Clarita, California, while the show's numerous outside scenes were recorded on Southern California areas. The scenes of anecdotal California town of Mintern, where the tales about Brother Justin and Iris in Season 1 were based, were shot at Paramount Ranch in Agoura Hills. The festival set itself was moved around the more noteworthy Southern California territory, to film farms and to Lancaster, which were to recreate the conditions of Oklahoma, Texas, and New Mexico. The changeless taping area of the fair in Season 2 was Big Sky Ranch, which was additionally utilized for Brother Justin's new home in anecdotal New Canaan. 

"Carnivàle" opening title succession was made by A52, a special visualizations and configuration organization situated in Los Angeles, and highlighted music made by Wendy Melvoin and Lisa Coleman. The opening title succession won an Emmy for "Extraordinary Main Title Design" in 2004. 

The opening title succession itself starts with a deck of Tarot cards falling into the sand, while the camera moves in and enters one card into a different world showing layers of work of art and film from famous snapshots of the American Depression time; the camera at that point moves retreat from an alternate card and rehashes the technique a few times. The grouping closes with the camera moving from the "Judgment" Tarot card to the "Moon" and the "Sun", recognizing the Devil and God separately, until the breeze overwhelms all cards and the hidden sand to uncover the "Carnivàle" title work of art. 

"Carnivàle" highlights instrumental music formed by Jeff Beal, just as numerous mainstream or darken tunes from the 1930s, when "Carnivàle" story happens. The fundamental title was composed by Wendy Melvoin and Lisa Coleman, and was discharged with chosen topics by Jeff Beal on a "Carnivàle" TV soundtrack by the record mark Varèse Sarabande on December 7, 2004. Beal discharged tracks of Season 2 on his own site. A total rundown of music credits is accessible on the authority HBO site. 

Jeff Beal's score is principally acoustic sounding gadgets, however blends subjects of twang just as barometrical cadenced sounds. Greater gatherings of strings bolster littler outfits of guitars, pianos, violins, cellos, and trumpets. The music some of the time utilizes ethnic instruments, for example, banjos, harmonicas, ukuleles, and duduks. 

Since HBO does not break singular scenes with advertisements, "Carnivàle" music is paced like a motion picture, with character-explicit leitmotifs from as ahead of schedule as the main scene. Characters are musically recognized by solo instruments picked for the character's ethnic foundation or nature. A few characters whose associations are just uncovered later in the arrangement have deliberately comparative subjects. 

Diverse music is deliberately used to speak to the two distinct universes of the story. Sibling Justin's reality highlights music of developed symphonic sound with religious music and instruments. Then again, the score of the festival side is more deconstructed and enchanted, particularly when the jamboree goes through the Dust Bowl and remote towns. For jubilee scenes occurring in the cootch (striptease) appear or in urban areas, be that as it may, contemporary popular music, blues, society, and ethnic music is played. A standout amongst the most characterizing melodies of "Carnivàle" is the 1920s tune "Love Me or Leave Me" sung by Ruth Etting, which is utilized in a few scenes to tie characters in the two universes specifically. 

The plot of "Carnivàle" happens during the 1930s Dust Bowl and spins around the gradually combining storylines of a voyaging jubilee and a Californian evangelist. Out of the 17 on-screen characters accepting star charging in the main season, 15 were a piece of the jamboree storyline. The second season added up to 13 fundamental cast individuals, enhanced by a few on-screen characters in repeating jobs. Albeit such substantial throws make indicates progressively costly to create, the journalists are profited with greater adaptability in story choices. The foundations of most characters were completely created before the shooting of "Carnivàle" started yet were not part of the show's unmistakable structure. The gathering of people in this way just gotten familiar with the characters as a characteristic angle in the story. 

Season 1's first storyline is driven by Nick Stahl depicting the hero Ben Hawkins, a youthful Okie rancher who joins a voyaging jubilee. Michael J. Anderson played Samson, the minor chief of the fair. Tim DeKay depicted Clayton "Jonesy" Jones, the disabled boss laborer. Patrick Bauchau went about as the festival's visually impaired mentalist Lodz, while Debra Christofferson played his sweetheart, Lila the Bearded Lady. Diane Salinger depicted the mental soothsayer Apollonia, and Clea DuVall went about as her tarot-card-perusing little girl, Sofie. Adrienne Barbeau depicted the snake charmer Ruthie, with Brian Turk as her child Gabriel, a strongman. John Fleck played Gecko the Lizard Man, and Karyne and Sarah Steben showed up as the conjoined twins Alexandria and Caladonia. The cootch show Dreifuss family was played by Toby Huss and Cynthia Ettinger as Felix "Short" and Rita Sue, and Carla Gallo as their little girl Libby. Amanda Aday depicted their other little girl, Dora Mae Dreifuss, in a repetitive job. John Savage played the puzzling Henry Scudder in a few scenes, while Linda Hunt loaned her voice to the baffling Management. The second storyline is driven by Clancy Brown depicting the essential opponent, the Methodist priest Brother Justin Crowe. Amy Madigan played his sister Iris. Robert Knepper bolstered them as the fruitful radio host Tommy Dolan later in the primary season, while Ralph Waite had a common job as Reverend Norman Balthus, Brother Justin's tutor. K Callan performed in a repetitive job as Eleanor McGill, a parishioner who wound up gave to Brother Justin subsequent to seeing his capacity firsthand. 

A few cast changes occurred in Season 2, some of them arranged from the earliest starting point. John Fleck, Karyne Steben and her sister Sarah had shown up in the main season's finale, while Patrick Bauchau's and Diane Salinger's status was diminished to visitor featuring. Ralph Waite joined the standard cast. A few new characters were presented in repeating jobs, most eminently John Carroll Lynch as the got away convict Varlyn Stroud and Bree Walker as Sabina the Scorpion Lady. 

The throwing approach for "Carnivàle" was to cast the best accessible on-screen characters and to demonstrate the characters' realness instead of relying upon monstrosity fantasies excessively. "Carnivàle" throwing executives John Papsodera and Wendy O'Brien previously had involvement in throwing monstrosities from past activities. The makers by and large favored performers who were not firmly related to different ventures, yet were happy to make exemptions, for example, for Adrienne Barbeau as Ruthie. 

The content for the pilot scene was the reason for the throwing methodology, with little sign where the show went a while later. This brought about some primer throwing differences between the makers and makers, particularly to lead characters, for example, Ben, Brother Justin and Sofie. The character of Ben was constantly expected to be the main man and saint of the arrangement, yet he was additionally wanted to show a young, guiltless and wannabe quality; Nick Stahl had the most grounded accord among the makers. The character of Sofie was initially composed as a greater amount of an extraordinary tramp young lady, however Clea DuVall, a motion picture performer like Stahl, got the part after four tryouts. Tim DeKay was given a role as Jonesy on the grounds that the makers felt he best depicted an "exceptionally American" looking baseball player of that period. One of only a handful couple of performers who never had any genuine challenge was Michael J. Anderson as Samson, whom Daniel Knauf had needed as ahead of schedule as the underlying gathering. 

Albeit pretty much every "Carnivàle" scene has an unmistakable story with another fair setting, all scenes are a piece of an all-encompassing great versus-malicious story that just finishes and resolves late in Season 2. The pilot scene starts with an introduction discussing "an animal of light and an animal of haziness" (otherwise called Avatars) being conceived "to every age" getting ready for a last fight. "Carnivàle" does not uncover its characters as Avatars past intimation, and makes the idea of recommended Avatars a focal inquiry. Analysts trusted Ben to be a Creature of Light and Brother Justin a Creature of Darkness. 

Other than through the characters, the show's great and-abhorrence subject shows in the arrangement's contemporary religion, the Christian military request Knights Templar, tarot divination, and in chronicled occasions like the Dust Bowl and mankind's first atomic test. The scholars had built up a preparation for story bends, character histories and genealogical character interfaces before recording of the seasons started, however a large number of the proposed signs stayed unnoticed by watchers. While Ronald D. Moore was sure that "Carnivàle" was a standout amongst the most confused shows on TV, Daniel Knauf consoled faultfinders that "Carnivàle" was planned to be a requesting appear with a great deal of subtext and conceded that "you may not comprehend everything that goes on but rather it makes a specific sense". Knauf gave implies about the show's fanciful structure to online being a fan both amid and after the two-season keep running of "Carnivàle", and left fans a creation synopsis of "Carnivàle" first season two years after undoing. 

Matt Roush of "television Guide" called "Carnivàle" "the ideal show for the individuals who thought "Twin Peaks" was excessively open". "The Australian" said "Carnivàle" "appears to have been imagined in basically abstract terms" which "can now and then work on the page yet is fatal on the vast screen, not to mention a little one. It's practically similar to a scriptural directive against demand on TV." A commentator conceded his impulse to reject the primary period of "Carnivàle" as "too aesthetic and elusive" on the grounds that his absence of association kept him from comprehension "what the hell was going on, [which] can be an issue for a sensational TV arrangement." TV Zone anyway considered "Carnivàle" "an arrangement like no other and [...] the way that it is so open to understanding shockingly turns out to be one of its most noteworthy qualities." "Carnivàle" was praised for bringing "the misery of the Great Depression to life" and for being among the principal TV shows to demonstrate "unmitigated agony and dissatisfaction", yet analysts were not sure that watchers would discover the "gradually unfurling trouble" engaging over long or would have the tolerance or continuance to discover the significance of the show. 

At the time, HBO made their responsibilities for just a single year on end, a third season would have implied opening up another two-season book in Daniel Knauf's six-year plan, including the presentation of new storylines for flow and new characters, and further elucidation and elaboration on the show's folklore. HBO declared that the show had been dropped on May 11, 2005. HBO's leader Chris Albrecht said the system would have considered generally if the makers had been happy to bring down the cost of a scene to US$2 million; yet the running expenses for the sizable cast, the all-on-area shooting and the quantity of scenes per season were unreasonably huge for them. 

The crossing out brought about a few story plot lines being incomplete, and insulted steadfast watchers sorted out petitions and mailing drives to get the show reestablished. This produced in excess of 50,000 messages to the system in a solitary end of the week. Show maker Daniel Knauf was unconvinced of the accomplishment of such measures, however clarified that proposed options like selling "Carnivàle" to a contending system or turning off the story were impractical in view of HBO owning "Carnivàle" plot and characters. In the meantime, Knauf was cheerful that, given a sufficient fan base, HBO may reexamine the show's future and permit the continuation of the show in another medium; but since of the measure of unused story material despite everything he had, Knauf did not support completing the "Carnivàle" story with a three-hour motion picture. 

Knauf did not discharge a definite once-over of proposed future plots to fans, clarifying that his accounts are a joint effort of essayists, chiefs and performing artists alike. He and the makers did, in any case, answer a couple of fundamental insights concerning the prompt destiny of significant characters who were left in close lethal circumstances in the last scene of Season 2. Knauf moreover gave top to bottom data in regards to the hidden anecdotal laws of nature that the authors had not had the capacity to completely investigate in the initial two seasons. June 2007 anyway denoted the first occasion when that a far reaching work of definite character foundations was made open. Following a gathering pledges sell off, Knauf offered fans a supposed "Pitch Document," a rundown of "Carnivàle" first season. This archive was initially written in 2002 and 2003 to give the journalists and the studio a thought regarding the arrangement's planned plot, and addressed a large number of the show's secrets. 

HBO supposedly put resources into "Carnivàle" advancement as much with respect to any of its primetime arrangement dispatches. The arrangement's offbeat and complex account made the system go amiss from its conventional advertising methodologies. Secret trailers were embedded on CD-ROMs into "Diversion Weekly" issues to attract regard for the show's visual quality. 30-second TV spots were circulated in national syndication, link and nearby benefits for about a month prior to the show's debut rather than the standard seven days. The chronicled setting of "Carnivàle" was purposely stressed in the show's print craftsmanship, which portrayed the 17-part cast encompassing a jamboree truck. This picture was joined by a slogan of the show's great versus fiendish topic: "Into every age is brought into the world an animal of light and an animal of murkiness." These measures were would have liked to be supported up by positive basic audits. To give evaluations an underlying lift, HBO set the debut of "Carnivàle" straightforwardly after the arrangement finale of the fruitful "Sex and the City". The arrangement kept on getting broad online promotion for nearly its whole run. 

Customized and intuitive web based diversions enlivened by tarot divination were made for "Carnivàle" web nearness. The authority HBO site teamed up with RealNetworks to offer "Destiny: The Carnivàle Game", a downloadable diversion made accessible for preliminary and for procurement. 

"Carnivàle: The Complete First Season" was discharged as a widescreen six-plate Region 1 DVD box set on December 7, 2004, one month before the debut of the second season. It was conveyed by HBO Home Video and contained three sound analyses and an off camera featurette. The external slipcover of the Region 1 set was made of a thick cardboard to impersonate a bound book. A similar set was discharged with less intricate bundling in Region 2 on March 7, 2005, and in Region 4 on May 11, 2005. 

"Carnivàle: The Complete Second Season" was discharged as a widescreen six-circle Region 1 DVD box set on July 18, 2006, in Region 2 on August 7, 2006, and in Region 4 on October 4, 2006. Every one of these discharges was disseminated by HBO Home Video and contained three sound discourses, in front of an audience meetings of the cast and makers, a featurette about the folklore of the arrangement, and four short "Making the Scene" portions about the idea, motivation and execution process. 

"Carnivàle" disclosed on HBO on a Sunday 9:00 pm timeslot amid its two-season keep running somewhere in the range of 2003 and 2005. "Milfay", "Carnivàle" pilot scene, drew 5.3 million watchers for its debut on September 14, 2003. This denoted the best ever debut for a HBO unique arrangement at the time, caused to a limited extent by the set up HBO arrangement "Sex and the City" being "Carnivàle" lead-in. This record was broken on March 21, 2004 by HBO arrangement "Deadwood", which appeared with 5.8 million watchers as the lead-out of "The Sopranos". 

Viewership dropped to 3.49 million for "Carnivàle" second scene however stayed stable for the rest of the period. The last scene of season one completed with 3.5 million watchers on November 30, 2003. Season one found the middle value of 3.54 million watchers and a family unit rating of 2.41. 

Viewership for the second season debut on January 9, 2005 was somewhere near 66% to 1.81 million. The appraisals never recuperated to their first-season highs, in spite of the fact that the season two finale encountered a rise with 2.40 million watchers on March 27, 2005. Season 2 found the middle value of 1.7 million watchers, insufficient to turn away a fast approaching wiping out. 

Numerous early audits gave "Carnivàle" great stamps yet in addition said its one of a kind characters and story may keep it from turning into a tremendous standard gathering of people achievement. "Day by day Variety" TV editorial manager Joseph Adalian anticipated that "it will get for the most part constructive surveys yet a few people will be put off by the general unusual quality of the show." Phil Gallo of "Assortment" portrayed "Carnivàle" as "an outright visual shocker with convincing oddity show characters—however the arrangement tragically adopts a relaxed strategy toward getting to a point," and Eric Deggans of the "St. Petersburg Times" recommended that "maybe officials at the superior link arrange need to perceive how far they can moderate a story before watchers begin hurling their remotes through the screen". James Poniewozik of "Time" called the initial three scenes "baffling" just as "hypnotizing." Amanda Murray of BBC said "With so little uncovered, it's practically difficult to condemn the show—it's difficult to discern whether this is simply great, or going to be extraordinary." 

Later audits had the capacity to pass judgment on the arrangement dependent on full seasons. While the acting, set structure, costuming, craftsmanship heading and cinematography kept on being commended, a few commentators disfavored the composition, particularly of Season 1, saying "the plot force is frequently for all intents and purposes non-existent" or as "now and then holding however generally exhausting." Other analysts brought up that "Carnivàle" may "request more from its group of onlookers than many are eager to contribute. [...] Without giving close consideration, it's enticing to expect that the show is pointlessly obscure and deceiving." "Carnivàle" story was studied as long and complex, "and in the event that you don't begin from the earliest starting point, you'll be totally lost." IGN DVD's Matt Casamassina, be that as it may, commended the show in two audits, composing that the "flawlessly strange" first season "amazes with erratic plot bends and terrifies", and that the "exceptional" second season was "better dream – better diversion, period – than any demonstrate that challenges to consider itself a contender." 

A huge bit of surveys drew parallels among "Carnivàle" and David Lynch's 1990s puzzle TV arrangement "Twin Peaks", a show in which "Carnivàle" on-screen character Michael J. Anderson had recently showed up. Knauf did not deny an expressive connection and made correlations with John Steinbeck's epic "The Grapes of Wrath". Whenever "Lost" started to get major basic consideration, "Carnivàle" and its kind of legendary narrating were contrasted with "Lost" story approach in a few cases. 

Basic sentiment stayed partitioned about "Carnivàle" in the years after the show's wiping out. Alessandra Stanley of the Australian paper "The Age" recollects "Carnivàle" as a "brilliant, goal-oriented arrangement that move[s] surprising characters around a new setting inventively and even with elegance, yet that never entirely quit the surly obligations of sequential dramatization." "Variety"s Brian Lowry recalls the show as "generally a ghastly dream" that inevitably experienced "its very own depressingness and erraticisms". "The A.V. Club" harped on "Carnivàle"s cliffhanger finishing in a piece on unanswered TV questions and called the show "an incredibly rich arrangement with a frustratingly thick folklore". 

Like other faction TV programs, "Carnivàle" picked up a good after of devoted watchers. "Carnivàle" fans alluded to themselves as "Carnies" or "Rousties" (laborers), terms embraced from the show. "Carnivàle" intricacy and subliminal folklore generated devoted fansites, albeit most exchange occurred on autonomous web discussions. Show maker Daniel Knauf effectively took part in online being a fan and offered story-and folklore related pieces of information. He likewise gave knowledge into explanations behind "Carnivàle" crossing out on a messageboard before addressing the press. 

One year after "Carnivàle" dropping, a noteworthy "Carnivàle" tradition called CarnyCon 2006 Live! was composed by fans. It occurred in Woodland Hills, California on August 21– 23, 2006. A significant number of the show's cast and group went to the occasion and took an interest in discourse boards, which were recorded and made accessible on DVD subsequently. 

In spite of its short two-season run, "Carnivàle" got various honors and designations. The show's debut season got selections for seven Emmy Awards in 2004, winning five including "Remarkable Art Direction For A Single-camera Series" and "Extraordinary Costumes For A Series" for the pilot scene "Milfay", "Exceptional Cinematography For A Single-Camera Series" for the scene "Pick A Number", "Extraordinary Hairstyling For A Series" for the scene "After the Ball Is Over", and "Exceptional Main Title Design". In 2005, the second season got eight further Emmy selections without a success. 

Different honors incorporate however are not constrained to: 

HBO president Chris Albrecht said "Carnivàle" was "not a major show for outside [distribution]," however did not really expound. Audits anyway demonstrate that the show's obscure folklore and unavailability to the easygoing watcher were main considerations. By and by, "Carnivàle" was sold to a few outside systems and was conveyed to HBO channels abroad. The DVD arrivals of "Carnivàle" expanded the accessibility of the show further. 

On June 9, 2005, a claim was recorded in United States region court by Los Angeles author Jeff Bergquist. He asserted that the makers of "Carnivàle" did not start the thought for the show, yet rather stole it from his unpublished novel "Beulah", an idiosyncratic dramatization set in the midst of a voyaging fair amid the Depression that Bergquist had been taking a shot at since the 1980s. Bergquist looked for both acknowledgment and corrective harms by belligerence that HBO and "Carnivàle" maker Daniel Knauf abused his copyright on "Beulah", however HBO and Knauf denied any cases as having "positively no legitimacy."