Apollo 15 postal spreads episode 

The Apollo 15 postal spreads occurrence, a 1972 NASA outrage, included the space explorers of Apollo 15, who conveyed around 400 unapproved postal spreads into space and to the Moon's surface on the Lunar Module "Bird of prey". A portion of the envelopes were sold at high costs by West German stamp seller Hermann Sieger, and are known as "Sieger covers". The team of Apollo 15, David Scott, Alfred Worden and James Irwin, consented to take installments for conveying the spreads; however they restored the cash, they were upbraided by NASA. In the midst of much press inclusion of the episode, the space travelers were called before a shut session of a Senate advisory group and never flew in space again. 

The three space travelers and an associate, Horst Eiermann, had consented to have the spreads made and taken into space. Every space explorer was to get about $7,000. Scott organized to have the spreads stamped on the morning of the Apollo 15 dispatch on July 26, 1971. They were bundled for space and conveyed to him as he arranged for liftoff. Because of a mistake, they were excluded on the rundown of the individual things he was taking into space. The spreads spent July 30 to August 2 on the Moon inside the "Bird of prey". On August 7, the date of splashdown, the spreads were stamped again on the recuperation transporter . One hundred were sent to Eiermann (and passed on to Sieger); the rest of the spreads were partitioned among the space explorers. 

Worden had consented to convey 144 extra covers, generally for a colleague, F. Herrick; these had been affirmed for movement to space. Apollo 15 conveyed a sum of around 641 spreads. In late 1971, when NASA discovered that the Herrick covers were being sold, the space explorers' director, Deke Slayton, cautioned Worden to stay away from further commercialization of what he had been permitted to take into space. After Slayton knew about the Sieger plan, he evacuated the three as reinforcement team individuals for Apollo 17, however the space travelers had by then rejected remuneration from Sieger and Eiermann. The Sieger matter turned out to be commonly known in the papers in June 1972. There was broad inclusion; some said space explorers ought not be permitted to harvest individual benefits from NASA missions. 

By 1977, each of the three previous space travelers had left NASA. In 1983, Worden sued for the arrival of the spreads appropriated in 1972, and the three men got them in an out-of-court settlement. One of the spreads given to Sieger sold for over $50,000 in 2014. 

After the beginning of the Space Age with the dispatch of Sputnik I on October 4, 1957, astrophilately (space-related stamp gathering) started. Countries, for example, the United States and USSR issued memorial postage stamps delineating shuttle and satellites. Astrophilately was most famous amid the long stretches of the Apollo program's Moon arrivals from 1969 to 1972. Authorities and sellers looked for philatelic gifts identified with the American space flight program, regularly through extraordinarily planned envelopes (known as spreads). Dropping spreads put together by the open turned into a noteworthy obligation of the workers of the Kennedy Space Center (KSC) post office on space mission dispatch days. 

The American space travelers took an interest in making collectables. Starting in the late 1960s, Harold G. Collins, leader of the Mission Support Office at KSC, orchestrated uncommonly structured envelopes to be printed for the diverse missions, and to be dropped on the dispatch dates. Such unflown philatelic spreads were regularly presents for the space explorers' companions, or for representatives of NASA and its temporary workers. In spite of the fact that it was not freely known until September 1972, 15 of the men who entered space as Apollo program space travelers before Apollo 15 had concurred with a West German named Horst Eiermann to signature 500 philatelic things (postcards and squares of stamps) in return for $2,500. This incorporated an individual from every mission between Apollo 7 (1968) and Apollo 13 (1970). These things were not taken into space. 

The space travelers were permitted to take Personal Preference Kits (PPKs) into space with them. These little packs, with their substance restricted in size and weight, contained individual things the space explorers needed to be flown as gifts of the mission. As the spaceflights pushed toward and finished in the Moon arrivals, the open's interest with things flown in space expanded, as did their esteem. 

Spreads were set up by the groups and flown on Apollo 11, Apollo 13 and Apollo 14. Ed Mitchell, lunar module pilot for Apollo 14, took his to the Moon's surface in a PPK. These were frequently held by the space explorers for a long time; Apollo 11's Neil Armstrong kept his until he kicked the bucket, and they were not offered available to be purchased until 2018, when one sold for $156,250. 

The Apollo 15 mission started when the rocket launched from KSC on July 26, 1971, and finished when the space explorers and the Command Module "Try" were recouped by the plane carrying warship on August 7. Locally available "Try" were Mission Commander David Scott, Command Module Pilot Alfred Worden and Lunar Module Pilot James Irwin. The Lunar Module "Bird of prey", with Scott and Irwin on board, arrived on the Moon on July 30, and stayed there for just shy of 67 hours. The mission set a few space records and was the first to utilize the lunar wanderer. Scott and Irwin rode it to investigate the zone around the arrival site amid three times of extravehicular movement (EVA). On August 2, preceding completing the last EVA and entering the Lunar Module, Scott utilized a unique stamping gadget to drop a first day spread given by the United States Postal Service bearing two new stamps, whose structures delineated lunar space explorers and a wanderer, recognizing the tenth commemoration of Americans entering space. That spread was come back to the Postal Service after the mission, and is currently in the Smithsonian Institution's National Postal Museum. 

Eiermann knew a stamp seller named Hermann Sieger from Lorch, West Germany. The two had met by shot while on a transport to watch the dispatch of Apollo 12 in late 1969; Eiermann heard by Sieger's Swabian articulation that they were from a similar piece of Germany, and welcomed him to his home. Sieger got the thought for the lunar covers in the wake of hearing that the Apollo 12 space travelers had taken a Bible with them. At the point when Sieger discovered that Eiermann knew numerous space explorers, he recommended that an Apollo team be induced to take spreads to the Moon. Eiermann did not figure space explorers would take cash to do as such, yet consented to ask them when Sieger described the installments as ventures for the space explorers' kids. Eiermann did not specify Sieger's name in his way to deal with the space explorers. 

Eiermann lived in Cocoa Beach, Florida at the season of Apollo 15, and was a nearby delegate of Los Angeles-based Dyna-Therm Corporation, which was a NASA contractual worker. As indicated by Scott's life account, one night a while before dispatch, the space travelers' boss, Director of Flight Crew Operations Deke Slayton, had Scott and the other team individuals come to supper at Eiermann's home; Scott depicted Eiermann as a long-lasting companion of Slayton. Worden, in his life account, concurred that the group was welcome to supper there, however depicted Scott as welcoming his crewmates, and did not make reference to association by Slayton. In his declaration before a congressional advisory group in 1972, Scott depicted Eiermann as a "companion of our own", somebody with whom he had eaten and who knew numerous individuals at KSC, including some of the space travelers. Scott likewise told the board of trustees that he hosted met Eiermann at a get-together, as opposed to through another space explorer. 

At the supper, Eiermann proposed the space travelers convey 100 exceptional stamp covers, to be traveled to the Moon. Worden expressed that he and Irwin, who had not recently gone into space, were guaranteed this was basic practice. Worden reviewed that the space travelers were told the spreads would not be sold until sooner or later after the Apollo program had finished. They would get $7,000 each. They were educated that other Apollo groups had made and benefitted from comparable understandings. Prior space explorers had been without given life coverage by "Life" magazine. This advantage was never again accessible when of Apollo 15. Worden composed that to guarantee their families were accommodated given the extreme dangers and perils of their calling, the space explorers consented to the arrangement, intending to set the installments aside as assets for their kids. At the time, Scott earned $2,199 per month as a space explorer, Worden $1,715 and Irwin $2,235. 

As per Scott, the space travelers likewise chose the spreads would make great endowments and mentioned an extra 100 each for an aggregate of 400 spreads. Scott showed in his declaration that after discourse with his crewmates, he anticipated that the spreads should be a "private and noncommercial endeavor." He included: "I concede this isn't right. I comprehend it in all respects plainly now. In any case, at the time, for some guileless and negligent reason, I didn't comprehend its centrality." Irwin wrote in his collection of memoirs that the underlying gathering with Eiermann occurred in May 1971, and that the space travelers met with him twice from that point. Eiermann transferred guidelines from Sieger on the best way to set up the spreads: they were to be stamped twice, at KSC on the date of dispatch and on the recuperation send on the date of splashdown, and convey a marked explanation from the space explorers with an affirmation from a legal official. The affirmation would make the spreads increasingly sellable in Europe, where a public accountant is a legitimate proficient who frequently checks the report, not simply the marks. 

An extra 144 spreads were flown compliant with a comprehension among Worden and F. Herrick of Miami, a resigned motion picture executive and a stamp authority. As per a letter writing about the stamp occurrence from NASA Administrator James C. Fletcher to the director of the Senate Committee on Aeronautical and Space Sciences, Clinton P. Anderson, Herrick was a companion of the three space explorers who had masterminded Worden, likewise a stamp gatherer, to purchase a collection loaded with stamps and proposed the space travelers bring covers into space. These eventual split and put aside for certain years, and after that sold. In his book Worden said he had been acquainted with Herrick at lunch by previous race vehicle driver Jim Rathmann, and that Herrick proposed the arrangement. Worden likewise related his request the spreads must be held, unsold and unpublicized, until after the Apollo program had finished, and he had resigned from NASA and the Air Force. "I would not like to do whatever would humiliate either myself or NASA, and I trusted Herrick was on the up and up. It was a colossal failure to understand the situation on my part to confide in this outsider. I was too old to even consider believing in Santa Claus." In his 1972 declaration before the Senate advisory group, Worden depicted Herrick as a companion with whom he had past dealings, and with whom he talked about the likelihood of dedicatory covers. As indicated by a 1978 Justice Department report, before the Apollo 15 flight Herrick prompted Worden that taking spreads to the Moon would be a reasonable venture since they would be important to stamp gatherers. 

While Scott and his crewmates were finishing their main goal preparing, a debate created inside NASA and Congress over a portion of the trinket silver emblems the team of Apollo 14 had conveyed to the Moon. The private Franklin Mint, which had provided the emblems being referred to, liquefied down a portion of those that had been flown. These were blended with an extensive amount of other metal, and dedicatory emblems were struck from the mass, utilized as a premium to draw in individuals to pay to join the Franklin Mint Collector's Club. The way that some piece of the awards had traveled to the Moon was utilized in the mint's notices. Since the Apollo 14 team had acknowledged no cash, they were not restrained. Slayton diminished the quantity of emblems every individual from Apollo 15 could bring significantly. He cautioned the Apollo 15 group against conveying any things into space that could profit for them or others. In August 1965, Slayton had issued guidelines necessitating that things space travelers intended to convey be recorded, endorsed by him, and checked for security in space if comparable things had not as of now been flown. Each team part was bound by NASA gauges of direct issued in 1967 precluding utilizing one's situation to profit for oneself or someone else. 

Eiermann should make the cachet for the extraordinary spreads he had proposed, yet time ran short and Scott did it. He utilized the Apollo 15 mission fix to make the plan, and offered it to Collins of the Mission Support Office. Collins masterminded with the Brevard Printing Company of Cocoa, Florida for the plan to be recreated on both standard and lightweight envelopes. The organization played out the work and charged Alvin B. Priest Jr. $156 for the lightweight envelopes and $209 for the ordinary ones. Religious administrator, an advertising official who spent significant time in the avionic business, and knew numerous space travelers, made extraordinarily structured spreads for some of the Apollo missions, which he provided just to the group and their families. He was at the time utilized by Hughes Enterprises in Las Vegas; the organization paid the bill. 

Herrick verified the administrations of a business craftsman, Vance Johnson, with whom Worden examined the structure, bringing about 100 envelopes delineating the periods of the Moon. Worden recorded these spreads as a component of the substance of his PPK for Slayton's endorsement, alongside 44 first day covers that he possessed. Promotion Pro Graphics, Inc. of Miami printed the Herrick envelopes, alongside card embeds expressing the going with spread had been carried on Apollo 15. Herrick paid the company's bill of $50.50; he likewise acquired the postage stamps for the spreads, and two elastic stamps expressing the dates of the dispatch and splashdown. The structure was imprinted on marks that were fastened to the envelopes. Not all Herrick covers are indistinguishable, as various cachets, elastic stamp impressions and blends of postage stamps were utilized. Worden additionally conveyed a spread stamped in 1928, signed by aeronautics pioneer Orville Wright. 

Notwithstanding those brought by Scott and by Worden, Irwin conveyed 96 covers, one with a "traveled to-the-Moon" subject, eight with an Apollo 15 structure, and 87 covers regarding Apollo 12, conveyed act of kindness some help for Barbara Gordon, spouse of Apollo 12 space explorer Dick Gordon. Barbara Gordon, a stamp gatherer, had needed her significant other to take the spreads on his lunar mission, however he had can't. The traveled to-the-moon spread was some help for a companion of Dick Gordon. Apollo 15 conveyed the spread from the Postal Service to be dropped on the outside of the Moon. The office likewise sent a reinforcement, stowed in the Command Module with another crossing out gadget, for use on the toward home adventure if Scott did not get the opportunity to stamp the lunar spread. 

All spreads aside from the gathering of 400 had been affirmed by Slayton, who expressed in his declaration that he would in all likelihood have endorsed them whenever asked (accepting their weight could be consulted with the Flight Manager), on condition that they remain in the Command Module and not go to the lunar surface. In July 1972, after the story broke, William Hines of the "Chicago Sun-Times" composed that "the possibility this convoluted escapade could have been completed without the learning and in any event implicit authorization of Slayton is respected by individuals acquainted with NASA as outrageous. Slayton's tight rein over his occasionally bad tempered charges is amazing." 

The group purchased a few hundred of the ten-penny First Man on the Moon postage stamp issue. These were joined to the lightweight envelopes by secretaries in the Astronaut Office. Collins had made game plans for the KSC present office on open at 1:00 am EDT on dispatch day—opening this office so at an early stage an Apollo dispatch morning was not strange—and brought a few hundred of the stepped spreads. When the envelopes had been gone through the wiping out machine, he took them to the space explorer quarters, where individuals from the Flight Crew Support Team vacuum fixed them in teflon-secured fiberglass to flame resistant them for space. Regularly, if the Flight Crew Support Team found that a thing was not on a space traveler's PPK list, they would include it, and ensure they were endorsed, yet group pioneer James L. Smotherman expressed that he "goofed", clarifying that he had confounded the 400 spreads with the Herrick envelopes, which had been endorsed by Slayton. Since the 400 spreads had not been affirmed by Slayton, they were viewed as unapproved. Scott expressed, "I never planned to contraband the spreads. On the off chance that I had planned to contraband the spreads, I unquestionably would not have permitted Mr. Collins to deal with them or the remainder of the general population to help me." Like different things being set in the pockets on Scott's space suit (for instance, his shades), they were first appeared to him by the suit professionals helping him dress. Isolated into two parcels, the packaged spreads were about thick and weighed about ; they entered the rocket in Scott's pocket. Apollo 15 launched for the Moon at 9:34 am on July 26, 1971, with three space travelers and around 641 covers on board. 

Sooner or later while the mission was in transit to the Moon, the 400 spreads were moved into the lunar lander "Bird of prey"; in his declaration, Scott concurred this abused the guidelines. He expressed he didn't review how the exchange occurred, and that he was just sure that the envelopes went to the lunar surface since they were clinched of things removed from the "Hawk" in anticipation of the arrival to Earth. Worden expressed in his declaration that they knew about the nearness of the spreads in the Command Module after the mission's dispatch, yet he didn't review if the spreads had been among the numerous things moved into the "Bird of prey" in anticipation of the lunar landing; he didn't trust the make a difference had been examined amid the flight. He wrote in his life account that the night he had consented to the arrangement with Eiermann "was the last I heard or considered the spreads until after the flight ... What courses of action Dave [Scott], Eiermann, and Sieger made to get the spreads onto the flight, I never knew until some other time. Dave later told a congressional board of trustees that he had put them in a pocket of his spacesuit, yet he never imparted that data to me". He showed that the spreads he had orchestrated to have ready, including those from Herrick, stayed in his PPK in the Command Module all through the flight. The declaration before Congress, from numerous people including Apollo 15 space travelers, was that conveying the spreads did not meddle with the mission at all. 

Apollo 15 sprinkled down about north of Honolulu at 4:46 pm EDT () on August 7, 1971; the team was recovered by helicopters from the "Okinawa". Scott had solicited that a supply from the twin space stamps of the structure he had dropped on the Moon (issued August 2) be accessible on the "Okinawa", and on July 14, Forrest J. Rhodes, who ran the postal office at KSC, kept in touch with the Chief Petty Officer accountable for the "Okinawa"s post office. The ship answered on the twentieth, saying the stamps could be acquired in time. The stamps were verified from the mail station at Pearl Harbor; 4,000 were traveled to the "Okinawa" adrift by helicopter, apparently in the authority of a maritime officer joining the vessel. The space travelers had no cash with them; their buys were paid for by high-positioning officers on board the "Okinawa", who were later repaid. The group had the help of "Okinawa" team individuals in attaching the stamps to the 400 spreads for crossing out by the ship's mail station. The Irwin covers were not stamped, either at liftoff or splashdown. Worden wrote in his book that he never observed the spreads Scott had brought until the space travelers were on the trip to Houston. In any case, as Scott referenced he was having them stamped with the splashdown date, Worden orchestrated to have that accomplished for the ones he had taken into space. On the flight, the 400 spreads were signed by the three space travelers; the Herrick covers were likewise marked while in transit. Irwin recalled the marking took a few hours. 

On August 31, 1971, C.G. Carsey, a representative in the Astronaut Office in Houston, composed affirmations on 100 of the spreads, with the guide of other NASA workers in her office. The affirmations expressed the spread had been on the Moon on board the "Bird of prey". The spreads previously conveyed a manually written proclamation marked by Scott and Irwin that they had been arrived on the Moon on July 30. Carsey later expressed that in marking the confirmations as a Texas legal official open, she just expected to guarantee their marks were real. The topic of whether Carsey had inappropriately ensured that the spreads had been arrived on the Moon (something she had no close to home learning of) was the subject of an examination by the Texas Attorney General. With the legal official confirmations, the remainder of Sieger's prerequisites for the spreads was satisfied. On September 2, Scott sent the 100 covers by enrolled mail to Eiermann, who was in Stuttgart where he had moved. Eiermann turned the spreads over to Sieger, and was remunerated with a commission of about $15,000—10% of the foreseen continues. The staying 300 were endowed by the space explorers to a Houston-region stamp authority who organized with a nearby printer to have an engraving expressing that the spread had been conveyed to the Moon imprinted in the upper left. The printer found there were 298 spreads, not 300; the stamp gatherer counseled Scott, who informed him not to stress concerning it. One of Irwin's spreads from the gathering of eight, with a shamrock structure as its cachet, was given to Rhodes and one to the leader of the Kennedy Space Center Philatelic Society; Irwin said in 1972 that he had held the other six. 

Sieger advised his clients of the flown spreads by means of a mailing, offering them at DM 4,850 (about $1,500 at the time), with a rebate to the individuals who purchased mutiple. He kept one for himself, and by November had sold the remaining 99. He numbered and marked the backs of the envelopes in the lower left as a token of their validity. 

Worden reviewed in his book that he sent the concurred number of 44 spreads to Herrick not long after subsequent to coming back from space. He likewise sent him 60 having a place with himself for protection, and offered 28 to companions. Herrick transferred 70 spreads to Robert A. Siegel, an unmistakable New York seller. Siegel sold ten spreads for an aggregate of $7,900, getting a commission from Herrick of 25 percent. Herrick sold three himself for $1,250 each and set a few on commission in Europe. 

In late October 1971, a potential client for one of the Herrick covers kept in touch with NASA to ask about its credibility. On November 5, Slayton reacted, saying NASA couldn't affirm whether it was certifiable. He cautioned Worden to guarantee that his spreads would not be additionally popularized. Worden composed a furious letter to Herrick. In June 1972, Herrick educated Siegel to send 60 spreads to Worden in Houston, which he did by enlisted mail. Until this point, Siegel had expected the 60 covers had a place with Herrick. 

Likely before they made an official NASA trek to Europe in November 1971, the Apollo 15 space explorers got and finished the administrative work important to open records in a Stuttgart-territory bank to get the concurred $7,000 installments. As indicated by Scott's declaration, while they were in Europe, they heard the Sieger covers were being sold monetarily. Scott called Eiermann, who guaranteed to investigate it. The space explorers demonstrated they got the bankbooks in mid 1972. Irwin recollected in his life account that before their outing to Europe, Scott came to him and stated, "Jim, we are stuck in an unfortunate situation now—they are beginning to sell the envelopes over yonder", and that the spreads cast a shadow over their European trek. Scott said the group talked about it among themselves, at that point chose that the receipt of assets was ill-advised. In late February they restored the bankbooks to Eiermann, who reacted that the space explorers ought to get something for their endeavors. Howard C. Weinberger, in his record of the Apollo 15 covers, regarded the space explorers' refusal "a push to spare their vocations and notorieties". The group at first consented to acknowledge collections loaded up with aviation themed stamps for their kids, incorporating issues to pay tribute to Apollo 15. Scott related that they chose this also was inappropriate and said they don't needed anything. This last refusal occurred in April 1972. Worden recalled that, "we did this before NASA got some information about an arrangement with Sieger—before NASA even thought about it". 

Exchange of the spreads in European philatelic productions alarmed authorities in the United States. On March 11, 1972, Lester Winick, leader of a gathering of authorities of room stamps and covers known as the Space Topics Study Group, sent a letter to NASA's general guidance getting some information about the Sieger covers. The letter was sent for a reaction to Slayton, who coolly referenced it to Irwin in late March; Irwin guided him to converse with Scott. Slayton talked with Worden on the suspicion that the spreads alluded to were among the gathering of 144, yet Worden revealed to him this was not really the case and that he should converse with Scott. Slayton talked to Scott in mid-April, just before the dispatch of Apollo 16. Scott let him know there had been 400 spreads not on the affirmed rundown, and that 100 had been given to a companion. In his life account, Slayton composed that he defied Scott and Worden about what he called a "normal goddamn outrage": "they revealed to me what the arrangement was, and I got entirely goddamn furious. So I was through with Scott, Worden, and Irwin. After 16 sprinkled down, I dismissed them from the reinforcement team for 17." One purpose behind Slayton's outrage was that he had guarded the space explorers as gossipy tidbits about the high costs being paid for the spreads circled; as indicated by Andrew Chaikin in his history of the Apollo program, Slayton "put it all out there to protect his kin". Slayton wrote to Winick, expressing that the rocket had conveyed covers, yet NASA couldn't affirm these specific envelopes had been taken; he didn't reveal to Winick unapproved covers had been flown. He sent a duplicate of his reaction to the general insight's office at NASA Headquarters in Washington, which made no move. Slayton did not educate Administrator Fletcher, Deputy Administrator George M. Low or his own predominant, Christopher C. Kraft of the postage stamp episode or of the disciplinary move he had made. 

Toward the beginning of June 1972, Low got notification from an individual from his staff of the likelihood covers flown on Apollo 15 may have been sold in Europe. He asked Associate Administrator Dale D. Myers to enquire through NASA the board channels for data. Low kept Fletcher educated of the circumstance as it created. Myers made a between time report to Low on the sixteenth. Before he could make his last report on the 26th, the story broke with an article in "The Washington Sunday Star" on June 18. Kraft talked with Scott on the 23rd. Low arranged a full examination by NASA's Inspections Division on June 29. On July 10, the three space travelers were reviled for misguided thinking, something that made it incredibly far-fetched that they would be chosen to fly in space once more. Richard S. Lewis, in his initial history of the Apollo program, noticed that "in the climate of haggling that has described government office modern contractual worker relations in the Space Age, the unapproved cargo that the Apollo 15 team pulled to the moon was an innocent trick. In the talk of room program pundits, however, it was marked as misuse for individual increase of the most expensive mechanical improvement ever. In the press, the space travelers were dealt with like fallen blessed messengers." Kraft recalled in his diaries that Slayton let him know, "They did it. There was no covering up. Dave just said beyond any doubt, nothing amiss with it, right?" Scott, while expressing, "we committed an error in thinking about it", felt that the response "was transforming into a witch-chase". Worden, however conceding fault for going into the arrangement, felt that NASA had not satisfactorily bolstered him, and that Scott had not assumed full liability for his job. Irwin, who might turn into an evangelist in the wake of leaving the Astronaut Corps, said that NASA had no real option except to revile them. He trusted he could turn the experience to use in his service, that it would enable him to feel for other people who had blundered. 

Another story that broke in mid-July was the argument about the model "Fallen Astronaut", left on the Moon by Scott in tribute to those slaughtered in the American and Soviet space programs; the stone carver was having duplicates made for open deal, over the space travelers' complaint. Having perused of these things in the papers, and worried about the presence of commercialization of Apollo 15, the Senate Committee on Aeronautical and Space Sciences set a conference for August 3. It called various NASA representatives including the space travelers, Slayton, Kraft, Fletcher and Low to show up. Worden recollected that while there were troublesome inquiries gotten some information about the space explorers' direct, some portion of the board's worry was the reason NASA the board had enabled another occurrence to occur so rapidly after the Apollo 14 Franklin Mint issue. Individuals likewise needed to know how it was that NASA's levels of leadership allowed claims against the space travelers to go unreported to senior administration. Summoning a once in a while utilized Senate rule for when declaration may affect the notoriety of observers or others, the advisory group director, Senator Anderson had the gathering shut to people in general. Kraft recalled that while he and Low were flame broiled by the board of trustees, the congresspersons treated the space explorers "like divine beings". 

None of the Apollo 15 group at any point flew in space once more. Scott was made a specialized counselor on the Apollo-Soyuz Test Project (the primary joint mission with the Soviet Union) and resigned from the Air Force in 1975. He at that point progressed toward becoming executive of NASA's Dryden Flight Research Center, resigning from NASA in October 1977 and entering the private division. Worden exchanged to NASA's Ames Research Center in California, staying there until his 1975 retirement both from the Air Force and NASA, and afterward entered the private division. Irwin resigned in 1972 and established a fervent gathering. 

Fletcher asked space travelers still with NASA, and even the individuals who were not, for example, Apollo 7's Wally Schirra, to turn in all flown covers in their ownership to NASA pending an assurance of whether they were government property. Kraft related that there was obstruction from space travelers, yet "we seized them, in some cases under coercion". These spreads were returned when the Justice Department made no move, "and whatever transpired was stayed silent". Among the space travelers met in NASA's examination was Apollo 13's Jack Swigert, who denied any dealings with envelopes; after he in this way conceded he had, Low expelled him from Apollo-Soyuz. 

Kraft suspended approximately fifteen space explorers who "had broken confidence with us and disregarded a standing request from Deke"; a few, having apologized and served their suspensions, flew on Skylab in the mid-1970s. The spreads issue brought about bias in the Air Force against previous space travelers (every one of the three Apollo 15 space explorers had served there). This hindered Apollo 14's Stu Roosa from coming back to the Air Force when he left NASA, driving him to start a new business. In spite of the fact that Apollo 16's Charles Duke had taken spreads to the lunar surface in April 1972, changes to the PPK techniques established by NASA implied that none were taken on Apollo 17 that December. Today, space explorers are prohibited by government guideline from accepting philatelic things into space as mementoes. 

The rest of the spreads in the Apollo 15 space explorers' control (298 from the gathering of 400 and 61 more from Worden) were held by NASA in the midst of the examination; Worden said he surrendered them at Kraft's solicitation on the understanding they would be returned once the examination was finished, however the spreads were exchanged to the National Archives in August 1973. There was a Justice Department examination concerning the spreads. Its Criminal Division chose in 1974 that no arraignment was justified, yet the Civil Division the next year accepted the spreads would be held by the administration. Kraft expressed, "it was faulty that any law had been broken and [the Justice Department] understood that hauling space explorers into court would not be a prevalent diversion." In 1978, the division issued a report demonstrating that while the legislature may have some case to the Herrick covers because of the presence of having been made revenue driven, it presumably did not to the 298, which the space explorers had said were planned as blessings. In 1979, the division educated NASA that it had presumed that the legislature would almost certainly lose if the space explorers sued for the spreads. There was restriction among congresspersons to the spreads being returned, and in February 1980 a goals passed the Senate that the legislature should keep the spreads in light of the commercialization. It kicked the bucket in the House of Representatives. In 1983, Worden sued, and the administration consented to restore every one of the spreads to the three space travelers. The administration felt it couldn't effectively safeguard the claim, and that NASA either approved the spreads to be flown or knew about them. 

A portion of the spreads were sold by the space explorers. One of the gathering of 298 seized by the legislature and claimed by Scott sold at the January 2008 Novaspace sell off for $15,000. A Sieger spread sold in 2014 for over $55,000, the most elevated sale cost to that point—the barker noticed that it was one of just four Sieger spreads to come to open deal since the underlying dispersion. Worden sold a significant number of the returned Herrick spreads to pay obligations from his ineffective 1982 keep running for Congress. At the point when asked in 2011 where the spreads were, he stated, "Ruler just knows. Some of them sold, some of them are still in a security store box. They're likely everywhere throughout the world at this point." In a 2013 meeting with Worden, "Slate" magazine found that "he's vexed by waiting mistakes in the Wikipedia section about the episodes. We ask: Why didn't he get a companion to sign in and right the sections? He reacts with a frightened delay. 'Is that right? I didn't have any acquaintance with you could do that!' " 

Extra numbers following page numbers for certain books are Kindle areas.