This feels familiar (Beyoncé tune) 

"This feels familiar" is a tune by American artist Beyoncé, highlighting vocals by rapper Jay-Z. It was created by Rodney "Darkchild" Jerkins and Beyoncé for her second solo collection, "B'Day" (2006). "This feels familiar" is a R&B tune, which fuses components of the 1970s funk and soul music. Its music is to a great extent dependent on live instrumentation, including low register guitar, hello there cap, horns, aside from Roland TR-808 drum machine, which is a non-live instrument. The tune's title and verses allude to a lady being continually helped to remember a past sweetheart. 

"This feels familiar" was discharged as the collection's lead single to US radio stations on June 24, 2006. The melody got by and large blended basic audits. Numerous commentators noticed the similitudes of "History repeating itself" with Beyoncé's very own 2003 tune "Insane in Love". Faultfinders lauded the self-assuredness and the exotic nature with which Beyoncé sings the verses and contrasted her vocal conveyance with that of Tina Turner in the late 1980s. "This feels familiar" and its Freemasons club remix rendition got three assignments at the 2007 Grammy Awards. It was perceived as the Best Song of 2006 at the Music of Black Origin (MOBO) Awards. 

Financially, "This feels familiar" topped at number four on the US "Board" Hot 100 diagram. It beat the Hot Dance Club Play graph, the Hot Dance Singles Sales diagram, and the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs outline. The melody was ensured gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). "This feels familiar" topped at number one on the UK Singles Chart and by and large achieved the best 20 in Europe. The melody's going with music video was coordinated by Sophie Muller. Around 5,000 fans requested of online for a re-shoot of the video, grumbling about, among different variables, the absence of subject, the closet decision, and the apparently sexual cooperations among Beyoncé and Jay-Z. 

In 2005, American record maker Rodney "DarkChild" Jerkins and maker Jon Traxx "thought of the idea of completing an old-school track, a return with genuine bass and horns", to which the tune's title is somewhat credited. Traxx with Jerkins, first recorded the bass areas, onto which the percussion, horns and vocals were layered. Generation occurred in Jerkins' New Jersey-based studio, and Sony Music Studios in New York City. 

Jerkins recorded a demo adaptation of the melody with vocals by American lyricist Makeba Riddick, who is credited as co-essayist. They exhibited the demo to Beyoncé, who later affirmed of it. "This feels familiar" likewise has expressive commitments from musicians Delisha Thomas and Keli Nicole Price, and Beyoncé's better half (at that point beau) Jay-Z. He ended up included at a late stage, when Beyoncé saw him endeavoring to chime in to a recorded rendition of the track, and requested that he contribute. Jay-Z recorded rap stanzas for the melody and henceforth shows up as an included visitor. 

Concerning the creation of "History repeating itself", Beyoncé disclosed to MTV News": 

When I recorded 'This feels familiar' ... I realized that even before I began chipping away at my collection, I needed to add live instruments to the majority of my melodies. It's such an equalization [of music on the song] [...] It's as yet youthful, still new and new, however it has the old soul groove. The vitality is staggering. It's the mid year song of praise, I ask. I feel it. Rodney Jerkins is unbelievable, Jay obviously is on it, he favored the melody, I'm content with it. 

"This feels familiar" is a contemporary R&B tune, performed in a moderate hip bounce groove. It is additionally affected by late-1970s funk music, and it contains components of soul music just as move popular music. As indicated by the sheet music distributed at Musicnotes.com by EMI Music Publishing, the melody is made in the key out of G minor with a period signature in like manner time, and a moderate section of 106 beats for each moment. Beyoncé's vocals run from the note of D to F. The music is to a great extent dependent on live instrumentation, including a low pitch guitar, conga, howdy cap, and horns. A non-live instrument, the Roland TR-808 drum machine, gives the tune's overwhelming and vigorous disco beat. Spence D. of IGN Music remarked that Beyoncé's vocals on the tune are "plush" and that her vocal range inclines toward the top of the line, consequently differentiating to the melody's low-end development. Mike Joseph of PopMatters noticed that "This feels familiar" is reminiscent of Michael Jackson's "Off the Wall" (1980). 

The title alludes to the "this feels familiar" wonder. The verses to "This feels familiar" pursue the verse– pre-chorus– ensemble example, and highlight two rap refrains. It is snare loaded, comparable in this regard to "Insane in Love". The verses detail a lady being always helped to remember a past darling, appeared in the lines, "Is it since I'm missing you that I'm having this feels familiar?" As the melody opens, Beyoncé presents the bass, greetings cap and Roland TR-808 by name. The hints of the instruments mix as they are being referenced consistently; the horns are just capable of being heard in the pre-tune and snare areas, and a short segment in the second rap. The bass, which is the principal instrument to enter, slides into the fundamental two-bar ostinato. Following the rehashed bass slides, the hello cap and the Roland TR-808 start playing. 

After that Beyoncé makes reference to Jay-Z, the bass skims up for a vibrato-rich fill, offering route to the main rap. Backgrounded with a rehashing groove, Beyoncé begins the primary refrain. The pre-tune pursues, for which the bass changes to an increasingly melodic tone "to play something all the more singing", in the expressions of Jon Webb, the bass player on the track. The song comes back to the principle groove amid the rehashed snare. This example rehashes and prompts the second rap refrain. The third pre-melody "originates from Jerkins' plan to have the part changes on top, with Webb's principle groove on the base". It is trailed by the fundamental pre-theme, at that point the snare is rehashed multiple times. From that point forward, the singing stops and the instruments fill in the space of the pre-chorale. The greetings cap and Roland TR-808 likewise stop; the tune closes with the culled bass and impacts of horns from the absolute first line of the melody. 

"This feels familiar" was spilled to the web on June 13, 2006. On June 24, 2006, it was discharged to radio stations in the United States, a month after Beyoncé educated Columbia, her record mark, that "B'Day" was finished. More than one month later, it was discharged to physical configurations; the track was discharged as a CD single on July 31, 2006 in the United States. An upgraded CD was discharged on September 12, containing five tracks and an extra "This feels familiar" mixed media track. In the United Kingdom, the computerized download wound up accessible on August 15, 2006. A CD maxi and a 12" single were discharged on August 21, 2006. Beyoncé's supervisor moved toward English creation group Freemasons to remix "This feels familiar" subsequent to hearing a remix they made for a tune by artist Heather Headley. A club-situated adaptation was created and showed up on a "Green Light" Freemasons EP, discharged on July 31, 2007. A maxi single, including the collection rendition of the track and Freemasons club blend, was discharged on August 5, 2006 in European nations. Amid a meeting, Beyoncé further talked about her choice to discharge the melody as the primary single from the collection, saying, "it was deep and had a ton of horns, it just felt better, and it didn''t seem like everything on the radio. It wasn''t average yet it felt ageless.". The UK hits assemblage collection Now That's What I Call Music! 65, discharged in 2006, highlights an elective form of the single, precluding Jay-Z's parts and hurrying to 3 minutes and 25 seconds. 

"This feels familiar" appeared to blended and positive surveys among faultfinders. Mike Joseph of the global webzine PopMatters<nowiki>'</nowiki> trusted that it was "awesome to hear Beyoncé singing her lungs out over a full-bodied furrow including live instruments". Spence D. of IGN Music, a mixed media news and surveys site, complimented Jerkins' bass-loaded furrow, composing that it conveyed the track to flawlessness. Depicting "This feels familiar" as a sublime melody, Caroline Sullivan of "The Guardian" complimented Beyoncé and Jay-Z coordinated effort calling it "hot as pre-watershed pop gets". She included that despite the fact that when Jay-Z isn't physically present, he figures out how to bring out something imposing in Beyoncé that summons "the youthful, non domesticated Tina Turner". Bernard Zuel "The Sydney Morning Herald" commended the decisiveness with which Beyoncé conveys her lines and considered purchasing "This feels familiar" as beneficial. 

A few other music commentators have looked at "This feels familiar" to Beyoncé's 2003 single, "Insane in Love", the lead single of her presentation collection. As per Gail Mitchell of "Announcement" magazine, the tune is seen by numerous individuals as a continuation of "Insane in Love". Jason King of the "Vibe" magazine esteemed the melody as "cloned from the DNA of the rowdy 'Insane in Love'" while Thomas Inskeep of "Stylus" Magazine alluded to it as "'Crazy in Love' light". A few commentators, notwithstanding, were negative to the parallels drawn between the two tunes. Andy Kellman of AllMusic, an online music database, composed that "['Déjà Vu'] "had the daringness to not be as enormous as 'Insane in Love'", alluding to the business achievement the last experienced in 2003. The web based distribution "Pitchfork's" author Ryan Dombal asserted that "this time [Beyoncé] out-bolds the beat". 

Sasha Frere-Jones of "The New Yorker" regarded the verses as a "bewildering perspective on memory", while Chris Richards of "The Washington Post" portrayed Beyoncé as an "affection entranced sweetheart" in the melody. Jody Rosen of the "Diversion Weekly" alluded to "This feels familiar" as a "strangely level" decision as a lead single. Jaime Gill of Yahoo! Music respected "This feels familiar" as a decent decision for a solitary however inferred that it lacks "the sort of executioner ensemble" to propose that Beyoncé would make one further stride "to out and out worldwide control". Then again, Jon Pareles of "The New York Times" composed that Jay-Z appears "as serenely egotistic as ever" in the tune yet he just makes Beyoncé's "sound progressively unreliable". Kelefa Sanneh of a similar production noticed that "the abstain doesn't give Beyoncé a possibility truly to flaunt" and further portrayed the tune as a "reasonable for ordinary single from an artist who is the inverse of edgy". 

"This feels familiar" was designated for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration and Best R&B Song while the Freemasons club remix form was selected for Best Remixed Recording, Non-Classical at the 2007 Grammy Awards. It was likewise selected for Best Collaboration close by Beyoncé's other tune "Overhaul U" highlighting Jay-Z, at the Black Entertainment Television (BET) Awards. "This feels familiar" won Best Song at the 2006 MOBO Awards in the UK. The next year, it additionally gotten two designations for the Best R&B/Urban Dance Track and Best Pop Dance Track at the 22nd Annual International Dance Music Awards in 2007. The essayists of "Rap-Up" magazine put the melody at number ten on their rundown of the ten best singles of 2006. In 2013, John Boone and Jennifer Cady of E! Online set the tune at number six on their rundown of ten best Beyoncé's melodies. In a 2013 rundown of Jay-Z's 20 Biggest "Bulletin" Hits, "This feels familiar" was positioned at number 19. 

"This feels familiar" appeared on the US "Announcement" Hot 100 graph at number 44, not exactly a month prior to its physical discharge. After the arrival of the computerized and physical segments, the tune sold 75,000 downloads in its first week. It in the long run topped at number four on the Hot 100 diagram. The track's Freemasons/M. Joshua remix topped the US Hot Dance Club Play outline, while the collection variant crested at number 18 on a similar segment graph. "This feels familiar" likewise achieved the top spot of the Hot Dance Singles Sales and Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs diagrams, number nine on the Rhythmic Top 40 outline, and number 14 on the Top 40 Mainstream graph. 

"This feels familiar" achieved the main 10 of every eight European nations. Having sold 29,365 units on its first week, the single made its introduction at number one on the UK Singles Chart, turning into Beyoncé's second solo number-one single in the UK. The single achieved the best five in Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Norway, and Switzerland and entered the main 10 in Belgium, Finland, and Germany. In Oceania, "This feels familiar" crested on the Australian Singles Chart at number 12, and on the New Zealand Singles Chart at number 15. "This feels familiar" rose as the 98th top of the line single in Australia in 2006. 

The music video for "This feels familiar" was recorded by British executive Sophie Muller in New Orleans, Louisiana on June 21, 2006, with parts of the video shot at the Maple Leaf Bar and the Oak Alley Plantation in Carrollton, Louisiana and Vacherie, Louisiana separately. The recording highlights couture-roused outfits, energetic footwork and explicitly themed schedules. The video at the same time debuted on July 12, 2006 on MTV's show "Absolute Request Live" ("TRL"), and Overdrive, MTV's broadband video channel. It achieved the top spot on the "TRL", Yahoo!, and MTV commencements. The "This feels familiar" video bested the UK TV airplay outline in late July 2006. 

The video starts with appearing against a green divider and Jay-Z sitting on a seat inside a dull room. Beyoncé and Jay-Z at that point begin to at the same time play fanciful instruments, imitating the melody's tune. Scenes of Beyoncé are then appeared a few changed rooms wearing diverse outfits. As the tune starts, she is appeared around and moving out in a huge sugarcane field. Toward the finish of the chorale, she moves in a red dress before a lake and in a huge red dress out before a manor. At the point when Jay-Z's stanza starts, the two are appeared inside a room, Beyoncé is presently shoeless and exposed legged, she moves alluringly around Jay-Z, and prompts the dubious oral simulated intercourse. Beyoncé is then indicated wearing a green skirt and overwhelmed bra while moving around in sand. As the tune advances, she is appeared alone in a dull backwoods wearing a shimmering dark dress as fireflies hover around her head. The melody closes with Beyoncé reclining in a posture as fireflies race away. 

Responses to the video were blended. Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine remarked it is "more topical and interesting than the recordings for 'Child Boy' and 'Underhanded Girl'", Beyoncé's melodies from her introduction collection, "Hazardously in Love". Allhiphop's Eb Haynes portrayed the video "outwardly crisp" and "couture spurred". A news article distributed by "Hindustan Times" revealed that a specific scene in the video is suggestive of oral sex. Natalie Y. Moore of "In These Times" magazine resounded the last's analysis, composing that the video features Beyoncé "swaggering her sexuality", and that in Jay-Z's scenes it "looks as though any moment now she'll give him fellatio". The video later showed up on a rundown of Yahoo! Music News' Worst Videos of All Time, which indicated the negative fan response and expressed, "It's most likely the least awful video recorded ... be that as it may, similarly as Beyoncé recordings go, it is a stinker." 

As indicated by a MTV News staff report, starting at July 2006, in excess of two thousand individuals had marked an online appeal routed to Beyoncé's record name, Columbia, requesting a reshoot for the video. Before the finish of August 2006, 5000 extra fans had marked it. The appeal mentioned the clasp to be taped again in light of the fact that it was viewed as "a disappointing portrayal of the ability and nature of past music-video undertakings of Ms. Beyoncé". Incorporated into the clothing rundown of offenses were "an absence of topic, confounding altering, over-the-top closet decisions, and unsuitable communications" among Beyoncé and her currently spouse, Jay-Z. Beyoncé's move moves were additionally raised doubt about by the request, qualifying them as "inconsistent, befuddling and disturbing on occasion". Moreover, fans whined about the sexual subject delineated in the video, depicting that a few scenes as "unsatisfactory communications [between Beyoncé and Jay-Z]" while additionally grumbling of a "non-existent sexual science" between the two. The music video was granted Best Video at the 2006 MOBO Awards. It likewise gotten two assignments for Sexiest Video and Best Hook-Up at the 2007 MTV Australia Video Music Awards. 

"This feels familiar" was performed by Beyoncé at the 2006 BET Awards on June 27 at the Shrine Auditorium. The show was opened with an exhibition of the tune and Jay-Z joined Beyoncé in front of an audience amid the second 50% of the melody. William Keck of "USA Today" remarked that Beyoncé "sizzled in a noteworthy silver group" as she played out the tune. She additionally performed "This feels familiar" at the Fashion Rocks on September 8, 2006. As per Farrah Weinstein of MTV News, Beyoncé's execution of the melody was charged as a tribute to Josephine Baker, and both her stage set and outfit were in reverence to the vocalist and artist. The set was planned like an old supper club, total with male artists bearing saxophones, and both Beyoncé and her female artists wore Baker's trademark smaller than usual hula skirt decorated with phony bananas. She played out the melody on the American morning news and television show, "Great Morning America" amid a scene which disclosed on September 8, 2006. Beyoncé likewise played out the tune at "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" on September 9, 2006, and at "The Tyra Banks Show" on September 15, 2006. At the 2006 World Music Awards on November 15, 2006, Beyoncé opened the show with an act of "History repeating itself". 

Notwithstanding her live exhibitions of "History repeating itself" in honors services and broadcast appears, the tune was incorporated on the set rundown for her visits The Beyoncé Experience and I Am... World Tour. John Aizlewood of "Every day Mail" depicted the execution of the melody amid The Beyoncé Experience as "head-turning". Amid Beyoncé's execution of "History repeating itself" at a show in Toronto on August 25, 2007, she had a closet breakdown as her dress flew over her head and was conjectured to uncover her bosom. In any case, a representative for the artist denied theories saying, "She's wearing a tissue tone bra! Do you truly think Beyoncé would go in front of an audience like that?". The video which was transferred to YouTube became a web sensation. Ann Powers of "Los Angeles Times" examined about the breakdown, saying: "As a pop ruler, Beyoncé is excessively immaculate... [a] 'closet glitch' in Toronto accumulated unmistakably more consideration than was justified incompletely on the grounds that these slip-ups repudiated her savagely athletic style." During the I Am... World Tour, Beyoncé did not play out the entire melody; she sang a few of the opening lines of "History repeating itself" after her passageway in front of an audience. Amid the revue I Am... Yours which was a piece of the visit, Beyoncé played out a jazz mixture of "History repeating itself", "It Don't Mean a Thing (If It Ain't Got That Swing)" and "Bootylicious" and proceeded with a full form of the main tune. Show exhibitions of "History repeating itself" were incorporated on her live collections "The Beyoncé Experience Live" (2007), "" (2009) and "I Am... World Tour" (2010). 

Beyoncé performed Déjà Vu amid her 2018 Coachella Performances on April 14 and April 21, 2018 with a visitor appearance by Jay Z, alongside a live orchrestra. It had been over a long time since she last played out the melody. 

On January 31, 2009 Jade Ewen played out the melody amid the "" appear. Her execution was portrayed as "a show-ceasing – and relevantly picked – version [of the original]" by Cher Thornhill of "Day by day Mail". Amid the finale of the tenth period of "American Idol" on May 25, 2011, the woman candidates consolidated in front of an audience to perform "This feels familiar" alongside a mixture of Beyoncé's other hit singles. 

Adjusted from "B'Day's" liner notes.