John J. Crittenden 

John Jordan Crittenden (September 10, 1787July 26, 1863) was an American legislator from the U.S. territory of Kentucky. He spoke to the state in both the U.S. Place of Representatives and the U.S. Senate and twice filled in as United States Attorney General in the organizations of William Henry Harrison, John Tyler and Millard Fillmore. He was additionally the seventeenth legislative leader of Kentucky and served in the state lawmaking body. Albeit much of the time referenced as a potential possibility for the U.S. administration, he never agreed to keep running for the workplace. 

Amid his initial political vocation, Crittenden served in the Kentucky House of Representatives and was picked as speaker on a few events. With the coming of the Second Party System, he aligned with the National Republican (later Whig) Party and was an intense supporter of Henry Clay and adversary of Democrats Andrew Jackson and Martin Van Buren. 

Intermediary president John Quincy Adams selected Crittenden to the U.S. Incomparable Court on December 17, 1828 however Senators who bolstered president-elect Jackson casted a ballot to defer affirmation until Jackson could name his own man. After his concise administration as Kentucky Secretary of State, the state assembly chose Crittenden to the second of his four non-sequential stretches in the U.S. Senate. Upon his race as president, William Henry Harrison selected Crittenden as Attorney General, yet 5 months after Harrison's demise, political contrasts provoked him to leave instead of proceed with his administration under Harrison's successor, John Tyler. 

He was come back to the Senate in 1842, serving until 1848, when he surrendered to keep running for senator, trusting his race would help Zachary Taylor win Kentucky's vote in the 1848 presidential race. Taylor was chosen, however Crittenden denied a post in his bureau, dreading he would be accused of making a "degenerate deal", as Clay had been in 1825. Following Taylor's passing in 1850, Crittenden surrendered the governorship and acknowledged Millard Fillmore's arrangement as lawyer general. 

As the Whig Party disintegrated in the mid-1850s, Crittenden joined the Know Nothing (or American) Party. After the termination of his term as lawyer general, he was again chosen to the U.S. Senate, where he encouraged trade off on the issue of bondage to keep the separation of the United States. As severe partisanship expanded the danger of withdrawal, Crittenden searched out conservatives from all gatherings and framed the Constitutional Union Party, however he declined the gathering's assignment for president in the 1860 race. In December 1860, he composed the Crittenden Compromise, a progression of goals and sacred changes he trusted would turn away the Civil War, yet Congress would not support them. 

One of Crittenden's children, George B. Crittenden, turned into a general in the Confederate Army. Another child, Thomas Leonidas Crittenden, turned into a general in the Union Army. The senior Crittenden was chosen to the United States House of Representatives in 1861, and upheld the Union. In any case, he censured huge numbers of the approaches of President Abraham Lincoln and the U.S. Congress, including the Emancipation Proclamation and the confirmation of West Virginia to the Union. He kept on working for compromise of the states all through his time in office. He pronounced his office for re-appointment to the House in 1863, however kicked the bucket before the decision occurred. 

John Jordan Crittenden was conceived September 10, 1787, close Versailles, Kentucky. He was the second tyke and first child of Revolutionary War veteran Major John Crittenden and his better half Judith Harris. John and Judith Crittenden had four children and five little girls, everything except one of whom endure earliest stages. On his dad's side, he was of Welsh lineage, while his mom's family was French Huguenot. His dad had studied land in Kentucky with George Rogers Clark, and settled there soon after the finish of the American Revolution. Two of Crittenden's siblings, Thomas and Robert, progressed toward becoming legal counselors, while the third, Henry, was a rancher. 

Crittenden started a school preliminary educational modules at Pisgah Academy in Woodford County. He was then sent to a life experience school in Jessamine County. Among his cohorts were Thomas Alexander Marshall and Francis P. Blair. Crittenden turned out to be particularly dear companions with Blair, and later political contrasts did little to decrease their kinship. Following a year at all inclusive school, Crittenden moved to the Lexington, Kentucky, home of Judge George M. Bibb to think about law. He started further developed investigations at Washington College (presently Washington and Lee University) in Lexington, Virginia. Amid his short residency there, he considered arithmetic and beauties lettres and progressed toward becoming companions with Hugh Lawson White. Disappointed with the educational modules at Washington College, Crittendon moved to Williamsburg and exchanged to the College of William and Mary. He examined law under St. George Tucker and ended up familiar with future president John Tyler. 

On May 27, 1811, Crittenden wedded Sarah O. Lee at her home in Versailles. Lee was a cousin of future U.S. President Zachary Taylor and auntie of U.S. Representative Wilkinson Call. They had seven youngsters before Sarah kicked the bucket in mid-September 1824. Among their youngsters were Confederate real broad George Crittenden and Union general Thomas Leonidas Crittenden. Their little girl Sallie Lee "Maria" Crittenden was the mother of John C. Watson, a Rear Admiral in the U.S. Naval force amid the late nineteenth century. 

Finishing his examinations in 1806, Crittenden was admitted to the bar the next year. He started his training in Woodford County, however discovered focal Kentucky effectively all around provided with capable legal advisors. Critenden then moved to Logan County, Kentucky, on the then western boondocks and opened his training in Russellville. At age twenty-two, moved over the Ohio River to Illinois Territory, and Governor Ninian Edwards designated him its lawyer general. The next year, Edwards additionally made Crittenden his confidant. 

Notwithstanding his legitimate practice when he came back to Kentucky, Crittenden additionally worked estates and claimed oppressed individuals. In 1830, his group of 12 free white people included 6 subjugated individuals. In 1850, Crittenden claimed 44 oppressed individuals (11 ladies above age 16, 7 men, 13 young men and 13 young ladies. In 1860, in the wake of circulating some property to his now-grown-up kids, Crittenden claimed ten oppressed individuals, all mulattos (females matured 60, 25, 21, 18 and 16 and guys matured 28, 16, 14, 10 and 1 year). 

Crittenden's profession as a chosen authority started in the Kentucky House of Representatives, where he spoke to Logan County from 1811 to 1817. After the 1811 authoritative session, he volunteered as an associate to General Samuel Hopkins in an endeavor against the Indians. On the flare-up of the War of 1812, Kentucky senator Charles Scott named him as a confidant for the First Kentucky Militia. In 1813, he turned into a confidant to Governor Isaac Shelby, serving at the Battle of the Thames in Canada. Following the war, the representative issued him an uncommon tribute for unwaveringness in doing his requests. He at that point continued his law practice in Russellville. 

In 1814, Governor Shelby selected Crittenden to fill the U.S. Senate situate cleared by his previous educator, George M. Bibb; later, in any case, Shelby discovered that Crittenden was just twenty-seven years of age, three years short of the . Subsequently he came back to his seat in the Kentucky House, where was chosen speaker over John Rowan. He would hold the situation from 1815 to 1817. 

As speaker, Crittenden directed an especially wild time in the governing body. In October 1816, as of late chosen representative George Madison passed on. He was prevailing by Lieutenant Governor Gabriel Slaughter. Butcher promptly made two incredibly disagreeable arrangements, and rapidly dropped out of support with numerous Kentuckians. A gathering of administrators, driven by John C. Breckinridge, brought up that the Kentucky Constitution gave just that the lieutenant representative would fill in as senator until another gubernatorial race was held and a certified successor was picked. Butcher, they asserted, was just the "acting representative". The gathering exhibited a bill to the House that called for new decisions. The bill was crushed, however Crittenden upheld it. 

Crittenden's help of another race was both well known and politically practical. At the point when the U.S. Senate term of Martin D. Hardin, one of Slaughter's disagreeable chosen people, terminated in 1817, the Kentucky General Assembly picked Crittenden to fill the opening. In spite of the fact that he was the most youthful individual from the body, he filled in as the second-historically speaking executive of the recently made Committee on the Judiciary. He was additionally an individual from the Committee on Naval Affairs. Amid his term, he acquainted enactment with repay and reimburse people who were fined under the 1798 Sedition Act. He discovered state governmental issues additionally intriguing, in any case, and this reality, combined with expanded money related obligations brought about by the introduction of his third and fourth youngsters, provoked his choice to leave his seat on March 3, 1819. 

Subsequent to leaving Congress, Crittenden moved to Frankfort, the state capital, to pull in increasingly legitimate customers and be closer to the focal point of the state's political action. Among his customers in the wake of moving to Frankfort were previous Presidents Madison and Monroe, future Vice-President Richard Mentor Johnson, and future governors James T. Morehead, John Breathitt, and Robert P. Letcher. Amid this period, he worked together with Henry Clay in protecting Charles Wickliffe, child of Robert C. Wickliffe. Wickliffe was accused of the homicide of the editorial manager of the "Kentucky Gazette". Crittenden contended that the killing was self-protection, and Clay conveyed an energetic shutting contention. The jury restored a decision of "not blameworthy" just minutes after the case was submitted to them. 

In January 1820, Crittenden and John Rowan were picked to help settle Kentucky's limit question with Tennessee. The limit should keep running along the line at 36 degrees, 30 minutes north scope, however when Dr. Thomas Walker studied it, he incorrectly denoted the line more remote south. Crittenden and Rowan proposed either that the "Walker Line" remain the limit from the Cumberland Mountains to the Tennessee River and Tennessee would adjust for the blunder west of the Tennessee River, or that the limit be reset at 36 degrees, 30 minutes all through. Tennessee's officials rejected the two proposition, asking rather that the Walker Line be acknowledged east of the Tennessee River and an all the more southerly line west of it, with corresponding understandings between the states to respect existing area gifts. Crittenden was slanted to acknowledge the offer, yet Rowan was definitely not. The Kentucky officials suggested that the issue be submitted to mediation, however Tennessee won't. In a report to the General Assembly, Crittenden prescribed that Kentucky acknowledge the Tennessee proposition. The lawmakers were influenced by Crittenden's report, and the articles of understanding were marked on February 2, 1820. 

Crittenden was chosen to the leading body of trustees for Transylvania University in 1823, potentially due to campaigning by Henry Clay. After a year, the workforce of the college granted him a privileged specialist of laws. Crittenden additionally filled in as a trustee and lawyer for the Kentucky Seminary in Frankfort. Crittenden utilized his impact in help of Clay in the 1824 presidential decision until Clay was wiped out from conflict. He at that point tossed his help to Andrew Jackson until he discovered that John Quincy Adams, whenever chose, would almost certainly make Clay Secretary of State. Commentators named Adams' supposed guarantee to Clay the "degenerate deal", yet it brought about Adams' race. Upon his arrangement as Secretary of State, Clay was set up to prescribe Crittenden to supplant him as boss guidance in Kentucky for the Second Bank of the United States, however the bank decided not to procure a substitution. 

Crittenden was stepped once again into open administration by the Old Court – New Court debate. At the point when enactment went for giving alleviation to the state's borrowers was struck somewhere around the Kentucky Court of Appeals, supporters of the enactment in the General Assembly passed a bill annulling the Court and making another court, which they loaded with thoughtful judges. Rivals of the enactment held that the Assembly's activity was illegal, and for a period, the two courts guaranteed expert as the court after all other options have run out in the state. Despite the fact that he had filled in as leader of the New Court-sponsored Bank of the Commonwealth since its arrangement in 1820, Crittenden openly recognized himself with the Old Court supporters in April 1825. In the administrative decision of 1825, companions approached Crittenden to look for race to the state House of Representatives. Many trusted that he was the main Old Court supporter that instructed enough regard to win one of the two seats allocated to Franklin County, a bastion of the New Court. At the point when Crittenden assented to run, New Court supporters designated the state's Attorney General Solomon P. Sharp and Lewis Sanders, an unmistakable attorney. Crittenden and Sharp were chosen to the two seats. 

In the early hours of the morning of November 7, 1825, the very morning the assembly was to gather, Sharp was killed. Charges were made that Old Court supporters had prompted the homicide. Crittenden endeavored to dull these charges by presenting a goals censuring Sharp's homicide and offering $3,000 for the killer's catch. At the point when professional killer Jereboam O. Beauchamp was caught, it turned out to be certain that the inspiration for the murdering was close to home, not political. (Beauchamp's significant other had hitched him depending on the prerequisite that he execute Sharp, who had would not guarantee the kid he had fathered with her beforehand.) Despite this, Crittenden rejected a solicitation to speak to Beauchamp in his homicide preliminary since he needed to maintain a strategic distance from any ramifications in the issue. 

The court contention overwhelmed the authoritative session. Crittenden joined the Old Court greater part in the House in passing a measure to cancel the New Court. The bill was slaughtered in the Senate, in any case, by the tie-breaking vote of Lieutenant Governor Robert B. McAfee. Crittenden later served on a board of trustees of six to determine the contention, yet without much of any result. He was reluctant to acknowledge an answer whereby every one of the judges left the two courts, and the senator would name a rearranged court made up similarly of Old Court and New Court supporters. This position cost him the help of some New Court partisans that had voted in favor of him in the past decision, and he was not came back to the House in 1826. Eventually, Old Court partisans dealt with the two places of the council, and the New Court was canceled for all time in December 1826. 

On November 15, 1826, Crittenden wedded Maria Knox Todd, a widow who was the girl of Judge Harry Innes. Crittenden accepting Todd's three youngsters as his own, and the couple had two additional kids: John and Eugene. Todd's girl Catherine wedded her stepbrother, Crittenden's child Thomas; their child, John Jordan Crittenden III, was slaughtered at the Battle of the Little Bighorn. Maria Knox Todd Crittenden passed on September 8, 1851 of an obscure disease. 

Because of the Old Court – New Court discussion, Kentucky's legislators ended up partitioned between the Democrats and the National Republicans. Crittenden's partnership with Henry Clay and his very own political perspectives put him unequivocally in the National Republican Party. Due to Crittenden's help of his presidential offer, President Adams named him United States lead prosecutor for the area of Kentucky in 1827. In 1828, Adams assigned him to supplant Kentuckian Robert Trimble as a partner equity of the Supreme Court, yet Jackson supporters in the Senate wouldn't affirm him. At the point when Jackson crushed Adams in the 1828 presidential decision, he expelled Crittenden from his post as lead prosecutor in light of his relationship with Clay and his resistance to Jackson's budgetary arrangements. 

Crittenden supporters looked to make him the National Republican chosen one for senator in the race of 1828. In spite of the fact that his assignment was everything except certain, Crittenden declined the chance, expecting that his relationship with Clay, who was losing notoriety in the state, would cost his gathering the race. Rather, he advocated Thomas Metcalfe, who proceeded to convey an exceptionally close decision over Democrat William T. Barry. Crittenden rather looked for another term in the Kentucky House, however was again denied the seat. 

In 1829, Crittenden was chosen to the Kentucky House by means of a unique decision. He filled in as Speaker of the House for his whole term. In 1830, he was the Whig chosen one to supplant John Rowan in the Senate. Furtively, the gathering wished to choose Henry Clay, giving him a springboard from which to dispatch another presidential crusade, yet it was obscure whether he would most likely sufficiently secure votes in favor of affirmation; it was chosen that Crittenden would be the candidate, and if the casting a ballot supported the Whigs by a sufficiently extensive edge, Crittenden would pull back and enable them to affirm Clay. The Democrats countered progressively with Richard Mentor Johnson, John Rowan, Charles A. Wickliffe, and John Breathitt. None of them surveyed more than sixty-four of the sixty-nine votes required for affirmation. Crittenden gathered sixty-eight votes on fourteen unique polls, yet he would not vote in favor of himself since he needed Clay to be the candidate. A portion of Crittenden's supporters, be that as it may, would not vote in favor of Clay, and the seat was left empty. 

The next year, a reasonable greater part of the House of Representatives were vowed to Crittenden for the open Senate situate. Be that as it may, Clay partners forced Crittenden to move to one side and enable Clay to be the Whig chosen one. Crittenden obliged, and Clay was chosen by an edge of nine votes over Richard M. Johnson. Crittenden proceeded to oversee both the ineffective gubernatorial crusade of Richard Aylett Buckner and the battle to help Clay win Kentucky in the 1832 presidential race. After Clay's thrashing in 1832, he offered to leave his Senate situate and permit Crittenden to succeed him, however Crittenden denied the offer. Soon thereafter, Crittenden resigned from the General Assembly. 

Crittenden was dynamic in sorting out the Whig Party from the remainders of the dead National Republican Party in 1834. On July 4, 1834, he called to arrange the gathering's first hierarchical gathering in the state at Cove Spring, Kentucky. He was picked as seat of the board of trustees on goals and in a discourse on July 5, harshly censured President Jackson. Later in 1834, Kentucky senator James T. Morehead selected Crittenden Secretary of State. In the August races, Whigs won a larger part in the two places of the General Assembly. At the point when the Assembly gathered, they chose Crittenden to the U.S. Senate over Democrat James Guthrie by a vote of 94– 40. 

Quickly after sitting down in the Senate, Crittenden was named to the Committee on Public Lands and the Committee on the Judiciary, most likely because of Clay's impact. Right off the bat in his term, Crittenden vociferously restricted Senator Thomas H. Benton's proposition to spend the government spending surplus on open land graduation and military fortresses along the eastern seaboard. He additionally impacted the Jackson organization for issuing the Specie Circular, necessitating that all installment for government land be made in gold or silver. He called attention to that the standards of the roundabout had been displayed in a goals on the Senate floor, yet had been postponed by a vast larger part. Crittenden kept up that the postponing of the goals was a judgment by the Senate, yet the organization issued the round just months after the fact, exceeding, through crittenden's eyes, the limits of the official branch's position. Crittenden discussed the issue finally with Senator Benton, and Congress at last passed a bill requiring the legislature to acknowledge the notes of specie-paying banks for the buy of government lands, yet President Jackson utilized his pocket veto to keep it from getting to be law. 

Amid his term, Crittenden remained a frank commentator of Jackson and his successor, Martin Van Buren. He bolstered Henry Clay's arrangement for circulating continues from the closeout of open terrains among the states, and furthermore joined Clay in restricting the organization supported Second Seminole War. One of only a handful couple of organization recommendations he bolstered was the acknowledgment of the new Republic of Texas. Amid this time of Crittenden's administration in the Senate, the issue of subjugation rose to unmistakable quality. Crittenden was viewed as a moderate on the issue, trying to keep it out of legislative issues out and out. In 1836, he opposed petitions by the Quakers to cancel bondage in Washington, D.C., yet he additionally restricted radical ace subjugation estimates, for example, John C. Calhoun's proposition to forbid abolitionist writing from being conveyed via mail in the Southern states. 

As opposed to his typically propitiatory nature, Crittenden was drawn into a contradiction between congressmen Jonathan Cilley and William J. Graves that finished in a duel. On the floor of the House, Cilley had assaulted the honesty of Whig paper editorial manager James Watson Webb. Webb requested a withdrawal of Cilley's remarks through his companion, Congressman Graves. At the point when Cilley would not get the correspondence from Graves, Graves charged that Cilley was scrutinizing Webb's respect and provoked him to a duel. Graves, joined by Kentucky Congressman Richard Menefee and Virginia Congressman Richard Wise asked Crittenden to fill in as a second for Graves in the duel; Crittenden at first dissented, yet at long last concurred. After two misses by the two soldiers, Cilley was executed on the third trade. The House proposed the removal of Graves and the blame of different members (barring Crittenden, who was a congressperson and not expose to House reprimand). The goals of ejection and scold were inevitably postponed, yet Crittenden by and by felt the sting of what he considered a backhanded blame and later lamented his activities. 

In the 1840 presidential decision, Crittenden again urged Kentucky Whigs to help the assignment of Henry Clay. After Clay lost the assignment, Crittenden bolstered possible victor William Henry Harrison. Crittenden was re-chosen to the Senate in 1840 despite the fact that he was generally expected to be named to a situation in Harrison's presidential bureau. He was obviously given his decision of bureau positions, and picked that of Attorney General. He surrendered his Senate seat to take this post. 

As lawyer general, Crittenden issued just a single eminent feeling. The offended party for the situation was a person whose property had been harmed amid Andrew Jackson's attack of what might turn into the Florida Territory in 1818. The case was all the while being settled in 1841. A Florida court found for the offended party and requested the central government to remunerate him for the harms and to pay him enthusiasm on his case from the time the harms were brought about. Treasury Secretary Thomas Ewing asked Crittenden whether the court had the specialist to grant premium and whether it ought to be paid. Crittenden opined that it didn't, and Ewing did not pay the intrigue. Crittenden's conclusion was utilized as a point of reference in comparative cases by future lawyers general. 

Just seven days subsequent to being named by Harrison, Crittenden was dispatched to New York City to intervene strains with Great Britain over the sinking of the steamboat "Caroline" by a gathering of Canadian volunteer army, who were endeavoring to stifle a disobedience in Canada. In this strategic undertaking, Crittenden was acting independently from his official obligations as lawyer general. He talked with New York Governor William H. Seward and verified his guarantee to acquit Alexander McLeod, who had seized and consumed the "Caroline", in the event that he were sentenced for a wrongdoing in New York. At last, McLeod was cleared. 

Not long after the "Caroline" issue, President Harrison passed on and Vice-President John Tyler rose to the administration. Tyler opposed Clay's endeavors to set the Whig plan, and vetoed two bank bills against Crittenden's recommendation. Crittenden and different Whigs in Tyler's bureau—with the exception of Daniel Webster—surrendered in dissent of Tyler's deviation from the conventional Whig motivation. Crittenden's abdication was successful September 11, 1841. He came back to Kentucky with no political office and almost no cash. A gathering of his companions in Woodford County obtained his childhood home and exhibited it to him as a blessing on his arrival to Kentucky. 

Crittenden was named to the United States Senate in 1842, filling the opportunity brought about by Clay's acquiescence. In January 1843, he was chosen to a full term over Richard Mentor Johnson. The Whigs' fight with President Tyler proceeded with unabated, and some even talked of denouncing him, yet Crittenden censured that strategy. Amid the 27th and 28th Congresses, he served on the Committee on Military Affairs. He was a promoter of moderate defensive duties and government inside enhancements. He contradicted giving states the alternative to do without allocation, which would have enabled them to choose their congressmen on the loose. 

Crittenden again bolstered Clay's presidential offer in 1844. Earth was broadly viewed as the most loved for the Whig designation, yet to win the general decision. None of the conventional battle issues—Tyler's "official usurpation", Clay's "degenerate deal" with John Quincy Adams, or the defensive tax—appeared to energize the electorate. Be that as it may, the issue of the extension of Texas changed the whole crusade. Mud made a voyage through the South just before the Whig choosing tradition and reasoned that the conclusion for extension in that piece of the nation was not as solid as had been accepted in Washington, D.C. Following up on this conviction, and against Crittenden's recommendation, Clay sent a letter contradicting extension to Crittenden, requesting that he have it distributed in the "National Intelligencer". 

Dirt trusted the Democrats would again select Martin Van Buren, who was fervently contradicted to addition, and this would shield extension from turning into an issue in the crusade. Mud was designated by recognition at the Whig tradition in Baltimore seven days after the fact. At the Democratic selecting tradition a month later, be that as it may, Van Buren was unfit to verify his gathering's designation, and the Democrats rather assigned James K. Polk, who firmly supported extension. Earth endeavored to direct his perspectives on addition, yet his progressions of position drew resistance from supporters of the two sides of the issue as he endeavored to locate a center ground. Polk proceeded to win the decision in a nearby race. This was the last time Clay would be selected for president, and numerous Whigs trusted that, following Clay's thrashing, Crittenden was the new pioneer of their gathering. 

In 1845, the Senate took up the topic of closure the joint inhabitance of the Oregon Territory with Great Britain. Lewis Cass, a congressperson from Michigan, upheld a quick end of the joint occupation understanding and kept up that a war with the British over the issue was inescapable. Crittenden dissented, and demanded that Britain be given two years see before the joint control of the region was finished so as to permit time for a discretionary goals. At last, Crittenden's position won, and a trade off with Britain was affected, setting the isolating line between the two countries' cases at the 49th parallel north. 

In 1846, the United States entered the Mexican– American War trying to oversee Texas. Crittenden did not bolster the war, and after war was pronounced, he demanded that chiefs go with the U.S. armed forces and endeavor to agent harmony at each chance. All through the war, he compared consistently with Generals Zachary Taylor and Winfield Scott. Crittenden's children, George and Thomas, both served in the war; Thomas Crittenden served on Scott's staff. President Polk counseled Crittenden in regards to the terms of harmony that ought to be acknowledged to end the war. Crittenden demanded that the terms of harmony ought exclude the securing of an area to which the United States did not have a "simply guarantee", yet the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo submitted to Congress in 1848 called for Mexico to surrender its cases to Texas, yet in addition to New Mexico, California, and all the region in the middle. A couple of Whigs joined the Democratic larger part in Congress to endorse the arrangement and annihilation the Wilmot Proviso, which would have prohibited subjection in the recently obtained region. 

Companions urged Crittenden to keep running for president in the 1848 race. A Nashville paper pronounced its help for him as right on time as 1846. A Democratic representative from Rhode Island opined that Crittenden could win support from a sizable number of Democrats notwithstanding the help of his own gathering. George B. Kinkead wanted to have the Kentucky General Assembly choose Crittenden for president in 1847. None of these suggestions influenced Crittenden. "For the wellbeing of Heaven don't converse with me about the Presidency", he stated, rebuking one early offer. Earth trusted Crittenden would again bolster him, yet Crittenden inferred that Clay was never again a suitable applicant and advocated Kentuckian Zachary Taylor. This choice caused a break between the two companions, and they were not accommodated until years after the fact when Clay lay on his deathbed. 

The Whig Party was likewise separated in Kentucky, among Clay and Taylor, however between gubernatorial competitors. William J. Graves, out of governmental issues since his lethal shooting of Representative Cilley, had the sponsorship of sitting Whig senator William Owsley, while Archibald Dixon had verified help from previous Whig representative Robert P. Letcher. Letcher wrote to Crittenden that a Whig split and Democratic triumph in the gubernatorial decision would injuriously affect Whig any desires for conveying Kentucky in the 1848 presidential race; another previous Whig representative, Thomas Metcalfe, agreed. At the Whig selecting tradition, the two Graves and Dixon pulled back their names and an agent from Logan County set forward Crittenden's name without his assent. The selection effectively conveyed before Crittenden's companions could square it. The governorship was less esteemed and paid under Crittenden's situation in the Senate. He would likewise need to desert his developing lawful practice under the watchful eye of the Supreme Court and would lose contribution on national issues of significance to him, for example, the regional inquiries that became out of the Mexican War. In any case, he trusted that his office would join the Whigs and help Taylor win Kentucky's appointive votes in the general decision. He acknowledged the selection seven days after it was made. 

Elijah Hise, Chief Justice of the Kentucky Court of Appeals, was the main possibility for the Democratic gubernatorial designation, however after the Whig assignment of Crittenden, Hise pulled back from thought. The Democratic state tradition at that point selected Congressman Linn Boyd, yet Boyd likewise declined the assignment. The Democrats were at long last ready to assign Henderson attorney Lazarus W. Powell. As Crittenden peddled the express, his rivals accused him of traitorousness to Clay since he wouldn't bolster him in the 1848 decision. Crittenden kept up that he upheld Clay for the administration over any other person, yet he had trusted that Clay did not expect to look for the Whig assignment in 1848. After Clay declared his application, Crittenden stated, he stayed unbiased in the Whigs' decision. In the gubernatorial decision, Crittenden vanquished Powell by a vote of 65,860 to 57,397. He surrendered his Senate seat to expect the governorship. 

With his own battle at a nearby, Crittenden continued bearing of Taylor's presidential crusade, dispatching achieved Whig speakers to all pieces of the nation. After Taylor was chosen, he offered Crittenden the post of Secretary of State. Requests rolled in from both Whig and Democratic pioneers the nation over asking him to serve in the bureau; Taylor was unpracticed, and many felt that without Crittenden to manage him, his organization would come up short. Taylor by and by visited Crittenden in Frankfort on February 15, 1849, with expectations of convincing him to acknowledge the arrangement. Crittenden denied Taylor's suggestions, and Taylor likewise dismissed Crittenden's interests to select his companion, Robert P. Letcher, as Postmaster General. Crittenden's info is accepted to have contributed altogether to the arrangements of John M. Clayton as Secretary of State and Orlando Brown as Commissioner of Indian Affairs. 

Crittenden's explanations behind declining Taylor's arrangement were many. In part, he declined keeping in mind Clay's sentiments and in part he felt it would be seen similarly as Clay and Adams' "degenerate deal" in 1825. Leaving the governorship likewise would have added up to admitting to the Democrats' charges that he just looked for the workplace to enable Taylor to win the administration. At long last, he had not had the capacity to completely mend the rupture in the Whig Party, and he needed to cure that circumstance. 

Amid Crittenden's term, he gave solid help to administrator of government funded instruction, Robert Jefferson Breckinridge, who might come to be known as the "Father of state funded educational system in Kentucky." in light of Crittenden's call for monetary help for the improvement of state funded training, the General Assembly passed a typical school law on February 26, 1849. This law built up rules for a few open authorities with respect to their organization of the basic schools. The Assembly likewise held tolls gathered on the Kentucky, Green, and Barren streams for training, and passed a two percent property duty to subsidize the state's schools. 

Crittenden requested the repairing of the state prison, which had been harmed by a flame, and required a broad state geographical study. He additionally informed the creation regarding a sinking asset to resign the state's obligation. The state embraced another constitution amid Crittenden's term, however Crittenden was not a representative to the protected tradition and clearly had little effect on the drafting of the archive. Most Whigs contradicted the calling of a sacred tradition since it would essentially include reapportionment of the state's authoritative locale and undermine Whig strength in the General Assembly; in any case, Crittenden belatedly upheld the require a tradition amid his 1848 gubernatorial battle. 

With the subject of bondage ending up much progressively basic after the regional acquisitions of the Mexican– American War, John C. Calhoun conveyed a fiery location in December 1848 encouraging pioneers of the southern states to oppose "Northern animosity", regardless of whether it implied severance from the Union. Crittenden unequivocally criticized withdrawal in his yearly messages to the council in 1848 and 1849. Accordingly, the state senate passed a goals approaching Kentucky's residents to value the Union and oppose any endeavors to withdraw. 

VP Millard Fillmore rose to the administration upon Taylor's demise and offered Crittenden the post of Attorney General. Trusting the break in the Whig Party was currently much improved, he acknowledged the offer and surrendered the governorship in 1850. Fillmore, a rival of subjection, mentioned a feeling from Crittenden on the defendability of the outlaw slave law, one of the bills associated with the Compromise of 1850. In particular, he inquired as to whether the law suspended the writ of "habeas corpus". Crittenden said that it didn't, opining that it released an obligation put on Congress by the Constitution to return runaway slaves. Crittenden's assessment was presumably inspired by a craving to see the Compromise pass and deflect further sectional pressure. Fillmore, his second thoughts mitigated, marked the bill, keeping the Compromise unblemished. 

Questions with respect to claims in Florida, some effectively considered by Crittenden amid his first term as lawyer general, kept amid his second term. In particular, a portion of the petitioners protested a lawful arrangement, gone by Congress years after the Adams– Onís Treaty, that enabled the Secretary of the Treasury to will not pay claims granted by Florida courts that he observed not to be "simply and fair". The petitioners fought this enabled an official officer to overrule a legal choice infringing upon the regulation of detachment of forces. Crittenden held that the secretary's decision was the same amount of a legal activity as that of the Florida judges. Further, he emphasized his 1841 choice that no intrigue could be paid on cases emerging from harms coming about because of Jackson's intrusion. Notwithstanding this assessment, a Florida judge granted enthusiasm to one of the inquirers, and the administration advanced the case to the Supreme Court, with Crittenden filling in as the administration's guidance. The Court maintained Crittenden's whole sentiment in its decision. 

Crittenden was granted a privileged Doctor of Laws degree from Harvard University in 1851. Soon thereafter, he went about as Secretary of State amid the ailment of Daniel Webster. In this limit, he composed a fiery cautioning to both Britain and France about meddling in the subject of Cuban autonomy. He additionally urged adherence to the United States' customary strategy of non-obstruction in Europe amid the praised visit of Hungarian progressive Louis Kossuth to the United States in 1851. 

In November 1851, the General Assembly met to choose a successor to Senator Joseph R. Underwood. Underwood, whose term would lapse in 1853, wanted re-appointment, and Whigs Charles S. Morehead and George Robertson had additionally reported their particular applications. Crittenden, whose term as lawyer general likewise terminated in 1853, had freely reported that he wished to come back to the Senate after his administration in President Fillmore's bureau, and after learning this, Underwood and Morehead both pulled back from the race. Robertson was not expected to genuinely challenge Crittenden, yet following the withdrawals of different competitors, Archibald Dixon entered the race. Verifiably a partner of Crittenden, Dixon's passageway into the race after Crittenden's declaration demonstrated that he had changed his faithfulness from Crittenden to Clay. Democrats, covetous to overcome Crittenden and humiliate the Whigs, promised to cast a ballot against him no matter what, regardless of whether it implied choosing Dixon. Crittenden's companions, along these lines, kept down his name from designation to save him practically certain annihilation. Balloting halted for a few days, with Clay supporters tossing their help to Dixon, Robertson, and Lieutenant Governor John B. Thompson, a trade off competitor. Another trade off was proposed whereby Clay, his wellbeing coming up short, would leave his Senate situate, making two Senate opening and permitting both Dixon and Crittenden to be chosen, yet Clay wouldn't collaborate. At long last, the evening of December 11, 1851, the Whigs met in council and consented to pull back both Dixon and Crittenden and choose Thompson. 

Seven days after the decision, Clay surrendered, however Crittenden now declined the arrangement to fill his unexpired term. Rather, the council chose Dixon to the rest of Clay's term, set to terminate in March 1855. Three weeks before Clay's demise in 1852, he sent for Crittenden, and the two were accommodated; Critteden conveyed a tribute for Clay in September 1852, openly dispersing the quarrel. After Clay's passing, Crittenden turned into the most conspicuous Whig pioneer in Kentucky. He urged the gathering to help the designation of Millard Fillmore for the administration in 1852, however the selection eventually went to Winfield Scott. Crittenden was proposed as the chosen one for VP, yet he declined. Democrats caught the governorship that year; this was harbinger of the downfall of the Whig Party in Kentucky. 

On February 27, 1853, the twice-single man Crittenden wedded his third spouse, Elizabeth Moss. Greenery was twice-bereaved, most as of late to General William Henry Ashley. Greenery was Crittenden's significant other until his passing. Crittenden filled in as lawyer general until the termination of Fillmore's term in 1853. Following his administration as lawyer general, he came back to private life. He made a significant measure of cash setting up digging claims for his customers in the previous Mexican domain. 

In 1853, the lawmaking body was to choose a successor to Senator Dixon. Presently fulfilled that the fight among Clay and Crittenden had finished, Dixon did not look for re-appointment, leaving Crittenden with no Whig resistance. On a joint vote of the two places of the General Assembly, Crittenden was chosen 78– 59 over senator Lazarus Powell. 

In the period between his race and his getting down to business, Crittenden was the lead protection counsel in the homicide preliminary of Matt F. Ward, the child of one of Crittenden's long lasting companions. Ward's more youthful sibling had been trained by the key at Louisville Male High School the first November, and the senior Ward went to contend with the vital for his sibling. In the following experience, Ward shot and executed the vital with a gun. Open assessment was intensely against Ward, and the preliminary was moved to Hardin County. Amid the week-long preliminary, which started in April 1854, Crittenden underlined irregularities in the records of onlookers and called unmistakable character observers, for example, Louisville civic chairman James Stephens Speed, Congressman William Preston, and "Dispatch Journal" proofreader George D. Prentice. He displayed a case that Ward had acted in self-preservation. Since the arraignment looked for capital punishment, Crittenden stated that if the jury rendered a wrong conviction, they would have no significant serenity realizing they had condemned an honest man to hang. 

There was an enormous open clamor when Ward was found not blameworthy. Papers the country over censured the decision and Crittenden for his job in verifying it. Just Prentice, in the "Dispatch Journal", safeguarded Crittenden and the Ward family. A few open gatherings passed goals requiring Crittenden's acquiescence from the Senate. After one such gathering, a horde accumulated and Crittenden, Prentice, the Wards, and the twelve members of the jury were scorched in representation. 

When he accepted his Senate situate in 1855, Crittenden was sixty-nine years of age, the oldest individual from that body. The Whig Party had essentially broken down at this point, and he joined a considerable lot of his kindred Kentuckians in partner with the Know Nothing Party. In spite of the fact that he didn't concur with the majority of the gathering's standards, he would not connect with the Democrats, the gathering he had spent quite a bit of his profession censuring, nor would he partner with the new Republican Party due to their position against bondage. Regardless of his hesitations about a portion of the gathering stage, he battled in the interest of Millard Fillmore, the gathering's hopeful in the 1856 presidential decision. 

In the early piece of his term, Crittenden was worried about subduing the savagery in Kansas Territory. A rival of the Kansas– Nebraska Act of 1854, Crittenden likewise contradicted canceling the Missouri Compromise except if the North consented to substitute famous power for the rejection of subjugation north of the 36°30' line. In mid 1856, he proposed sending General Winfield Scott to the Kansas Territory to guarantee that reasonable races were held there, yet the proposition was hindered by the Pierce organization. He didn't concur with the majority of the demonstration proposed by Robert Toombs to take into consideration a sacred tradition in Kansas Territory, however he bolstered it as a stage to bring harmony there. He respected the confirmations of both the Topeka Constitution and the Lecompton Constitution as invalid, and made a standout amongst the most very respected discourses of his profession contrary to the last mentioned. His substitute bill that would have resubmitted the Lecompton Constitution to Kansas for another approval vote was bolstered by Republicans, yet it was at last vanquished. So extraordinary was Crittenden's impact after his activities on the Kansas question that Abraham Lincoln felt that Crittenden's underwriting of Stephen Douglas cost Lincoln the Illinois senatorial decision in 1858. 

From 1858 to 1860, Crittenden searched out conservatives from all areas of the nation to impact bargain on the regional and subjugation issues, in this way turning away war. In 1860, he was named seat of the National Union Executive Committee, a gathering of congressmen and columnists who expected that sectional contrasts would devastate the Union. His endeavors helped structure the Constitutional Union Party soon thereafter. Picked as the keynote speaker at the gathering's national tradition on May 9, 1860, many encouraged him to turn into their chosen one for president. At age seventy-three, in any case, Crittenden was at that point mulling over retirement and rather arranged the assignment of John Bell, whom he effectively bolstered in the 1860 presidential race. 

Indeed, even after the race of Abraham Lincoln as president in 1860, Crittenden rejected that severance was inescapable and kept on working for the conservation of the Union. He trusted that the present sectional emergency could—like every single past difference in U.S. history—be settled through trade off. In any case, he trusted that this trade off must not be a basic administrative activity, which could be changed or even canceled by a progressive Congress, however corrections to the U.S. Constitution, which would be significantly more hard to change. Keeping that in mind, he proposed the Crittenden Compromise—a bundle of six established changes and four congressional goals—in December 1860. Among the goals were a judgment of Northern individual freedom laws and a declaration of the defendability of the criminal slave law. The changes would have reestablished the Missouri Compromise line and stretched out it to California as a line of boundary among slave and free domains. Crittenden's different corrections would have additionally ensured that subjugation would stay legitimate uncertainly in Washington, D.C., insofar as it was lawful in either Maryland or Virginia and that slaveholders would be repaid for out of control slaves. Likewise, the corrections denied Congress any capacity to meddle with the interstate slave exchange or with subjection in the current Southern states and made the outlaw slave law and Three-Fifths Compromise ceaseless in term. 

The trade off proposition was alluded to an exceptional board of trustees proposed by Crittenden's kindred Kentucky representative, Lazarus Powell. In spite of the fact that it was trusted that Republicans as a rule, including their agents on the board of trustees, were arranged to acknowledge Crittenden's trade off or one considerably like it, President-elect Lincoln had just taught his confided in partners in the governing body to oppose any arrangement to expand subjugation into the domains. Subsequently, when the advisory group held its first gathering, the Republican individuals obstructed Crittenden's arrangement and six others from going to the floor for a vote. Regardless of their restriction, be that as it may, the Republicans displayed no elective arrangement. After the dismissal of Crittenden's arrangement in advisory group, Florida, Mississippi, Alabama, and Georgia pursued South Carolina's lead and passed laws of severance. 

On January 3, 1861, Crittenden attempted to rescue his arrangement by prescribing to the full Senate that it be submitted to the general population in submission. It was generally trusted that a choice would prescribe selection of Crittenden's arrangement, and Republicans in Congress utilized an assortment of methodology to keep a vote on permitting it. On January 16, with procedural postpones depleted, New Hampshire Senator Daniel Clark moved to substitute for Crittenden's arrangement a goals expressing that established alterations were superfluous to protect the Union, and that authorization of the Constitution and the present laws would dispense with the requirement for exceptional sectional certifications. With the congresspersons from southern states (both those that had withdrawn and those that had not) declining to cast a ballot, Republicans were left with a dominant part in the chamber and passed Clark's substitute goals, successfully murdering Crittenden's proposition. 

Crittenden stayed in Washington for half a month after Congress dismissed. Having discovered that John Archibald Campbell, an Alabaman serving on the Supreme Court, had chosen to leave in light of his state's withdrawal, President Lincoln proposed to designate Crittenden to the empty seat. Lincoln's bureau affirmed, and the designation papers were drafted, however Campbell belatedly reevaluated his renunciation, and when he unquestionably resolved to leave, Lincoln had altered his opinion with respect to Crittenden's selection. 

Having neglected to verify bargain at the government level, Crittenden came back to Kentucky in mid 1861, endeavoring to induce his home state to dismiss the suggestions of individual southern states and stay in the Union. On May 10, 1861, a gathering was held to choose Kentucky's course in the war. Crittenden joined Archibald Dixon and S. S. Nicholas as Unionist agents at the gathering; the Southern Rights position was spoken to by John C. Breckinridge, Governor Beriah Magoffin, and Richard Hawes. The meeting neglected to create a unified game-plan, yet received the arrangement of outfitted impartiality. Unionists in the lawmaking body, be that as it may, expected that the state volunteer army and its authority Simon Bolivar Buckner, had Confederate feelings. To counter any risk that the volunteer army would catch control of the state for the South, the General Assembly sorted out the Home Guard, a different civilian army constrained by a five-man, master Union commission. Crittenden enrolled in the Home Guard as a private and was a piece of a gathering styled the "Association Defense Committee" that verified weapons for the Home Guard from the government. 

In April, the General Assembly called a fringe states tradition to be held in Frankfort in May. Slates of representatives were assigned by both the Unionists and Southern Rightists, yet war broke out before the race of agents; the Southern Rights delegates pulled back from the race, and the Unionist slate, including Crittenden, was picked as a matter of course. On May 27, 1861, Crittenden was picked seat of the tradition and called it to arrange. With war having generally blocked any great the gathering could have cultivated, just nine of Kentucky's twelve agents were available, alongside four from Missouri (out of seven chosen), and one from Tennessee (and his decision was flawed); Virginia, Maryland, and Delaware sent no representatives. At last, the tradition achieved little past approaching the southern states to reevaluate their withdrawal and on the northern states to direct their requests. 

Against his dad's desires, Crittenden's child George surrendered his situation as a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Armed force to join the Confederate States Army (in which he was advanced brigadier at that point real broad), just to viably lose his profession in the early Confederate annihilation at Mill Springs, Kentucky. George's sibling, Thomas Leonidas Crittenden, had been an individual from Buckner's State Guard, yet joined the Union Army in September 1861 and was progressed to the position of brigadier general, serving under Don Carlos Buell. Another child, Eugene, likewise served in the Union Army and accomplished the position of colonel. One of John Crittenden's grandsons, John Crittenden Coleman, enrolled with the Confederate Army, while another grandson, John Crittenden Watson, moved on from the U.S. Maritime Academy and partook in David Farragut's catch of New Orleans amid the war. 

President Lincoln called an extraordinary session of Congress to gather July 4, 1861, and Kentucky held unique decisions in June to choose congressmen for the uncommon session. Crittenden wanted to resign from open administration and at first denied supplications to turn into a hopeful, yet he at last agreed to keep running in late May. He was chosen over secessionist applicant William E. Simms; on the whole, nine of Kentucky's ten congressional areas chose Unionist hopefuls in the unique decision. After sitting down, he was doled out to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. On July 10, 1861, he went with Simon B. Buckner on a visit to President Lincoln to verify a reestablished duty from Lincoln to regard Kentucky's lack of bias; Lincoln concurred just to issue a revelation that he had no present plans on Kentucky yet would not resolve to limit his future activities. So as to quiet the feelings of dread of fringe state residents worried about the Union's destinations in the war, he presented the Crittenden– Johnson Resolution, which accused the secessionist states for the war and expressed that the object of the war was not the oppression of those states, however the protection of the Constitution and the safeguarding of the Union. At the point when those finishes were accomplished, the goals expressed, the war should stop. Kentucky Representative Henry C. Burnett asked that the inquiry be isolated. Burnett was one of just two votes against the part of the goals reprimanding the Southern states for the war; the main contradiction on the rest of the bit originated from Wisconsin's John F. Potter and Ohio's Albert G. Puzzle. In the Senate, the goals passed 30– 5, with Kentucky congresspersons Breckinridge and Powell casting a ballot in the minority. In December 1861 the House can't, by a vote of 76– 65, to reaffirm the goals. 

After Congress dismissed in late July 1861, Crittenden returned home to Frankfort, yet before long needed to escape the city as Confederate commanders Braxton Bragg and Edmund Kirby Smith attacked Kentucky, catching both Frankfort and Lexington. He took up brief home at Louisville's Galt House inn was all the while dwelling there when Union General William "Bull" Nelson was murdered by Brigadier General Jefferson C. Davis there in 1862. He came back to his home in Frankfort soon after the Battle of Perryville drove the Confederates from the state on October 8, 1862. Returning for the normal congressional session, he turned into the conductor through which numerous reports of illegal military captures in Kentucky were diverted. He opposed the confirmation of West Virginia to the Union in light of the fact that Virginia had not assented to the production of the state from its domain. He additionally restricted the Emancipation Proclamation and the utilization of slaves as warriors in the war. 

When he came back to Kentucky after the 37th Congress, Crittenden's wellbeing was coming up short, and he habitually griped of shortness of breath and chest torment. He had resolved to resign from Congress, however by and by, companions convinced him to represent re-appointment. Not long after his assignment, Crittenden and his better half were "in transit" to an alum spring in Indiana to look for treatment to ease the side effects of his falling flat wellbeing when he fallen in Louisville. Subsequent to staying bedfast at the home of a neighborhood specialist, he returned home to Frankfort, where he kicked the bucket on July 26, 1863. He was buried at the State Cemetery in Frankfort. Among his other prominent family were nephews Thomas Theodore Crittenden, congressman from Missouri, and Thomas Turpin Crittenden, a general in the Union Army. In Kentucky, Crittenden County and the town of Crittenden are named for him.