Pru (collection) 

Pru is the presentation studio collection by American vocalist Pru. It was discharged on November 7, 2000, through Capitol Records. "Pru" was overseen by Capitol Records official Roy Lott, who had marked Pru to Warner/Chappell Music Publishing subsequent to being awed by her songwriting and voice on a demo tape. Pru teamed up with Ben Garrison, the Characters, and Rick Williams on the collection. 

As indicated by Lott, Pru was a piece of Capitol Records' endeavors to draw in a more extensive gathering of people through her hybrid intrigue. As per music faultfinders, the collection incorporates a few types, with certain pundits noticing impacts from neo soul. Pru likewise utilized verse as a motivation for composing music. 

Surveys of the collection were commonly positive, singling out specifically its structure and Pru's voice. They likewise contrasted her positively with contemporary specialists. The collection topped at number 176 on the "Announcement" 200 diagram, an accomplishment made conceivable to some extent by an escalated promoting system formulated by Capitol Records administrators. Two singles"Candles" and "Aaroma (of a Man)" were discharged to positive surveys. "Candles" crested at number 68 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs "Announcement" diagram. 

American artist Prudencesa Renfro, expertly known as Pru, was marked through Warner/Chappell Music Publishing by Capitol Records' official Roy Lott, who said that he was "attracted to" her songwriting and voice. Jack Ponti, of Cazzy Dog Management, had helped Pru produce a demo tape to verify the record bargain. Lott had noticed Pru's potential as a craftsman through her verses. He worked intimately with her to coordinate her songwriting to the most proper sound, filling in as the official maker for her presentation studio collection "Pru". 

Before verifying a record bargain, Pru had discovered motivation for her music in specialists, for example, Cassandra Wilson and Dianne Reeves. She composed melody verses and verse while going to secondary school and after that Texas Southern University, coupling her verses with the music of different craftsmen, for example, Michael Jackson, Rachelle Ferrell, Sade, Naughty by Nature, the Isley Brothers, and Miles Davis. While talking about her way to deal with songwriting, Pru explained: "From a word, I can get an entire picture, a visual. The melody turns into a ballad, practically like a theory." She thought about her music as a type of verse, refering to the collection track "Dim Shades" for instance of a sonnet transformed into a tune. 

Pru expressed that she needed her tunes to convey assortment to contemporary R&B, and portrayed the material as the inverse of the predictable music normally found on radio. On her official site, the artist recognized her style as associated with the spirit. Despite the fact that AllMusic gives the vocalist songwriting credit on twelve of the tracks, Pru is credited for co-stating "Aaroma" on the collection's liner notes. The record was finished at Studio57 and Weight Room in New York City, with blending taken care of by Mike Shipley and Tony Maserati. Following arrival of the collection, Pru talked profoundly of her encounters with the makers and felt that they "la[id] a decent bed around the verses and the tunes". 

"Pru" contains thirteen melodies, among which music pundits recognized a few distinctive melodic kinds. "Tucson Weekly's" Margaret Regan composed that Pru's material was a case of new age music, while Janine Coveney of "Announcement" called the vocalist's sound as "alterna-soul/popular music". AllMusic's Ed Hogan noticed that the tunes joined hip bounce, Latin music, contemporary R&B, shake, and trek jump. 

Pru called the opening track, "Prediction of a Flower", the collection's point of convergence, saying that "everything else falls a little to one side and to one side of that". The R&B and soul tune's verses join words from the he adores me... he cherishes me not amusement. The second track, "183 Miles", joins hip jump and down home music, its verses spinning around a romantic tale. Inspecting the Miracles' 1965 melody "The Tracks of My Tears", "Candles" is a "midtempo groove" that includes the main article, candles, as a representation for "stress (consumed at the two finishes) and recuperating (lit for reflection)". The Miracles' single was an immediate motivation for the verses and instrumentation on the track. Hogan, be that as it may, considered "Candles" to be separating from the tune's message. 

Coveney portrayed "Aaroma", the fourth track, as offering a "hot test" to the audience. Pru adjusted one of the tune's verses, "If a man came my direction and I didn't question him", from one of her sonnets. While talking about the significance of the title, the artist said it got from an "old southern saying: 'I could smell you coming'". "Foggy Shade" is an anthem that Hogan portrayed as "recall[ing] 'blue light in the cellar' old skool moderate jams". Gone before by "Salsa Interlude", Pru's front of Sade's 1984 single "Smooth Operator" includes a more grounded Latin-roused instrumental than the first. Hogan noticed that the tune included "popping percussion and fluttery woodwind runs". The consummation of the ninth track, "Can't Compare Your Love", takes motivation from spoken word exhibitions, and the accompanying melody ,"Sketches of Pain", intentionally plays with the title of Miles Davis' 1960 collection "Portrayals of Spain". Colin Ross of "PopMatters" portrayed the twelfth track, "What They Gone Do?", as including a "brazen two-advance" in its instrumentation. 

On August 19, 2000, "Pru" was first declared as an untitled collection planned for discharge the next month. Pushed back to October 24, 2000, the collection was created under the working title "Inside A Poem"a reference to Pru's graceful style of songwriting. Retitled "Pru", Capitol Records discharged the record on November 7, 2000, as a sound CD, tape, and advanced download. It was additionally made accessible as an "improved sound CD", which contains interactive media PC records and a video entitled "In the Life of Pru". 

Preceding the collection's discharge, Pru performed with a band that included individuals from the Family Stand at the Los Angeles setting Luna Park and the New York City club S.O.B. She sang later in Chicago, Houston, and Atlanta to advance the collection further. Pru likewise visited with the Family Stand and individuals from Sade. While talking about the collection's advancement, Linton stated: "Pru is a live act craftsman and, being new, we needed individuals to get their early introduction of her in that condition". 

As indicated by "Bulletin" magazine, Capitol Records had set critical spotlight on the advertising for the collection, including the arrival of an electronic press unit and advancement through "non-retail accounts". Lott told "Bulletin" magazine that Pru would go about as an essential piece of Capitol Records' endeavor to draw in a more extensive gathering of people with her hybrid intrigue. David Linton, Capitol Records' senior VP of R&B advancement and showcasing, recognized R&B, grown-up contemporary music, and top 40 music as potential markets for the vocalist. 

Discharged as the lead single from "Pru", "Candles" was sent to musical radio stations in the United States amid the principal seven day stretch of September. Lott said the tune was picked as Pru's presentation single as he felt that its references to the Miracles' melody would interest audience members all things considered. It was additionally advanced by its consideration on a class kickoff CD sampler from retailer Delia's. Executive Dave Meyers shot the going with music video, which was discharged on November 25, 2000. The video debuted on MTV in February 2001, after around two months of pivot on BET. "Candles" achieved number 68 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs "Bulletin" diagram where it went through fourteen weeks, and topped at number 65 on the R&B/Hip-Hop Airplay "Board" outline where it went through ten weeks. For both outline appearances, "Board" acknowledged the tune as showing up on "The Sound of Style: Capital Records Fall 2000 Collection". Basic reaction to "Candles" was sure. David Dickinson, a music chief at WHUR-FM, felt the single would be suitable for radio and applauded its creation and Pru's voice. An essayist from "Bulletin" magazine complimented the verses and Pru's vocal execution, differentiating the craftsman's "cool, educated reasonableness [against] the conspicuous sexual suggestions" from other contemporary R&B female artists, however communicated uncertainty that hip-jump and standard R&B stations would play the tune, considering it to be more qualified for grown-up R&B radio. 

"Aaroma" was discharged as the collection's second single under the changed title "Aaroma (of a Man)". An author from "Board" magazine contrasted its verses emphatically with those in Toni Braxton's "Un-Break My Heart" (1996). Another analyst from a similar production singled out the track as a standout amongst the best from the collection. As indicated by a "Bulletin" article distributed on June 16, 2001, move and R&B remixes of the melody were appointed from Hani al-Badir and Carlos "Six July" Broady, individually; the remixes were booked to be added to a re-arrival of the collection. A music video for the single was shot in June 2001. The melody was additionally included on the EMI-discharged collection "Observing Black Music Sampler 2001". Alongside the two singles "Candles" and "Aaroma (of a Man)", the record was advanced as highlighting "Smooth Operator" and "183 Miles". 

Upon its discharge, "Pru" got positive input from music faultfinders. Ed Hogan applauded Pru's experimentation with melodic kinds. In talking about its numerous impacts, Colin Ross composed that the collection never sounded uneven or incoherent. He lauded the vocalist for imparting a scope of feelings, by turns appearing to be "honest, confident, unsure, elated and helpless", adulating specifically the collection's instrumentation and verses. A "Bulletin" essayist portrayed "Pru" as "sparkl[ing] with beautifully imaged melodies about affection won, lost and foreseen". "USA Today's" Steve Jones commended the entertainer for the "wonderful profundity in her poetics about delight and catastrophe". Jones composed that the collection showed that Pru had a reasonable feeling of what she needed to accomplish for her profession and sound. "Ebony"s Lynn Norment portrayed her as having a "rich, natural voice and melodious ability", reacting decidedly to the craftsman's persuasions from sacred writing and verse. An author for "Sister 2 Sister" complimented Pru for her capacity to pass on feeling to the audience, and recognized "Prescience of a Flower" as their most loved track from the collection. The "Houston Press"' Craig D. Lindsey applauded Pru's music and live exhibitions, portraying her tunes as "heartfelt, gritty and natural" and the direct opposite to music, for example, Destiny's Child's 1999 single "Bills, Bills, Bills". The collection was designated "[a]rtful ... stunning ... attractive" by a commentator from "Individuals". 

A few news sources contrasted Pru with different craftsmen, with a "Board" analyst crediting the artist as writing in a similar style as contemporary neo soul entertainers. The artist's voice was contrasted with Lauryn Hill, Macy Gray, and Erykah Badu by AllMusic's Stacia Proefrock. She was delegated some portion of a "developing school of poetics" by Ross, who said that she was "inconspicuously changing the scene of contemporary R&B lyricism". A "Bulletin" analyst likewise put the artist as an individual from "the new soul development", and contrasted her work with that of Angie Stone, Amel Larrieux, Jill Scott, and Badu. An author from the diary "The present Black Woman" considered Pru to be a piece of the neo soul type alongside Badu and Scott, saying that these artists joined in their music "conventional R&B just as its new thousand years, hip-jump roused current partner". Pru reacted decidedly to the examinations, saying: "What I believe is being named the neo-soul great development has craftsmen that are independently unique in their own right, however aren't not the same as current R&B." 

"Pru" achieved a pinnacle position of number 176 on the "Bulletin" 200, going through about fourteen days on the outline, and topped on "Billboard's" R&B Albums at number 38, leaving the diagram following thirty-two weeks. 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Pru". All tracks are delivered by Ben Garrison, the Characters, Pru, and Rick Williams. 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Pru" and AllMusic.