Dover Athletic F.C. 

Dover Athletic Football Club is an affiliation football club situated in the town of Dover, Kent, England. The club at present contends in the National League, the fifth level of English football. The club was framed in 1983 after the disintegration of the town's past club, Dover F.C., whose place in the Southern League was taken by the new club. In the 1989– 90 season Dover Athletic won the Southern League title, however neglected to pick up advancement to the Football Conference as the club's ground did not fulfill the required guideline. Three seasons later the group won the title again and this time picked up advancement to the Conference, where they burned through nine seasons before being consigned toward the finish of the 2001– 02 season. The club was exchanged from the Southern League to the Isthmian League in 2004, contending in that alliance's Premier Division for one season before mounting monetary issues drove the club to a further transfer. In the 2007– 08 season, Dover won Division One South of the alliance, before winning the Premier Division in 2008– 09 and hence picking up advancement to the Conference South. They burned through five seasons in this division, achieving the play-offs multiple times, before vanquishing Ebbsfleet United in the 2013– 14 play-off last to at long last come back to the Conference Premier following a twelve-year nonappearance. 

The group normally wear white shirts and are therefore nicknamed the Whites. They have played at the Crabble Athletic Ground since the club's arrangement. The club's best execution in the FA Cup was achieving the third round legitimate in both the 2010– 11 and 2014– 15 seasons, while the best execution enrolled in the FA Trophy, the national challenge for more elevated amount non-class clubs, was a raced to the semi-finals in the 1997– 98 season. 

Dover Athletic F.C. was framed in 1983 after the town's past club, Dover, collapsed because of its obligations. The new club had Dover's spot in the Southern League Southern Division, with previous Dover player Alan Jones as supervisor and a group comprising chiefly of hold players from the old club. At first Athletic battled, completing second from base of the table in the 1984– 85 season. In November 1985 Steve McRae, who had succeeded Jones every year sooner, was sacked and supplanted by Chris Kinnear. 

Under Kinnear the club's fortunes turned round, with two top-five completions pursued by the Southern Division title, and with it advancement, in the 1987– 88 season. The group began firmly in the Premier Division, completing in 6th spot at the main endeavor, and after that triumphant the title in the 1989– 90 season. The club was denied advancement to the Football Conference, in any case, as the Crabble Athletic Ground did not fulfill the guideline required for that group. In the wake of completing fourth and second in the consequent two seasons, Dover won the title again in the 1992– 93 season and this time were admitted to the Conference. 

In spite of the fact that Dover completed in eighth spot in their first season in the Conference, the accompanying season saw the club battling against transfer, and Kinnear was rejected because of a mix of the group's poor exhibitions and his very own issues. John Ryan was selected as the club's new administrator, yet his rule was a short one and he was rejected when the club lost seven of its initial eight matches in the 1995– 96 season. The club at that point delegated previous England worldwide Peter Taylor as administrator, however he was unfit to guide the group far from the foot of the table, and Dover clutched their place in the Conference simply because Northern Premier League sprinters up Boston United neglected to present their application for advancement before the required due date. 

Bill Williams took over as administrator in 1997 and drove the club to the FA Trophy semi-finals in the 1997– 98 season and a best class completion to date of 6th spot in the 1999– 2000 season. Williams left the club to take a senior position with Conference rivals Kingstonian in May 2001. At this point the club was in serious monetary troubles, with various executives leaving and obligations surpassing £100,000. In the midst of the emergency the whole directorate surrendered, compelling the club's Supporters' Trust to assume control over the running of the club, and administrator Gary Bellamy was sacked after only a half year in the activity. Previous Everton goalkeeper Neville Southall dominated however was rejected only three months after the fact, with Clive Walker taking over in March 2002 with the club attached to the foot of the table. The club completed the season base of the Conference and was consigned back toward the Southern League Premier Division. The club's progressing monetary issues prompted it entering a Company Voluntary Arrangement (CVA), a procedure by which bankrupt organizations counterbalance their obligations against future benefits, because of obligations that were presently evaluated at £400,000. 

In Dover's first season back in the Southern League Premier Division the Whites completed in third spot, though 17 points afloat of Tamworth, who asserted the one advancement place accessible that season. A poor begin to the accompanying season saw Walker supplanted by Richard Langley. Dover completed the season in nineteenth spot, before being changed to the Isthmian League Premier Division in the late spring of 2004 after a re-association of the English football alliance framework. The new season began with six progressive annihilations, which saw Langley sacked, and the budgetary issues proceeded, with the club coming extremely close to being shut down. Dover were consigned to the Isthmian League Division One toward the finish of the period, however were spared from conceivable termination in January 2005 when previous executive Jim Parmenter came back to head up a consortium that assumed control over the club. Parmenter immediately sacked supervisor Steve Browne and persuaded Clive Walker to come back to the club to supplant him, and furthermore masterminded the club's exceptional CVA obligations to be cleared, putting the club on a firm monetary balance without precedent for some years. 

Dover Athletic barely passed up a quick come back to the Premier Division in the 2005– 06 season, achieving the play-offs for advancement yet missing out to Tonbridge Angels. The accompanying season Dover again achieved the play-offs however lost in the semi-last to Hastings United, after which Walker did not have his agreement restored and was supplanted by previous Gillingham chief Andy Hessenthaler. In his first season in control he drove the club to the Division One South title and advancement to the Isthmian League Premier Division. The accompanying season Dover won a second continuous title and therefore picked up advancement to Conference South. In the 2009– 10 season, Dover achieved the play-offs for advancement to the Conference National, however lost at the semi-last stage to Woking. The accompanying season the club achieved the third round of the FA Cup out of the blue after successes over Kent rivals Gillingham in the first round and another League Two club, Aldershot Town, in the second round. In the 2012– 13 season the club again achieved the play-offs, however this time lost in the last to Salisbury City. The accompanying season the group achieved the second round of the FA Cup, losing 1– 0 to Milton Keynes Dons, The last 16 of the FA Trophy, barely losing 3– 2 to Eastleigh and made the play-offs again. A 4– 1 total triumph over Sutton United in the semi-last set up a match with individual Kent group Ebbsfleet United in the last. On 10 May 2014, Dover beat Ebbsfleet 1– 0 at Stonebridge Road with an objective from Nathan Elder enough to seal the club's arrival to the top trip of non-class football out of the blue since 2002. In the 2014– 15 season Dover went on another FA Cup run, beating Morecambe 1– 0 in the first round, at that point Cheltenham Town 1– 0 in the second round to achieve the third round appropriate for just the second time at any point, yet lost 4– 0 at home to Premier League side Crystal Palace. The accompanying season the group fit the bill for the play-offs for advancement to League Two. 

Dover Athletic's customary hues are white and dark, which were additionally the hues worn by the before Dover club. Away hues worn by the club have included red, yellow and green, pink and blue. The club's peak contains a stylised portrayal of the town's two most celebrated milestones, Dover Castle and the white precipices, encased around bearing the club's name. The club's shirts have been supported by organizations including Criccieth Homes, Paul Brown of Dover, Jenkins and Pain, cross-channel ship administrators Hoverspeed and SeaFrance, nearby vehicle business Perry's and are presently supported by produce providers Gomez, the organization possessed by Dover Athletic director Jim Parmenter. 

Dover Athletic's home ground since the club's establishment has been the Crabble Athletic Ground, which was additionally the home of the previous Dover club. "Crabble", which is likewise found for the sake of a neighborhood corn plant, may get from the Old English "crabba hol", which means a gap in which crabs are found. The arena, regularly referred to just as "Crabble" or, loosely, as "The Crabble", shapes some portion of a bigger gathering possessed complex, and the prior Dover club initially shared the lower pitch with a rugby club, yet moved to the upper contribute the 1950s, including a show off in 1951, pursued not long after by terracing and floodlights. 

Dover Athletic kept on making upgrades to the ground, in spite of the fact that not so as to enable the club to have its spot in the Football Conference in 1990. Along these lines, new entryways were introduced and two new porches and a second show off included. These enhancements implied that the club had the capacity to pick up advancement after its second Southern League title in 1993. The arena's cutting edge limit is 5,745 with 3,642 spectators under spread. 

In 2007 the club reported that under the new sponsorship manage SeaFrance the arena would be referred to authoritatively as the SeaFrance Crabble Stadium, yet after a year it was declared that the arrangement would not be restored because of the ship administrator's monetary requirements. On 1 July 2008 nearby vehicle vendor Perry's was declared as the club's new principle support and the arena rebranded as the Perry's Crabble Stadium, a game plan which endured until 2012. Somewhere in the range of 2003 and 2004 it was known as the Hoverspeed Stadium under the terms of another such understanding. Margate played their home matches at Crabble for two seasons from 2002 until 2004, while their own Hartsdown Park ground was being redeveloped. 

In the club's initial days Athletic attempted to draw in hordes of more than 150, however when the club achieved the Conference, swarms at Crabble were averaging around 1,000. After the club's transfer to the Isthmian League Division One South, the normal participation tumbled to a little more than 800, however when the club came back to the Premier Division for the 2008– 09 season, the normal participation at Crabble was 1,293, the most elevated in the division. The most noteworthy home participation in the club's history was 5,645 for the match against Crystal Palace in the third round of the FA Cup on 4 January 2015. Albeit Athletic's improved money related position implies that the Supporters' Trust is never again required to monetarily bolster the club, it stays dynamic as a raising money association. 

Dover Athletic's most elevated completion in the English football alliance framework was in the 2015– 16 season, in which the group completed in fifth spot in the Football Conference, the largest amount of non-association football and the fifth dimension in general. The Whites have shown up in the last passing round of the FA Cup, however have just advanced to the first round appropriate multiple times. In the 2010– 11 season, Dover achieved the third round out of the blue, vanquishing Football League Two groups Gillingham and Aldershot Town in the initial two adjusts before losing to Huddersfield Town of Football League One. In the 1997– 98 season the Whites achieved the semi-finals of the FA Trophy however passed up an appearance at Wembley, losing to Cheltenham Town. The biggest number of focuses the group has collected is 104 in the 2008-09 season, and the most elevated absolute number of objectives scored in a season is 89, scored in 40 matches in the 1985– 86 season. The group's greatest ever win was a 8– 0 annihilation of East Preston in September 2009, and the heaviest thrashing was a 7– 1 misfortune to Poole Town in April 1984. 

The holder of the record for most appearances for Dover Athletic is Jason Bartlett, who played in 539 matches, and the unequaled top goalscorer is Lennie Lee, with 160 goals. The club's record marking is Dave Leworthy, who joined the club from Farnborough Town in 1993 for £50,000, which at the time was the most noteworthy exchange charge at any point paid between non-alliance clubs. The most elevated affirmed charge gotten by the club was likewise £50,000, paid by Brentford in 1997 for Ricky Reina. 

Dover Athletic have had 19 perpetual directors (barring guardian administrators) in the club's 25-year history, with Chris Kinnear's first stretch being the longest. The most brief stay was Ian Hendon who was declared as chief on 28 May 2010 and surrendered just 18 days after the fact to join Andy Hessenthaler at Gillingham. 

Dover Athletic's primary contention is with adjacent Folkestone Invicta. A gathering between the two groups in 2004 was viewed by a horde of 2,278, a record participation for an alliance coordinate at Invicta's ground. The club additionally has a competition with Margate. In the 2001– 02 season, when the two groups were in the Football Conference, the two amusements among Margate and Dover were viewed by a joined aggregate of in excess of 6,000 onlookers. The diversion played at Margate's Hartsdown Park arena drew a horde of 3,676, and 2,325 were in participation for the amusement at Dover.