Treehouse of Horror 

Treehouse of Horror, otherwise called "The Simpsons" Halloween specials, are a progression of Halloween-themed scenes of the energized arrangement "The Simpsons", each comprising of three independent, independent sections. These sections typically include the Simpson family in some frightfulness, sci-fi, or otherworldly setting. They occur outside the show's typical coherence and totally surrender any falsification of being reasonable, being known for their undeniably more vicious and a lot darker nature than a normal "Simpsons" scene. The main, entitled "Treehouse of Horror", circulated on October 25, 1990, as a feature of the second season and was motivated by EC Comics awfulness stories. From that point forward, there have been 28 other "Treehouse of Horror" scenes, with one airing each year. 

Scenes contain spoofs of ghastliness, sci-fi and dream films, just as the outsider characters Kang and Kodos, an exceptional adaptation of the opening grouping, and "unnerving names" in the credits. The show's staff respect the "Treehouse of Horror" as being especially hard to create, as the contents frequently experience numerous revises, and the illustrators commonly need to plan new characters and foundations. 

A significant number of the scenes are famous among fans and pundits of the show and have motivated an entire branch of "Simpsons" stock, including activity figures, playsets, computer games, books, DVDs, comic books and an extraordinary form of "Syndication". A few of the scenes have won honors for movement and sound altering. In 1996, 2013, and 2015, "Treehouse of Horror VI", "Treehouse of Horror XXIII" and "Treehouse of Horror XXV" were separately named for the Primetime Emmy Award in the "Extraordinary Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour)" class. 

"Treehouse of Horror" scenes regularly comprise of four sections: an opening and Halloween-themed form of the credits, trailed by three portions. These fragments typically have a loathsomeness, sci-fi or dream topic and regularly are spoofs of movies, books, plays, TV programs, "Strange place" scenes, or old issues of EC Comics. In spite of the fact that they are some of the time associated by "wraparounds", the three fragments seldom have any sort of proceeding with association inside the scene. The two special cases are "Treehouse of Horror V", in which Groundskeeper Willie is murdered by a hatchet along these lines in each of the three fragments, just as in Treehouse of Horror XXVIII, in which Maggie is controlled by the evil spirit Pazuzu in the primary section is as yet recuperating in the following portion. The scenes are viewed as non-group and dependably happen outside the typical progression of the show, since each character has all the earmarks of being fine a while later. 

From "Treehouse of Horror" to "Treehouse of Horror XIII", every one of the three fragments were composed by various journalists. Now and again there was a fourth author who composed the opening and wraparound sections. For the first "Treehouse of Horror", there were three unique chiefs for the scene. Beginning with season 15's "Treehouse of Horror XIV", be that as it may, just a single author has been credited with composing each "Treehouse of Horror" scene. 

Every so often, the scenes will be utilized to exhibit unique activity, for example, the "Treehouse of Horror VI" section "Homer", in which a PC enlivened Homer is appeared in a non-energized setting. At the time (1995), it was momentous, as it was strange for a network show to utilize such liveliness. The fragment was official maker Bill Oakley's thought and included real to life coordinated by David Mirkin. "Treehouse of Horror XX" incorporated the portion "There's No Business Like Moe Business", which was the first to be musically-themed. 

Each "Treehouse of Horror" scene opens with an exceptional initial fragment. The primary, second and fifth "Treehouse of Horror" scenes open with Marge remaining on a phase and cautioning guardians about the substance of the scene, encouraging them to put their youngsters to bed. The notice in the main scene was placed in as a genuine exertion to caution youthful watchers, as the makers felt it was to some degree terrifying. The whole section was a farce of the opening of the 1931 film "Frankenstein". Marge's alerts rapidly turned into a weight to compose. After "Treehouse of Horror V", they were for all time dropped and the authors did not make any endeavors at restoring them. 

Other "Treehouse of Horror" scenes have opened with satires; for instance, "Treehouse of Horror III" had Homer present the scene in a way like Alfred Hitchcock in "Alfred Hitchcock Presents", "Treehouse of Horror IV" had Bart present the scene and fragments in a way like "Night Gallery", and "Treehouse of Horror V" highlighted a spoof of "The Outer Limits". The 6th and seventh scenes highlighted short clasps without any lines on the grounds that the scenes had run long and longer portions were cut. Following "Treehouse of Horror VII", the opening has been upwards of a moment long and in some cases included a presentation by a character, for example, Mr. Consumes in "Treehouse of Horror XVII" or included over-the-top viciousness, for example, "Treehouse of Horror VIII" (which demonstrated a Fox Network edit being fiercely killed) and "Treehouse of Horror XIV" (which demonstrated the Simpson family executing one another). 

In the opening fragment of the initial five scenes, the camera zooms through a burial ground where gravestones with funny commemorations can be seen. These messages incorporate the names of dropped appears from the past season, perished VIPs, for example, Walt Disney and Jim Morrison and a gravestone with an engraving that read "television viciousness" that was loaded with shots as the camera panned on it. They were last utilized in "Treehouse of Horror V", which incorporated a lone gravestone with the words "Interesting Tombstones" to flag this. The headstone chokes were simple for the scholars in the principal scene, yet like Marge's alerts, they in the long run got increasingly hard to compose, so they were surrendered. Another reason they were dropped was that the gravestones would list TV programs that had been dropped the past season; following a couple of years, a few of the demonstrates that were dropped were delivered by previous "Simpsons" scholars. Anyway following two decades, this stifler made a short rebound in Treehouse of Horror XXIX at the absolute starting point, this time showing up before the primary opening arrangement and title. 

While the early "Treehouse of Horror" scenes highlighted a Halloween themed opening arrangement, the later ones just incorporated the title and the "made by" and "created by" credits. Each scene between "Treehouse of Horror II" and "Treehouse of Horror X" highlighted a sofa choke with a Halloween subject, including the Simpson family dressed as skeletons, zombies and characters from past Halloween scenes. 

The initial four "Treehouse of Horror" scenes had brief wraparounds that happened before each fragment and freely integrated every one of the three stories. "Treehouse of Horror" was the special case that really incorporated a treehouse as a setting. In that scene, Bart and Lisa sat in it recounting stories to one another. "Treehouse of Horror II" introduced the majority of the sections as being bad dreams of Lisa, Bart and Homer; "Treehouse of Horror III" had Lisa, Bart and Grampa recounting stories at a Halloween gathering; and "Treehouse of Horror IV" is displayed by Bart in a satire of Rod Serling's "Night Gallery". Following a couple of years, the measure of communicate time for a scene was abbreviated, enabling less time to recount to a legitimate story. There were no wraparounds for "Treehouse of Horror V" since they had been sliced to make more opportunity for the sections. Following that, the essayists for all time dropped them. 

Two characters that are essentially select to the "Treehouse of Horror" arrangement are Kang and Kodos, a couple of huge green space outsiders who were presented in the "Hungry are the Damned" portion of "Treehouse of Horror". Kang and Kodos have since showed up in each "Treehouse of Horror" scene, some of the time as vital pieces of a story, yet regularly only for brief appearances. In certain scenes, they just show up in the opening fragment, however regularly they will show up amidst an alternate story. For instance, a tale about zombies assaulting the town quickly slices to them in their space send, viewing the occasions and giggling derangedly at the Earthlings' affliction. The activity at that point changes back to the real story. The informal principle is that they should be in each scene, albeit regularly they will be overlooked and are included at last, bringing about just a concise appearance. Their scene in "Treehouse of Horror VIII" about did not make the finished edition of the scene, however David X. Cohen figured out how to induce the makers to leave the scene in. 

Kang and Kodos were noticeable characters in the 2015 scene "The Man Who Came to Be Dinner," which was not Halloween themed. 

Starting with "Treehouse of Horror II", the makers chose to give the cast and group of the show "terrifying names" in the opening and shutting credits. In spite of the fact that the names rapidly turned out to be more senseless than alarming, there have been a wide assortment of unique credits, from basic names like "Bat Groening" to complex ones like "David²+S.²=Cohen²". Sam Simon, who left the show amid the fourth season yet at the same time gets "created by" and "official maker" credits, has as far back as been recorded in "Treehouse of Horror" scenes as "Sam 'Sayonara' Simon". Since his passing in 2015 he has been credited basically by his genuine name. 

The thought for "frightening names" originated from official maker Al Jean, who was enlivened by EC Comics since a portion of the issues additionally utilized "unnerving" substitute names. The "unnerving names" turned out to be such a weight to compose, that they were cut for "Treehouse of Horror XII" and "Treehouse of Horror XIII", yet subsequent to hearing protests from the fans, Jean chose to bring them back. Matt Groening's standard for the "frightening names" is that they can't be longer than an individual's genuine name, however this is once in a while pursued by any other person. 

References to films, books, plays, network shows and other media are regularly highlighted, and numerous sections have been spoofs of a particular work in the frightfulness, sci-fi or dream class. Numerous sections are satires of scenes of "The Twilight Zone" and whole fragments will be founded on a solitary scene. A portion of a "Twilight Zone" scenes spoofed incorporate "A Kind of a Stopwatch", "To Serve Man", "A Small Talent for War", "Living Doll", "Bad dream at 20,000 Feet", "Young lady Lost", and "The Little People". The "Bart's Nightmare" section of "Treehouse of Horror II" spoofs the scene "It's a Good Life" and is even displayed in an organization like a scene of "The Twilight Zone". The Halloween scenes likewise consistently spoof awfulness and spine chiller movies, for example, "The Exorcist", "The Amityville Horror", "Lord Kong", "Night of the Living Dead", "The Shining", "A Nightmare on Elm Street", "The Fly", "Psycho", "Paranormal Activity", and "Dead Calm". Robert Englund, who depicts Freddy Krueger in the "Bad dream on Elm road" establishment, had an appearance in "Treehouse of Horror IX" as the character. Sci-fi films have likewise periodically been utilized as motivation for sections, and in later scenes a significant number of the fragments depended more on sci-fi than repulsiveness. Sci-fi works mocked incorporate "The Omega Man", the novel "Nineteen Eighty-Four", "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial" and Orson Welles' "The War of the Worlds" radio communicate. In "Treehouse of Horror", Edgar Allan Poe's sonnet "The Raven" is perused by James Earl Jones while the parts are acted by different characters. Late farces have included movies and TV specials in increasingly fluctuated classifications, including "Mr. and Mrs. Smith", "It's the Great Pumpkin, Charlie Brown", "Transformers", "Sweeney Todd", the "Nightfall" film arrangement, and "Jumanji". 

A changed variant of the generation logo for Gracie Films is shown after the end credits. The shushing sound is supplanted by a shout, and the jingle is played in a minor key on a pipe organ. 

The first "Treehouse of Horror" scene publicized in 1990 as a major aspect of the second season, and its on-screen title was "The Simpsons Halloween Special." It was roused by EC Comics Horror stories. Albeit each scene is entitled "Treehouse of Horror", the first was the main scene that really utilized the treehouse theme. Amid generation of the main scene, Matt Groening was apprehensive about "The Raven" section, and felt it would be "the most noticeably awful, most self-absorbed thing [they had] ever done." 

The "Treehouse of Horror" scenes are troublesome for both the scholars and the illustrators. The scenes were initially composed toward the start of the generation run, however in later seasons they were composed toward the end and disclosed toward the start of the following season as leftovers, giving the illustrators more opportunity to work. Some portion of the trouble for the illustrators is that the scenes dependably include numerous mind boggling foundations, new characters, and new structures. They are troublesome for the authors since they should create three stories, an opening and, in the early scenes, a wraparound. They would need to attempt to fit the majority of this into a 20– 22 minute scene. The scenes regularly experience many a minute ago changes, with revises requiring new lines to be recorded. "Treehouse of Horror III" specifically experienced somewhere close to 80 and 100 line changes in the six-week time frame between the entry of the activity from Korea and the airing of the scene. By the fourth season, official makers Al Jean and Mike Reiss were less fascinated of "Treehouse of Horror" scenes and thought about dropping them, yet different essayists demanded that they be kept. 

Some portion of the fascination for the essayists is that they can defy the guidelines and incorporate savagery that would not make a customary scene. Sometimes, the scholars will have a thought that is excessively brutal and fantastical or unreasonably short for an ordinary scene, however can be utilized as a fragment in the regular uncommon. A few of the scholars, previous official maker David Mirkin among them, trust that the scenes ought to be unnerving and not simply amusing. "Treehouse of Horror V" has been depicted by Mirkin as being a standout amongst "the most serious, irritating Halloween show ever" as it was loaded up with viciousness and butchery in light of new oversight rules. Prior "Treehouse of Horror" scenes started with Marge issuing a disclaimer that "on the off chance that you have delicate kids, perhaps you should tuck them into bed early this evening as opposed to keeping in touch with us irate letters tomorrow." However, these scenes appear to be mellow contrasted with the bloodletting that followed in later scenes, as indicated by Jean, who calls it "a societal thing". He calls attention to that his 10-year-old girl cherishes films like "Coraline", and that, "[in] the time of terrifying stories [...] suitability has gotten lower." 

Albeit grisly generally, a few sections, for example, "Native Kang" in "Treehouse of Horror VII", mock political issues. The opening portion of "Treehouse of Horror XIX" highlighted Homer endeavoring to vote in favor of Barack Obama yet a fixed electronic casting a ballot machine rather enrolls a vote in favor of John McCain. Instead of favoring one side in the decision, Al Jean says it is "for the most part a remark on what numerous individuals to accept to be the anomalies in our casting a ballot system."[sic]"" In "Treehouse of Horror XVII", a portion called "The Day the Earth Looked Stupid" closes with Kang and Kodos assuming control over Springfield as a major aspect of a mission called "Activity: Enduring occupation". The content initially called for Kodos and Kang to investigate the smoking remains of Springfield and state "This beyond any doubt is a great deal like Iraq will be." The Fox organize did not have any protest to the line, yet it was dismissed by a portion of the journalists as excessively evident and was cut from communicate. While cut from the publicized rendition, the line appears in the "audit" form sent to papers and magazines. 

The first "Treehouse of Horror" scene was the first occasion when that a substitute adaptation of the subject that affectation over the end credits was utilized. Initially it should utilize a theremin, however one couldn't be discovered that could hit all the vital notes. Generally when the makers present a scene for the Primetime Emmy Award for "Exceptional Individual Achievement in Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore)", they present a Treehouse of Horror scene, and to date, seven scenes have been designated. The end of "Treehouse of Horror IV" includes a form of the topic that is a blend of the instruments utilized in "The Munsters" signature melody and the harpiscord and clicking from the "Addams Family" signature tune. 

Üter Zörker is so far the main human character presented in a Treehouse of Horror scene to make it into the group. His introduction scene was "Treehouse of Horror IV" in the portion "Fear at Feet". He is a stout German trade understudy fixated on sweets and is voiced by Russi Taylor. 

Official maker Al Jean uncovered that 2019's "Treehouse of Horror" will be the 666th scene of "The Simpsons "arrangement. Jean expressed this was arranged as far back as the show started airing in 1989. 

Despite the fact that "Treehouse of Horror" scenes are Halloween-themed, for quite a long while new scenes debuted in November following the occasion, because of Fox's inclusion of Major League Baseball's World Series. Season 12's "Treehouse of Horror XI" was the primary scene to air in November. There have been a few references to this in the show, for example, in "Treehouse of Horror XIV" where Kang takes a gander at a "television Guide" and says, "Lamentable people. They're demonstrating a Halloween scene... in November!" and Kodos answers "Who's as yet pondering Halloween? We've just got our Christmas beautification up." The camera at that point slices to an injection of the chimney with Christmas enrichments, and merry Christmas music plays over the opening credits. Season 21's "Treehouse of Horror XX" circulated October 18, preceding the World Series, however the next year's scene, "Treehouse of Horror XXI", publicized in November. Season 23's "Treehouse of Horror XXII circulated on October 30, be that as it may, as the World Series (which went the limit of seven recreations) had finished up on October 28. Ensuing "Treehouse of Horror" scenes have debuted in the period of October. 

There has been an assortment of stock dependent on the "Treehouse of Horror" scenes, including books, activity figures, comic books, computer games, DVDs and a "Treehouse of Horror" form of Hasbro's tabletop game Monopoly. Albeit each "Treehouse of Horror" scene until "Treehouse of Horror XVI" has been discharged alongside its season in a boxset, in 2003, "The Simpsons: Treehouse of Horror DVD" was discharged. It incorporates "Treehouse of Horror"s V, VI, VII and XII. A "Treehouse of Horror" comic book has been distributed every year since 1995, and gathered into a few books, including "The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror Fun-Filled Frightfest", "Bart Simpson's Treehouse of Horror Spine-Tingling Spooktacular", "Bart Simpson's Treehouse of Horror Heebie-Jeebie Hullabaloo" and "The Simpsons Treehouse of Horror Hoodoo Voodoo Brouhaha". A few computer games dependent on "The Simpsons" incorporate dimensions with a Halloween subject, including "" and "The Simpsons Game". In 2001, Fox Interactive and THQ discharged "" on Game Boy Color. The whole diversion has a Halloween topic as the player endeavors to spare the Simpson family from the Treehouse of Horror. 

A considerable lot of the uncommon character structures highlighted in the scenes have progressed toward becoming activity figures. Four diverse playsets have been made by Playmates Toys and discharged as Toys "R" Us special features. The sets are: 

After the Playmates Toys sets were done, McFarlane Toys delivered four "Treehouse of Horror" themed playsets including the "Unexpected Punishment Box Set" discharged in 2004, the "In the Belly of the Boss —Homer and Marge Action Figures" discharged in 2005, "The Island of Dr. Hibbert Box Set" discharged in 2006, and a "Fat Lad Box Set" discharged in 2007. 

The "Treehouse of Horror" scenes are regularly among the top of the line scenes of their seasons and a considerable lot of the "Treehouse of Horror"s have commonly been generally welcomed by fans. Be that as it may, similar to "The Simpsons" itself, pundits have noticed a decrease in the nature of the later scenes. In its first airing, "Treehouse of Horror" completed with a 15.7 Nielsen rating and a 25% gathering of people share and would lose to "The Cosby Show". It was said that it "set a dimension of greatness that watchers never expected maker Matt Groening to rehash", despite the fact that it was additionally depicted as "sort of inept and uninspiring". "Treehouse of Horror V" is viewed as the best scene by a few pundits: it completed ninth on "Amusement Weekly's" best 25 "The Simpsons" scene list, fifth on AskMen.com's "Main 10: Simpsons Episodes" list, and was named best scene of the 6th season by IGN.com. In 2006, James Earl Jones, who visitor featured in "Treehouse of Horror" and "Treehouse of Horror V" was named seventh on IGN's "Best 25 Simpsons Guest Appearances" list. 

In 2006, IGN.com distributed a rundown of the main ten "Treehouse of Horror" sections, and they set "The Shinning" from "Treehouse of Horror V" at the top, saying it was "not just a champion portion of the yearly Halloween scene, however of "The Simpsons", time frame." Rounding out the rundown were "Dial "Z" for Zombies", "The Devil and Homer Simpson", "Time and Punishment", "Hungry Are the Damned", "Jokester Without Pity", "Resident Kang", "In the event that I Only Had a Brain", "Bart Simpson's Dracula" and "Starship Poopers". The third, fourth and fifth scenes were each spoken to by two sections. The latest scene on the rundown was "Treehouse of Horror IX", which initially disclosed in 1998. 

"Treehouse of Horror VII" is "Simpsons" maker Matt Groening's seventh most loved scene, and the line he enjoys best is "We have achieved the farthest point of what rectal examining can instruct us." "Ruler Homer" of "Treehouse of Horror III" is one of Matt Groening's most loved fragments. "Treehouse of Horror III" is additionally noted for the minute where Homer shoots Ned Flanders and Bart says "Father, you killed the Zombie Flanders!" just for Homer to answer, "He was a zombie?" It is likewise one of Groening's most loved lines. 

In 1996, the "Homer³" fragment of "Treehouse of Horror VI" was granted the Ottawa International Animation Festival fantastic prize. In 1998, "Treehouse of Horror VIII" won a Golden Reel Award for "Best Sound Editing – Television Animated Specials"; the beneficiaries were Robert Mackston, Travis Powers, Norm MacLeod and Terry Greene. Weave Beecher likewise got a designation for "Best Sound Editing in Television Animation – Music" for "Treehouse of Horror X". 

The second, third, fifth, eighth, ninth, fourteenth and fifteenth and eighteenth "Treehouse of Horror" scenes were named for "Remarkable Individual Achievement in Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore)" at the Primetime Emmy Awards. The second and third "Treehouse of Horror" scenes were likewise assigned for "Extraordinary Individual Achievement in Sound Mixing for a Comedy Series or a Special". In 1996, "Treehouse of Horror VI" was submitted for the Primetime Emmy Award in the "Exceptional Animated Program (For Programming short of what One Hour)" class since it had a 3D activity succession, which the staff felt would have given it the edge. The scene neglected to win and Bill Oakley later communicated lament about presenting the scene. The twenty-third and twenty-fifth "Treehouse of Horror" scenes were selected for a similar honor in 2013 and 2015 individually.