The Pit and the Pendulum (1961 film) 

The Pit and the Pendulum is a 1961 blood and gore movie in Panavision and Pathe Color coordinated by Roger Corman, featuring Vincent Price, Barbara Steele, John Kerr, and Luana Anders. The screenplay by Richard Matheson was inexactly motivated by Edgar Allan Poe's 1842 short story of a similar name. Set in sixteenth-century Spain, the story is about a youthful Englishman who visits a prohibiting château to examine his sister's baffling passing. After a progression of awful disclosures, evidently spooky appearances and fierce passings, the young fellow moves toward becoming tied to the main torment gadget by his maniac brother by marriage amid the film's climactic grouping. 

The film was the second title in the famous arrangement of Poe-based motion pictures discharged by American International Pictures, the first having been Corman's " House of Usher" discharged the earlier year. Like "House", the movie highlights widescreen cinematography by Floyd Crosby, sets planned by workmanship chief Daniel Haller, and a film score made by Les Baxter. A basic and film industry hit, "Pit's" business achievement persuaded AIP and Corman to keep adjusting Poe stories for another six movies, five of them featuring Price. The arrangement finished in 1965 with the arrival of "The Tomb of Ligeia". 

Film pundit Tim Lucas and author Ernesto Gastaldi have both noticed the film's solid impact on various ensuing Italian spine chillers, from Mario Bava's "The Whip and the Body" (1963) to Dario Argento's " Deep Red " (1975). Stephen King has depicted one of "Pit's" real stun arrangements as being among the most vital minutes in the post-1960 blood and guts movie. 

In sixteenth century Spain, Englishman Francis Barnard (John Kerr) visits the manor of his brother by marriage Nicholas Medina (Vincent Price) to research the baffling passing of his sister Elizabeth (Barbara Steele). Nicholas and his more youthful sister Catherine (Luana Anders) offer an ambiguous clarification that Elizabeth passed on from an uncommon blood issue a half year sooner; Nicholas is hesitant when Francis requests explicit insights regarding the illness. Francis pledges that he won't leave until he finds the genuine conditions encompassing his sister's passing. 

Amid supper with the family doctor, Dr. Leon (Antony Carbone), Francis again gets some information about his sister's passing. Dr. Leon reveals to him that his sister passed on of huge heart disappointment, truly "kicking the bucket of fear". Francis requests to be demonstrated where Elizabeth kicked the bucket. Nicholas takes him to the palace's dungeon. Nicholas uncovers that Elizabeth, affected by the château's "overwhelming air", ended up fixated on the chamber's torment gadgets. Subsequent to ending up dynamically uneven, one day she bolted herself into an iron lady, and kicked the bucket in the wake of murmuring the name "Sebastian". Francis will not trust Nicholas' story. 

Francis reveals to Catherine that Nicholas seems to feel "distinct blame" with respect to Elizabeth's demise. Accordingly, Catherine discusses Nicholas' awful adolescence. Their dad was Sebastian Medina, an infamous specialist of the Spanish Inquisition. At the point when Nicholas was a little kid, he was investigating the taboo dungeon when his dad (likewise played by Price) went into the stay with his mom Isabella and Sebastian's sibling, Bartolome. Stowing away in a corner, Nicholas viewed with sickening apprehension as his dad over and over hit Bartolome with a super hot poker, shouting "Miscreant!" at him. In the wake of killing Bartolome, Sebastian started tormenting his better half gradually to death before Nicholas. 

Catherine and Francis are later educated by Dr. Leon that Isabella in truth was not tormented to death, rather she was buried behind a block divider while still alive. Dr. Leon clarifies, "The very idea of untimely interment is sufficient to send your sibling into seizures of awfulness." Nicholas fears that Elizabeth may have been entombed rashly. The specialist discloses to Nicholas that "if Elizabeth Medina strolls these halls, it is her soul and not her living self." 

Nicholas trusts that his late spouse's wrathful apparition is frequenting the manor. Elizabeth's room is the wellspring of an uproarious disturbance, and it is discovered scoured and her picture cut. Her darling harpsichord plays amidst the night. One of Elizabeth's rings is found on the console. Francis blames Nicholas for planting the proof of Elizabeth's "frequenting" as a detailed scam. Nicholas demands that his better half's tomb be opened. They find Elizabeth's rotted carcass solidified in a position that proposes that she kicked the bucket shouting in the wake of neglecting to hook out of her stone coffin. Nicholas swoons. 

That night, Nicholas– now very nearly insanity– hears Elizabeth calling him. He pursues her spooky voice down to her tomb. Elizabeth ascends from her pine box and seeks after Nicholas into the dungeon, where he tumbles down a trip of stairs. As Elizabeth brags over her significant other's oblivious body, she is met by her darling and associate, Dr. Leon. They had plotted to make Nicholas frantic with the goal that she could acquire his fortune and the mansion. 

Leon affirms that Nicholas "is gone", his mind annihilated by fear. Elizabeth insults her insensate spouse. Nicholas opens his eyes and starts snickering insanely while his significant other and the specialist draw back with sickening dread. Trusting himself to be Sebastian, he replays the occasions of his mom and uncle's homicides. He overwhelms Dr. Leon, trusting him to be Bartolome, and Leon tumbles to his demise in the pit while attempting to get away. Nicholas catches Elizabeth, and rehashes his dad's guarantee to Isabella to torment her frightfully. 

Francis, having heard Elizabeth's shouts, enters the prison. Nicholas mistakes Francis for Bartolome, and thumps him oblivious. He lashes him to a stone piece found legitimately underneath a colossal well sharpened sharp pendulum. The pendulum is connected to a perfect timing contraption that makes it dive portions of an inch after each swing, nearer and nearer to Francis' middle. Catherine arrives in the nick of time with Maximillian, one of the workers. After a short battle with Maximillian, Nicholas tumbles to his demise in the pit. Francis is expelled from the torment gadget. As they leave the storm cellar, Catherine promises to seal up the chamber for eternity. They hammer and lock the entryway shut, uninformed that Elizabeth is as yet alive, choked and caught in the iron lady. 

twentieth Century Fox had reported designs to film the story in the late '50s, alongside forms of "The Tell-Tale Heart" and "The Murders in the Rue Morgue", however the movies were never made. 

At the point when Roger Corman's "Place of Usher" was discharged in June 1960, its film industry achievement took AIP's James H. Nicholson and Samuel Z. Arkoff unsuspecting. Corman conceded, "We foreseen that the motion picture would progress nicely... yet, not half just as it did." According to Richard Matheson, "When the primary film was a hit, despite everything they didn't consider completing a Poe arrangement. They simply needed another motion picture with a Poe title fixed to it." 

Corman felt Poe's two most grounded stories after "Usher" were "The Masque of the Red Death", and '"Pit and the Pendulum". He thought about making the previous yet was stressed over similitudes between the story and "The Seventh Seal" (1957), so he settled on adjusting the last mentioned. Anyway Samuel Z. Arkoff said it was his and James H. Nicholson's choice to make "Pit" as the second Poe film "since it was much progressively realistic and in the second spot, "Masque of the Red Death" would have required a moving troupe that would have been very costly. In each one of those early Poe pictures we had generally couple of on-screen characters, so when we did at long last make "Masque of the Red Death" we went to the UK where it would be more affordable to do it." 

Matheson's content openly formulated an intricate account that scarcely taken after Poe, with just the finale having any likeness whatsoever to the first short story on which the film was based. Corman noticed, "The strategy we embraced on "The Pit and the Pendulum" was to utilize the Poe short story as the peak for a third demonstration to the film... since a two-page short story isn't going to give you an hour and a half movie. We at that point built the initial two acts in what we trusted was a way reliable to Poe, as his peak would run just a brief span on the screen." 

Matheson's screenplay incorporated a flashback to a period promptly going before Elizabeth's disease, highlighting Nicholas and Elizabeth horseback-riding and having a cookout lunch. Corman erased the succession preceding recording since he felt it disregarded one of his real hypotheses in regards to the Poe arrangement: 

I had a great deal of speculations I was working with when I did the Poe films...One of my hypotheses was that these accounts were made out of the oblivious personality of Poe, and the oblivious personality never truly observes reality, so until "The Tomb of Ligeia", we never demonstrated this present reality. In "Pit", John Kerr touched base in a carriage against a sea foundation, which I felt was progressively illustrative of the oblivious. That horseback intermission was tossed out in light of the fact that I would not like to have a scene with individuals out without trying to hide. 

The screenplay was changed from its unique draft structure amid the film's shooting. Value himself proposed various discourse changes for his character. In the content, when Francis Barnard is first acquainted with Nicholas, the young fellow gets some information about boisterous, weird clamors he had heard a couple of minutes sooner. Wear Medina reacts: "Uh...an contraption, Mr. Barnard. ("turning") What conveys you to us?" Price penciled in the recommendations "that must be kept in consistent fix" and "that can't be ceased". Later in the screenplay, when Nicholas reviews his dad's assembly of torment, Price formulated exchange clarifications for Sebastian Medina's brutality. Amid Nicholas' demise scene, in the wake of tumbling to the base of the pit the character initially had exchange at the purpose of passing on, soliciting in a voice from repulsiveness, "Elizabeth. What have I done to you? ("beat") What have I done to you?" The camera was to then slice straightforwardly to Elizabeth's face caught in the iron lady. Corman chose to cast off the lines, trusting that the film ought to remain absolutely visual by then and discourse would demolish the intensity of the scene. 

"The Pit and the Pendulum" was reported in August 1960, and shooting started the primary seven day stretch of January 1961. 

As per Lucy Chase Williams' book, "The Complete Films of Vincent Price", the shooting plan was fifteen days, and the film's financial plan was nearly $1 million. Corman himself has said that the film's genuine creation cost was around $300,000. 

Corman has noticed that creation the film was a pleasurable encounter: "I delighted in "The Pit and the Pendulum" since I really found the opportunity to try a bit with the development of the camera. There was a great deal of moving camera work and fascinating slicing with regards to the peak of the film." 

Taping went easily, and Corman credited the simplicity of the creation's shoot to the short yet extensive pre-generation arranging he did with the significant professionals: 

We accomplished what we did on a low spending plan since we deliberately arranged the entire creation ahead of time of beginning the cameras. Accordingly, when we moved into the studio for fifteen days of planned shooting, we didn't need to begin deciding. In light of our pre-generation meetings with chief of photography Floyd Crosby and craftsmanship executive Daniel Haller, everybody knew precisely what to do, excepting any very late motivations on the set. 

To make the flashbacks uncovering Nicholas' horrendous encounters, Corman and Crosby endeavored to shoot them in a way that would pass on to the group of onlookers the character's frightfulness in digging up bad dreams caught in his intuitive. Corman demanded these pictures having a fantasy like quality, "curved and twisted on the grounds that they were being experienced by somebody on the edge of franticness". Corman chose to film the flashbacks in monochrome, since he had perused that a few specialists accept a great many people dream in "high contrast" symbolism. Crosby utilized wide-point focal points, brutal camera development, and tilted camera edges to speak to the character's sentiment of mania. The arrangements were then imprinted on blue-tinted stock which was accordingly conditioned red amid advancement, successfully creating a two-tone picture. The features were blue, with the shadows rendered as red...producing a profound, ridiculous quality. The picture was then gone through an optical printer where the edges were vignetted and a turned straight contortion was presented. 

The film's short outside preamble demonstrating Kerr's entry to the mansion was taped on the Palos Verdes coast. The remainder of the creation was shot in four inside sound stages at the California Studios in Hollywood. To give extraordinary opportunity to the arranged camera developments, a palace set with numerous dimensions and abundant space was structured by Daniel Haller. 

In view of the film's low spending plan, none of the sets could be built "starting with no outside help." After Haller made outlines and floor plans for the sets, he looked through the backlots and property lofts of the real studios looking for accessible set units that could be economically leased and afterward assembled to shape the sets he had imagined. At Universal Studios, he found various disposed of pieces from old creations, including enormous openings, chimneys, windows and entryways, and a few torment machine props. At different studios, he found huge stairways and stone divider units. Haller chose and leased various pieces from these different stores and had them conveyed to California Studios, where the sets for the film were developed, after his floor designs as intently as would be prudent. To additionally set the air, around 20 gallons of cobwebbing was showered all through the stronghold's sets. 

The film's pressbook noticed that the pendulum was eighteen-feet long and weighed over a ton and was developed with a reasonable elastic cutting sharp edge. The pendulum was fixed from the highest point of the sound stage thirty-five feet noticeable all around. In a meeting, Haller gave insights about the making of the pendulum: 

I found that such a pendulum really was utilized amid the Spanish and German investigations. At first we endeavored to utilize a rubber treated cutting edge, and that is the reason it stalled out on Kerr's chest. We at that point changed to a sharp metalized edge secured with steel paint. The issue was to get it in precisely the correct position so it would cut John's shirt without really cutting him. To prepare for this, we put a steel band around his midsection where the pendulum crosses. He was a decent game about it...but saw him sweating a decent piece and no big surprise. That pendulum was cutting out a 50 foot circular segment simply over his body. 

To outwardly improve the extent of this set, the camera was outfitted with a 40 mm Panavision wide-edge focal point and mounted at the contrary end of the stage, enabling Crosby to outline the scenes in his camera with additional room at the base and at either side. These regions were filled in later by imprinting in procedure expansions of the set, multiplying its size onscreen. 

Before the beginning of taping, Corman had put aside one day of practices with his cast. "Beforehand, I had carefully practiced the performing artists so there was finished understanding concerning what every wa to achieve in every scene. This is most critical; there is nothing more awful than to be on the set and good to go, just to find that executive and performer have distinctive perspectives with respect to how the scene is to be finished. Because of pre-generation arranging and practices, there was no time squandered on the set in wheeling and dealing and deciding." 

"The Pit and the Pendulum" was a greater monetary hit than "Place of Usher", gathering over US$2,000,000 in merchants' household (U.S. what's more, Canada) rentals versus the principal film's US$1,450,000. This made it the best film to date in AIP's history. 

The motion picture would remain the most monetarily fruitful of all the AIP Poe films. "It's likewise the one I loved the best since it was the scariest," said Arkoff. "We had a brilliant bit of work of art for the publication... just as some extraordinary sets by Danny Haller." 

As indicated by author Ed Naha, the film likewise got a superior basic reaction than "Usher". Most of the film's surveys were certain. 

Howard Thompson of "The New York Times" expressed, "Environmentally at any rate—there is a striking combination of rich hues, extravagant stylistic layout and shocking music—this is presumably Hollywood's best Poe-style loathsomeness enhancing to date… Richard Matheson's amusing plot is smaller and as coherent as the decision of the little cast… Roger Corman has evoked a truly chilling state of mind of frightfulness." "Assortment" noticed, "The last part of the movie works with real fervor to a switch curve finishing that may have satisfied Poe himself...a physically snazzy, innovatively shot blood and gore movie… " The "Los Angeles Examiner" said it was "… a standout amongst the best "alarm" motion pictures to go along in quite a while… skillfully coordinated by Corman… with Vincent Price turning in the acting occupation of his vocation… ." Brendan Gill of "The New Yorker" felt it was "a completely unpleasant grouping of horrors..." "Time" called the film "an artistic hair-raiser that is cunningly, if reluctantly, Edgar Allan idyllic." "The Hollywood Reporter" depicted it as "...a class anticipation/thriller of the gauge of the incredible ones done by Hammer...It is painstakingly made and has full creation values...Vincent Price gives a naturally ornate performance..." 

"The Monthly Film Bulletin" was negative, composing that the generation esteems "can't keep a solid impression of "history repeating itself"," and that Kerr, Anders and Carbone were all "morosely wooden" in their exhibitions. Charles Stinson of the "Los Angeles Times" was remarkably neutral by the film: "The uncredited situation damages Poe's gothic style with entries of level, modernized exchange… But the pecadilloes of the content pale next to the acting… Price mugs, feigns exacerbation consistently, and conveys his lines in such an unctuous tone, that he draws close to burlesquing the job. His distraught scenes are simply unbelievable. The gathering of people nearly kicked the bucket chuckling." 

Cost was so irritated by Stinson's negative survey that he composed a letter to the faultfinder, saying, "I discover I should break a 25-year assurance never to answer a commentator. Since your survey of "The Pit and the Pendulum" was clearly not intended to be informational, and in this manner helpful, yet just to hurt and mortify, I'm certain you would appreciate the fulfillment of realizing that it did. My solitary reassurance… is that it is the second-most noteworthy film industry fascination in the nation." 

Cost obviously never sent the letter, putting it rather into his "Releasing Pressure File". 

The film's basic notoriety has kept on becoming throughout the years, and it is currently commonly held to be a standout amongst the best sections in Corman's Poe arrangement. "Time Out" has opined, "Corman getting it done, drawing an alluring lattice of sexual themes from Poe's story through a fine Richard Matheson content." In "The Penguin Encyclopedia of Horror and the Supernatural", Timothy Sullivan composed: 

""The Pit and the Pendulum" is far better than its antecedent… The plot is overwhelming stuff, and Roger Corman drives it forward—with great matte shots of the château roosted on the coastline precipice, odd camera edges, the thickest webs with sickening apprehension motion picture history, a bug in the face, and an iron lady—all before our saint is lashed under the pendulum...in an arrangement that still stands one's hair on end." 

Phil Hardy's "The Aurum Film Encyclopedia: Horror" watched: 

"On the off chance that Price's execution is observably more extreme than in the prior film, this is balanced (or coordinated) by the notably more prominent ease of camera development. "Place of Usher" appeared to be uncertain of how to adapt to the surge of activity as Madeline came back from the grave; "The Pit and the Pendulum" has no such waverings. From the incredible succession in which Steele baits Price down into the sepulcher to the finale… its activity is awesome." 

Tim Lucas, in auditing the film's DVD discharge in 2001, stated, "Profiting by the movies accomplishment of "Place of Usher", "Pit" is an increasingly intricate creation and highlights a portion of the authoritative snapshots of the AIP Corman/Poe arrangement." And Glenn Erickson, looking into the DVD on his "DVD Savant" site, noted, "Roger Corman's second Edgar Allan Poe adjustment is a major enhancement for his first, "Place of Usher"… Remembered as a top notch chiller by each child who saw it, "Pit and the Pendulum" raised the stakes for distracted activity and potential grue… " 

Later basic supposition of the film isn't all positive. Of the 17 audits incorporated into a Rotten Tomatoes review of commentators in regards to the title, 17% reflect negative responses. FilmCritic.com opines that the film "...is very much a disappointment...In the end, it feels like one of [Corman's] surge employments, which obviously, it was." 

The film was chosen for screening as a component of the Cannes Classics area at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival. 

The basic and prevalent accomplishment of "The Pit and the Pendulum" induced AIP's Arkoff and Nicholson to deliver more Edgar Allan Poe-put together blood and gore movies with respect to a standard premise. The movies that pursued, all coordinated by Corman, were "The Premature Burial" (1962), "Stories of Terror" (1962), "The Raven" (1963), "The Haunted Palace" (1963, really dependent on the novella "The Case of Charles Dexter Ward" by H. P. Lovecraft), "The Masque of the Red Death" (1964), and" The Tomb of Ligeia" (1965). 

Tim Lucas has contended that the film largy affected numerous Italian blood and gore movies that pursued. Lucas noted, "It takes Corman's Freudian hypotheses much further with a nightmarish flashback succession that plants the seeds of Nicholas' breakdown, and would demonstrate especially compelling on the future course of Italian repulsiveness — an impact that can be seen even in preparations of the 1970s ("Deep Red") and 1980s ("A Blade in the Dark")." 

Essayist K. Lindbergs has noticed a "conspicuous impact" on Antonio Margheriti's "Stronghold of Blood" (1964) and its redo, "Web of the Spider" (1970). 

Screenwriter Ernesto Gastaldi recognized that Ugo Guerra and Elio Scardamaglia, the makers of Mario Bava's "The Whip and the Body" (1963), had "demonstrated to me an Italian print of "The Pit and the Pendulum" before I began composing it: 'Give us something like this', they said." When inquired as to whether another of his movies, "The Long Hair of Death" (1964), was enlivened by Corman's film, Gastaldi answered, "Indeed, obviously! "The Pit and the Pendulum" affected Italian thrillers. Everyone acquired from it." 

Stephen King felt that one of the film's most dominant stuns—the disclosure of Elizabeth's frightfully rotted body—majorly affected the class and filled in as a standout amongst the most noteworthy awfulness arrangements of the decade. Ruler expressed, "After the Hammer films, this moves toward becoming, I think, the most imperative minute in the post-1960 blood and guts movie, flagging an arrival to a hard and fast exertion to frighten the audience...and a readiness to utilize any methods close by to do it." 

In 1968, when the film was sold to ABC-TV for TV airings, the system noticed that the film was too short to even consider filling the ideal two-hour availability. They mentioned that AIP broaden the film's runtime. Roughly five minutes of extra film were along these lines shot by Corman's generation right hand Tamara Asseyev. 

Of the first cast individuals, just Luana Anders was accessible at the time, and the new arrangement included her character, Catherine Medina, limited to a maniac refuge. After much shouting and hair pulling, Catherine uncovers the subtleties of her awful story to her individual detainees, so, all things considered the film itself pursues as a flashback.