Debut (The O.C.) 

"Debut" (otherwise called "Pilot") is the arrangement debut of the TV arrangement "The O.C.", which debuted on the Fox organize on August 5, 2003. Composed by arrangement maker Josh Schwartz and coordinated by official maker Doug Liman, the scene delineates the presentation of beset young person Ryan Atwood (Benjamin McKenzie) into the affluent way of life of the Cohen family in Newport Beach, Orange County, California. 

The throwing executives, Patrick J. Surge and Alyson Silverberg, started choosing the central cast eight to ten weeks before shooting began. The job of Ryan was especially difficult to cast. Seth Cohen (Adam Brody) depended on Schwartz's encounters at the University of Southern California as a "psychotic Jewish child from the East Coast in a place that is known for water polo players". Other focal characters in the scene are Seth's folks—Sandy (Peter Gallagher) and Kirsten (Kelly Rowan)— and young nearby neighbor Marissa Cooper (Mischa Barton). 

The arrangement debut drove the principal half-hour of its schedule opening in viewership. It was commonly generally welcomed by pundits, and earned Schwartz a Writers Guild of America Award designation for Best Screenplay in an Episodic Drama. Surge and Silverberg got an Artios Award assignment for brilliance of throwing in the Dramatic Pilot classification. Initially communicate and discharged in a , it was remastered in a proportion for the arrangement DVD, discharged in November 2007. The scene was discharged on MiniDVD on April 26, 2005, and is accessible to buy from video on interest administrations. 

A virus open shows Trey Atwood (Bradley Stryker) and his sibling Ryan taking a vehicle. The police pursue and capture the young men, bringing about a jail term for Trey and a short remain in adolescent lobby for the underage Ryan. A discussion among Ryan and his open safeguard, Sandy Cohen (Peter Gallagher), sets up Ryan as a savvy kid with a harsh childhood; he has three truancies and two suspensions, yet his SAT I scores are in the ninety-eighth percentile. At the point when Ryan's mom, Dawn (Daphne Ashbrook), gathers Ryan, Sandy gives his business card to the kid. At home in Chino, Dawn asks Ryan to leave, and her sweetheart, A.J. (Ron Del Barrio), removes him from the house. Remaining at a payphone with no place to go, Ryan calls Sandy for help. As Sandy drives Ryan to his home in Newport Beach, the opening credits and the subject tune play—in contrast to different scenes, there is no title grouping. 

While Sandy attempts to persuade his significant other, Kirsten (Kelly Rowan) to permit Ryan to remain in the pool house for a night, Ryan meets the young lady nearby, Marissa Cooper (Mischa Barton). At the point when her beau Luke (Chris Carmack) lifts her up, Marissa welcomes Ryan to go to a style show pledge drive the next night. On a cruising trip the following day, the Cohens' child, Seth (Adam Brody) uncovers to Ryan that he really likes Summer (Rachel Bilson) and might want to sail to Tahiti with her, however that she never gives him any consideration. Afterward, Marissa leaves for the design appear with her mom Julie (Melinda Clarke), her dad Jimmy (Tate Donovan), and her more youthful sister Kaitlin (Shailene Woodley). The Cohens and Ryan additionally go to the show. 

Summer welcomes Ryan to a gathering after the show, and Ryan persuades Seth to go along with him. Out of the blue, Seth is acquainted with the sex-, sedate , and liquor filled side of Newport. He encounters the ferocity of a gathering out of the blue, while Ryan plays with Marissa. Luke takes a young lady to the shoreline. Later at the gathering, Ryan repels an inebriated Summer, however Seth misconstrues the experience and uncovers Ryan's genuine foundation. Seth strolls down the shoreline, and is tormented by a gathering of water polo players that incorporates Luke. Ryan shields Seth by punching Luke, however Luke's companions mediate and beat up Ryan and Seth. Subsequent to coming back to the Cohens, Ryan sees that Marissa's companions forgot her passed on her drive; he conveys her to the Cohens' pool house to rest. At the point when Kirsten discovers Seth and Ryan sleeping in the pool house the following morning, she is discontent with Ryan's new impact and demands to Sandy that Ryan leaves. Sandy drives Ryan back to Chino, however when they locate his home unfilled, they come back to Newport. 

In 2002, Schwartz met with Joseph "McG" McGinty Nichol and Stephanie Savage of creation organization Wonderland Sound and Vision. They disclosed to Schwartz they needed to make a network show situated in McG's main residence of Newport Beach. Savage proposed creating a police or outrageous games "21 Jump Street"- style appear, yet Schwartz thought minimal about the class. Having had involvement with individuals from Newport Beach amid his time at the University of Southern California, Schwartz returned to them with his very own characters. The show was pitched to Fox and Warner Bros in August 2002. Fox focused on a late spring dispatch for the show, and Doug Liman was acquired to coordinate the debut after McG pulled back due his planning clashes with "Charlie's Angels 2". The show was affirmed for the 2003– 2004 timetable in May, and an August 5, 2003 communicate date was chosen in June. 

Throwing executives Patrick J. Surge and Alyson Silverberg started throwing the fundamental jobs eight to ten weeks before taping started, with contribution from Schwartz, McG and Savage. Surge and Silverberg were later selected in the Dramatic Pilot classification of the Casting Society of America's Artios Awards. 

In February 2003, Peter Gallagher turned into the main performing artist cast, playing Sandy Cohen. Kelly Rowan tried out multiple times before being given a role as Sandy's significant other, Kirsten, in March 2003. Surge found the job of Ryan Atwood especially difficult to cast, as the makers needed the "immaculate" performing artist. Benjamin McKenzie was just welcome to try out for the job after Warner Bros. made them mindful of the on-screen character following his ineffective tryout for an UPN sitcom. McKenzie joined the cast in March 2003. He needed working knowledge and later portrayed his determination as "an enormous act of pure trust" on the makers' part. The job of Seth Cohen was gotten from Schwartz's encounters at the University of Southern California as a "masochist Jewish child from the East Coast in a place that is known for water polo players". Adam Brody originally read for the piece of Ryan, yet found the terrible kid picture did not suit him. In a review for the job of Seth, Brody lost the makers' enthusiasm by advertisement libbing a significant part of the content; he joined the cast in March 2003 following a second meeting. 

Mischa Barton, who had met McG on "Fastlane", depicted Marissa Cooper. She was thrown in February 2003. Tate Donovan, who played Jimmy Cooper, was thrown in March 2003. Melinda Clarke visitor featured as Julie Cooper, however read for the job of Kirsten in her tryout as there were insufficient scripted lines for Julie at the time. Rachel Bilson, who was prescribed to Schwartz after an ineffective tryout for "Everwood", visitor featured as Summer Roberts, whom the makers had visualized as a tall Californian blonde. Clarke and Bilson joined as normal cast individuals later in the season. Chris Carmack, who played Luke Ward, was credited as a visitor star for the scene; he joined the standard cast in the following scene. 

In spite of the fact that the show is set in Newport Beach, money related punishments forced for recording outside the "Thirty Mile Zone" constrained generation to the Manhattan Beach, Los Angeles County district. The scenes set in Ryan's main residence of Chino were shot in Los Angeles. The show was overwhelmingly shot on 35 mm film stock. Bizarrely for the show, a scene in the Atwood home in Chino was given utilizing a hand-held camera by Liman. Savage said this guaranteed the show "doesn't feel like gleaming cleanser musical show". 

The Cohen family home was shot on area in Malibu. A fake pool house was worked for use in the pilot, and brought down subsequent to recording finished. The Cohen's house was reproduced on a soundstage at Raleigh Studios in Manhattan Beach for taping amid the remainder of the arrangement; outside shots of the house stayed being used. The design show was taped at the Wilshire Ebell Theater; however it didn't propel the story, Schwartz depicted it as important to demonstrate the world in which the characters lived. The gathering at Holly's shoreline house following the design show was recorded at a shoreline house in Malibu more than three successive evenings. 

The scene debuted at 9:00 p.m. (EDT) on August 5, 2003 on Fox, and was simulcast in Canada on CTV. Fox gave the demonstrate a late-spring debut to endeavor to set up a crowd of people before the system changed to inclusion of post-season baseball in October, and in front of "the messiness of the fall review weeks". In the United Kingdom, the scene originally disclosed at 9:00 p.m. (GMT) on March 7, 2004 on Channel 4, and in Australia on the Nine Network. The scene was discharged on MiniDVD on April 26, 2005, after discharge plans with other Warner Bros. titles for March were disposed of. In spite of the fact that the debut was initially communicated and discharged in a , it was remastered in a proportion for the Region 1 complete arrangement DVD discharge. The Region 2 discharge held the first viewpoint proportion. The scene is accessible on record on interest administration Amazon Unbox in the United States, and from the iTunes Store in the United States and United Kingdom. 

The pilot scene pulled in 7.46 million watchers in the United States, second in its schedule vacancy behind the season finale of "Last Comic Standing". "The O.C." got a rating/offer of 6.8/11 in the principal half-hour, positioning first somewhere in the range of 9 and 9:30 p.m., yet lost the lead in the second half-hour with a rating of 6.7/10. The scene got the most astounding rating of the night in the 12-to 17-year-old statistic, yet in its intended interest group statistic of 18-to 49-year-olds, it got a not exactly expected Nielsen Rating of 2.9/8. The show based on the gathering of people of lead-in show "American Juniors", and Fox said that they were "genuinely content with the show's execution". Schwartz got a Writers Guild of America Award selection for Best Screenplay in an Episodic Drama, with throwing executives Rush and Silverberg designated in the Dramatic Pilot classification of the Artios Awards. The scene was censured by City Manager Glen Rojas for its "negative depiction" of Chino. 

"Excitement Weekly's" Carina Chocano adulated "The O.C." for being extraordinary, guaranteeing that it was "refreshingly free of both [Aaron] Spelling-style camp and the twee genuineness that has described later teenager dramatizations". Robert Bianco of "USA Today" drew examinations with the fruitful Fox show "Beverly Hills, 90210", saying that ""The O.C." is better-composed and better-acted by a cast that could possibly be, staggeringly enough, far superior looking". He applauded the give's expertise and engaging quality a role as well as the show's capacity to "concoct a couple of brilliant deviations from the class standard". Nancy Franklin of "The New Yorker" censured the plot for being excessively unsurprising, yet adulated Adam Brody as Seth, expressing that "he talks excessively and excessively quick, he mutters, and he anticipates zero physical certainty. To put it plainly, his character is charming." Rob Owen of the "Pittsburgh Post-Gazette" felt that "[Benjamin] McKenzie, now and again, is inclined to overdramatizing scenes", and considered the youthful characters "so terrible but flat" that it made the show "practically excruciating" to watch. He all things considered certified that the show had "positive qualities" that made it agreeable. Andrew Grossman of "The Boston Globe" remarked that "Brody is in a flash affable as Seth" and that Barton "completes a decent activity with Marissa's torn-between-two-universes apprehension", however expressed that Ryan "doesn't appear to have many clear identity characteristics". Tim Goodman of the "San Francisco Chronicle" called the scene "eminent" and portrayed McKenzie as "basically playing James Dean". He contrasted the performer with Russell Crowe and noticed that McKenzie "pull[ed] the entire thing off easily". 

Luke's line, "Welcome to the O.C., bitch", which he says in the wake of thumping Ryan, turned into a slogan for the show. Television Land put the line as 83rd in its "100 Greatest TV Quotes and Catchphrases" in 2006. Hadley Freeman of "The Guardian" noticed that the high schooler centered show made numerous social references due to a "recharged enthusiasm for the youngster showcase", including that the utilization of trimmed tops, smaller scale minis, and beaded flip-flops demonstrated a "determinedly West Coast way to deal with style". The scene's social references to form included Julie Cooper's inquiry to her pre-pubescent little girl, "Do you like my hair this straight or is it too Avril Lavigne?", while another mother gripes, "What are you doing putting my girl in Calvin Klein? She should be in Vera Wang!" Teenage nonconformist Seth gripes that "Consistently's a design appear for these children". 

The scene created enthusiasm for the program's music and was viewed as "the show to be heard on". Michael Peck from "television Guide" said that he got a substantial amount of mail that asked about the tune "Into Dust" by Mazzy Star, which played when Ryan conveyed Marissa into his room. Other included music was The All-American Rejects' 2003 hit, "Swing, Swing", and "Hands Up" by The Black Eyed Peas from their 2003 multi-platinum collection, "Elephunk". Among Schwartz's most loved melodic minutes from the show was Joseph Arthur's "Nectar and the Moon", which Schwartz asserted helped him compose the pilot. The title track "California" brought the band Phantom Planet into the standard.