Anna of East Anglia 

Anna (or Onna; murdered 653 or 654) was lord of East Anglia from the mid 640s until his passing. He was an individual from the Wuffingas family, the decision tradition of the East Angles. He was one of the three children of Eni who controlled the kingdom of East Anglia, succeeding some time after Ecgric was killed fighting by Penda of Mercia. Anna was commended by Bede for his commitment to Christianity and was prestigious for the righteousness of his family: his child Jurmin and all his daughters – Seaxburh, Æthelthryth, Æthelburh and perhaps a fourth, Wihtburh – were sanctified. 

Little is known about Anna's life or his rule, as few records have made due from this period. In 631 he may have been at Exning, near the Devil's Dyke. In 645 Cenwalh of Wessex was driven from his kingdom by Penda and, because of Anna's impact, he was changed over to Christianity while living as an outcast at the East Anglian court. Upon his arrival from outcast, Cenwalh restored Christianity in his very own kingdom and the general population of Wessex at that point remained solidly Christian. 

Around 651 the land around Ely was assimilated into East Anglia, following the marriage of Anna's little girl Æthelthryth. Anna luxuriously supplied the beach front religious community at Cnobheresburg. In 651, in the result of an assault by Penda on Cnobheresburg, Anna was compelled to escape into outcast, maybe toward the western kingdom of the Magonsæte. He came back to East Anglia in around 653, however soon a short time later the kingdom was assaulted again by Penda and at the Battle of Bulcamp the East Anglian armed force, driven by Anna, was crushed by the Mercians, and both Anna and his child Jurmin were killed. Anna was prevailing by his sibling, Æthelhere. Botolph's religious community at Iken may have been worked in recognition of the lord. After Anna's rule, East Anglia appears to have been overshadowed by its all the more dominant neighbor, Mercia. 

The kingdom of East Anglia () was a little autonomous Anglo-Saxon kingdom that included what are presently the English districts of Norfolk and Suffolk and maybe the eastern piece of the Cambridgeshire Fens. 

As opposed to the kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia and Wessex, minimal solid proof about the kingdom of the East Angles has endure, on account of the devastation of its religious communities and the vanishing of the two East Anglian sees that happened as the aftereffect of Viking attacks and settlement. The fundamental essential hotspots for data about Anna's life and rule are the "Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum" ("Ecclesiastical History of the English People"), finished in Northumbria by Bede in 731, and the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", at first written in the ninth century, which makes reference to Anna's demise. The medieval work known as the "Liber Eliensis", written in Ely in the twelfth century, is a wellspring of data about Anna's little girls Æthelthryth and Seaxburh, and furthermore depicts Anna's demise and entombment. 

Anna was the child of Eni, an individual from the decision Wuffingas family, and nephew of Rædwald, lord of the East Angles from 600 to 625. East Anglia was an early and seemingly perpetual Anglo-Saxon kingdom in which a duality of a northern and a southern part existed, relating with the cutting edge English areas of Norfolk and Suffolk. 

Anna was hitched: Bede alludes to the holy person Sæthryth as "little girl of the spouse of Anna, lord of the East Angles". In Abbott Folcard's "Life of St Botolph", written in the eleventh century, Botolph is portrayed as having been at one time the cleric to the sisters of a lord, Æthelmund, whose mother was named Sæwara. Folcard names two of Sæwara's family as Æthelhere and Æthelwold. Since these are the names of two of Anna's siblings, Steven Plunkett proposes that it is "enticing" to think about that Sæwara was hitched to Anna, and that Æthelmund may either be Anna's full name, or the name of a generally obscure East Anglian sub-lord. The "Liber Eliensis" names Hereswith, the sister of Hild, abbess of Whitby, as Anna's better half and the mother of Sæthryth, Seaxburh of Ely and Æthelthryth. Notwithstanding, the "Liber Eliensis" is respected with alert by antiquarians: Rosalind Love says that the medieval authors who deciphered Bede's data about Hereswith made an "incorrect supposition" in regards to her association with Anna and his family. History specialists presently trust that Hereswith was Anna's sister-in-law and that around the time that she wedded into the East Anglian illustrious family, Anna had just been lord for 10 years. 

In 631 Anna was presumably at the Suffolk town of Exning, an essential settlement with imperial associations, and, as indicated by the "Liber Eliensis", the origin of his little girl Æthelthryth. By custom, Æthelthryth is said to have been purified through water at Exning in a pool known as St Mindred's Well. Exning was an imperative spot deliberately, as it stood just on the East Anglian side of the Devil's Dyke, a noteworthy earthwork extending between the Fen edge and the headwaters of the River Stour, worked at a prior date to shield the East Anglian district from assault. An early Anglo-Saxon graveyard found there proposes the presence of an essential site adjacent, potentially a regal bequest or regio. 

Amid 632 or 633 Edwin of Northumbria, with his focal point of Christian power north of the River Humber, was toppled. Edwin was killed and Northumbria was assaulted by Cadwallon ap Cadfan, bolstered by the Mercian lord, Penda. The Mercians at that point turned on the kingdom of the East Angles and their ruler, Ecgric. At an obscure date (conceivably in the mid 640s), they directed the East Anglian armed force and Ecgric and his antecedent Sigeberht were both killed. D. P. Kirby has recommended that as Sigeberht was alive when the Irish priest Fursey left for Gaul and discovered Erchinoald, (which occurred after Erchinoald moved toward becoming Mayor of the Neustrian royal residence in 641), Sigeberht was likely slaughtered around 640 or 641. Penda's triumph denoted the stopping point of lords of the East Angles who were straightforwardly dropped from Rædwald. Some time after Penda's triumph, Anna moved toward becoming ruler of the East Angles, however the date of his promotion is very unsure. The "Liber Eliensis" says that Anna passed on in the nineteenth year of his rule, and since he kicked the bucket in the mid-650s this would demonstrate a date around 635. In any case, the "Liber Eliensis" is viewed by certain students of history as questionable on this point, and Barbara Yorke recommends a conceivable date in the mid 640s for Anna's increase, taking note of that it couldn't have been after 645 as Anna is recorded as offering shelter to Cenwalh of Wessex in that year. It is plausible that Anna moved toward becoming lord with the help of the northern Angles. All through his rule he was the casualty of Mercian hostility under Penda, yet he additionally appears to have tested the ascent of Penda's capacity. The British medievalist David Dumville has composed that because of their competition for power over the Middle Anglian individuals, Mercia and East Anglia presumably ended up innate foes and Penda more than once assaulted the East Angles from the mid-630s to 654. 

Anna orchestrated an essential strategic marriage between his little girl Seaxburh and Eorcenberht of Kent, establishing a collusion between the two kingdoms. It was by methods for relational unions, for example, this that the lords of Kent could turn out to be very much associated with other regal lines. Not the majority of Anna's little girls were hitched into other regal families. Amid the 640s Anna's girl Æthelburg and his stepdaughter Sæthryth entered Faremoutiers Abbey in Gaul to live religious lives under abbess Fara. They were the main regal Anglo-Saxons to move toward becoming nuns, making religious separation "a satisfactory and alluring job for ex-rulers and imperial princesses", as indicated by Barbara Yorke. 

D. P. Kirby utilizes the nearness of East Anglian princesses living under the shroud in Gaul as proof of the Frankish introduction of Anna's kingdom right now, proceeded since the rule of his forerunner Rædwald. The Wuffingas line may have been associated with religious establishments in the zone around Faramoutiers through Anna's forerunner Sigeberht, who had gone through quite a long while as an outcast in Gaul and had turned into a faithful and educated Christian because of his encounters of ascetic life. 

In 641 Oswald of Northumbria was killed fighting by Penda (presumably at Oswestry in Shropshire). Because of his passing, Northumbria was part into two. The northern part, Bernicia, acknowledged Oswald's sibling Oswiu as their new lord, however the southern Deirans would not acknowledge him and were governed rather by a ruler of the first Deiran house, Oswine. Before long a while later Cenwalh of Wessex, the sibling of Oswald's widow and himself wedded to Penda's sister, revoked his better half. In 645, as indicated by the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle", Penda drove Cenwalh from his kingdom and into outcast. Amid the next year, while a displaced person at Anna's court, he was changed over to Christianity, returning in 648 to run Wessex as a Christian ruler. Anna likely given military help to Cenwalh's arrival to his position of authority. 

Anna's hang on the western furthest reaches of his kingdom, which verged on the Fen handles that encompassed the Isle of Ely, was reinforced by the marriage in 651 (or somewhat later) of his little girl Æthelthryth to Tondberht, a ruler of the South Gyrwe, a people living in the fens who may have been settled in the region around Ely. Æthelthryth, joined by her clergyman Owine, headed out from Ely to Northumbria when she wedded for the second time, to Ecgfrith. 

Amid his rule Anna invested the cloister at Cnobheresburg with rich structures and articles. The religious community was worked in around 633 by Fursey after he touched base in East Anglia. In time, tired of assaults on the kingdom, Fursey left East Anglia for good, leaving the religious community to his sibling Foillan. At the point when in 651 Penda assaulted the cloister, Anna and his men arrived and kept the Mercians down. This gave Foillan and his priests enough time to escape with their books and assets, however Penda crushed Anna and drove him into outcast, conceivably to the kingdom of Merewalh of the Magonsætan, in western Shropshire. He came back to East Anglia in around 654. 

Not long after 653, when Penda made his child Peada the leader of the Middle Angles (yet kept on decision his very own nation), the Mercian attack on East Anglia was rehashed. The restricting multitudes of Penda and Anna met at Bulcamp, close Blythburgh in Suffolk. The East Anglians were crushed and many were killed, including King Anna and his child Jurmin. Anna's passing is referenced in the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" in the passage for 653 or 654, " "Her Anna cining werð ofslagen ..." " – 'Here Anna was killed' – however no different subtleties of the fight in which he kicked the bucket are given. 

Blythburgh, a mile from Bulcamp and arranged close to the fordable headwaters of the Blyth estuary, was a short time later accepted to be the area of the tombs of Anna and Jurmin. It is a possibility for a devout site or a regal regio (home). As indicated by Peter Warner, the Latin induction of part of the close-by spot name 'Bulcamp' demonstrates its old starting points, and medieval sources which guarantee nonstop Christian love at Blythburgh all through the Anglo-Saxon period furnish fortuitous proof of its associations with East Anglian eminence and Christianity. Some portion of an eighth century whalebone diptych or composing tablet, utilized for formal purposes, has been found close to the site. 

Holy person Botolph started to assemble his religious community at Icanho, presently definitively distinguished as Iken, Suffolk, in the year that Anna was executed, potentially to celebrate the ruler. Anna was prevailing thus by his two siblings Æthelhere and Æthelwold, who may have governed mutually. It is conceivable that Æthelhere was set up as a manikin ruler by Penda or was his partner, as he was one of the 30 "duces" that went with Penda when he assaulted Oswiu of Northumbria at a unidentified area called the Winwæd in 655 or 656. Penda himself was slaughtered at the Winwæd, subsequent to having relentlessly expanded his control over a time of 13 years. Æthelhere (who was additionally killed at the Battle of the Winwæd) and Æthelwold were prevailing by the relatives of Anna's most youthful sibling, Æthelric. 

Bede adulated Anna's devotion in his "Religious History of the English People", and current students of history have since viewed Anna as a passionate ruler, however his notoriety for being a committed Christian is primarily on the grounds that he created a child and four little girls who were altogether made into Anglo-Saxon holy people. Five hundred years after his passing, his tomb at Blythburgh was (as indicated by the "Liber Eliensis") still "adored by the devout dedication of loyal individuals". 

Anna's youngsters were altogether consecrated. The oldest, Seaxburh, was the spouse of Eorcenberht of Kent. She managed Kent from 664 until her child Ecgberht became an adult. Æthelthryth, as indicated by the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", established the religious community at Ely in 673. Another little girl, Æthelburh, went through her time on earth at the religious shelter of Faremoutiers. Anna's child, Jurmin, was of warrior age in 653 when he was executed in fight. 

By custom, Anna is said to have had a fourth girl, Wihtburh, an abbess at Dereham (or perhaps West Dereham), where there was an illustrious twofold religious community. She may never have existed: Bede neglects to specify her and she initially shows up in a schedule in the late tenth century "Bosworth Psalter". She may have been a character explicitly made by the religious network at Ely, where her remaining parts should have been taken in the wake of being stolen from Dereham and thusly utilized as visual confirmation of the ethical soundness of a holy person's body, a substitute for her sister Æthelthryth, whose body needed to remain unexamined in her tomb. Original copy F of the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", which dates from around 1100, makes reference to Wihtburh's demise when it records that her body was discovered uncorrupted in 798, 55 years after she passed on. The subsequent date for her passing of 743 is too awfully late for her to have been a sister of Æthelthryth, who was conceived in 636. 

Essential sources 

Optional sources