Gevninge protective cap piece 

The Gevninge protective cap piece is the dexter eyepiece of a head protector from the Viking Age or end of the Nordic Iron Age. It was found in 2000 amid the removal of a Viking farmstead in Gevninge, close Lejre, Denmark. The part is shaped from bronze and plated, and comprises of a stylised eyebrow with eyelashes over an oval opening. There are three gaps at the top and base of the part to join the eyepiece to a head protector. The section is critical as uncommon proof of contemporaneous head protectors, and furthermore for its revelation in Gevninge, a station that is perhaps associated with the Anglo-Saxon epic "Beowulf". It has been in the accumulation of the Lejre Museum since its revelation, and has been shown globally as a feature of a voyaging presentation on Vikings. 

The section is a resplendent piece, however nothing else stays of the protective cap; it may be the single leftover of a crumbled cap, or it may have been lost or disposed of. It is one of two Scandinavian eyepieces found alone, offering ascend to the proposal that it was deliberately kept in a summon of the one-peered toward god Odin. It would have been a piece of an enriched "peaked cap", the kind of headgear that was regular to England and Scandinavia from the 6th through eleventh hundreds of years AD. These are especially known from the precedents found at Vendel, Valsgärde, and Sutton Hoo; the Tjele head protector piece is the main other Danish model known. 

Gevninge is upriver from Lejre, a one-time focal point of intensity accepted to be the setting for Heorot, the legendary mead lobby to which the poetical saint Beowulf travels looking for the beast Grendel. The settlement's area proposes that it worked as a station through which anybody would need to pass when cruising to the capital, and in which trusted and steadfast watchmen would serve. This mirrors Beowulf's involvement on his approach to Heorot, for after landing he is met with a mounted post whose activity it is "to watch the waves for looters, and risk to the Danish shore." Upon noting his test, Beowulf is escorted not far off to Heorot, much as an Iron Age guest to Lejre may have been driven along the street from Gevninge. The Gevninge cap section, a military piece from a riverside station, hence reveals insight into the connection between verifiable truth and legend. 

The Gevninge eyepiece is wide and tall, formed from bronze and plated. An oval educational is overlain by an etched eyebrow with furrows speaking to singular hairs; grooves around the edge of the oval may speak to eyelashes. The top and base of the piece each have three openings, probably used to join it to the head protector where it would have shaped the dexter eyepiece. The best three gaps may have joined it to the cap top, the last three to some type of face security, for example, a face cover or camail. 

The Gevninge head protector part was found independent from anyone else, with no other adjacent relics to give it some unique circumstance. The settlement at Gevninge dates to somewhere in the range of 500 and 1000, while protective caps with comparable beautiful attributes recommend dating the eyepiece to the 6th or seventh century, maybe from 550 to 700; another cap eyebrow found in Uppåkra, Sweden, has the equivalent proposed date. The Gevninge piece fits into the corpus of Anglo-Saxon and Scandinavian "peaked head protectors", each described by an adjusted top and more often than not a conspicuous nose-to-scruff peak. The Tjele head protector section is the main such cap found in Denmark, while the lavishly ornamented caps found at Sutton Hoo, Vendel, and Valsgärde may give the nearest estimation to what the Gevninge cap would have looked like when entirety. 

Protective caps like what the Gevninge section once decorated served both as utilitarian gear and as showcases of status. Models from Northern Europe amid the Nordic Iron Age and Viking Age are uncommon. This may incompletely propose an inability to endure a thousand years underground or maybe an inability to be perceived after exhuming: the plainer Anglo-Saxon and Roman caps from Shorwell and Burgh Castle were at first misidentified as pots. The extraordinary shortage by and by proposes that they were never kept in incredible numbers, and that they connoted the significance of those wearing them. In the Anglo-Saxon ballad "Beowulf", an anecdote about rulers and nobles that incompletely happens in Denmark, protective caps are referenced regularly, and in manners that demonstrate their noteworthiness. The withering expressions of Beowulf, whose claim fire is stacked with protective caps, are utilized to give a gold neckline, byrnie, and plated head protector to his devotee Wiglaf. 

In the event that assurance was every one of that was asked of a head protector, a straightforward iron top would get the job done. However an officer guarding Gevninge, a riverside station while in transit to the real city of Lejre, would need to be reliable, and maybe likewise associated with the lord by family or steadfastness. He would likewise possess a critical position in the military chain of command. Embellishments like the Gevninge part would have distinguished the position of such an individual, just as adding improvement to a head protector. 

The section was found in 2000 with the utilization of a metal finder amid a minor uncovering in Gevninge, a Viking Age settlement and current town in Denmark toward the west of Roskilde. The exhuming was in light of the arranged development of houses on an undeveloped hectare of land amidst the town, yet it out of the blue uncovered a farmstead with a few structures. 

The eyepiece may have been made at close-by Lejre, the seat of the Scylding rulers amid the Iron and Viking ages. It was found in the topsoil and might have been lost or disposed of, or the whole cap may have turned out to be covered and after that been demolished by furrowing. It may likewise have been intentionally covered, just like the protective cap eyebrow from Uppåkra. Whenever covered alone, it may have been a reference to the one-peered toward god Odin who relinquished an eye in return for insight and knowledge in Norse folklore. 

The Lejre Museum presently shows the Gevninge part close by other seventh-century grave finds from the zone. The section was displayed in Denmark and globally from 2013 to 2015 as a feature of a noteworthy show on the Vikings, beginning at the National Museum of Denmark. It at that point ventured out to the British Museum for "Vikings: Life and Legend", at that point to Berlin's Martin-Gropius-Bau for "Kick the bucket Wikinger". 

The revelation of the section in Gevninge is striking for its closeness to Lejre, down the waterway from Roskilde Fjord. Lejre was at one time a focal point of intensity, as prove by amazing internment hills, substantial lobbies, the silver-filled Lejre Hoard, and stone boats. Throughout the previous hundred years Lejre has additionally been comprehended as the probably setting for Heorot, the incredible mead lobby of the Danes in the Anglo-Saxon epic sonnet "Beowulf", to which Beowulf goes looking for Grendel and Grendel's mom. In this sense, Gevninge could have been "the Port of Lejre", standing make preparations for any individual who cruised towards the capital. Without a doubt, Beowulf and his men are met by such a watchman when they land in Denmark: 

The guardian is an "honorable warrior" () who, in the wake of tuning in to Beowulf's clarification of his voyage, guides his men to watch the legend's pontoon and offers to escort him to ruler Hrothgar. He at that point turns back expressing, "I'm away to the ocean, back on caution against foe marauders" (). Regardless of whether Gevninge was the reason for the seaside station experienced in "Beowulf", the two filled comparative jobs. They would have likewise been liable to comparative key contemplations, being both early lines of guard against assault, and places to respect the stream of guests. Along these lines, the piece gives a nexus among legend and recorded actuality.