John/Eleanor Rykener 

John Rykener, otherwise called Eleanor (fl. 1394), was a fourteenth century transvestite sex specialist captured in December 1394 for playing out a sex demonstration with another man, John Britby, in London's Cheapside. In spite of the fact that history specialists probably connect Rykener to a detainee of a similar name, the main known realities of his life originate from cross examination made by the city hall leader of London. Rykener was addressed on two offenses: prostitution and homosexuality. Whores were not ordinarily captured in London amid this period, while homosexuality was an offense against ethical quality as opposed to custom-based law, thus sought after in ministerial courts. There is no proof that Rykener was arraigned for either wrongdoing. 

Rykener said that he was acquainted with sexual contact with men by Elizabeth Brouderer, a London embroideress who dressed him as a lady and may have gone about as his procurer. As indicated by his record, he had intercourse with the two people, including clerics and nuns. Rykener spent piece of summer 1394 in Oxford, working both as a whore and as an embroideress. He later referenced that in Beaconsfield he had a sexual association with a lady. Rykener came back to London by means of Burford in Oxfordshire, where he functioned as a barmaid and proceeded with sex work. On his arrival to London, he had paid experiences close to the Tower of London, simply outside the City. Rykener was captured with Britby one Sunday evening in ladies' garments, which he was all the while wearing amid his cross examination on 11 December. It was there that he portrayed his experiences—and his sexual history—in incredible detail. In any case, it gives the idea that no charges were ever brought against him; or possibly, no records have been found proposing so. Nothing unmistakable is known about Rykener after his cross examination; he has been likely distinguished as a John Rykener detained by and getting away from the Bishop of London in 1399. 

Antiquarians of social, sexual and sex history are particularly intrigued by Rykener's case due to what it uncovers about medieval perspectives on sex and sex. Jeremy Goldberg, for instance, sees it immovably with regards to King Richard II's fight with the city of London—in spite of the fact that he has additionally scrutinized the veracity of the whole record, and placed that the case was only a publicity piece by city authorities. Student of history James A. Schultz has seen the illicit relationship as being of more noteworthy criticalness to antiquarians than increasingly well known medieval stories, for example, Tristan and Iseult. Ruth Mazo Karras—who during the 1990s rediscovered the Rykener case in the City of London files—considers it to be representing the challenges the law has in tending to things it can't portray. Present day enthusiasm for John/Eleanor Rykener has not been kept to the scholarly world. Rykener has showed up as a character in no less than one work of well known authentic fiction, and his story has been adjusted for the stage. 

Prostitution was firmly directed in fourteenth-century England, and houses of ill-repute—in spite of the fact that not prostitution itself—were illicit in the City of London. City experts tended not to indict singular sex laborers, yet centered around capturing the pimps and procuresses who lived off them. Prostitution was seen as most unsafe to the ethical structure holding the system together. Another sexual offense for which individuals could be indicted was homosexuality, yet this would for the most part be by the congregation in its own courts. Of these two sexual offenses, homosexuality was regarded the more awful. The thirteenth-century thinker and scholar Thomas Aquinas contrasted prostitution with a sewer controlling the stream of waste, saying that if one somehow happened to expel it, one would "fill the castle with revoltingness". Aquinas at that point developed the point, saying "remove whores from the world and you will fill it with homosexuality". Prostitution was along these lines seen as an important shrewdness, that if not wiped out could be controlled. The Lord Mayor of London's common court would not have been viewed as able to hear cases including either offense. 

In late-fourteenth-century London, it was considered socially inadmissible for a man to routinely wear ladies' garments. There were exemptions on the off chance that it was purposely evident or vital—for instance, in theater, or riddle plays. Corpus Christi riddle plays, as the antiquarian Katie Normington notes, gave an event "where sexual orientation personality could be tried or disturbed". On the other hand, the predetermined number of such chances, says Vern Bullough, implied that male-to-female transvestism was successfully non-existent in open society. In any case, underneath the surface, recommends Ruth Evans, London was "a position of unrivaled sexual and financial chances". 

Hermaphroditism also had a lawfully perceived status; the thirteenth-century legal adviser Henry de Bracton, for instance, had talked about it in his "Laws and Customs of England", and there was a solid convention of fictionalizing it. The best-known, a story told by somewhere around four separate German recorders during the 1380s, was from Lübeck. The hero dressed as a lady by night and sold sex out of a stall. By day, he was a minister and was in the end found when a customer remembered him praising mass. The medieval history specialist Jeremy Goldberg has thought about the Lübeck and Rykener cases: both included "cross-dressing, untrustworthiness, the nearby relationship of clerics with gay movement, and the inevitable intercession of the city experts". 

All that is known about Rykener's life originates from his answers amid his cross examination in the Lord Mayor's court, following his capture in December 1394. At these procedures, he depicted in some detail how he had come to gain proficiency with his exchange as a whore when living with a London embroideress, who additionally shown him her needlecraft. He additionally told the court with whom and where he hence utilized those exchanges. Rykener additionally told how he had as of late come back to London in the wake of visiting different pieces of southern England before his capture in Cheapside, a bustling business locale of London. 

At his cross examination, Rykener portrayed how he was first dressed as a lady at the Bishopsgate place of one Elizabeth Brouderer. Following the 1348– 1349 flare-up of bubonic plague—which slaughtered between and of the English populace—female apprenticeships had moved toward becoming as regular as those for young men, especially in London. Here he was instructed how to lay down with men as a lady and to be paid for doing as such. He additionally learned weaving there, and may have finished an apprenticeship under Brouderer, as female disciples did. Rykener portrayed his circumstance in some detail, naming the different men he met there: 

The sex exercises, Rykener clarified, were so that Brouderer could give her little girl, Alice, to men around evening time, while it was dull so they couldn't see her. Alice would then abandon her customer before sunrise, and Brouderer would tell the man that he had laid down with Rykener. Rykener would be available before the customer, wearing ladies' garments and called Eleanor by Brouderer. One of the men Rykener engaged in sexual relations with in Brouderer's home was the Rector of Theydon Garnon, called Philip. In the wake of engaging in sexual relations with the Rector, Rykener stole two outfits from him. The last surrendered attempting to recover his property when Rykener revealed to Philip that Rykener was the spouse of an imperative man in the city. This would have constrained the Rector to sue Rykener's alleged spouse in court for the arrival of Philip's property. Brouderer's thought processes in utilizing of Rykener along these lines have been the subject of theory among researchers. John Roxeth, thinking about Brouderer's treatment of Rector Philip, has recommended that she utilized Rykener to extort men, in spite of the fact that he doesn't extrapolate on the mechanics of her doing as such. Roxeth's hypothesis isn't generally acknowledged; Jeremy Goldberg, for example, noticed Roxeth's recommendation without remarking on its likelihood, while Ruth Karras considers Rykener to have simply been undermined in the standard design. 

By August 1394, Rykener had moved to Oxford. He proceeded with his sex work, yet in addition got function as an embroideress: Brouderer had unmistakably been fruitful at showing him both. Among Rykener's sexual customers, he revealed, were "three clueless researchers", or ""scolares ignotos"", whom Rykener named as three knights, Sir William Foxley, a Sir John and a Sir Walter. They might not have known Rykener's actual sex, and the recorder's stating is uncertain. The three knights had utilized Rykener's administrations as often as possible. The antiquarian Carolyn Dinshaw has addressed whether their obliviousness of Rykener's sexual orientation could have gone on for the term of the visit. More probable, she recommends, sooner or later they understood—and proceeded. Rykener energized an affluent, frequently religious customers, in the two his callings. The privileged societies utilized embroiderers, particularly the church with their ministerial vestments. A needle worker, on the other hand, was carefully ordinary. 

In September 1394, Rykener moved west to Burford, where he lived with the owner John Clerk, who utilized him as a barmaid. Rykener's customers right now included two Franciscan monks—whom he named as Brother John and Brother Michael—the last of whom paid with a gold ring. Different clients incorporated a Carmelite monk and six outsiders. Three of the last paid Rykener, separately, twelve pence, twenty pence, and "as much as two shillings for a solitary experience". His stay in Burford appears to have been brief, and it was not some time before he was in Beaconsfield. Rykener did not limit himself to laying down with men as a lady; while in Burford, Rykener stated, he had a sexual relationship, as a man, with a lady called Joan Matthew. For his experiences with ladies, Rykener took no installment; at any rate, he didn't state that he did. He additionally proceeded with his sex-work in Beaconsfield, this time with two progressively (outside) Franciscans. 

Rykener came back to London later in the year. He told his inquisitors that since doing as such, he had an experience with a Sir John, whom Rykener said had once been pastor at St Margaret Pattens. Two different ministers were additionally among his clients, whom he had met in the back avenues of St Katharine's by the Tower. Regardless of whether Rykener's customers needed a man or a lady is obscure. Britby and Rykener were captured later in Cheapside. Britby professed to have been searching for a lady, however, Dinshaw trusted that, given he was set to be locked up at the time, was not really liable to state generally. Another customer, Theydon Garnon's minister, likewise appears to have needed (and in fact trusted he had been with) a lady, and was never told something else. 

On the Sunday before his gathering with the city hall leader, somewhere in the range of 8 and 9 o'clock at night, Rykener was by Soper Lane, off Cheapside, and looking—as Dinshaw phrases it—"lady enough" to pull in the consideration of the Yorkshireman John Britby. Rykener said Britby propositioned him in Cheapside, and they went to Soper Lane. They additionally grabbed the eye of "specific officers of the city", who captured them. They were blamed for "lying by a specific slow down in Soper's Lane, submitting that wretched unmentionable and disgraceful bad habit". Rykener was cross examined in a similar female garments he had been captured in. He presented himself as "Eleanor" to the city hall leader and authorities amid these procedures. The "unmentionable" demonstration they were blamed for submitting, recommends Jeremy Goldberg, was probably butt-centric sex. There can be no conviction on this point, as, Goldberg has called attention to, the agent's language frequently comprises of what Goldberg marks "intentionally dark aversion". Rykener and Britby were questioned independently by the civic chairman, John Fresshe, and the gathered magistrates of the regular chamber. The exact date of the cross examinations is obscure; the first archive in the Common Council's Plea and Memoranda Rolls (itself, says Goldberg, just kept in a "somewhat free sequential request") can be dated just by its position promptly going before a plaint with respect to a property debate on 26 January 1395. 

Britby said that he was going through Cheapside when he met Rykener, and recognized that he propositioned him. Britby professed to have done as such in the conviction that he was conversing with a lady. In any case, Rykener had consented to sex with him and named a value, which he consented to pay. Rykener affirmed this story. Its remainder, the authorities knew: got in the demonstration by the neighborhood watch, Rykener and Britby had been removed and detained. At the point when Rykener was asked where he had got the thought for such work, he said that "a specific Anna, the prostitute of a previous hireling of Sir Thomas Blount" had instructed him to go about as a lady, and that Elizabeth Brouderer first dressed him so. 

Medieval English lawful examination was inquisitorial, with certainties set up through inquiry and answer. Rykener's answers were given in English however translated into Latin for the record. Along these lines his record, as recorded, was not his own admission, but instead passed on the sense, conceivably a shine, of what he expected. Such addressing, trust Karras and Boyd, would have been an especially "'substantial weight' for Rykener to hold up under alone". Rykener likewise told the city hall leader and magistrates how he oftentimes had sex with ladies as a man. He was questionable, when asked, regardless of whether they were hitched or not, however they included nuns: "what number of he didn't have the foggiest idea". Rykener's reactions propose that officialdom was especially worried about the ethical inquiry of two-timing wedded ladies and explicitly dynamic "religieuses". Rykener disclosed to them that his experiences, regardless of whether with men or ladies, happened in bars, open spots, and private houses. Whatever the city hall leader and his associates proposed, most—if not all that matters—of what Rykener let them know was past their court's purview. Goldberg takes note of how the scribal assistants went to incredible inconvenience to record incidental, foundation material that occurred numerous miles outside that purview. 

Britby started his cross examination as far as anyone knows unconscious of Rykener's actual sex. He had been clarified before its finish. Carolyn Dinshaw has recommended this may demonstrate that "they hadn't generally begun in that licentious demonstration" at the point they were captured, so Britby had not gotten an opportunity to discover. Britby does not seem to have been accused of a wrongdoing. The one thing he could have been accused of, sex, would have must be indicted in a clerical court, as was additionally past the mayoral court's ward. Whores were commonly not indicted in the mayoral court. Maybe Rykener was adequately unique to warrant their notice. He was, all things considered, "no poor young lady constrained or deceived into pitching her body so as to get by, the pawn of the pimp or procurer who controlled her, nor was he offering vaginal sex". In the event that Rykener was accused of any offense, the result of the case is obscure. There isn't, says Goldberg, any "further record of any reaction or activity with respect to the court nor any further notice of Rykener". There are no express charges, decision or sentence. Counterparts comprehended a whore was not only a lady who took cash for sex, however an evil lady. In this way, regardless of whether a man took cash for sex, as Rykener, he couldn't be—to the medieval personality—a whore, thus couldn't be arraigned as one. On the off chance that he was in the long run discharged after cross examination yet without charge, it might have been on the grounds that the city hall leader and representatives of London "did not exactly recognize what to make of him". For sure, It was incredibly irregular for a case like Rykener's to be heard in a mayoral court in any case. It isn't clear what type of legitimate procedure was pursued. There may have been some disarray among Rykener's cross examiners in regards to how he was to be managed: homosexuality was past the court's ward. 

Rykener vanished from authentic records after the cross examination, with nothing certain known about his later life. The name itself is adequately irregular, to have enabled analysts to conjecture. Jeremy Goldberg likely distinguished him as the John Rykener who was detained in the Bishop of London's gaol in Bishop's Stortford, and who got away in 1399. The purpose behind this present man's detainment is obscure. That he fell under episcopal purview recommends he had ministerial status, most likely being a clerical agent. In this gaol, most detainees were indicted assistants. On the off chance that this is a similar John Rykener, his detainment in Bishop's Stortford would not have been for similar offenses he was addressed for in 1394: having sexual relations would not get a priest's assistant detained. Contemporary records report nothing of this present Rykener's experience or occasions after his departure. There was an examination, yet this concentrated on the Bishop of London's poor record in keeping his detainees secure as opposed to on the people themselves. 

John/Eleanor Rykener's capture and cross examination occurred at the tallness of the spread of Lollardy. Lollardism was regarded apostasy, and it was just half a month after Rykener's capture that its devotees declared their "Twelve Conclusions". The Rykener case, remarks Dinshaw, more likely than not been "like a bad dream of the Lollard creative ability", comprising as it did of a "cross-dressed whore who had intercourse with such a significant number of priests s/he couldn't recollect them all confirm[ing] the Lollards' most reduced desires for the prelacy". The third of the Lollards' twelve decisions explicitly tended to the topic of administrative homosexuality, which Lollardism accused on the congregation's emphasis on holy forbearance. 

The civic chairman also may likewise have had political explanations behind bringing Rykener before the Bench. Doing as such enabled him to show his responsibility to solid lawfulness in the city. Goldberg proposes that the "organized and emotional way" that the case is displayed mirrors its imagined nature and that the things that Rykener said were painstakingly picked for interpretation for the city hall leader's appointive purposes. The Rykener case would have supported civic chairman Fresshe's picture when it required help. He had been denounced—in addition to other things—of detaining individuals who sued him for their rights. 

The Rykener case occurred in a fierce period in the city's relations with the King. Two years sooner Richard II had stripped the city of its freedoms and detained city hall leader John Hende and his city sheriffs. The city's benefits had just been reestablished in August 1394, after a credit of £10,000 from the city to the King. The custom reclamation of these freedoms likewise occurred on Cheapside. Goldberg noticed that the King reimbursed that credit just the day preceding Rykener and Britby had been captured; this isn't really circumstantial, Goldberg says. 

Goldberg contends that the King's unique squabble with London had been finished (seen) misgovernance, which required him overseeing the city. The Rykener case would thus be able to be seen as an article exercise in great self-administration: "evildoers are quickly distinguished and speedily conveyed to respond in due order regarding their offenses". The city illustrated, through Rykener, its capacity to address "the successive hotel of, and partnering with, regular mistresses", which prompted "numerous and jumpers affrays, sears, and discords". Rykener's examiners appear to have been especially keen on his dealings with the pastorate, which may represent their bringing him under the watchful eye of a mayoral court initially. Homosexuality went under religious purview, prostitution was a city offense, and cases concerning ministers were customarily managed by chapel courts. Such was the disagreeability of the pastorate, recommends Goldberg, that "courts would respect the open door therefore exhibited of showing up a man in heavenly requests", regardless of whether they were unfit to indict him. 

Judith Bennett thinks about that the recurrence with which hermaphroditism is referenced in contemporary writings shows an incurious acknowledgment of the condition. Provided that this is true, she proposes, "Rykener's rehashed raids into the space among 'male' and 'female' may have been as unremarkable in the boulevards of fourteenth-century London as they would be in Soho today". 

History specialists have known about Rykener's case since a calendared form of the legitimate record was distributed by Arthur Hermann Thomas in his 1932 "Logbook of Select Plea and Memoranda Rolls, London, 1381– 1412". Thomas' rundown was noted just that an examination had occurred "of two men accused of unethical behavior, of whom one embroiled a few people, male and female, in religious requests". The case stayed in lack of clarity until the mid-1990s, when the first original copy records were found by Ruth Mazo Karras and David Lorenzo Boyd in the London Metropolitan Archives. The Rykener archives were documented with the more regular, and progressively common, toll of obligation and property offenses that the city hall leader's court generally managed. It has been recommended that of specific worry for the authorities was not so much the demonstration itself, yet Rykener's exchanging of sexual orientation jobs. This apparent significance may represent the survival of the record, as it might have been considered to have set a point of reference. 

The composition of Rykener's cross examination, as per one analyst, frames "clearly the main lawful procedure report from late medieval England which manages same-sex intercourse". The case has been depicted as offering a "microcosmic perspective on medieval English sexualities and the inlet that lies between the medieval and the advanced"— the words utilized in the two time frames to portray sexuality mean distinctive things to each. Rykener's case is likewise huge for its irregularity. Enduring records from the fifteenth century give just two instances of comparative cases coming to court. 

It is unimaginable in the twenty-first century to recognize what Rykener's experiences implied for him. As Ruth Karras has called attention to, grant on such undertakings, "since it depends on court records, has concentrated significantly more on acts than on sentiments", similarly as the records do. Along these lines it is difficult to set up whether his experiences were brief, or part of longer-term connections. The lion's share, proposes Karras, were the previous. Karras and Boyd call attention to the troubles in survey Rykener today as he would have seen himself. "In present day terms", they composed, Rykener "would be portrayed as a transvestite (since he cross-dressed) and a whore (since he took cash for sex), and likely a swinger" in spite of the fact that this mark is to some degree "risky", they recommend, as researchers have no methods for evaluating what it would have intended to him. 

History specialist James A. Schulz has proposed that John Rykener's story is of more significance to history specialists than, for instance, that of Tristan and Isolde. While their story shows little of the genuine idea of cultured love—being a worldview and legendary as opposed to the truth—Rykener's case enlightens much regarding the "minimal, transgressive" universe of medieval sexuality. Rykener's reactions to his cross examiners have been portrayed as one of the not many impressions the cutting edge period has into medieval sexual characters. Another researcher has portrayed the Rykener case as, with its "tangled language and capturing blend of honesty and ambiguity ... remain[ing] a backbone of medieval, strange and sex considers from that point onward" Karras' revelation. Normington has depicted the case for instance of a medieval court "thinking about sexual orientation refinements". Karras has contended that Rykener is a medieval case of a transgender individual, as opposed to only a transvestite or cross-dresser. Karras says that "regardless of whether we know nothing about Rykener's self-recognizable proof, her life as a male-bodied lady might have been 'transgender-like'." Karras takes note of that nothing is known about Rykener's (or anyone else's) sentiments for this situation, and since the cross examination was recorded in Latin (which he might not have known), antiquarians might not have a precise record of what he truly said. The main time he appears to have offered a closely-held conviction on what he did was the point at which he opined to inclining toward clerics: yet this was "simply because they paid more". Carolyn Dinshaw recommends that Rykener's living and working in Oxford as a ladies for a period shows that Rykener appreciated doing as such. In like manner, Cordelia Beattie thinks about that his capacity to go as a lady "in regular daily existence would have included other gendered conduct". She thinks about that to present day students of history and sociologists, the Rykener case is a piece of a "long-standing convention" inside the investigation of sexual orientation. In her view, the case uncovers the social assumptions held by the civic chairman and basic chamber through their treatment of him. For instance, says Beattie, "it is observable that, as indicated by the record, the men engaged in sexual relations with him, though he had intercourse with the women".Jeremy Goldberg has taken a gander at the case with regards to where Rykener worked, as Cheapside was a noteworthy commercial focus. Goldberg thinks about that the city hall leader and council members were most worried about Rykener as a merchant, and as a bogus one at that: "a tradesperson who indicates to be an embroideress and a barmaid, however sells sex. ... Indeed, even as a whore he is an unscrupulous dealer: he acts like a lady pitching straight sex to male customers, while he is, actually, a man taking on the appearance of a lady." Goldberg proposes that students of history may have misread the genuine importance of the first report. It is conceivable, he says, that the entire case was a manufacture by the copyists, who needed to authoritatively hold up an informal purposeful anecdote against the King. Henceforth Rykener turns into an illustration for Richard II following the argument about the city's freedoms and, much like Rykener was portrayed in the allegation, Richard is "emblematically buggered" in Cheapside. 

Ruth Evans, proceeding with the trade subject, has depicted Rykener as "forging" his body for installment. Amid his cross examination, his sexual demonstration with Britby was alluded to on no less than one event as "work". In the event that the city hall leader and magistrates are worried about Rykener's genuineness (or not), says Goldberg, at that point it is "here an explicitly middle class worry that becomes out of the necessities of exchange". Judith Bennett has recommended that Rykener, through his decision of work, had "taken a ladies' latent position in the public arena", and that it was this—as opposed to the genuine offenses of prostitution and homosexuality—that "most transfixed" Rykener's questioners. From this, and in contrast with her very own period, she infers that "sexual orientation was not any more arranged in the medieval times than it is in the twenty-first century". 

A fictionalized variant of Rykener shows up as an unmistakable character in Bruce Holsinger's 2014 recorded novel, "A Burnable Book", set in London in 1385. Rykener (whom Holsinger renames Edgar) goes about as the peruser's manual for the "delicious spots" of fourteenth-century London's black market. A manikin show expected to investigate Rykener as transgender—"consolidating medieval examinations, dramatization, and puppetry"— called "John– Eleanor" appeared in 2011 and was performed at the Turku music celebration in Finland the next year. It was later performed at the World Puppetry Festival in Charleville-Mézières, France, in 2017, with Timo Vantsi assuming the title job. It was likewise performed in Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States.