North-Eastern Area Command 

North-Eastern Area Command was one of a few topographically based directions raised by the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) amid World War II. For the greater part of its reality it controlled units situated in focal and northern Queensland, and Papua New Guinea. It was shaped in January 1942 from the eastern piece of the previous Northern Area Command, which had secured all of northern Australia and Papua. Headquartered at Townsville, Queensland, North-Eastern Area Command's obligations included air resistance, flying observation and assurance of the ocean paths inside its limits. Its flying units, outfitted with warriors, observation planes, jump aircraft and transports, partook in the clashes of Rabaul, Port Moresby and Milne Bay in 1942, and the arrivals at Hollandia and Aitape in 1944. 

The zone direction kept on working after the war, however its benefits and staffing were tremendously decreased. Its duties were subsumed in February 1954 by the RAAF's new utilitarian directions: Home (operational), Training, and Maintenance Commands. The zone base camp was disbanded in December 1956 and re-framed as Headquarters RAAF Townsville. 

The Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) framed North-Eastern Area Command at Townsville, Queensland, on 15 January 1942, to assume control over the eastern segment of what was already Northern Area Command. Northern Area had been set up on 8 May 1941 as one of the RAAF's geologically based direction and-control zones, covering units in northern New South Wales, Queensland, the Northern Territory, and Papua. The jobs of the territory directions were air resistance, security of neighboring ocean paths, and elevated surveillance. Every wa driven by an Air Officer Commanding (AOC) in charge of the organization and activities of air bases and units inside his limit. 

Northern Area was part into North-Western Area (NWA) and North-Eastern Area (NEA) following the flare-up of the Pacific War in December 1941, to counter particular dangers to Northern Australia and New Guinea, separately. Air Commodore Frank Lukis, once in the past accountable for Northern Area, was NEA's debut AOC, assuming liability for RAAF tasks against the Japanese in New Guinea, New Britain and encompassing islands. His base camp staff numbered 248. On 20 January 1942, over 100 Japanese flying machine assaulted Rabaul, crushing or severely harming six CAC Wirraways and murdering or injuring eleven crew members of No. 24 Squadron under Wing Commander John Lerew. The following day, NEA central station sent a flag to Lerew requesting him to keep his runway open; Lerew, with just two Wirraways left, answered utilizing the unbelievable old gladiatorial expression to respect an Emperor, ""Morituri vos salutamus"" ("We who are going to pass on salute you"). Disregarding a further message from central command to desert his squadron and getaway in a Lockheed Hudson plane, Lerew started clearing staff to Port Moresby, New Guinea, on 22 January. 

No. 33 Squadron, working ex-Qantas Short Empire flying water crafts and a few littler transports, was brought up in NEA on 19 February 1942. Prior that month, Lukis cautioned higher direction of the poor condition of readiness and low resolve of Australian Army troops at Port Moresby, because of absence of air spread and obvious absence of enthusiasm from government echelons. On 25 February, Nos. 3 and 4 Fighter Sector Headquarters were built up at Townsville and Port Moresby, individually, to organize warrior tasks. Horn Island, in the Torres Strait, was attacked by the Japanese on 14 March. After three days, seventeen P-40 Kittyhawks of No. 75 Squadron, as of late shaped at Townsville, conveyed to Port Moresby. Instructed by Squadron Leader John Jackson, the squadron endured overwhelming misfortunes in the following fight. At a certain point NEA base camp gave Jackson authorization to pull back yet he can't, and the squadron was in the end credited with obliterating thirty-five Japanese airplane noticeable all around and on the ground, verifying Port Moresby until mitigated by the 35th and 36th Squadrons of the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF), working P-39 Airacobras. 

A few USAAF plane arrangements worked under NEA's control in mid 1942, including A-24 Banshees of the eighth Squadron from Port Moresby, and B-17 Flying Fortresses of the 435th Squadron (at first known as the "Kangaroo Squadron") from Townsville. As of 20 April, operational specialist over all RAAF battle foundation, including region directions, was put resources into the recently settled Allied Air Forces (AAF) Headquarters under South West Pacific Area Command (SWPA). One consequence of this was the coordination of USAAF and RAAF staff at territory home office. As indicated by the official history of the RAAF, however "more a strategic motion than a reasonable strategy for war association", it gave work force from the two administrations the chance to rapidly progress toward becoming acclimatized to one another and "in North-Eastern Area, for instance, the air was cheerful and the staff incredibly helpful". Following the Battle of the Coral Sea in May, USAAF units never again worked under RAAF control in the NEA yet were instructed straightforwardly by senior American officers of the AAF; generally speaking obligation regarding operational entrusting in NEA exchanged to the AAF toward the finish of July. 

NEA's operational base camp, a strengthened solid fortification known as Building 81, was finished in May 1942. Situated on Green Street, Townsville, at the base of Castle Hill, it was finished with a rural house to misdirect adversary flying machine. That month, Eastern Area Command was framed, assuming responsibility for units in New South Wales and southern Queensland from Southern Area and NEA. This left NEA in order of Nos. 24, 33 and 76 Squadrons, just as No. 3 Fighter Sector Headquarters, at Townsville; No. 100 Squadron at Cairns; No. 32 Squadron at Horn Island; and Nos. 11, 20 and 75 Squadrons, just as No. 4 Fighter Sector Headquarters, at Port Moresby. The Japanese assaulted Townsville multiple times somewhere in the range of 25 and 31 July; most bombs fell in the ocean or the slopes causing just a single loss, a harmed tyke. NEA's limits were finetuned on 19 August: a bit of Queensland inside the Barkly Tableland and the Haslingden and Heywood regions was relegated to the control of North-Western Area. Lukis gave over direction of NEA to Group Captain (later Air Commodore) Harry Cobby on 25 August. Before the month's over, the base camp staff numbered 684. No. 75 Squadron, renewed after its protection of Port Moresby, and No. 76 Squadron, sent north from Townsville and furthermore flying Kittyhawks, played what senior Australian Army authorities depicted as the "unequivocal" job in the Battle of Milne Bay in New Guinea amid August and September 1942. Amid the fight, Cobby practiced generally direction of the RAAF units from NEA home office, while their endeavors were facilitated on the ground by Group Captain Bill Garing, NEA's senior air staff officer. 

On 1 September 1942, No. 9 (Operational) Group was shaped at Port Moresby as a versatile strike power to push ahead with Allied advances in the Pacific, as opposed to the static, cautious nature of the region directions. It assumed control over all units in New Guinea already working under NEA Command. NEA at first held authoritative control of No. 9 Group however, on 1 January 1943, the gathering was made free of the zone order and its organization turned into the obligation of RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne. September 1942 additionally observed the development of RAAF Command, driven via Air Vice Marshal Bill Bostock, to administer most of Australian flying units in the SWPA. Bostock practiced control of air tasks through the territory directions, in spite of the fact that RAAF Headquarters kept on holding managerial specialist over every Australian unit. He by and by composed tasks when they included more than one region order, for example when the warrior squadrons of both NWA and NEA were required to shock a noteworthy assault. No. 42 (Radar) Wing was shaped at Townsville in February 1943, and the next month assumed responsibility for all radar stations in NEA. As of April 1943, the zone order legitimately controlled four squadrons entrusted principally with hostile to submarine fighting: No. 7 Squadron, flying Bristol Beaufort observation planes out of Ross River; No. 9 Squadron, an armada co-activity unit flying Supermarine Seagulls from Bowen; and Nos. 11 and 20 Squadrons, flying surveillance and besieging missions with PBY Catalinas from Cairns. 

In mid 1943, Japan was as yet accepted to be equipped for attacking, or if nothing else shelling, the Torres Strait islands, and NEA had just No. 7 Squadron, presently working from Horn Island, to counter the risk. It was strengthened in April by No. 84 Squadron, flying CAC Boomerang warriors. That month, No. 72 Wing was framed at Townsville, before sending to Merauke, New Guinea. Controlling No. 84 Squadron, No. 86 Squadron (flying Kittyhawks), and No. 12 Squadron (Vultee Vengeance plunge planes), the wing was in charge of Torres Strait's air barrier, just as hostile tasks against framework and transporting in Dutch New Guinea. In October, No. 84 Squadron changed over to Kittyhawks and exchanged to the recently framed No. 75 Wing, which was given obligation regarding units at Horn Island, Thursday Island, and Higgins Field on Cape York Peninsula. In February 1944, No. 75 Wing home office moved from Horn Island to Higgins Field, where it was before long joined by different units under its control, Nos. 7 and 23 Squadrons; the last worked Vengeances until being announced non-operational in June, before re-furnishing with B-24 Liberators for obligation in North-Western Area. By May, NEA's structure of fight on the Australian terrain comprised of Nos. 7, 9, 13 (working Lockheed Venturas from Cooktown), 20 and 23 Squadrons. 

Cobby filled in as AOC NEA until November 1943, giving over to Air Commodore John Summers, who held order for the rest of the war. Before the finish of November, NEA base camp staff numbered 499, including ninety-seven officers. NEA's Catalinas joined air ship of No. 9 Group in help of the US attack of New Britain in December 1943 and January 1944. The Catalinas additionally led mine-laying activities around the Timor Sea in the number one spot up to the arrivals at Hollandia and Aitape in April 1944. That month, No. 9 Group, which had turned into a static battalion drive like the territory directions on terrain Australia, was renamed Northern Command and given duty regarding RAAF units in New Guinea. In August, No. 75 Wing was disbanded and its units turned into the immediate duty of NEA central command. That month, No. 76 Wing central command, shaped at Townsville in January and along these lines based at Cairns, was exchanged to Darwin, Northern Territory. There it went under the control of NWA central station and supervised tasks by three Catalina squadrons, including No. 20. No. 42 Wing disbanded in October 1944, after a choice to dole out control of RAAF radar stations to portable warrior control units or comparative arrangements. Before the finish of February 1945, NEA central command staff numbered 743, including 127 officers. No. 72 Wing central command moved to Townsville in May that year, and disbanded a month later. 

On 2 September 1945, after the finish of the Pacific War, South West Pacific Area was broken down and the RAAF again expected full control of all its operational components. Before the month's over, NEA central station staff numbered 526, including ninety-eight officers. The Air Force shrank drastically as faculty were grounded and units disbanded; the majority of the RAAF's bases and flying machine utilized in tasks after the war were arranged inside Eastern Area's circle of control in New South Wales and southern Queensland. NEA home office staff toward the finish of 1945 totalled 227, including sixty-three officers. 

In September 1946, the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Vice Marshal George Jones, proposed diminishing the five surviving terrain region directions (North-Western, North-Eastern, Eastern, Southern, and Western Areas) to three: Northern Area, covering Queensland and the Northern Territory; Eastern Area, covering New South Wales; and Southern Area, covering Western Australia, South Australia, Victoria and Tasmania. The Australian Government dismissed the arrangement and the wartime region direction limits basically stayed set up. Northern Command (redesignated Northern Area in 1945) was broken up in February 1947. By 1949, NEA base camp was situated in Sturt Street, Townsville. No. 10 Squadron was based at Townsville from March that year, working Avro Lincolns over the Pacific and Australia's northern methodologies in the oceanic surveillance and inquiry and-salvage jobs. Gathering Captain (later Air Commodore) Ian McLachlan was delegated AOC NEA in September 1951; he served two years in the post before giving over to acting Air Commodore Patrick Heffernan. 

Beginning in October 1953, the RAAF was rearranged from a topographically based direction and-control framework into one dependent on capacity. In February 1954, the recently established practical associations—Home, Training, and Maintenance Commands—accepted control everything being equal, preparing and upkeep from North-Eastern Area Command. NEA central command stayed in presence yet just, as indicated by the Melbourne "Argus", as one of Home Command's "remote control focuses". It was disbanded on 3 December 1956, and was prevailing by Headquarters RAAF Townsville (Headquarters Tactical Transport Group from June 1988, and Headquarters Operational Support Group from February 1991). 

Starting at 2009, the previous NEA operational central station in Building 81, Green Street, housed Townsville's State Emergency Service gathering. 

As at 30 April 1942, NEA's structure of fight involved: 

<!- - *