Benjamin Mountfort 

Benjamin Woolfield Mountfort (13 March 1825 – 15 March 1898) was an English migrant to New Zealand, where he wound up one of that nation's most unmistakable nineteenth century draftsmen. He was instrumental in molding the city of Christchurch's exceptional building personality and culture, and was selected the principal official Provincial Architect of the creating area of Canterbury. Vigorously impacted by the Anglo-Catholic logic behind early Victorian engineering, he is credited with bringing in the Gothic restoration style to New Zealand. His Gothic plans developed in both wood and stone in the region are viewed as remarkable to New Zealand. Today, he is viewed as the establishing designer of the area of Canterbury. 

Mountfort was conceived in Birmingham, a mechanical town in the Midlands of England, the child of aroma producer and gem specialist Thomas Mountfort and his better half Susanna (née Woolfield). As a youthful grown-up he moved to London, where he was an early student of George Gilbert Scott (from 1841– 46). He additionally examined engineering under the Anglo-Catholic modeler Richard Cromwell Carpenter, whose medieval Gothic style of configuration was to affect Mountfort. After fruition of his preparation in 1848, Mountfort rehearsed engineering in London. He wedded Emily Elizabeth Newman on 20 August 1850, and after 18 days the couple emigrated to New Zealand. They were a portion of the principal pioneers to the area of Canterbury, touching base on one of the acclaimed First Four Ships, the "Charlotte-Jane" on 16 December 1850. These first pioneers, known as "The Pilgrims", have their names engraved on marble plaques in Cathedral Square, Christchurch, before the house of prayer that Mountfort planned. 

Mountfort landed in Canterbury loaded with aspiration and drive to start structuring in 1850 as one of an influx of pioneers urged to move to the new province of New Zealand by the British Government. With him and his significant other from England came likewise his sibling Charles, his sister Susannah, and Charles' better half, each of them five matured somewhere in the range of 21 and 26. Life in New Zealand at first was hard and frustrating: Mountfort found that there was little call for designers. Christchurch was minimal in excess of an expansive town of fundamental wooden cottages on a desolate plain. The new émigré's compositional life in New Zealand had a grievous start. His first bonus in New Zealand was the Church of the Most Holy Trinity in Lyttelton, worked in 1852 by Isaac Luck. The structure demonstrated powerless against high breezes and was viewed as perilous. It was annihilated in 1857. This disaster was credited to the utilization of unseasoned wood and his absence of information of the neighborhood building materials. Whatever the reason, the outcome was a devastating hit to his notoriety. A nearby paper called him "... a half-taught designer whose structures... have given anything besides fulfillment, he being obviously insufficient in all information of the standards of development, however an astute designer and a man of some taste.". 

Because of this hit to his notoriety, he started running a stationery shop, functioning as a paper operator, and giving attracting exercises until 1857 to enhance his structural work. It was amid this period in the compositional wild that he built up a deep rooted enthusiasm for photography and enhanced his pitiful pay by taking photographic representations. 

Mountfort was a Freemason and an early individual from the Lodge of Unanimity, the principle working of which he structured in 1863. The Lodge of Unanimity was the principal Masonic Lodge in the South Island. 

In 1857 he came back to design and went into a business organization with his sister Susannah's new spouse, Isaac Luck. Mountfort's profession got a fillip when he was dispatched to plan the St John's Anglican church at Waikouaiti in Otago. A little timber structure in the Gothic style, it was finished on 19 December 1858 ashore given by the ex-whaler Johnny Jones. It is still being used as a congregation, the most seasoned such structure in southern New Zealand. Presently inside the limits of the city of Dunedin its basic pit-sawn timber inside effectively summons a feeling of otherworldliness. 

Christchurch was under overwhelming advancement right now, as it had quite recently been allowed city status and was the new regulatory capital of the territory of Canterbury. This gave Mountfort and Luck sufficient chance to rehearse their exchange. In 1855 they delivered a primer structure for the new Canterbury Provincial Council Buildings in timber. The structures were developed from 1857– 59, yet in a more constrained structure than the first plan. As the Provincial Council increased new capacities with development in the populace and economy of the territory, the structures were expanded with a North wing in stone and an iron clock tower from 1859– 60, and further amplified with a stone committee chamber and refreshment rooms in 1864– 65. The structures today are viewed as a standout amongst Mountfort's most critical works. 

From the outside, the structure seems grave, as was quite a bit of Mountfort's initial work: a focal pinnacle overwhelms two flanking gabled wings in the Gothic recovery style. Anyway the inside was a mob of shading and medievalism as saw through Victorian eyes; it included recolored glass windows, and an extensive twofold confronted clock, thought to be one of just five around the world. The chamber is enriched in a rich, practically Ruskinesque style, with carvings by a nearby stone carver William Brassington. Incorporated into the carvings are portrayals of indigenous New Zealand species. 

The Gothic restoration style of engineering started to pick up in prominence from the late eighteenth century as a sentimental reaction against the more established and formal styles which had prevailed the past two centuries. At 16 years old, Mountfort gained two books composed by the Gothic Pentecostal Augustus Pugin: "The True Principles of Christian or Pointed Architecture" and "An Apology for the Revival of Christian Architecture." From this time onwards, Mountfort was a devotee of Pugin's solid Anglo-Catholic design esteems. These qualities were additionally solidified in 1846, at 21 years old, Mountfort turned into an understudy of Richard Cromwell Carpenter. 

Woodworker was, as Mountfort, a passionate Anglo-Catholic and bought in to the hypotheses of Tractarianism, and along these lines to the Oxford and Cambridge Movements. These moderate religious developments instructed that genuine otherworldliness and focus in supplication was impacted by the physical environment, and that the medieval church had been more profound than that of the mid nineteenth century. Because of this philosophy, medieval design was announced to be of more noteworthy otherworldly incentive than the traditional Palladian-based styles of the eighteenth and mid nineteenth hundreds of years. Augustus Pugin even articulated that medieval design was the main structure reasonable for a congregation and that Palladianism was practically shocking. Such hypothesis was not restricted to engineers, and proceeded with well into the twentieth century. This school of thought drove savvy people, for example, the English writer Ezra Pound to favor Romanesque structures to Baroque because the last spoke to a surrender of the universe of scholarly clearness and light for a lot of esteems dependent on the idea of damnation and the expanding predominance of society by investors, a breed to be detested. 

Whatever the reasoning behind the Gothic restoration, in London the nineteenth century leaders of the British Empire felt that Gothic design was appropriate for the states as a result of its then solid Anglican implications, speaking to diligent work, profound quality and change of local people groups. The incongruity of this was a large number of Mountfort's places of worship were for Roman Catholics, as such a significant number of the new foreigners were of Irish source. To the many white collar class English domain developers, Gothic spoke to a nostalgic notice of the wards abandoned in Britain with their actual medieval engineering; these were the benefactors who picked the draftsmen and plans. 

Mountfort's initial Gothic work in New Zealand was of the more extreme Anglican assortment as polished via Carpenter, with tall lancet windows and numerous peaks. As his vocation advanced, and he had substantiated himself to the utilizing specialists, his structures formed into an increasingly European structure, with towers, turrets and high fancy rooftop lines in the French way, a style which was not the slightest bit impossible to miss to Mountfort however was embraced by such planners as Alfred Waterhouse in Britain. 

Mountfort's aptitude as a designer lay in adjusting these showy styles to suit the restricted materials accessible in New Zealand. While wooden holy places are copious in specific pieces of the US, they are for the most part of a basic great plan, though Mountfort's wooden houses of worship in New Zealand are as much elaborate Gothic dreams as those he planned in stone. Maybe the colorfulness of his work can be clarified in an announcement of standards he and his accomplice Luck composed when offering to win the commission to plan Government House, Auckland in 1857: 

As the "Common Architect"— a recently made position to which Mountfort was selected in 1864—Mountfort planned a wooden church for the Roman Catholic people group of the city of Christchurch. This wooden erection was in this manner expanded a few times until it was renamed a house of prayer. It was in the long run supplanted in 1901 by the Cathedral of the Blessed Sacrament, an increasingly changeless stone structure by the engineer Frank Petre, however the cenotaph by Mountfort was protected. Mountfort regularly worked in wood, a material he not the slightest bit viewed as an obstacle to the Gothic style, however he was special in this regard as Gothic structures were frequently made from stone and mortar. Somewhere in the range of 1869 and 1882 he planned the Canterbury Museum and in this way Canterbury College and its check tower in 1877. 

Development on the structures for the Canterbury College, which later turned into the University of Canterbury, started with the development of the clock tower square. This structure, which opened in 1877, was the main reason manufactured college in New Zealand. The College was finished in two consequent stages in Mountfort's standard Gothic style. 

George Gilbert Scott, the engineer of ChristChurch Cathedral, and an empathiser of Mountfort's instructor and coach Carpenter, wished his previous understudy Mountfort to be the representative of works and administering modeler of the new church venture. This proposition was initially vetoed by the Cathedral Commission. All things considered, after postponements in the structure work credited to budgetary issues, the situation of directing engineer was at last given to Mountfort in 1873. Mountfort was in charge of a few modifications to the non-attendant principle planner's structure, most clearly the pinnacle and the west patio. He additionally planned the text style, the Harper Memorial, and the north patio. The basilica was anyway not at long last finished until 1904, six years after Mountfort's passing. The house of prayer is particularly in the European finished Gothic style with a connected campanile tower close to the body of the church building, as opposed to transcending straightforwardly above it in the more English custom. 

In 1872 Mountfort turned into an establishing individual from the Canterbury Association of Architects, a body which was in charge of all resulting advancement of the new city. Mountfort was currently at the apex of his profession. Mountfort prominently changed the utilization of a divided curve instead of one in the Romanesque style; the last of which was considered by Augustus Pugin to be in a general sense essential to the Gothic style. The school represented a test in its fundamental lobby; on the corridor's fulfillment in 1882, it was the biggest open space in Christchurch. Furthermore, a dimension of detail unrealistic in past works was available in the lobby's plan because of the predominant financing for the school. The fulfillment of the principal organize was met with applause and hopefulness, however augmentations, for example, a natural lab were included the mid 1890s. By the 1880s, Mountfort was hailed as New Zealand's head ministerial modeler, with more than forty places of worship amazingly. 

In 1888, he structured St John's Cathedral in Napier. This block development was devastated in the awful 1931 tremor that demolished quite a bit of Napier. Somewhere in the range of 1886 and 1897, Mountfort dealt with one of his biggest houses of worship, the wooden St Mary's, the basilica church of Auckland. Covering , St Mary's is the biggest and last timber church worked by Mountfort, and the biggest wooden Gothic church on the planet. At its finish, it was said that "in purpose of plan, fulfillment and excellence [it] achieves an abnormal state mark not yet drew nearer in the see". The accentuation put on the general rooftop by the incredible walkway windows struck a parity to the extraordinary territory the congregation encased. In 1982 the whole church, total with its recolored glass windows, was transported to another site, over the street from its previous position where another house of prayer was to be assembled. St Mary's congregation was blessed in 1898, one of Mountfort's last amazing works. 

Outside of his vocation, Mountfort was definitely intrigued by human expressions and a gifted craftsman, in spite of the fact that his masterful work seems to have been bound to workmanship relating to design, his first love. He was a faithful individual from the Church of England and an individual from numerous Anglican church gatherings and see boards of trustees. 

Mountfort's later years were scourged by expert jealousies, as his situation as the area's first draftsman was ambushed by new and more youthful men affected by new requests of engineering. Benjamin Mountfort kicked the bucket in 1898, matured 73. He was covered in the burial ground of Holy Trinity Avonside, the congregation which he had reached out in 1876. 

Assessing Mountfort's works today, one needs to abstain from passing judgment on them against a foundation of comparative plans in Europe. During the 1860s, New Zealand was a creating nation, where materials and assets openly accessible in Europe were prominent by their nonappearance. At the point when accessible they were frequently of sub-par quality, as Mountfort found with the unseasoned wood in his first heartbreaking venture. His first structures in his new country were frequently excessively tall, or steeply pitched, neglecting to assess the non-European atmosphere and scene. In any case, he before long adjusted, and built up his ability in working with rough and grungy materials. 

Christchurch and its encompassing regions are one of a kind in New Zealand for their specific style of Gothic design, something that can be straightforwardly credited to Benjamin Mountfort. While Mountfort accepted little private residential commissions, he is today better known for the plans executed for open, municipal bodies, and the congregation. His momentous Gothic stone city structures in Christchurch, which would not be strange in Oxford or Cambridge, are a stunning accomplishment over affliction of materials. His trademark wooden Gothic temples today exemplify the nineteenth century area of Canterbury. They are acknowledged, and to be sure show up as a component of the scene. Along these lines, Benjamin Mountfort's accomplishment was to make his favored style of engineering synonymous with the character of the area of Canterbury. Following his passing, one of his seven youngsters, Cyril, kept on working in his dad's Gothic style well into the twentieth century. Cyril Mountfort was in charge of the congregation of St Luke's in the City, which was an unexecuted structure of his father's. Along these lines, and through the every day open utilization of his numerous structures, Mountfort's inheritance lives on. He positions today with his contemporary R A Lawson as one of New Zealand's most prominent nineteenth century modelers.