HMS New Zealand (1911) 

HMS "New Zealand" was one of three s worked for the barrier of the British Empire. Propelled in 1911, the ship was subsidized by the legislature of New Zealand as a blessing to Britain, and she was dispatched into the Royal Navy in 1912. She had been proposed for the China Station, yet was discharged by the New Zealand government in line with the Admiralty for administration in British waters. 

Amid 1913, "New Zealand" was sent on a ten-month voyage through the British Dominions, with an accentuation on a visit to her namesake country. She was back in British waters toward the beginning of World War I, and worked as a major aspect of the Royal Navy's Grand Fleet, contrary to the German High Seas Fleet. Amid the war, the battlecruiser took an interest in every one of the three of the significant North Sea fights—Heligoland Bight, Dogger Bank, and Jutland—and was engaged with the reaction to the uncertain Raid on Scarborough, and the Second Battle of Heligoland Bight. "New Zealand" added to the decimation of two cruisers amid her wartime administration and was hit by foe fire just once, supporting no setbacks; her status as a "fortunate ship" was credited by the group to a Māori piupiu (warrior's skirt) and hei-tiki (pendant) worn by the commander amid fight. 

After the war, "New Zealand" was sent on a second world visit, this opportunity to permit Admiral John Jellicoe to audit the maritime protections of the Dominions. In 1920, the battlecruiser was put for possible later use. She was separated for scrap in 1922 so as to meet Britain's tonnage limit in the demilitarization arrangements of the Washington Naval Treaty. 

The "Tireless" class was not a noteworthy enhancement for the previous ; the fundamental distinction was the development of the measurements to give the boats' two wing turrets a more extensive circular segment of flame. The boats were littler and not also ensured as the contemporary German battlecruiser and consequent German plans. While "Von der Tann"s qualities were not known when the lead ship of the class, , was set down in February 1909, the Royal Navy acquired exact data on the German ship before work started on "New Zealand" and her sister dispatch . 

"New Zealand" had a general length of , a light emission and a draft of at profound burden. The ship uprooted at burden and at profound burden. She had a group of 800 officers and appraisals. 

The ship was controlled by two arrangements of Parsons direct-drive steam turbines, each driving two propeller shafts, utilizing steam given by 31 coal-consuming Babcock and Wilcox boilers. The turbines were evaluated at and were expected to give the ship a greatest speed of . Be that as it may, amid preliminaries in 1912, the turbines created over , which permitted "New Zealand" to reach . The ship conveyed enough coal and fuel oil to give her a scope of at a speed of . 

The ship conveyed eight BL 12-inch Mk X firearms in four twin weapon turrets. Two turrets were mounted fore and behind on the centreline, recognized as 'An' and 'X' individually. The other two were wing turrets mounted amidships and amazed askew: 'P' was forward and to port of the inside pipe, while 'Q' was arranged starboard and toward the back. Each wing turret had a constrained capacity to discharge to the contrary side, however on the off chance that the ship was full broadside to her objective she could convey every one of the eight fundamental weapons to hold up under. Her auxiliary deadly implement comprised of sixteen 4-inch BL Mk VII firearms situated in the superstructure. She mounted two 18-inch submerged torpedo tubes, one on each side behind of 'X' barbette, and twelve torpedoes were conveyed. 

The "Indefatigable"s were ensured by a waterline shielded belt that stretched out between and secured the end barbettes. Their heavily clad deck went in thickness between with the thickest segments securing the guiding rigging in the stern. The turret faces were thick, and the turrets were upheld by barbettes of a similar thickness. 

"New Zealand"s 'A' turret was fitted with a rangefinder at the back of the turret rooftop. It was additionally prepared to control the whole fundamental deadly implement if the typical shoot control positions were thumped out or correspondence between the essential positions and the weapon layers was debilitated. 

The ship was fitted with a solitary QF 6 pounder Hotchkiss hostile to air ship (AA) firearm from October 1914 as far as possible of 1915. In March 1915, a solitary QF 3 inch 20 cwt AA firearm was included. It was furnished with 500 rounds. The battlecruiser's 4-inch weapons were encased in casemates and given shoot shields amid a refit in November to more readily shield the firearm teams from climate and adversary activity. Two toward the back firearms were evacuated in the meantime. 

"New Zealand" got a discharge control executive at some point between mid-1915 and May 1916; this unified shoot control under the chief officer, who currently shot the firearms. The turret crew members only needed to pursue pointers transmitted from the chief to adjust their weapons on the objective. This extraordinarily expanded precision, as it was simpler to recognize the fall of shells and dispensed with the issue of the ship's roll scattering the shells when every turret shot freely. An extra inch of covering was added to the highest point of the magazines and turret rooftops after the Battle of Jutland. 

By 1918, "New Zealand" conveyed two air ship, a Sopwith Pup and a Sopwith 1½ Strutter, on taking exit ramps fitted over 'P' and 'Q' turrets. The Pup was proposed to shoot down Zeppelins while the 1½ Strutter was utilized for spotting and surveillance. Every stage had a canvas shed to secure the air ship amid nasty climate. 

Toward the beginning of the twentieth century, the British Admiralty kept up that maritime resistance of the British Empire, including the Dominions, ought to be brought together under the Royal Navy. Frames of mind on this issue mellowed amid the primary decade, and at the 1909 Imperial Conference, the Admiralty proposed the making of Fleet Units: powers comprising of a battlecruiser, three light cruisers, six destroyers, and three submarines. While Australia and Canada were urged to buy armada units to fill in as the center of new national naval forces, other armada units would be worked by the Royal Navy at far off bases, especially in the Far East; New Zealand was asked to in part sponsor an armada unit for the China Station. 

To this end, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, Sir Joseph Ward, declared on 22 March 1909 that his nation would support a ship (later changed to a ) for instance to different nations. It is misty why this structure was chosen, given that it was known to be second rate compared to the battlecruisers entering administration with the Imperial German Navy (). Student of history John Roberts has recommended that the solicitation may have been inferable from the Royal Navy's routine with regards to utilizing little warships and substantial cruisers as leaders of stations a long way from Britain, or it may have mirrored the inclinations of the First Sea Lord and Admiral of the Fleet John Fisher, inclinations not generally shared. The New Zealand Government applied for a new line of credit to subsidize the expense of the ship. 

"New Zealand"s bottom was laid at Fairfield Shipbuilding and Engineering's yard on the Clyde on 20 June 1910. Propelled on 1 July 1911, the battlecruiser was authorized into the Royal Navy four days before she was finished on 23 November 1912. 

"New Zealand" was sent on a ten-month banner waving voyage through New Zealand by means of South Africa in 1913. Amid this visit, the ship was seen by an expected half-million New Zealanders—practically a large portion of the populace—and her commander was given a Māori piupiu (a warrior's skirt produced using moved flax) and a greenstone hei-tiki (pendant), which were planned to avert insidious. 

The Admiralty mentioned that "New Zealand" come back to the United Kingdom when the visit finished up, instead of stay in the Pacific district as initially arranged. The New Zealand Government consented to the solicitation and, upon her entry on 8 December 1913, "New Zealand" joined the first Battlecruiser Squadron (first BCS) of the Grand Fleet. The squadron visited Brest in February 1914, and Riga, Reval and Kronstadt in the Russian Empire the next June. On 19 August 1914, soon after World War I started, "New Zealand" was exchanged to the second Battlecruiser Squadron (second BCS). 

"New Zealand"s first wartime activity was the Battle of Heligoland Bight on 28 August 1914, as a major aspect of the battlecruiser constrain under the direction of Admiral David Beatty. Beatty's boats were initially proposed to give far off help to the British cruisers and destroyers closer to the German coast, in the event that vast units of the High Seas Fleet sortied because of the British assaults once the tide rose. At the point when the British light powers neglected to separate on calendar at 11:35 a.m., the battlecruisers, driven by Beatty on board his leader, , started to travel south at full speed to fortify the littler British ships; the rising tide implied that German capital boats would most likely clear the sandbar at the mouth of the Jade estuary. 

The shiny new light cruiser had been disabled before in the fight and was enduring an onslaught from the German light cruisers and when Beatty's battlecruisers lingered out of the fog at 12:37 p.m. At this point, "New Zealand" had fallen behind the three more up to date and quicker battlecruisers and was not in position to altogether partake in the fight. "Strassburg" had the capacity to dodge fire by covering up in the fogs, however "Cöln" stayed obvious and was immediately disabled by the British squadron. Before the German ship could be sunk, Beatty was diverted by the unexpected appearance of the older light cruiser off his starboard bow. He swung to seek after, yet "Ariadne" was set ablaze after just three salvos terminated from under . At 1:10, Beatty turned north and made a general flag to resign. Soon after turning north, the battlecruisers experienced the disabled "Cöln", which was sunk by two salvos from "Lion". Amid the fight, "New Zealand"s commander, Lionel Halsey, wore the Māori piupiu over his uniform, setting a convention pursued for the length of the war. Two days after the fight, "New Zealand" was exchanged back to the first BCS, when the battlecruiser touched base from the Mediterranean. 

The German Navy had settled on a procedure of barraging British towns on the North Sea coast trying to draw out the Royal Navy and decimate components of it in detail. A prior strike on Yarmouth on 3 November 1914 had been mostly fruitful, however a bigger scale task was later contrived by Admiral Franz von Hipper. The quick battlecruisers would lead the assault, while the remainder of the High Seas Fleet positioned itself east of Dogger Bank, so they could cover the battlecruisers' arrival and pulverize any seeking after British vessels. Having broken the German maritime codes, the British were intending to get the attacking power on its arrival venture, in spite of the fact that they didn't know about the High Seas Fleet's quality. Chief naval officer Beatty's first BCS (presently decreased to four boats, including "New Zealand") and the second Battle Squadron (comprising of six gunboats) were separated from the Grand Fleet trying to catch the Germans close Dogger Bank. 

Chief of naval operations Hipper's marauders set sail on 15 December 1914, and effectively barraged a few English towns; British destroyers escorting the first BCS had just experienced German destroyers of the High Seas Fleet at 5:15 a.m. also, battled an uncertain activity with them. Bad habit Admiral Sir George Warrender, directing the second Battle Squadron, had gotten a flag at 5:40 that the destroyer was connecting with foe destroyers, despite the fact that Beatty had not. The destroyer recognized the German reinforced cruiser and her escorts at about 7:00, however couldn't transmit the message until 7:25. Chief naval officer Warrender got the flag, as did "New Zealand", yet Beatty, on board "Lion", did not, despite the fact that "New Zealand" had been explicitly entrusted to transfer messages between the destroyers and the lead. Warrender endeavored to pass on Shark's message to Beatty at 7:36, however did not figure out how to reach until 7:55. On accepting the message, Beatty turned around course, and dispatched "New Zealand" to scan for "Roon". She was being redesignd by "New Zealand" when Beatty got messages that Scarborough was being shelled at 9:00. Beatty requested "New Zealand" to rejoin the squadron and turned west for Scarborough. 

The British powers, traveling west to cover the fundamental course through the minefields ensuring the shoreline of England, split up while passing the shallow Southwest Patch of Dogger Bank; Beatty's boats made a beeline for the north, while Warrender go toward the south. This left a hole between them, through which the German light powers started to move. At 12:25 p.m., the light cruisers of the II Scouting Group started to pass the British powers hunting down Hipper. The light cruiser detected the light cruiser and flagged a report to Beatty. At 12:30, Beatty turned his battlecruisers towards the German boats, which he assumed were the development screen for Hipper's boats. In any case, those were some behind. The second Light Cruiser Squadron, which had been screening for Beatty's boats, disconnected to seek after the German cruisers, yet a misjudged flag from the British battlecruisers sent them back to their screening positions. This disarray enabled the German light cruisers to get away, and alarmed Hipper to the area of the British battlecruisers. The German battlecruisers wheeled toward the north-east of the British powers and furthermore made great their getaway. 

"New Zealand" progressed toward becoming lead of the second Battlecruiser Squadron (second BCS) of the Grand Fleet on 15 January 1915, and saw activity the next week in the Battle of Dogger Bank. 

On 23 January 1915, a power of German battlecruisers under the direction of Admiral Hipper sortied to clear Dogger Bank of any British angling pontoons or little specialty that may be there to gather knowledge on German developments. Cautioned by decoded German transmissions, a bigger power of British battlecruisers, including "New Zealand", cruised under the order of Admiral Beatty to capture. Contact was started at 7:20 a.m. on the 24th, when "Arethusa" recognized the German light cruiser . By 7:35, the Germans had recognized Beatty's power and Hipper arranged a turn south at , trusting that this speed would surpass any British war vessels toward the north-west; he intended to expand speed to the protected cruiser s limit of if important to surpass any battlecruisers. 

Beatty requested his battlecruisers to make all viable speed to get the Germans before they could get away. "New Zealand" and "Dauntless" were the slowest of Beatty's boats, and step by step fell behind the more up to date battlecruisers. Notwithstanding this, "New Zealand" had the capacity to start shooting at "Blücher" by 9:35, and kept on drawing in the protected cruiser after the other British battlecruisers had changed focuses to the German battlecruisers. After around 60 minutes, "New Zealand" had thumped out "Blücher"s forward turret, and "Unstoppable" started to flame on her too at 10:31. Two 12-inch shells punctured the German ship's reinforced deck and detonated in an ammo room four minutes after the fact. This began a flame amidships that demolished her two port turrets, while the blackout harmed her motors with the goal that her speed dropped to , and stuck her directing rigging. At 10:48, Beatty requested "Unyielding" to assault her, however the mix of a flagging mistake by Beatty's banner lieutenant and overwhelming harm to Beatty's leader "Lion", which had thumped out her radio and sufficiently made smoke darken her flag halyards, caused the remainder of the British battlecruisers, incidentally under the direction of Rear Admiral Sir Gordon Moore in "New Zealand", to believe that that flag connected to them. Accordingly, they got some distance from Hipper's primary body and connected with "Blücher". "New Zealand" shot 147 shells at "Blücher" before the German ship overturned and sank at 12:07 in the wake of being torpedoed by "Arethusa". Commander Halsey had again worn the piupiu over his uniform amid the fight, and the absence of harm to "New Zealand" was yet again credited to its good karma properties. 

"New Zealand" was alleviated by "Australia" as leader of the second BCS on 22 February 1915. The squadron joined the Grand Fleet in a fight on 29 March, because of insight that the German armada was leaving port as the forerunner to a noteworthy activity. By the following night, the German boats had pulled back, and the squadron came back to Rosyth. On 11 April, the British armada was again sent on the knowledge that a German power was arranging an activity. The Germans proposed to lay mines at the Swarte Bank, yet after an exploring Zeppelin found a British light cruiser squadron, they started to plan for what they thought was a British assault. Substantial mist and the need to refuel caused "Australia" and the British vessels to profit to port for 17 April, and in spite of the fact that they were redeployed that night, they were unfit to prevent two German light cruisers from laying the minefield. From 26 to 28 January 1916, the second BCS was situated off the Skagerrak while the first Light Cruiser Squadron cleared the strait in an ineffective scan for a conceivable minelayer. 

On the morning of 21 April 1916, the second BCS cruised again for the Skagerrak, this opportunity to help endeavors to disturb the vehicle of Swedish metal to Germany. The arranged destroyer range of the Kattegat was dropped when word came that the High Seas Fleet was preparing for their very own task (later figured out how to be planned to agree with the Irish Easter Rising), and the British boats were requested to a meeting point amidst the North Sea, while the remainder of the Grand Fleet made for the south-eastern end of the Long Forties. On the evening of 22 April, the Battlecruiser Fleet was watching toward the north-west of Horn Reefs when overwhelming haze descended. The boats were crisscrossing to stay away from submarine assault when "Australia" slammed into sister send "New Zealand" twice in three minutes. "Australia" was harmed gravely enough to be put out of activity for a while, yet "New Zealand" came back to the armada on 30 May, multi day before the beginning of the Battle of Jutland, soothing "Tireless" as lead. 

On 31 May 1916, the second BCS comprised of "New Zealand" (lead of Rear Admiral William Christopher Pakenham) and "Inexhaustible"; "Australia" was still under fix following her crash with "New Zealand". The squadron was alloted to Admiral Beatty's Battlecruiser Fleet, which had put to ocean to catch a foray by the High Seas Fleet into the North Sea. The British had the capacity to decipher the German radio messages and left their bases before the Germans put to ocean. Cooler's battlecruisers recognized the Battlecruiser Fleet to their west at 3:20 p.m., yet Beatty's boats didn't detect the Germans to their east until 3:30. After two minutes, he requested a course change to east-south-east to position himself on the back of the German's line of retreat and called his boats' groups to activity stations. He additionally requested the second BCS, which had been driving, to fall in toward the back of the first BCS. Cooler arranged his boats to swing to starboard, far from the British, to expect a south-easterly course, and diminished speed to permit three light cruisers of the second Scouting Group to make up for lost time. With this walk out on, Hipper was falling back on the High Seas Fleet, at that point about behind him. Around this time, Beatty adjusted course toward the east as it was rapidly clear that he was still excessively far north to cut off Hipper. 

Hence started the supposed "Raced toward the South" as Beatty changed course to direct east-south-east at 3:45, paralleling Hipper's course, since the range shut to under . The Germans opened flame first at 3:48, trailed by the British. The British boats were still during the time spent making their turn, and just the two driving boats, "Lion" and , had steadied on their course when the Germans opened flame. The British arrangement was echeloned to one side with "Relentless" in the back and the uttermost toward the west, and "New Zealand" in front of her and marginally further east. The German flame was precise from the earliest starting point, yet the British overestimated the range as the German boats mixed into the dimness. "Inexhaustible" went for , while "New Zealand", unengaged herself, directed . By 3:54, the range was down to and Beatty requested a course change two to starboard to open up the range at 3:57. "Inexhaustible" was demolished at about 4:03, when her magazines detonated. 

After "Indefatigable"s misfortune, "New Zealand" moved her flame to "Von der Tann" as per Beatty's standing directions. The range had become unreasonably far for precise shooting, so Beatty changed course four points to port to close the range again somewhere in the range of 4:12 and 4:15. At this point, the fifth Battle Squadron, comprising of four s, had shut everything down was connecting with "Von der Tann" and "Moltke". At 4:23, a shell from struck close "Von der Tann"s back turret, beginning a discharge among the training targets stowed there that totally clouded the ship and caused "New Zealand" to move shoot to "Moltke". At 4:26, the ship was hit by a shell, discharged by "Von der Tann", on 'X' barbette that exploded on contact and thumped free a bit of protective layer that quickly stuck 'X' turret and punctured the upper deck. After four minutes, "Southampton", exploring before Beatty's boats, recognized the lead components of the High Seas Fleet charging north at top speed. After three minutes, she located the topmasts of Vice-Admiral Reinhard Scheer's war vessels, yet did not transmit a message to Beatty for an additional five minutes. Beatty proceeded with south for an additional two minutes to affirm the locating himself before requesting a sixteen-point swing to starboard in progression. "New Zealand", the last ship in the line, swung rashly to remain outside the scope of the approaching ships. 

"New Zealand" was straddled a few times by the war vessel however was not hit. Beatty's boats kept up full speed trying to build the separation among them and the High Seas Fleet, and bit by bit moved out of range. They turned north and after that north-east to attempt to meet with the principle body of the Grand Fleet. At 5:40, they opened flame again on the German battlecruisers. The setting sun blinded the German heavy weapons specialists, and as they couldn't make out the British boats, they dismissed toward the north-east at 5:47. Beatty step by step turned more towards the east to enable him to cover the arrangement of the Grand Fleet in fight development and to advance of it, however he confused his move and constrained the main division to tumble off towards the east, further far from the Germans. By 6:35, Beatty was following "Unstoppable" and of the third BCS as they were guiding east-south-east, driving the Grand Fleet, and proceeding to connect with Hipper's battlecruisers to their south-west. A couple of minutes sooner, Scheer had requested a concurrent 180° starboard turn and Beatty dismissed the High Seas Fleet in the fog. After twenty minutes, Scheer requested another 180° turn which put them on a meeting course again with the Grand Fleet, which had changed course toward the south. This enabled the Grand Fleet to cross Scheer's T, shaping a fight line that cut over his fight line and severely harming his driving boats. Scheer requested one more 180° turn at 7:13 trying to remove the High Seas Fleet from the snare into which he had sent them. 

This was effective, and the British dismissed the Germans until 8:05, when spotted smoke bearing west-north-west. After ten minutes, she had shut the range enough to recognize German torpedo vessels, and connected with them. Beatty turned west after hearing gunfire and recognized the German battlecruisers just away. "Unbendable" opened flame at 8:20, trailed by the remainder of Beatty's battlecruisers. "New Zealand" and "Unstoppable" focused their flame on , and hit her multiple times before she swung west to withdraw. Soon after 8:30, the pre-man of war ships of Rear Admiral Mauve's II Battle Squadron were spotted and fire changed to them. The Germans had poor perceivability and had the capacity to flame just a couple of rounds at them before dismissing toward the west. The British battlecruisers hit the German ships a few times before they mixed into the fog around 8:40. After this, Beatty changed course to south-south-east and kept up that course, in front of both the Grand Fleet and the High Seas Fleet, until 2:55 the following morning, when the request was given to turn around course and head home. 

"New Zealand" discharged 420 twelve-inch shells amid the fight, more than some other ship on either side. In spite of this, just four fruitful hits were credited to the battlecruiser: three on "Seydlitz" and one on the pre-man of war . She was hit just once amid the fight, affirming for the group the piupiu and tiki worn by her new skipper, J.F.E. (Jimmy) Green, brought good karma. 

"New Zealand" was alleviated by "Australia" as lead on 9 June and briefly appended to the first Battlecruiser Squadron, until calmed her in September. On the night of 18 August, the Grand Fleet put to ocean in light of a message deciphered by Room 40 that demonstrated that the High Seas Fleet, less II Squadron, would leave harbor that night. The German goal was to barrage Sunderland on 19 August, in view of broad observation given via aircrafts and submarines. The Grand Fleet cruised with 29 man of war vessels and six battlecruisers. All through the following day, Jellicoe and Scheer got clashing insight; subsequent to achieving the area in the North Sea where the British expected to experience the High Seas Fleet, they turned north in the wrong conviction that they had entered a minefield. Scheer turned south once more, at that point guided south-eastbound to seek after a solitary British fight squadron located by a carrier, which was in actuality the Harwich Force of cruisers and destroyers under Commodore Tyrwhitt. Understanding their mix-up, the Germans changed course for home. The main contact came at night when Tyrwhitt located the High Seas Fleet however was unfit to accomplish a profitable assault position before dim, and severed contact. The British and the German armadas returned home; the British lost two cruisers to submarine assaults, and one German man of war had been torpedoed. "New Zealand" experienced a refit at Rosyth in November 1916. She briefly supplanted "Australia" as squadron lead between 29 November and 7 January 1917. 

German minesweepers and escorting light cruisers were endeavoring to clear British-laid minefields in the Heligoland Bight in late 1917. The Admiralty arranged an expansive task for 17 November to crush the boats, and distributed two light cruiser squadrons and the first Cruiser Squadron secured by the strengthened first Battlecruiser Squadron and, all the more indirectly, the first Battle Squadron of war vessels. "New Zealand" was connected to the first BCS for this task, which wound up known as the Second Battle of Heligoland Bight. "New Zealand" did not discharge her weapons amid the fight. As in past commitment, Captain Green wore the piupiu and tiki for karma. 

Amid 1918, "New Zealand" and the Grand Fleet's other capital boats were utilized every so often to escort guards among Britain and Norway. The second BCS spent the period from 8 to 21 February covering these caravans in organization with warships and destroyers, and put to ocean on 6 March in organization with the first BCS to help minelayers. The second BCS again bolstered minelayers in the North Sea from 25 June or 26 June as far as possible of July. Amid September and October, "New Zealand" and the second BCS regulated and ensured minelaying activities north of Orkney. The battlecruiser was available at the surrender of the High Seas Fleet as a feature of the second BCS. 

Following the war, Admiral Jellicoe was entrusted with arranging and facilitate the maritime strategies and barriers of the British Dominions. "New Zealand" was made accessible for his transportation, and was refitted between December 1918 and February 1919 for the visit; the principle changes were the evacuation of her taking off stages and the lower forward four-inch weapons. The principal stop was India, with "New Zealand" landing in Bombay on 14 March 1919 and leaving a month and a half later. The battlecruiser touched base at Albany, Western Australia, on 15 May, where Jellicoe and his staff landed to take an overland course the nation over. "New Zealand" cruised by means of Melbourne and Hobart to leave from Sydney for New Zealand on 16 August. 

The ship called upon Christmas Island, southeast of Fanning Island, on 19 November 1920, supposing it uninhabited. Rather, they were welcomed by Joe English, of Medford, Massachusetts, who had been supervisor of a copra ranch on the island, yet had turned out to be marooned with two others, when the war had broken out. The men were safeguarded. 

The ship was especially well known in New Zealand, where swarms rushed to visit her as they had done in 1913. Jellicoe, as well, was prominent and he later come back to New Zealand to fill in as Governor-General from 1920 to 1924. The ship ceased off at Fiji and Hawaii before touching base on 8 November in Canada, the last nation to be evaluated. In the wake of coming back to the United Kingdom, the battlecruiser was satisfied into save on 15 March 1920. "New Zealand" was viewed as out of date by the Royal Navy, since her 12-inch firearms were mediocre compared to the weapons sent on the most recent age of battlecruisers. She was sold for scrap on 19 December 1922 to meet the tonnage limitations set on the British Empire by the Washington Naval Treaty. The New Zealand Government finished satisfying the credit used to support the ship in the 1944/45 money related year. 

Numerous things from the battlecruiser were sent to New Zealand after she was rejected. Hardware including a few 4-inch weapons, a range discoverer and clothing gear, were utilized by military units while different relics were put in plain view in historical centers. Amid World War II, the 4-inch firearms were the fundamental combat hardware of the land batteries which ensured the doors to the harbors at Auckland, Wellington and Lyttelton. The chief's piupiu was come back to New Zealand in 2005, and is in plain view at the Torpedo Bay Navy Museum in Auckland close by the ship's chime and different ancient rarities. The Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa in Wellington likewise holds a few things from the ship in its gathering.