Helicopter 66 

Helicopter 66 is a United States Navy Sikorsky Sea King helicopter utilized amid the late 1960s for the water recuperation of space explorers amid the Apollo program. It has been designated "a standout amongst the most renowned, or if nothing else most notorious, helicopters ever", was the subject of a 1969 melody by Manuela and was made into a bite the dust cast show by Dinky Toys. Notwithstanding its work in help of NASA, Helicopter 66 additionally transported the Shah of Iran amid his 1973 visit to the plane carrying warship . 

Helicopter 66 was conveyed to the U.S. Naval force in 1967 and framed piece of the stock of U.S. Naval force Helicopter Anti-Submarine Squadron Four for the length of its dynamic life. Among its pilots amid this period was Donald S. Jones, who might proceed to direction the United States Third Fleet. Later re-numbered Helicopter 740, the airplane smashed in the Pacific Ocean in 1975 amid a preparation work out. At the season of its accident, it had logged over 3,200 hours of administration. 

Helicopter 66 was a Sikorsky Sea King SH-3D. The SH-3D display Sea Kings were intended for hostile to submarine fighting (ASW) and were regularly arranged to convey a team of four and up to three travelers. Controlled by two General Electric T58-GE-10 turboshaft motors delivering up to each, SH-3Ds had a greatest velocity of and a mission continuance averaging 4.5 hours. They had a most extreme reasonable load of with the capacity to convey an outside payload of up to . 

Amid ASW missions, the Sea King SH-3D was ordinarily equipped with MK-46/44 torpedoes. 

Helicopter 66 was conveyed to the U.S. Naval force on March 4, 1967, and, in 1968, was added to the stock of U.S. Naval force Helicopter Anti-Submarine Squadron Four (HS-4). Its unique tail number was NT-66/2711. 

Actuated on June 30, 1952, Squadron Four – "the Black Knights" – was the principal against submarine fighting helicopter squadron of the U.S. Naval force to send on board a plane carrying warship when, in 1953, it worked from . It started utilizing the Sea King SH-3D in 1968, progressing from the SH-3A demonstrate. That year, the squadron was doled out to Carrier Anti-Submarine Air Group 59 and conveyed on board to the Sea of Japan ("East Sea") in light of the catch of by the Korean People's Navy. Soon thereafter, "Yorktown"— and Squadron Four—was entrusted to help the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) in the maritime recuperation of returning space explorers. 

Amid the Apollo 8, Apollo 10, and Apollo 11 missions, Helicopter 66 was the essential recuperation vehicle which lifted returning space travelers from the rocket order modules. Thus, it was included noticeably in TV news inclusion and still photography, accomplishing—in the expressions of room antiquarian Dwayne A. Day—the status of "a standout amongst the most acclaimed, or if nothing else most famous, helicopters ever". Administrator Donald S. Jones, who might later order the United States Third Fleet, steered Helicopter 66 amid its debut space explorer recuperation mission following Apollo 8, and again amid the Apollo 11 recuperation. 

Following the Apollo 11 mission, the Navy changed to a three-digit assignment framework and Helicopter 66 was retagged Helicopter 740. Perceiving the popularity Helicopter 66 had accomplished, the Navy started the act of repainting Helicopter 740 as Helicopter 66 for the later recuperation missions in which it partook, Apollo 12 and Apollo 13, painting it back as Helicopter 740 at the finish of every mission. Amid the time of its utilization for space explorer recuperation, Helicopter 66 bore triumph markings on its fuselage demonstrating a space case outline, with one being included for every recuperation in which it took part. For the recuperation of the Apollo 11 space travelers, the underside of the fuselage was embellished with the words "Hail, Columbia". 

By 1973 Helicopter Squadron Four, and Helicopter 66 with it, were left on board . That year, Helicopter 66 transported the Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, to "Kitty Hawk" for a shipboard visit while it traveled the Indian Ocean. 

At 7:00 p.m. on June 4, 1975, Helicopter 66, renumbered as '740', withdrew Naval Outlying Landing Field Imperial Beach close San Diego, California, on the way to the U.S. Naval force's Helo Offshore Training Area to lead a normally planned, three-hour evening hostile to submarine preparing exercise. Amid the task, in which it was conveying a full supplement of four team, the helicopter smashed. In spite of the fact that the group was along these lines saved by the U.S. Coast Guard, pilot Leo Rolek was fundamentally harmed and later passed on of the injuries he supported in the accident. The precise reason for the bringing down of Helicopter 66 is obscure; starting at 2017 the U.S. Naval force episode report remains to a great extent grouped. The broken fuselage of the helicopter later sank in of water. At the season of its accident, Helicopter 66 had flown 3,245.2 flight hours since being brought into administration, and 183.6 hours since its last update. 

The submerged helicopter remains the property of the U.S. Naval force, and a 2004 exertion by private interests to recoup it for conservation was not understood. 

A depiction of Helicopter 66 was appointed in 1969 from craftsman Tom O'Hara as a component of a NASA workmanship activity. It was thusly set in the care of the National Air and Space Museum. 

In September 1969 German artist Manuela discharged a solitary titled "Helicopter U.S. Naval force 66" which includes the sound of helicopter rotors. The tune was secured the following year by the Belgian pop artist Samantha, and was credited with helping dispatch her profession. In a 2007 meeting, the ubiquity of "Helicopter U.S. Naval force 66" as an end tune at move clubs in 1970s Belgium was refered to by the Belgian Schlager vocalist Laura Lynn as the motivation for her hit "Goud". 

Amid the mid 1970s Dinky Toys discharged a kick the bucket cast model of a Sea King helicopter in Helicopter 66 attire. The model incorporated a working winch which could lift a plastic space case toy. 

Copies of Helicopter 66 are in plain view at the Evergreen Aviation and Space Museum in Oregon, the USS "Halfway" Museum in San Diego, and the USS "Hornet" Museum in Alameda, California. The helicopter at the USS "Hornet" Museum is a resigned Navy Sikorsky Sea King that was utilized in taping the movie "Apollo 13".