Nicky Barr 

Andrew William "Nicky" Barr, (10 December 1915 – 12 June 2006) was an individual from the Australian national rugby association group, who turned into a contender pro in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) amid World War II. He was credited with 12 ethereal triumphs, all scored flying the Curtiss P-40 contender. Conceived in New Zealand, Barr was brought up in Victoria and first spoke to the state in rugby in 1936. Chosen to play for Australia in the United Kingdom in 1939, he had quite recently touched base in England when the visit was dropped following the flare-up of war. He joined the RAAF in 1940 and was presented on North Africa with No. 3 Squadron in September 1941. The squadron's most astounding scoring expert, he accomplished his initial three triumphs in the P-40 Tomahawk and the rest of the P-40 Kittyhawk. 

Barr's accomplishments as a battle pilot earned him the Distinguished Flying Cross and Bar. Not long after assuming responsibility for No. 3 Squadron in May 1942, he was shot down and caught by Axis powers, and detained in Italy. He got away and helped other Allied outlaws to wellbeing, getting for his endeavors the Military Cross, an uncommon respect for a RAAF pilot. Repatriated to England, he saw activity amid the attack of Normandy in June 1944 preceding coming back to Australia as boss educator with No. 2 Operational Training Unit. After the war he turned into an organization chief, and rejoined the RAAF as a functioning store officer from 1951 to 1953. From the mid 1960s he was vigorously associated with the oilseed business, for which he was designated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1983. He kicked the bucket in 2006, matured 90. 

Andrew Barr was conceived in Wellington, New Zealand, on 10 December 1915; he had a twin sibling, Jack. The family moved to Australia when the young men were six. Experiencing childhood in Melbourne, Andrew went to Kew Public School and played Australian standards football. He was likewise the Victorian Schoolboys' 100 yards games champion three years in progression, from 1926 to 1928. In 1931, matured fifteen, he started his relationship with the Lord Somers Camp and Power House social and wearing associations situated at Western Port. In the wake of leaving school, Barr examined development at Swinburne Technical College, yet later took a confirmation course in bookkeeping and made it his calling. He began playing rugby association in 1935 through a companion in the Power House club. Gauging and simply under tall, Barr picked up choice for Victoria as a hooker the next year. In 1939, he was picked to play in the United Kingdom with the Australian national group, the Wallabies. The visit was dropped not exactly multi day after the group touched base in the UK on 2 September, because of the episode of World War II. Quick to fill in as a military pilot, Barr at first attempted to enroll in the Royal Air Force, however pulled back his application when informed that it was impossible he would fly whenever sooner rather than later, and that he could anticipate just regulatory obligations in the meantime. 

Coming back to Australia on the RMS "Strathaird", Barr joined the Royal Australian Air Force as an air cadet on 4 March 1940. In the wake of experiencing guidance on Tiger Moths at No. 3 Elementary Flying Training School, Essendon, and on Hawker Demons and Avro Ansons at No. 1 Service Flying Training School, Point Cook, he was authorized as a pilot officer on 24 September. He picked up a notoriety for being something of a dissident amid preparing, and turned out to be everlastingly known as "Nicky", for "Old Nick", or the Devil. In his mission to pick up task as a military pilot, he had purposely pointed inadequately amid besieging practice, a stratagem additionally embraced by somewhere around two of his kindred understudies. By November 1940, he had been presented on No. 23 (City of Brisbane) Squadron, flying CAC Wirraways on watch off the Queensland coast. The air ship was, as indicated by Barr, "our cutting edge contender back then, yet it didn't take too long to even consider realizing that the limit of the Wirraway, contrasted and the kinds of planes that we were going to experience, failed to impress anyone". In spite of the fact that his obligations baffled him to some degree, Barr was thankful to have this broad flight understanding added to his repertoire when he in the end observed battle. While situated in Queensland, he filled in as privileged confidant to the Governor, Sir Leslie Wilson, and furthermore captained the RAAF rugby association group. He was elevated to flying officer on 24 March 1941. 

Barr was presented on North Africa on 28 September 1941, to fly with No. 3 Squadron under the direction of Squadron Leader Peter Jeffrey. He changed over to P-40 Tomahawk warriors at a RAF operational preparing unit in Khartoum. There he likewise gotten his "goolie chit", a bit of paper to be appeared neighborhood tribesmen in the occasion he was shot down, perusing in Arabic: "don't slaughter the conveyor, feed him and ensure him, take him to the English and you will be remunerated. Harmony arrive." Returning to North Africa, Barr accomplished his first airborne triumph, over a Messerschmitt Bf 110, on 12 December. He lined this up with a Junkers Ju 88 and a Messerschmitt Bf 109 the following day. The squadron then re-furnished with P-40 Kittyhawks; Barr was flying the new model when he turned into a pro on New Year's Day 1942, shooting down two Junkers Ju 87 "Stukas". On 8 March, he drove a trip of six Kittyhawks to catch a strike on Tobruk by twelve Ju 87s escorted by ten Macchi C. 202s and two Bf 109s. The Australians pulverized six Macchis and three Ju 87s without misfortune, Barr specifically representing one of the Macchis. 

In the long run credited with triumphs more than twelve adversary flying machine, in addition to two probables and eight harmed, Barr moved toward becoming No. 3 Squadron's most noteworthy scoring part. He flew an aggregate of eighty-four battle fights, twenty of them in one fortnight, and six on 16 June 1942 alone. His logic was that the P-40 was not a top-class warrior, however that its inadequacies "could be counterbalanced by unbridled hostility", so he set out to regard elevated battle as he would a fight and "conquer much better rivals by just going for them". Bobby Gibbes progressed toward becoming No. 3 Squadron's boss in February 1942, and made Barr his senior flight administrator. Elevated to flight lieutenant on 1 April, Barr was raised to acting squadron pioneer and selected to direction the unit in May, scarcely a half year after he initiated activities, following Gibbes' hospitalization with a broken lower leg. Barr had never looked for initiative of the squadron, and felt that others were similarly too fit the bill for the job. As a leader he designated most regulatory errands to his auxiliary however, as opposed to ordinary practice, composed letters to the closest relative of losses himself. 

Multiple times while presenting with No. 3 Squadron, Barr was himself shot down. The principal event was on 11 January 1942 while, having devastated a Bf 109 and a Fiat G.50, he was getting ready to contact down in the desert to get an individual pilot who had crash landed. He had his undercarriage mostly down when he was "bounced" by two different Bf 109s. He quickly drawn in both and shot one down before progressively German warriors arrived and he was hit and compelled to arrive behind adversary lines. As one of the German planes came in low to strafe the brought down Kittyhawk, Barr ran directly at it trying to lose the pilot his point, and was harmed by sections of shake sent airborne by effect from gun shells. A clan of neighborly Senussi Arabs discovered him, dressed his injuries, and helped him come back to Allied lines. For this endeavor, and his prior victories, Barr was granted the Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC), the full reference being distributed in the "London Gazette" on 20 February 1942: 

On 25 May 1942, Barr needed to arrive in the desert when his motor overheated. Having recently removed the motor cowling, he spotted adversary tanks drawing nearer and quickly took off with the motor presented to the components, securely arriving back at base. He was shot down for the second time on 30 May, when he connected with eight Bf 109s and wrecked one preceding being hit and compelled to crash land at fast in a dead zone. He descended in a minefield amid a furious tank fight, and was compelled to remain where he was as troops of the two sides gradually met on him; British powers figured out how to contact him first and, after treatment for wounds, he again came back to his squadron. On 26 June, notwithstanding, subsequent to being assaulted by two Bf 109s and ransoming of his consuming Kittyhawk, he was caught by Italian warriors and taken as a wartime captive, first to Tobruk, and afterward to Italy, where he got emergency clinic treatment for genuine injuries. He later discovered that the pilot who shot him down was Oberleutnant Werner Schroer, a Luftwaffe expert credited with sixty-one triumphs in North Africa. Bobby Gibbes, having recouped from his own wounds, again took direction of No. 3 Squadron. Amid his imprisonment, on 5 February 1943, Barr was granted a Bar to his DFC for "pulverizing further adversary flying machine". 

Barr endeavored to escape from his repression multiple times. By November 1942 he had recuperated adequately from the wounds he got in June to break out of the emergency clinic where he was being held in Bergamo, northern Italy. He advanced toward the Swiss fringe, however was tested by an Italian traditions official, whom he hit with a stone before being recovered. Court-martialled on a charge of homicide, he possibly maintained a strategic distance from a capital punishment when the Swiss Red Cross colonel speaking to him found the official and demonstrated that he had not kicked the bucket. Barr was rather condemned to ninety days isolation in Gavi Prison Camp, Genoa. In August 1943, with Italy very nearly surrender, detainees of war were gathered together for transport to Germany. Barr bounced from a moving train headed for the Brenner Pass and joined a gathering of Italian partisans in Pontremoli, staying everywhere for two months before again being caught. Taken to a travel camp right over the Austrian outskirt, Barr and fourteen different detainees gotten away by burrowing under the spiked metal. In the long run he figured out how to interface up with an Allied uncommon tasks unit, which was gathering insight behind adversary lines, disrupting Axis framework, and helping Allied detainees and Italian evacuees escape over the Apennine Mountains along the supposed "Snow capped Route". He was recovered and got away again before at long last enduring the Alpine intersection himself, driving a gathering of more than twenty. In the wake of achieving well disposed lines in March 1944, he was sent to a military emergency clinic in Vasto, weighing just and in weakness, enduring jungle fever, lack of healthy sustenance, and blood harming. The help he rendered to individual Allied criminals earned him the Military Cross (MC) for "Outstanding boldness in arranging get away"; the honor was gazetted on 1 December 1944. He is believed to be one of just five or six RAAF pilots to get the MC amid World War II. 

Presented on Britain in April 1944, Barr went aground at Omaha Beach two days after D-Day as a major aspect of an air bolster control unit. Amid the battle in Normandy, he flew rocket-furnished Hawker Typhoons on tasks against V-1 flying bomb dispatch locales. After his arrival to Australia on 11 September, Barr was elevated to acting wing administrator and named boss teacher at No. 2 Operational Training Unit in Mildura, Victoria, taking over from Bobby Gibbes. He additionally went to New Guinea and flew some ground-assault missions in the Kittyhawk to pick up involvement in the South West Pacific theater. Following the finish of threats in August 1945, Barr was treated for repeating fever and experienced two tasks on his appendages in No. 6 RAAF Hospital, Heidelberg. He was released from the Air Force on 8 October. 

Subsequent to leaving the Air Force, Barr stayed in Mildura with his significant other, Dorothy (Dot). They had met on an arranged meet up in 1938 and been hitched just half a month when Nicky joined the RAAF. Amid the war she was told on three events that her better half was dead. The couple had two children, conceived in 1945 and 1947. Barr's wounds kept him from coming back to a rugby profession, and he took up yachting as a game. He likewise quickly helped individual No. 3 Squadron veteran Bobby Gibbes in an aircraft adventure in New Guinea, before starting a new business as an organization supervisor and executive with structural building and pharmaceutical firms. Barr rejoined the RAAF on 20 March 1951 as a pilot in the dynamic Citizen Air Force (CAF), with the acting position of wing administrator. On 15 April 1953, he exchanged to the CAF hold. An individual from the Royal Air Forces Escaping Society, Barr started heading out to Italy with his significant other all the time in the late 1950s to search out and offer help to the individuals who had helped him amid his wartime escape endeavors. 

In 1961, Barr wound up General Manager of Meggitt Ltd, an oilseed-pounding firm; he in the long run rose to wind up Executive Chairman. The company's board was participated in 1971 by the as of late resigned Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sir Alister Murdoch. Barr's work in the business prompted his arrangement in the 1983 New Year Honors as an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE). That year, he ended up Australian agent and Chairman of the International Oil Seed Group. In June 1987, Barr acknowledged an encouragement to join John Glenn, Chuck Yeager, and fifteen other celebrated flyers in a purported "Assembling of Eagles" for a course at the USAF Air Command and Staff College in Montgomery, Alabama. For the most part hesitant to speak openly about the war, he consented to talk about his encounters amid a scene of the TV arrangement "Australian Story" in 2002, showing up with his biographer Peter Dornan, and Bobby Gibbes. At this point Barr was said to get day by day treatment for the wounds he had endured in battle. He passed on at ninety years old on 12 June 2006, a couple of months after his better half. Four F/A-18 Hornet fly contenders from No. 3 Squadron overflew his memorial service on the Gold Coast, Queensland. He was additionally respected at a rugby test coordinate among Australia and England at Telstra Dome in Melbourne on 17 June, the day after his burial service. On 14 September 2006, No. 3 Squadron committed a stone commemoration in Barr's respect; the disclosing was gone to by his children Bob and Brian.