Psilocybe semilanceata 

Psilocybe semilanceata, regularly known as the freedom top, is a psilocybin or "enchantment" mushroom that contains the psychoactive mixes psilocybin which the body separates to psilocin, and the alkaloid baeocystin. It is both a standout amongst the most broadly appropriated psilocybin mushrooms in nature, and a standout amongst the most intense. The mushrooms have an unmistakable funnel shaped to chime formed top, up to in width, with a little areola like distension on the top. They are yellow to darker, secured with spiral scores when clammy, and blur to a lighter shading as they develop. Their stipes will in general be slim and long, and a similar shading or marginally lighter than the top. The gill connection to the stipe is adnexed (barely joined), and they are at first cream-shaded before tinting purple as the spores develop. The spores are dull purplish-darker in mass, ellipsoid fit as a fiddle, and measure 10.5– 15 by 6.5– 8.5 micrometres. 

The mushroom develops in prairie environments, particularly wetter zones. Yet, not at all like "P. cubensis", the organism does not develop straightforwardly on waste; rather, it is a saprobic animal types that sustains off rotting grass roots. It is broadly appropriated in the calm territories of the Northern Hemisphere, especially in Europe, and has been accounted for every so often in mild regions of the Southern Hemisphere also. The most punctual solid history of "P. semilanceata" inebriation goes back to 1799 in London, and during the 1960s the mushroom was the main European species affirmed to contain psilocybin. 

The ownership or closeout of psilocybin mushrooms is unlawful in numerous nations. 

The species was first portrayed by Elias Magnus Fries as "Agaricus semilanceatus" in his 1838 "Epicrisis Systematis Mycologici". Paul Kummer exchanged it to "Psilocybe" in 1871 when he raised a considerable lot of Fries' sub-groupings of "Agaricus" to the dimension of variety. "Panaeolus semilanceatus", named by Jakob Emanuel Lange in both 1936 and 1939 productions, is an equivalent word. As per the taxonomical database MycoBank, a few taxa once considered assortments of "P. semilanceata" are synonymous with the species currently known as "Psilocybe strictipes": the "caerulescens" assortment depicted by Pier Andrea Saccardo in 1887 (initially named "Agaricus semilanceatus" var. "coerulescens" by Mordecai Cubitt Cooke in 1881), the "microspora" assortment portrayed by Rolf Singer in 1969, and the "obtusata" assortment depicted by Marcel Bon in 1985. 

A few atomic investigations distributed during the 2000s showed that "Psilocybe", as it was characterized at that point, was polyphyletic. The examinations upheld isolating the sort into two clades, one comprising of the dye, stimulating species in the family Hymenogastraceae, and the other the non-dye, non-psychedelic species in the family Strophariaceae. Be that as it may, the for the most part acknowledged lectotype (an example later chosen when the first creator of a taxon name did not assign a sort) of the variety overall seemed to be "Psilocybe montana", which is a non-dye, non-psychedelic species. In the event that the non-dye, non-stimulating species in the examination were to be isolated, it would have left the psychedelic clade without a legitimate name. To determine this problem, a few mycologists proposed in a 2005 distribution to ration the name "Psilocybe", with "P. semilanceata" as the sort. As they clarified, rationing the name "Psilocybe" along these lines would avert nomenclatural changes to an outstanding gathering of parasites, numerous types of which are "connected to prehistoric studies, humanities, religion, exchange ways of life, scientific science, law authorization, laws and guideline". Further, the name "P. semilanceata" had generally been acknowledged as the lectotype by numerous creators in the period 1938– 68. The proposition to ration the name "Psilocybe", with "P. semilanceata" as the sort was acknowledged consistently by the Nomenclature Committee for Fungi in 2009. 

The mushroom takes its basic name from the Phrygian top, otherwise called the "freedom top", which it looks like; "P. semilanceata" shares its normal name with "P. pelliculosa", a species from which it is pretty much unclear in appearance. The Latin word for Phrygian top is "pileus", these days the specialized name for what is usually known as the "top" of a parasitic natural product body. In the eighteenth century Phrygian tops were set on Liberty posts, which look like the stipe of the mushroom. The nonexclusive name is gotten from the Ancient Greek "psilos" (ψιλός) ("smooth" or "exposed") and the Byzantine Greek "kubê" (κύβη) ("head"). The particular appellation originates from the Latin "semi" ("half" or "to some degree") and "lanceata", from "lanceolatus", signifying "skewer formed". 

The top of "P. semilanceata" is in breadth and tall. It fluctuates fit as a fiddle from strongly cone shaped to ringer formed, frequently with a conspicuous papilla (an areola molded structure), and does not change shape extensively as it ages. The top edge is at first rolled internal however unrolls to turn out to be straight or even twisted upwards in development. The top is hygrophanous, which means it expect diverse hues relying upon its condition of hydration. When it is clammy, the top is ochraceous to pale darker to dull chestnut dark colored, however darker in the middle, regularly with a greenish-blue tinge. Whenever clammy, outspread sections (striations) can be seen on the top that compare to the places of the gills underneath. At the point when the top is dry, it turns out to be a lot paler, a light yellow-darker shading. Clammy mushrooms have sticky surfaces that outcome from a slim thick film called a pellicle. This film winds up clear whether a bit of the top is crushed by bowing it spirit and stripping ceaselessly the piece. At the point when the top dries from presentation to the sun, the film turns whitish and is never again peelable. 

On the underside of the mushroom's top, there are somewhere in the range of 15 and 27 singular thin gills that are tolerably packed together, and they have a barely adnexed to practically free connection to the stipe. Their shading is at first pale darker, however winds up dim to purple-darker with a lighter edge as the spores develop. The slim yellowish-dark colored stipe is long by thick, and as a rule marginally thicker towards the base. The mushroom has a slender spider web like fractional shroud that does not keep going well before vanishing; now and then, the halfway cover leaves an annular zone on the stipe that might be obscured by spores. The substance is dainty and layer like, and generally a similar shading as the surface tissue. It has a farinaceous (like crisply ground flour) smell and taste. All pieces of the mushroom will recolor a somewhat blue shading whenever dealt with or wounded, and it might normally turn blue with age. 

In store, the spores are a profound rosy purple-darker shading. The utilization of a light magnifying instrument can uncover further subtleties: the spores are oval when found in side view, and elongated to oval in frontal view, with measurements of 10.5– 15 by 6.5– 8.5 μm. The basidia (spore bearing cells of the hymenium), are 20– 31 by 5– 9 μm, four-spored, and have cinches at their bases; there are no basidia found on the sterile gill edge. The cheilocystidia (cystidia on the gill edge) measure 15– 30 by 4– 7 μm, and are carafe formed with long flimsy necks that are 1– 3.5 μm wide. "P. semilanceata" does not have pleurocystidia (cystidia on the gill face). The top fingernail skin is up to 90 μm thick, and is made of a tissue layer called an ixocutis—a gelatinized layer of hyphae lying parallel to the top surface. The hyphae involving the ixocutis are tube shaped, hyaline, and 1– 3.5 μm wide. Quickly under the top fingernail skin is the "subpellis", made of hyphae that are 4– 12 μm wide with yellowish-darker encrusted dividers. There are clasp associations present in the hyphae all things considered. 

The anamorphic type of "P. semilanceata" is an abiogenetic stage in the growth's life cycle engaged with the advancement of mitotic diaspores (conidia). In culture, developed in a petri dish, the growth frames a white to light orange cottony or felt-like tangle of mycelia. The conidia framed are directly to bended, estimating 2.0– 8.0 by 1.1– 2.0 μm, and may contain one to a few little intracellular beads. Albeit little is known about the anamorphic phase of "P. semilanceata" past the limits of research center culture, all in all, the morphology of the agamic structures might be utilized as traditional characters in phylogenetic examinations to help comprehend the developmental connections between related gatherings of parasites. 

Scottish mycologist Roy Watling portrayed sequestrate (truffle-like) or secotioid renditions of "P. semilanceata" he discovered developing in relationship with normal organic product bodies. These variants had prolonged tops, long and wide at the base, with the internal bended edges intently embracing the stipe from the advancement of membranous spines. Their gills were thin, firmly jam-packed together, and anastomosed (melded in a vein-like system). The shade of the gills was sepia with an earthy vinaceous (red wine-hued) cast, and a white edge. The stipes of the organic product bodies were long by thick, with about of stipe length secured by the all-encompassing top. The thick-walled ellipsoid spores were 12.5– 13.5 by 6.5– 7 μm. Regardless of the huge contrasts in morphology, sub-atomic investigation demonstrated the secotioid form to be indistinguishable species from the run of the mill morphotype. 

There are a few other "Psilocybe" animal types that might be mistaken for "P. semilanceata" because of similitudes in physical appearance. "P. strictipes" is a thin prairie animal types that is separated perceptibly from "P. semilanceata" by the absence of an unmistakable papilla. "P. mexicana", generally known as the "Mexican freedom top", is likewise comparative in appearance, yet is found in compost rich soil in subtropical prairies in Mexico. It has to some degree littler spores than "P. semilanceata", regularly 8– 9.9 by 5.5– 7.7 μm. Another twin species is "P. samuiensis", found in Thailand, where it develops in all around manured mud like soils or among paddy fields. This mushroom can be recognized from "P. semilanceata" by its littler top, up to in width, and its rhomboid-formed spores. "P. pelliculosa" is physically like such an extent, that it might be unclear in the field. It contrasts from "P. semilanceata" by uprightness of its littler spores, estimating 9– 13 by 5– 7 μm. 

"P. semilanceata" has additionally been mistaken for the harmful muscarine-containing species "Inocybe geophylla", a whitish mushroom with a plush top, yellowish-dark colored to pale grayish gills, and a dull yellowish-darker spore print. 

"Psilocybe semilanceata" natural products singularly or in gatherings on rich and acidic soil, ordinarily in prairies, for example, glades, fields, or gardens. Usually found in fields that have been prepared with sheep or dairy animals compost, in spite of the fact that it doesn't normally develop straightforwardly on the excrement. 

Like some other meadow psilocybin mushroom species, for example, "P. mexicana", "P. tampanensis" and "Conocybe cyanopus", "P. semilanceata" may shape sclerotia, a lethargic type of the parasite, which manages it some assurance from rapidly spreading fires and other catastrophic events. The German mycologist Jochen Gartz even prevailing with regards to creating sclerotia on a malt agar surface culture. 

"P. semilanceata", like all others types of the variety "Psilocybe", is a saprobic parasite, which means it acquires supplements by separating natural issue. The mushroom is likewise connected with sedges in wet regions of fields, and it is thought to live on the rotting root remains. 

Research center tests have appeared at smother the development of the dirt borne water form "Phytophthora cinnamomi", a destructive plant pathogen that causes the ailment root decay. At the point when developed in double culture with other saprobic parasites secluded from the rhizosphere of grasses from its natural surroundings, "P. semilanceata" altogether stifles their development. This antifungal movement, which can be followed in any event somewhat to two phenolic mixes it secretes, encourages it contend effectively with other contagious species in the serious challenge for supplements given by rotting plant matter. Utilizing standard antimicrobial helplessness tests, "Psilocybe semilanceata" was appeared to emphatically restrain the development of the human pathogen methicillin-safe "Staphylococcus aureus" (MRSA). The wellspring of the antimicrobial action is obscure. 

"Psilocybe" expert Gastón Guzmán, in his 1983 monograph on psilocybin mushrooms, considered "Psilocybe semilanceata" the world's most across the board psilocybin mushroom species, as it has been accounted for on 17 nations. 

In Europe, "P. semilanceata" has an across the board dispersion, and is found in Austria, Belarus, Belgium, Bulgaria, the Channel Islands, Czech republic, Denmark, Estonia, the Faroe Islands, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and Ukraine. It is commonly concurred that the species is local to Europe; Watling has exhibited that there exists little contrast between examples gathered from Spain and Scotland, at both the morphological and hereditary dimension. 

The mushroom likewise has a boundless dissemination in North America. In Canada it has been gathered from British Columbia, New Brunswick, Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Ontario and Quebec. In the United States, it is most basic in the Pacific Northwest, west of the Cascade Mountains, where it organic products liberally in fall and late-fall; fruiting has additionally been accounted for to happen inconsistently amid spring months. Charles Horton Peck detailed the mushroom to happen in New York in the mid twentieth century, and thusly, much writing distributed from that point forward has revealed the species to be available in the eastern United States. Gaston Guzman later inspected Peck's herbarium example, and in his complete 1983 monograph on Psilocybe, reasoned that Peck had misidentified it with the species presently known as Panaeolina foenisecii. P. semilanceata is significantly less normal in South America, where it has been recorded in Chile. It is additionally known in Australia (where it might be a presented species) and New Zealand, where it develops in high-height fields. In 2000, it was accounted for from Golaghat, in the Indian province of Assam. P.semilanceata is likewise found in Kodaikanal slope locale in the province of Tamil Nadu, India. 

The principal dependably archived report of "Psilocybe semilanceata" inebriation included a British family in 1799, who arranged a supper with mushrooms they had picked in London's Green Park. As indicated by the physicist Augustus Everard Brande, the dad and his four kids experienced run of the mill manifestations related with ingestion, including student expansion, unconstrained giggling and ridiculousness. The ID of the species mindful was made conceivable by James Sowerby's 1803 book "Shaded Figures of English Fungi or Mushrooms", which incorporated a portrayal of the growth, at that point known as "Agaricus glutinosus" (initially depicted by Moses Ashley Curtis in 1780). As indicated by German mycologist Jochen Gartz, the depiction of the species is "completely good with current learning about "Psilocybe semilanceata"." 

In the mid 1960s, the Swiss researcher Albert Hofmann—known for the union of the hallucinogenic medication LSD—artificially broke down "P. semilanceata" natural product bodies gathered in Switzerland and France by the botanist Roger Heim. Utilizing the system of paper chromatography, Hofmann affirmed the nearness of 0.25% (by weight) psilocybin in dried examples. Their 1963 production was the primary report of psilocybin in an European mushroom animal types; already, it had been known just in "Psilocybe" species local to Mexico, Asia and North America. This finding was affirmed in the late 1960s with examples from Scotland and England, Czechoslovakia (1973), Germany (1977), Norway (1978), and Belgium and Finland (1984). In 1965, legal portrayal of psilocybin-containing mushrooms seized from understudies in British Columbia distinguished "P. semilanceata"— the primary recorded instance of deliberate recreational utilization of the mushroom in Canada. The nearness of the psilocybin simple baeocystin was affirmed in 1977. A few investigations distributed from that point forward help the possibility that the fluctuation of psilocybin content in "P. semilanceata" is low, paying little respect to nation of source. 

A few examinations have measured the measures of stimulating mixes found in the organic product assortments of "Psilocybe semilanceata". In 1993, Gartz detailed a normal of 1% psilocybin (communicated as a level of the dry load of the natural product bodies), extending from at least 0.2% to a limit of 2.37%, which is the most noteworthy psilocybin fixation announced for a mushroom. In a prior examination, Tjakko Stijve and Thom Kuyper (1985) found a high focus in a solitary example (1.7%) notwithstanding a generally high grouping of baeocystin (0.36%). Littler examples will in general have the most elevated percent centralizations of psilocybin, however the outright sum is most astounding in bigger mushrooms. A Finnish report measured psilocybin fixations in old herbarium examples, and presumed that despite the fact that psilocybin focus diminished directly after some time, it was moderately steady. They had the capacity to identify the synthetic in examples that were 115 years of age. Michael Beug and Jeremy Bigwood, dissecting examples from the Pacific Northwest locale of the United States, detailed psilocybin focuses going from 0.62% to 1.28%, averaging 1.0 ±0.2%. They inferred that the species was a standout amongst the most strong, just as the most steady in psilocybin levels. In a 1996 distribution, Paul Stamets characterized an "intensity rating scale" in view of the complete substance of psychoactive mixes (counting psilocybin, psilocin, and baeocystin) in 12 types of "Psilocybe" mushrooms. In spite of the fact that there are sure provisos with this procedure, for example, the unsubstantiated supposition that these mixes contribute similarly to psychoactive properties—it fills in as a harsh examination of intensity between species. Notwithstanding its little size, "Psilocybe semilanceata" is considered a "modestly dynamic to amazingly intense" psychedelic mushroom (which means the joined level of psychoactive mixes is regularly between 0.25% to more noteworthy than 2%), and of the 12 mushrooms looked at, just 3 were increasingly strong: "P. azurescens", "P. baeocystis", and "P. bohemica". As indicated by Gartz (1995), "P. semilanceata" is Europe's most well known psychoactive species. 

A few reports have been distributed in the writing archiving the impacts of utilization of "P. semilanceata". Run of the mill side effects incorporate visual contortions of shading, profundity and structure, advancing to visual mind flights. The impacts are like the experience following utilization of LSD, albeit milder. Normal reactions of mushroom ingestion incorporate student widening, expanded pulse, undesirable inclination, and overresponsive reflexes. As is run of the mill of the side effects related with psilocybin mushroom ingestion, "the impact on temperament specifically is reliant regarding the matter's pre-presentation identity attributes", and "indistinguishable portions of psilocybin may have generally contrasting impacts in various people." Although most instances of inebriation resolve without episode, there have been segregated cases with extreme results, particularly after higher measurements or tireless use. In one case revealed in Poland in 1998, a 18-year-elderly person created Wolff-Parkinson-White disorder, arrhythmia, and endured myocardial localized necrosis in the wake of ingesting "P. semilanceata" every now and again over the time of a month. The heart harm and myocardial dead tissue was recommended to be a consequence of either coronary vasoconstriction, or in view of platelet hyperaggregation and impediment of little coronary supply routes. 

One risk of endeavoring to expend psychedelic or other wild mushrooms, particularly for learner mushroom seekers, is the likelihood of misidentification with lethal species. In one noted case, a generally solid youthful Austrian man mixed up the harmful "Cortinarius rubellus" for "P. semilanceata". Therefore, he endured end-organize renal disappointment, and required a kidney transplant. In another occurrence, a young fellow created heart variations from the norm like those seen in Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, described by an unexpected brief debilitating of the myocardium. A polymerase fasten response based test to explicitly personality "P. semilanceata" was accounted for by Polish researchers in 2007. Freedom tops can likewise be effectively misidentified for toxic Psathyrella species. 

In 1998, a Swedish report announced follow measures of phenethylamine in "P. semilanceata" up to 146 microg/g wet weight which the creators alluded to as "high measure of PEA" that assume a conceivable job in unfavorable responses. In any case, a common portion of 30 grams of crisp mushrooms will relate to most extreme 4.38 mg phenethylamine. The creators notice that phenethylamine is quickly inactivated through metabolic breakdown by monoamine oxidase (MAO), yet are proposing that there might be a connection among phenylethylamine and psilocin (the metabolic breakdown result of psilocybin) through aggressive hindrance of monoamine oxidase catalysts. The issue has been portrayed by the United Nations/CCOHS joint task IPCS INCHEM in a monograph, and by the European Monitoring Center for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA). 

Alexander Shulgin says in his book PiHKAL that he didn't watch any impacts from 1600 mg phenethylamine alone. Additionally, Dr. Duke's Phytochemical and Ethnobotanical Databases record on "Theobroma cacao" beans measure 5600 ppm (5.6 mg/g) phenylalanine, the substance forerunner to phenylethylamine. R. Gordon Wasson reports that cacao and enchantment mushroom is joined in customary ceremonies utilized by Mexican shamans, including María Sabina. 

The legitimate status of psilocybin mushrooms shifts around the world. Psilocybin and psilocin are recorded as Class A (United Kingdom) or Schedule I (US) tranquilizes under the United Nations 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances. The ownership and utilization of psilocybin mushrooms, including "P. semilanceata", is consequently restricted by expansion. Albeit numerous European nations stayed open to the utilization and ownership of psychedelic mushrooms after the US boycott, beginning during the 2000s (decade) there has been a fixing of laws and authorizations. In The Netherlands, where the medication was once routinely sold in authorized cannabis cafés and brilliant shops, laws were established in October 2008 to deny the ownership or clearance of hallucinogenic mushrooms—the last European nation to do as such. 

They are legitimate in Jamaica and Brazil and decriminalized in Portugal. What's more, ebb and flow grassroots endeavors for an Oregon ticket measure http://egov.sos.state.or.us/elec/web_irr_search.record_detail?p_reference=20200012..LSCYYY. in the US hope to authorize hallucinogenic mushrooms for entertainment and restorative treatment in that state. 

The Riksdag included "Psilocybe semilanceata" to under "Swedish calendar I" (""substances, plant materials and organisms which typically don't have therapeutic use"") as of October 1, 1997, distributed by Medical Products Agency (MPA) in guideline "LVFS 1997:15" recorded as Psilocybe semilanceata (toppslätskivling).