The Raft of the Medusa 

The Raft of the Medusa ( ) is an oil painting of 1818– 19 by the French Romantic painter and lithographer Théodore Géricault (1791– 1824). Finished when the craftsman was 27, the work has turned into a symbol of French Romanticism. At 491 cm × 716 cm (16' 1" × 23' 6"), it is an over-life-estimate painting that delineates a minute from the fallout of the disaster area of the French maritime frigate "Méduse", which steered into the rocks off the shore of the present Mauritania on 2 July 1816. On 5 July 1816, something like 147 individuals were set unfastened on a quickly built pontoon; everything except 15 kicked the bucket in the 13 days before their salvage, and the individuals who endure suffered starvation and drying out and rehearsed human flesh consumption. The occasion turned into a worldwide embarrassment, to a limited extent since its motivation was broadly credited to the ineptitude of the French skipper. 

Géricault portrayed this occasion so as to dispatch his vocation with a substantial scale uncommissioned chip away at a subject that had just created incredible open intrigue. The occasion captivated him, and before he started take a shot at the last painting, he embraced broad research and delivered numerous preliminary representations. He talked with two of the survivors and developed a definite scale model of the pontoon. He visited emergency clinics and funeral homes where he could see, direct, the shading and surface of the tissue of the withering and dead. As he had foreseen, the work of art demonstrated exceptionally questionable at its first appearance in the 1819 Paris Salon, pulling in energetic recognition and judgment in equivalent measure. Be that as it may, it built up his universal notoriety, and today is broadly observed as fundamental in the early history of the Romantic development in French painting. 

Despite the fact that "The Raft of the Medusa" holds components of the customs of history painting, in the two its decision of topic and its sensational introduction, it speaks to a break from the quiet and request of the predominant Neoclassical school. Géricault's work pulled in wide consideration from its first appearing and was then shown in London. The Louver gained it not long after the craftsman's demise at 32 years old. The sketch's impact can be found in progress of Eugène Delacroix, J. M. W. Turner, Gustave Courbet, and Édouard Manet. 

In June 1816, the French frigate "Méduse" withdrew from Rochefort, destined for the Senegalese port of Saint-Louis. She headed a guard of three different boats: the storeship "Loire", the brig "Argus" and the corvette "Écho". Viscount Hugues Duroy de Chaumereys had been selected skipper of the frigate regardless of having hardly cruised in 20 years. After the disaster area, open shock erroneously credited duty regarding his arrangement to Louis XVIII, however his was a routine maritime arrangement made inside the Ministry of the Navy and far outside the worries of the ruler. The frigate's central goal was to acknowledge the British return of Senegal under the terms of France's acknowledgment of the Peace of Paris. The selected French legislative leader of Senegal, Colonel Julien-Désiré Schmaltz, and his better half and girl were among the travelers. 

With an end goal to make great time, the "Méduse" surpassed different boats, yet because of poor route it floated off base. On 2 July, it steered into the rocks on a sandbank off the West African coast, close to the present Mauritania. The impact was broadly accused on the inadequacy of De Chaumereys, a returned émigré who needed understanding and capacity, however had been conceded his bonus because of a demonstration of political promotion. Endeavors to free the ship bombed, in this way, on 5 July, the scared travelers and group began an endeavor to venture to every part of the to the African coast in the frigate's six water crafts. In spite of the fact that the "Méduse" was conveying 400 individuals, including 160 group, there was space for just around 250 in the water crafts. The rest of the ship's supplement and half of an unforeseen of marine infantrymen expected to army Senegal - somewhere around 146 men and one lady - were heaped onto a quickly assembled pontoon, that halfway submerged once it was stacked. Seventeen group individuals picked to remain on board the grounded "Méduse". The skipper and team on board different water crafts planned to tow the pontoon, however after just a couple of miles the pontoon was turned free. For sustenance the group of the pontoon had just a sack of ship's bread (devoured on the primary day), two barrels of water (lost over the edge amid battling) and six containers of wine. 

As indicated by pundit Jonathan Miles, the pontoon conveyed the survivors "to the wildernesses of human experience. Crazed, dry and starved, they butchered rebels, ate their dead mates and killed the weakest." After 13 days, on 17 July 1816, the pontoon was protected by the "Argus" by shot—no specific inquiry exertion was made by the French for the pontoon. At this point just 15 men were as yet alive; the others had been slaughtered or tossed over the edge by their confidants, passed on of starvation, or dedicated themselves completely to the ocean in misery. The episode turned into a gigantic open humiliation for the French government, as of late reestablished to control after Napoleon's thrashing in 1815. 

"The Raft of the Medusa" depicts the minute when, following 13 days loose on the pontoon, the rest of the 15 survivors view a ship drawing nearer from a separation. As per an early British commentator, the work is set at a minute when "the ruin of the pontoon might be said to be finished". The work of art is on an amazing size of 491 × 716 cm (193.3 × 282.3 in), with the goal that the greater part of the figures rendered are life-sized and those in the forefront twice life-measure, pushed near the image plane and swarming onto the watcher, who is drawn into the physical activity as a member. 

The temporary pontoon is appeared as scarcely stable as it rides the profound waves, while the men are rendered as broken and in absolute despondency. One elderly person holds the cadaver of his child at his knees; another rips his hair out in disappointment and annihilation. Various bodies litter the closer view, hanging tight to be cleared away by the encompassing waves. The men in the center have quite recently seen a salvage deliver; one it out to another, and an African group part, Jean Charles, remains on an unfilled barrel and wildly waves his tissue to draw the ship's consideration. 

The pictorial piece of the work of art is built upon two pyramidal structures. The edge of the vast pole on the left of the canvas frames the first. The even gathering of dead and biting the dust figures in the frontal area shapes the base from which the survivors rise, flooding upward towards the enthusiastic pinnacle, where the focal figure waves frantically at a salvage transport. 

The watcher's consideration is first attracted to the focal point of the canvas, at that point pursues the directional stream of the survivors' bodies, saw from behind and stressing to one side. As indicated by the workmanship student of history Justin Wintle, "a solitary even corner to corner cadence [leads] us from the dead at the base left, to the living at the peak." Two other slanting lines are utilized to uplift the emotional pressure. One pursues the pole and its gear and leads the watcher's eye towards a moving toward wave that takes steps to immerse the pontoon, while the second, made out of achieving figures, prompts the removed outline of the "Argus", the ship that in the long run saved the survivors. 

Géricault's palette is made out of gray substance tones, and the dim shades of the survivors' garments, the ocean and the mists. In general the canvas is dim and depends to a great extent on the utilization of serious, for the most part dark colored shades, a palette that Géricault accepted was viable in recommending disaster and agony. The work's lighting has been depicted as "Caravaggesque", after the Italian craftsman intently connected with tenebrism—the utilization of rough complexity among light and dull. Indeed, even Géricault's treatment of the ocean is quieted, being rendered in dull greens as opposed to the profound blues that could have managed stand out from the tones of the pontoon and its figures. From the far off region of the salvage deliver, a brilliant light sparkles, giving brightening to a generally dull dark colored scene. 

Géricault was spellbound by records of the generally exposed 1816 wreck, and understood that a portrayal of the occasion may be a chance to set up his notoriety for being a painter. Having chosen to continue, he attempted broad research before he started the canvas. In mid 1818, he met with 2 survivors: Henri Savigny, a specialist, and Alexandre Corréard, a designer from the École nationale supérieure d'arts et métiers. Their passionate portrayals of their encounters to a great extent roused the tone of the last painting. As per the workmanship history specialist Georges-Antoine Borias, "Géricault built up his studio opposite Beaujon emergency clinic. Furthermore, here started a forlorn plummet. Behind bolted entryways he devoted himself completely to his work. Nothing spurned him. He was feared and maintained a strategic distance from." 

Prior movements had presented Géricault to casualties of craziness and plague, and keeping in mind that examining the "Méduse" his push to be generally exact and sensible prompted a fixation on the solidness of cadavers. To accomplish the most real rendering of the tissue tones of the dead, he made portrayals of bodies in the funeral home of the Hospital Beaujon, contemplated the essences of biting the dust emergency clinic patients, took disjoined appendages back to his studio to consider their rot, and for a fortnight drew a separated head, acquired from an insane person shelter and put away on his studio rooftop. 

He worked with Corréard, Savigny and one more of the survivors, the craftsman Lavillette, to develop a precisely itemized scale model of the pontoon, which was imitated on the completed canvas, notwithstanding demonstrating the holes between a portion of the boards. Géricault presented models, gathered a dossier of documentation, replicated pertinent works of art by different craftsmen, and went to Le Havre to ponder the ocean and sky. In spite of experiencing fever, he ventured out to the coast on various events to observe storms breaking on the shore, and a visit to specialists in England managed further chance to ponder the components while crossing the English Channel. 

He drew and painted various preliminary representations while choosing which of a few elective snapshots of the catastrophe he would delineate in the last work. The depiction's origination demonstrated moderate and troublesome for Géricault, and he attempted to choose a solitary pictorially viable minute to best catch the innate show of the occasion. 

Among the scenes he considered were the uprising against the officers from the second day on the pontoon, the savagery that happened after just a couple of days, and the salvage. Géricault at last settled on the occasion, related by one of the survivors, when they initially observed, not too far off, the moving toward salvage transport "Argus"— unmistakable in the upper right of the artistic creation—which they endeavored to flag. The ship, be that as it may, cruised by. In the expressions of one of the enduring team individuals, "From the incoherence of happiness, we fell into significant misery and melancholy." 

To an open knowledgeable in the points of interest of the catastrophe, the scene would have been comprehended to incorporate the result of the group's surrender, concentrating on the minute when all expectation appeared to be lost—the "Argus" returned two hours after the fact and protected the individuals who remained. 

The creator Rupert Christiansen brings up that the work of art portrays a larger number of figures than had been on the pontoon at the season of the salvage—including carcasses which were not recorded by the rescuers. Rather than the radiant morning and quiet water gave an account of the day of the salvage, Géricault delineated a get-together tempest and dim, hurling ocean to strengthen the enthusiastic unhappiness. 

Géricault, who had recently been compelled to sever a difficult undertaking with his auntie, shaved his head and from November 1818 to July 1819 carried on a taught religious presence in his studio in the Faubourg du Roule, being brought dinners by his attendant and just once in a while spending a night out. He and his 18-year-old collaborator, Louis-Alexis Jamar, rested in a little room nearby the studio; infrequently there were contentions and on one event Jamar strolled off; following two days Géricault influenced him to return. In his precise studio, the craftsman worked in a systematic manner in total quiet and found that even the clamor of a mouse was adequate to break his fixation. 

He utilized companions as models, most strikingly the painter Eugène Delacroix (1798– 1863), who displayed for the figure in the closer view with face rotated toward the ground and one arm outstretched. Two of the pontoon's survivors are found in shadow at the foot of the pole; three of the figures were painted from life—Corréard, Savigny and Lavillette. Jamar presented bare for the dead youth appeared in the frontal area going to slip into the ocean, and was likewise the model for two different figures. 

As per Hubert Wellington, Delacroix—who might turn into the leading figure of French Romanticism after Géricault's demise—expressed, "Géricault enabled me to see his "Heap of Medusa" while he was all the while chipping away at it. It established so enormous a connection on me that when I left the studio I began running like a psycho and did not stop till I achieved my very own room." 

Géricault painted with little brushes and thick oils, which permitted brief period for modifying and were dry by the following morning. He kept his hues separated from one another: his palette comprised of vermilion, white, naples yellow, two diverse yellow ochres, two red ochres, crude sienna, light red, consumed sienna, blood red lake, Prussian blue, peach dark, ivory dark, cassel earth and bitumen. Bitumen has a smooth, glossy appearance when initially painted, yet over some stretch of time stains to a dark treacle, while contracting and subsequently making a wrinkled surface, which can't be redesigned. Accordingly, subtleties in expansive zones of the work can barely be observed today. 

Géricault drew a diagram sketch of the piece onto the canvas. He at that point presented models each one in turn, finishing each figure before moving onto the following, rather than the more regular technique for working over the entire creation. The fixation along these lines on individual components gave the work both a "stunning physicality" and a feeling of purposeful drama—which a few pundits think about an unfriendly impact. Over 30 years after the finish of the work, his companion Montfort reviewed: 

Working with little diversion, the craftsman finished the artwork in eight months; the undertaking all in all took year and a half. 

"The Raft of the Medusa" wires numerous impacts from the Old Masters, from the "Last Judgment" and Sistine Chapel roof of Michelangelo (1475– 1564) and Raphael's "Transfiguration", to the momentous methodology of Jacques-Louis David (1748– 1825) and Antoine-Jean Gros (1771– 1835), to contemporary occasions. By the eighteenth century, wrecks had turned into a perceived element of marine craftsmanship, just as an undeniably regular event as more voyages were made via ocean. Claude Joseph Vernet (1714– 1789) made numerous such pictures, accomplishing naturalistic shading through direct perception—in contrast to different specialists around then—and was said to have fixing himself to the pole of a ship so as to observe a tempest. 

Despite the fact that the men delineated on the pontoon had burned through 13 days unfastened and endured yearning, infection and human flesh consumption, Géricault pays tribute to the customs of chivalrous painting and displays his figures as solid and sound. As indicated by the craftsmanship student of history Richard Muther, there is as yet a solid obligation to Classicism in the work. The way that most of the figures are practically exposed, he composed, emerged from a craving to stay away from "unpictorial" ensembles. Muther sees that there is "as yet something scholarly in the figures, which don't appear to be adequately debilitated by privation, malady, and the battle with death". 

The impact of Jacques-Louis David can be found in the work of art's scale, in the sculptural tightness of the figures and in the increased way in which an especially huge "productive minute"— the principal attention to the moving toward ship—is portrayed. In 1793, David likewise painted an essential recent development with "The Death of Marat". His artistic creation had a tremendous political effect amid the season of the unrest in France, and it filled in as an imperative point of reference for Géricault's choice to likewise paint a recent development. David's understudy, Antoine-Jean Gros, had, similar to David, spoke to "the grandiosities of a school irredeemably connected with an acts of futility", however in some significant works, he had given equivalent unmistakable quality to Napoleon and mysterious dead or passing on figures. Géricault had been especially inspired by the 1804 painting "Bonaparte Visiting the Plague-Victims of Jaffa", by Gros. 

The youthful Géricault had painted duplicates of work by Pierre-Paul Prud'hon (1758– 1823), whose "deafeningly lamentable pictures" incorporate his magnum opus, "Equity and Divine Vengeance Pursuing Crime", where harsh haziness and the compositional base of an exposed, spread cadaver clearly affected Géricault's artistic creation. 

The closer view figure of the more seasoned man might be a reference to Ugolino from Dante's "Inferno"— a subject that Géricault had examined painting—and appears to get from a composition of Ugolini by Henry Fuseli (1741– 1825) that Géricault may have known from prints. In Dante, Ugolino is liable of human flesh consumption, which was a standout amongst the most hair-raising parts of the days on the pontoon. Géricault appears to suggest this through the obtaining from Fuseli. An early investigation for "The Raft of the Medusa" in watercolor, presently in the Louver, is considerably more express, delineating a figure biting on the arm of a headless cadaver. 

A few English and American works of art including "The Death of Major Pierson" by John Singleton Copley (1738– 1815)— likewise painted inside two years of the occasion—had set up a point of reference for a contemporary subject. Copley had likewise painted a few expansive and courageous delineations of debacles adrift which Géricault may have known from prints: "Watson and the Shark" (1778), in which a dark man is fundamental to the activity, and which, similar to "The Raft of the Medusa", focused on the performers of the show instead of the seascape; "The Defeat of the Floating Batteries at Gibraltar, September 1782" (1791), which was an effect on both the style and topic of Géricault's work; and "" (1790s), which has a strikingly comparable organization. A further imperative point of reference for the political segment was crafted by Francisco Goya, especially his "The Disasters of War" arrangement of 1810– 12, and his 1814 artful culmination "The Third of May 1808". Goya likewise created a work of art of a fiasco adrift, called essentially "Wreck" (date obscure), yet in spite of the fact that the supposition is comparative, the arrangement and style share nothing for all intents and purpose with "The Raft of the Medusa". It is improbable that Géricault had seen the image. 

"The Raft of the Medusa" was first appeared at the 1819 Paris Salon, under the title "Scène de Naufrage" ("Shipwreck Scene"), despite the fact that its genuine subject would have been indisputable for contemporary watchers. The presentation was supported by Louis XVIII and included almost 1,300 sketches, 208 models and various different etchings and building plans. Géricault's canvas was the star at the show: "It strikes and pulls in everyone's eyes" ("Le Journal de Paris"). Louis XVIII visited three days before the opening and stated: """", or "Monsieur Géricault, you've painted a wreck, however it's not one for you". The commentators were partitioned: the repulsiveness and "terribilità" of the subject practiced interest, however fans of elegance communicated their aversion for what they depicted as a "heap of carcasses", whose authenticity they considered a long ways from the "perfect excellence" spoken to by Girodet's "Pygmalion and Galatea", which triumphed that year. Géricault's work communicated a Catch 22: how could a repulsive subject be converted into a ground-breaking painting, how could the painter accommodate workmanship and reality? Marie-Philippe Coupin de la Couperie, a French painter and contemporary of Géricault, if one answer: "Monsieur Géricault appears to be mixed up. The objective of painting is to address the spirit and the eyes, not to repulse." The composition had intense admirers as well, including French essayist and workmanship pundit Auguste Jal, who adulated its political subject, its liberal position– its headway of the negro and scrutinize of ultra-royalism– and its advancement. The antiquarian Jules Michelet endorsed: "our entire society is on board the pile of the Medusa". 

Géricault had intentionally tried to be both politically and masterfully angry. Faultfinders reacted to his forceful methodology in kind, and their responses were either ones of aversion or applause, contingent upon whether the essayist's feelings supported the Bourbon or Liberal perspective. The composition was viewed as to a great extent thoughtful to the men on the pontoon, and along these lines by augmentation to the counter magnificent reason received by the survivors Savigny and Corréard. The choice to put a dark man at the zenith of the arrangement was a disputable articulation of Géricault's abolitionist feelings. The workmanship commentator Christine Riding has hypothesized that the artistic creation's later display in London was wanted to harmonize with abolitionist bondage fomentation there. As indicated by craftsmanship commentator and keeper Karen Wilkin, Géricault's artistic creation goes about as a "pessimistic arraignment of the screwing up misbehavior of France's post-Napoleonic officialdom, quite a bit of which was selected from the enduring groups of the "Ancien Régime"". 

The artistic creation for the most part inspired the survey open, in spite of the fact that its topic repulsed many, in this manner denying Géricault the prevalent praise which he had planned to accomplish. Toward the finish of the presentation, the artwork was granted a gold decoration by the making a decision about board, yet they didn't give the work the more prominent glory of choosing it for the Louver's national gathering. Rather, Géricault was granted a commission regarding the matter of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, which he furtively offered to Delacroix, whose got done with painting he at that point marked as his own. Géricault withdrew to the wide open, where he fallen from weariness, and his unsold work was moved up and put away in a companion's studio. 

Géricault masterminded the work of art to be displayed in London in 1820, where it was appeared at William Bullock's Egyptian Hall in Piccadilly, London, from 10 June until the year's end, and seen by around 40,000 guests. The gathering in London was more positive than that in Paris, and the sketch was hailed as illustrative of another heading in French workmanship. It got more positive surveys than when it was appeared at the Salon. Partially, this was because of the way of the canvas' presentation: in Paris it had at first been balanced high in the Salon Carré—an oversight that Géricault perceived when he saw the work introduced—yet in London it was set near the ground, accentuating its grand effect. There may have been different purposes behind its notoriety in England also, including "a level of national self-salutation", the intrigue of the artistic creation as startling diversion, and two dramatic stimulations put together around the occasions with respect to the pontoon which agreed with the presentation and obtained vigorously from Géricault's portrayal. From the London presentation Géricault earned near 20,000 francs, which was a lot of the expenses charged to guests, and significantly more than he would have been paid had the French government obtained the work from him. After the London display, Bullock conveyed the work of art to Dublin from the get-go in 1821, yet the presentation there was far less effective, in expansive part because of a contending show of a moving scene, "The Wreck of the Medusa" by the Marshall siblings firm, which was said to have been painted under the bearing of one of the overcomers of the calamity. 

"The Raft of the Medusa" was advocated by the caretaker of the Louver, comte de Forbin who obtained it for the historical center from Géricault's beneficiaries after his demise in 1824. The work of art currently overwhelms its display there. The showcase subtitle reveals to us that "the main saint in this strong story is humankind". 

Sooner or later somewhere in the range of 1826 and 1830 American craftsman George Cooke (1793– 1849) made a duplicate of the artistic creation in a littler size, (130.5 x 196.2 cm; roughly 4 ft × 6 ft), which was appeared in Boston, Philadelphia, New York and Washington, D.C. to swarms who thought about the contention encompassing the wreck. Surveys favored the canvas, which likewise invigorated plays, ballads, exhibitions and a youngsters' book. It was purchased by a previous chief naval officer, Uriah Phillips, who left it in 1862 to the New York Historical Society, where it was miscatalogued as by Gilbert Stuart and stayed difficult to reach until the misstep was revealed in 2006, after an enquiry by Nina Athanassoglou-Kallmyer, a teacher of workmanship history at the University of Delaware. The college's protection division embraced rebuilding of the work. 

On account of weakening in the state of Géricault's unique, the Louver in 1859– 60 dispatched two French craftsmen, Pierre-Désiré Guillemet and Étienne-Antoine-Eugène Ronjat, to make a full size duplicate of the first for credit presentations. 

In the harvest time of 1939, the "Medusa" was stuffed for expulsion from the Louver fully expecting the flare-up of war. A view truck from the Comédie-Française transported the sketch to Versailles in the evening of 3 September. Some time later, the "Medusa" was moved to the Château de Chambord where it stayed until after the second's end World War. 

In its emphasis on depicting an unsavory truth, "The Raft of the Medusa" was a milestone in the rising Romantic development in French painting, and "established the frameworks of a stylish upheaval" against the predominant Neoclassical style. Géricault's compositional structure and portrayal of the figures are traditional, yet the differentiating disturbance of the subject speaks to a noteworthy alter in imaginative course and makes an imperative scaffold among Neoclassical and Romantic styles. By 1815, Jacques-Louis David, at that point estranged abroad in Brussels, was both the main defender of the mainstream history painting kind, which he had idealized, and an ace of the Neoclassical style. In France, both history painting and the Neoclassical style proceeded through crafted by Antoine-Jean Gros, Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres, François Gérard, Anne-Louis Girodet de Roussy-Trioson, Pierre-Narcisse Guérin—instructor of both Géricault and Delacroix—and different craftsmen who stayed focused on the creative conventions of David and Nicolas Poussin. 

In first experience with "The Journal of Eugène Delacroix", Hubert Wellington expounded on Delacroix's assessment of the territory of French painting only before the Salon of 1819. As indicated by Wellington, "The inquisitive mix of great with practical standpoint which had been forced by the order of David was presently losing both activity and intrigue. The ace himself was nearing his end, and banished in Belgium. His most quiet understudy, Girodet, a refined and developed classicist, was creating pictures of surprising sub zero condition. Gérard, massively fruitful painter of representations under the Empire—some of them commendable—fell in with the new vogue for expansive pictures of history, yet without energy." 

"The Raft of the Medusa" contains the signals and terrific size of conventional history painting; in any case, it presents standard individuals, instead of legends, responding to the unfurling show. Géricault's pontoon distinctly comes up short on a legend, and his artistic creation displays no reason past sheer survival. The work speaks to, in the expressions of Christine Riding, "the error of expectation and trivial misery, and at the very least, the essential human nature to endure, which had supplanted every ethical thought and dove edified man into brutality". 

The perfect musculature of the focal figure waving to the salvage transport is reminiscent of the Neoclassical, anyway the naturalism of light and shadow, the validness of the edginess appeared by the survivors and the enthusiastic character of the sythesis separate it from Neoclassical gravity. It was a further takeoff from the religious or traditional subjects of prior works since it delineated contemporary occasions with common and unheroic figures. Both the decision of topic and the elevated way in which the sensational minute is portrayed are common of Romantic painting—solid signs of the degree to which Géricault had moved from the predominant Neoclassical development. 

Hubert Wellington said that while Delacroix was a deep rooted admirer of Gros, the commanding excitement of his childhood was for Géricault. The sensational organization of Géricault, with its solid differentiations of tone and eccentric motions, invigorated Delacroix to confide in his own innovative motivations on a huge work. Delacroix stated, "Géricault enabled me to see his "Pile of Medusa" while he was all the while taking a shot at it." The depiction's impact is found in Delacroix's "The Barque of Dante" (1822) and returns as motivation in Delacroix's later works, for example, "The Shipwreck of Don Juan" (1840). 

As indicated by Wellington, Delacroix's magnum opus of 1830, "Freedom Leading the People", springs straightforwardly from Géricault's "The Raft of the Medusa" and Delacroix's own "Slaughter at Chios". Wellington composed that "While Géricault conveyed his enthusiasm for real detail to the point of hunting down more survivors from the disaster area as models, Delacroix felt his arrangement all the more distinctively in general, thought of his figures and groups as sorts, and ruled them by the emblematic figure of Republican Liberty which is one of his best plastic developments." 

<br> 

The workmanship and figure student of history Albert Elsen trusted that "The Raft of the Medusa" and Delacroix's "Slaughter at Chios" gave the motivation to the bombastic scope of Auguste Rodin's grand model "The Gates of Hell". He composed that "Delacroix's "Slaughter at Chios" and Géricault's "Heap of the Medusa" defied Rodin on a courageous scale with the honest anonymous casualties of political tragedies ... In the event that Rodin was propelled to equal Michelangelo's "Last Judgment", he had Géricault's "Heap of the Medusa" before him for support." 

While Gustave Courbet (1819– 1877) could be depicted as an enemy of Romantic painter, his real works like "A Burial at Ornans" (1849– 50) and "The Artist's Studio" (1855) owe an obligation to "The Raft of the Medusa". The impact isn't just in Courbet's huge scale, yet in his eagerness to depict customary individuals and current political occasions, and to record individuals, spots and occasions in genuine, regular environment. The 2004 display at the Clark Art Institute, "Bonjour Monsieur Courbet: The Bruyas Collection from the Musee Fabre, Montpellier", tried to analyze the nineteenth century Realist painters Courbet, Honoré Daumier (1808– 1879), and early Édouard Manet (1832– 1883) with craftsmen related with Romanticism, including Géricault and Delacroix. Refering to "The Raft of the Medusa" as an instrumental effect on Realism, the display drew examinations between the majority of the craftsmen. The pundit Michael Fried sees Manet straightforwardly acquiring the figure of the man supporting his child for the arrangement of "Blessed messengers at the Tomb of Christ". 

The impact of "The Raft of the Medusa" was felt by specialists past France. Francis Danby, a British painter conceived in Ireland, presumably was enlivened by Géricault's image when he painted "Nightfall at Sea after a Storm" in 1824, and wrote in 1829 that "The Raft of the Medusa" was "the best and most amazing verifiable picture I have ever observed". 

"The Gulf Stream" (1899), by the American craftsman Winslow Homer (1836– 1910), imitates the structure of "The Raft of the Medusa" with a harmed vessel, inauspiciously encompassed by sharks and compromised by a waterspout. Like Géricault, Homer makes a dark man the urgent figure in the scene, however here he is the vessel's sole tenant. A ship out yonder mirrors the "Argus" from Géricault's artwork. The move from the dramatization of Romanticism to the new Realism is exemplified by the apathetic acquiescence of Homer's figure. The man's condition, which in prior works may have been portrayed by expectation or weakness, has swung to "dour wrath". 

In the mid 1990s, stone worker John Connell, in his "Pontoon Project", a synergistic task with painter Eugene Newmann, reproduced "The Raft of the Medusa" by making life-sized figures out of wood, paper and tar and setting them on a huge wooden pontoon. 

Commenting on the difference between the diminishing figures in the closer view and the figures in the mid-ground waving towards the moving toward salvage transport, the French craftsmanship student of history Georges-Antoine Borias composed that Géricault's work of art speaks to, "from one perspective, destruction and demise. On the other, expectation and life." 

For Kenneth Clark, "The Raft of the Medusa" "remains the main case of sentimental tenderness communicated through the naked; and that fixation on death, which drove Géricault to visit funeral home chambers and places of open execution, offers truth to his figures of the dead and the withering. Their layouts might be taken from the works of art, however they have been seen again with a hankering for rough involvement." 

Today, a bronze bas-alleviation of "The Raft of the Medusa" by Antoine Étex decorates Géricault's grave in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.