Idol Producer

Idol Producer () is the first season of the Chinese reality television show, "Idol Producer", premiered on January 19, 2018, on iQiyi. The show is presented by Lay Zhang, with Li Ronghao, Jackson Wang, MC Jin, Cheng Xiao, and Zhou Jieqiong serving as the coaches. On April 6, 2018, the last nine contestants debuted as "Nine Percent".

"Idol Producer" (season 1) brought 100 trainees who either from 31 entertainment companies or didn't sign under any companies together. The trainees had a closed training session lasted for four months, and nine of the trainees were finally chosen to debut as a boy group through viewers' vote; The voting mechanism is similar to those of South Korean reality television shows, "Produce 101" and "Mix Nine".


Color key

Chief producer Jiang Bin has previously produced many well known reality talent shows including "S-style Show, I Supermodel" and "Road to the Runway". The show recruited Cheng Gang, the chief director of "Super Boy" and Tan Yan, the visual director of "I Am a Singer".

The coaches for the series were introduced through posters which were uploaded online. On December 17, a press conference was held where coaches Lay Zhang, Jackson Wang, Cheng Xiao, Zhou Jieqiong and MC Jin attended. On February 3, a total of 21 contestants were invited by Lay Zhang to guest on Chinese variety show, "Happy Camp".

The first episode of the show garnered over 100 million viewers within the first hour of broadcast on iQiyi. Lay Zhang was remarked for his scrutiny towards the contestants during their performances.

The show has been accused of plagiarizing the format of South Korean talent show "Produce 101 Season 2". The head of formats and development at Mnet, Jin Woo Hwang claimed that “People in our company were shocked because it wasn’t just a similar show – it was almost a duplicate show.” 

The Format Recognition and Protection Association revealed results of its comparative analysis of “Idol Producer,” launched by China’s iQIYI in January 2018, and Korean company CJ’s “Produce 101,” which launched in 2016. The analysis concluded that the Chinese show scored 88% on FRAPA’s scale of infringement when compared with the Korean show – it was the highest score ever recorded for an alleged infringement. 

Individual trainee, Song Shuijiao, was forced to leave "Idol Producer" due to verbal misconduct widespread over the internet. The trainee participated in the filming of the first episode, but was subsequently edited out prior to the broadcast.

Young Culture's Qian Zhenghao was found to have violated dormitory regulations by eating hot pot in the dormitory late at night. A handwritten letter of apology was posted on the official "Idol Producer" dormitory "Sina Weibo" account.

Two of MERCURY NATION'S trainees, GIGEL and Wang Youchen, were removed from the show as disciplinary action for ground fighting in the dormitory.

On December 20, 2018, iQiyi announced the sequel, named Youth Has You (青春有你) is scheduled in 2019 with Lay Zhang, MC Jin, Li Ronghao retained, with Taiwanese singer Jolin Tsai and Xu Minghao from K-Pop boy group Seventeen promoted as dance instructors, replacing Cheng Xiao and Zhou Jieqiong. The aim remains to form another new male group.


