Icon Producer 

Icon Producer () is the principal period of the Chinese unscripted tv appear, "Symbol Producer", debuted on January 19, 2018, on iQiyi. The show is displayed by Lay Zhang, with Li Ronghao, Jackson Wang, MC Jin, Cheng Xiao, and Zhou Jieqiong filling in as the mentors. On April 6, 2018, the last nine challengers appeared as "Nine Percent". 

"Icon Producer" (season 1) brought 100 learners who either from 31 stimulation organizations or didn't sign under any organizations together. The learners had a shut instructional course gone on for four months, and nine of the students were at long last picked to make a big appearance as a kid amass through watchers' vote; The casting a ballot system is like those of South Korean unscripted tv appears, "Produce 101" and "Blend Nine". 

Shading key 

Boss maker Jiang Bin has recently created many surely understood reality ability demonstrates including "S-style Show, I Supermodel" and "Street to the Runway". The show enrolled Cheng Gang, the main executive of "Super Boy" and Tan Yan, the visual chief of "I Am a Singer". 

The mentors for the arrangement were presented through publications which were transferred on the web. On December 17, a public interview was held where mentors Lay Zhang, Jackson Wang, Cheng Xiao, Zhou Jieqiong and MC Jin visited. On February 3, a sum of 21 hopefuls were welcomed by Lay Zhang to visitor on Chinese theatrical presentation, "Upbeat Camp". 

The principal scene of the show gathered more than 100 million watchers inside the main hour of communicate on iQiyi. Lay Zhang was commented for his examination towards the challengers amid their exhibitions. 

The show has been blamed for stealing the configuration of South Korean ability show "Produce 101 Season 2". The head of arrangements and improvement at Mnet, Jin Woo Hwang guaranteed that "Individuals in our organization were stunned on the grounds that it wasn't only a comparable show – it was very nearly a copy appear." 

The Format Recognition and Protection Association uncovered aftereffects of its relative investigation of "Icon Producer," propelled by China's iQIYI in January 2018, and Korean organization CJ's "Produce 101," which propelled in 2016. The investigation reasoned that the Chinese show scored 88% on FRAPA's size of encroachment when contrasted and the Korean show – it was the most astounding score at any point recorded for a supposed encroachment. 

Singular learner, Song Shuijiao, was compelled to leave "Symbol Producer" because of verbal wrongdoing broad over the web. The learner took an interest in the recording of the principal scene, yet was consequently altered out before the communicate. 

Youthful Culture's Qian Zhenghao was found to have damaged quarters guidelines by eating hot pot in the residence late during the evening. A written by hand letter of statement of regret was posted on the official "Icon Producer" residence "Sina Weibo" account. 

Two of MERCURY NATION'S learners, GIGEL and Wang Youchen, were expelled from the show as disciplinary activity for ground battling in the quarters. 

On December 20, 2018, iQiyi reported the spin-off, named Youth Has You (青春有你) is planned for 2019 with Lay Zhang, MC Jin, Li Ronghao held, with Taiwanese vocalist Jolin Tsai and Xu Minghao from K-Pop kid aggregate Seventeen advanced as move educators, supplanting Cheng Xiao and Zhou Jieqiong. The point stays to frame another new male gathering.