SummerSlam (2003) 

SummerSlam (2003) was an expert wrestling pay-per-see (PPV) occasion delivered by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). It occurred August 24, 2003, at the America West Arena in Phoenix, Arizona. It was the sixteenth yearly SummerSlam occasion and highlighted wrestlers from the Raw and SmackDown! brands. 

Nine expert wrestling matches were determined to the occasion's supercard, a booking of various abnormal state matches. The principal headliner was an Elimination Chamber coordinate, in which World Heavyweight Champion Triple H crushed Chris Jericho, Goldberg, Kevin Nash, Randy Orton, and Shawn Michaels to hold his title. In the other headliner, guarding WWE Champion Kurt Angle vanquished Brock Lesnar in a standard wrestling match. The undercard included Kane overcoming Rob Van Dam in a No Holds Barred match, and Eddie Guerrero guarding his United States Championship against Chris Benoit, Rhyno and Tajiri. 

The occasion denoted the second time the Elimination Chamber position was utilized by WWE; the first was at Survivor Series 2002. SummerSlam (2003) netted over $715,000 ticket deals from a participation of 16,113 and got about 415,000 pay-per-see purchases, more than the next year's occasion. This occasion helped WWE increment its compensation per-see income by $6.2 million from the earlier year. 

The expert wrestling matches at SummerSlam highlighted proficient wrestlers executing as characters in scripted occasions pre-controlled by the facilitating advancement, World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). Storylines between the characters were delivered on WWE's week after week TV programs "Crude" and "SmackDown!" with the Raw and SmackDown! brands—storyline divisions in which WWE alloted its self employed entities to various projects. 

In the primary headliner of SummerSlam wrestlers from the Raw brand contended in an Elimination Chamber coordinate, in which the ring is encompassed by a steel structure of chain and braces. The match was challenged for the World Heavyweight Championship, in which Triple H shielded the title against Chris Jericho, Goldberg, Kevin Nash, Randy Orton, and Shawn Michaels. The development to the match started on July 22, 2003, while amid the SummerSlam public interview, the specialist figure Eric Bischoff, declared that Triple H would protect the title against Goldberg in a standard wrestling match at the occasion. On August 4, 2003 amid a TV scene of "Crude", Bischoff changed the stipulations of the match to No exclusion guidelines. Later amid the scene, another specialist figure, Steve Austin, changed Bischoff's declaration, expressing that the title would be challenged in an Elimination Chamber coordinate, with Triple H shielding his title against Goldberg, Chris Jericho, Kevin Nash, Randy Orton, and Shawn Michaels. Six days before SummerSlam, amid a scene of "Crude" on August 18, 2003, the contention among the six contenders heightened amid a limited time talk with portion, in which every member in the Elimination Chamber examined the match and provoked different wrestlers. Amid the show's headliner, in which Orton wrestled Goldberg, Nash meddled in the match and assaulted Goldberg. Michaels at that point came down to the ring, yet as he was going to hit Triple H with the World Heavyweight Championship belt, Jericho kept running into the ring and hit Michaels with a seat. 

The second headliner came about because of occasions on SmackDown!, WWE's other fundamental TV program. In the match, Kurt Angle guarded his WWE Championship against Brock Lesnar. The development to the match started on July 31, 2003 on a scene of "SmackDown!". Amid a meeting advancement in the ring, Lesnar moved Angle to a rematch of their session at Vengeance, WWE's past pay-per-see occasion. The WWE Chairman, Vince McMahon, chose that Lesnar would need to win his rematch by contending in a steel confine coordinate against McMahon himself, and would occur on SmackDown! the next week, with Angle administering as an exceptional visitor arbitrator. The Steel Cage coordinate brought about neither one of the wrestlers winning the match, after McMahon and Lesnar assaulted Angle. On August 14, 2003 amid a scene of "SmackDown!", McMahon reported that Angle would guard the title against Lesnar at SummerSlam. 

In a starter coordinate including wrestlers from the Raw brand, Rob Van Dam wrestled Kane under No preclusion guidelines. The occasions paving the way to this match started on the June 23, 2003 release of "Crude", when Kane took his veil off and uncovered his face before RVD and the group after he lost to Triple H amid a World Heavyweight Championship coordinate. At that point, on July 7, 2003, when Kane assaulted Van Dam behind the stage amid a scene of "Crude". The next week on a scene of Raw, Eric Bischoff allowed Van Dam a standard match against Kane, which occurred the next week on "Crude" and finished in neither one of the wrestlers winning the match. On August 4, 2003, Shane McMahon, the child of Mr. McMahon, planned a No Disqualification coordinate between the two wrestlers for SummerSlam. 

In another prelimary coordinate, wrestlers from the SmackDown! brand contended in a match between four wrestlers for the WWE United States Championship: Eddie Guerrero shielded the title against Chris Benoit, Rhyno, and Tajiri. The development to the match started with two unique competitions, one among Guerrero and Tajiri, and the other among Benoit and Rhyno. On August 7, 2003 amid a scene of "SmackDown!", Guerrero and Benoit wrestled in a standard match. Be that as it may, amid the match, Rhyno and Tajiri meddled, bringing about neither one of the wrestlers winning the match. Sgt. Butcher, a WWE official, planned a label group coordinate between the group of Guerrero and Benoit and the group of Rhyno and Tajiri, which Guerrero and Benoit won. The next week on a scene of "SmackDown!", a SummerSlam ad reported that Guerrero would safeguard the WWE United States Championship against Benoit, Rhyno, and Tajiri. 

Before the occasion publicized live on pay-per-see, Matt Hardy confronted Zach Gowen on "Sunday Night Heat", one of WWE's optional TV programs. Gowen, in any case, was unfit to contend due to genuine wounds he continued on the August 21, 2003 scene of "SmackDown!". In result, Hardy was pronounced the champ by means of relinquish. 

In the following match, Rey Mysterio confronted Shannon Moore for the WWE Cruiserweight Championship, in which Mysterio stuck Moore to hold the title after he performed 619. 

After "Sunday Night Heat", the compensation per-see occasion started with a label group coordinate for the World Tag Team Championship. The victors, La Résistance (René Duprée and Sylvain Grenier), safeguarded their titles against The Dudley Boyz (Bubba Ray Dudley and D-Von Dudley). All through the match, the two groups performed numerous hostile moves, however The Dudley Boyz had the capacity to pick up the high ground when they executed a 3D on Duprée. As D-Von secured Duprée, Rob Conway, who was veiled as a cameraman, hit D-Von with a camera while the ref was diverted. Duprée then secured D-Von for an effective pinfall to hold the title. 

The accompanying match set The Undertaker against A-Train in a standard match. In the beginning times the two contenders wrestled uncertainly before The Undertaker picked up the favorable position. He endeavored to lift A-Train for a Tombstone piledriver. A-Train countered it, in the process thumping the ref down. He endeavored to exploit the circumstance by attempting to hit The Undertaker with a steel seat. The Undertaker, notwithstanding, countered the assault with his boot, making the seat hit A-Train in the face. The Undertaker then chokeslammed A-Train and, since the official had recovered, secured his rival for the pinfall. After the match, Sable endeavored to allure Undertaker, however was snatched by the throat and afterward was assaulted by a returning Stephanie McMahon. 

The third challenge had Shane McMahon against Eric Bischoff in a standard match. McMahon and Bischoff started by fighting on the field slope, as Jonathan Coachman showed up from the behind the stage territory and hit McMahon with a steel seat. Bischoff snatched a receiver and declared that the match would be challenged under no preclusion, falls check anyplace guidelines; thus, Bischoff couldn't be excluded for Coachman's obstruction. Coachman and Bischoff performed twofold group assaults on McMahon until Steve Austin meddled by playing out a Stone Cold Stunners on Coachman and Bischoff. After Austin's obstruction, McMahon situated Bischoff on the correspondents' table, played out a Leap of Faith onto Bischoff's chest, along these lines breaking the table and secured Bischoff for the pinfall. 

The following match included four wrestlers from the Smackdown! brand in a counterpart for the WWE United States Championship; Eddie Guerrero safeguarded the title against Chris Benoit, Rhyno, and Tajiri. The match started with Guerrero grappling with Tajiri, while Benoit grappled with Rhyno. Amid the experience Guerrero connected a Lasso From El Passo on Tajiri, while Benoit utilized a Crippler Crossface on Rhyno. A while later, Tajiri connected a Tarantula on Benoit. The hold diverted the ref, which permitted Guerrero to hit Rhyno with the United States Championship belt. Tajiri then endeavored to hit Benoit with a Buzzsaw Kick, however Benoit countered the move by lifting and sitting Tajiri onto his shoulders. Tajiri, be that as it may, countered by hurling both himself and Benoit over the top rope onto the field floor. Profiting by the circumstance, Guerrero then played out a Frog sprinkle on Rhyno, after which he scored the pinfall, in this manner holding the WWE United States Championship. 

The fifth match was the headliner from the SmackDown brand, a standard counterpart for the WWE Championship, in which Kurt Angle shielded the title against Brock Lesnar. Toward the start of the match, Lesnar endeavored to leave the ring, yet Angle brought him back. There, Angle performed numerous hostile moves, including DDT and Angle Slam. He at that point connected a lower leg lock on Lesnar. Amid this tussle, Lesnar countered the hold however thumped down the ref. Edge connected a guillotine gag on Lesnar, which cut Lesnar down onto his knees and enabled Angle to play out another lower leg lock. Mr. McMahon interfered,came into the ring and hit Angle's back with a steel seat to break the accommodation hold. Since the official was debilitated, Lesnar was not excluded for the obstruction. A short time later, Lesnar twice endeavored to lift Angle onto his F-5. Amid the second endeavor, be that as it may, Angle countered the toss into another lower leg lock, which constrained Lesnar to tap out. Accordingly, Angle held the WWE Championship. 

In a starter coordinate from the Raw brand, Kane confronted Rob Van Dam in a No Holds Barred match. The two wrestlers utilized a stepping stool further bolstering their good fortune right off the bat in the match. After Kane utilized the stepping stool on Van Dam, he endeavored to hit Van Dam with a flying clothesline. In any case, Van Dam moved off the beaten path and Kane arrived on the field blockade. Van Dam played out a variety of a moving roar on Kane utilizing a lawn seat. Following this, Van Dam endeavored to hit Kane with a Van Daminator with a seat, yet Kane took off of the ring to stay away from the assault. Van Dam at that point endeavored an elevated system from inside the ring towards Kane, however Kane got Van Dam in mid-air and executed a Tombstone Piledriver, after which he secured Van Dam for the pinfall. 

The headliner from the Raw brand was the Elimination Chamber coordinate for the World Heavyweight Championship, in which Triple H guarded the title against Chris Jericho, Goldberg, Kevin Nash, Randy Orton, and Shawn Michaels. The match started with Jericho and Michaels in the ring, while Goldberg, Nash, Orton, and Triple H were secured in the chambers. Michaels and Jericho wrestled, with neither of them picking up the preferred standpoint over the other. Orton and Nash were the third and fourth contestants into the match, individually. Nash was the principal wrestler disposed of from the match after Michaels executed a superkick and Chris Jericho secured him for a pinfall. Triple H and Goldberg were the fifth and 6th participants. Michaels played out another superkick on Triple H when he left his chamber, and thus, Triple H was thumped over into his chamber. When Goldberg entered the match, he played out a lance for a pinfall to wipe out Orton. Next, Goldberg played out a Jackhammer on Michaels and Jericho, wiping out both through pinfall. This disregarded Goldberg with and Triple H, who at the time had stayed inside the chamber. Goldberg played out a lance on him through the glass of the chamber, in the process driving him out of the chamber. Ric Flair, who was overseeing both Triple H and Orton, at that point gave Triple H a heavy hammer. Goldberg endeavored another lance on Triple H, who countered the move by hitting Goldberg with the heavy hammer and secured him for the pinfall, therefore holding the World Heavyweight Championship. After the match, Triple H, Orton and Flair violently assaulted Goldberg, finishing with Triple H busting Goldberg open by over and again hitting him in the head with his heavy hammer. 

Amid a scene of "Crude" after SummerSlam, Goldberg provoked Triple H to another counterpart for the World Heavyweight Championship. This match occurred at the Unforgiven pay-per-see on September 21, 2003 with a stipulation that, should he lose, Goldberg would resign from WWE. Goldberg crushed Triple H to turn into the new victor. After SummerSlam, Kurt Angle concentrated on The Undertaker, whom he wrestled in a counterpart for the WWE Championship amid a scene of "SmackDown!" on September 4, 2003. Amid the match, Lesnar assaulted the two wrestlers with a lawn seat, prompting an Iron Man coordinate among Angle and Lesnar. Lesnar won five falls amid the match, while Angle won four, and accordingly Lesnar won the title. 

The contention among Kane and Rob Van Dam ceased, as Kane occupied with a quarrel against Shane McMahon. In a situation on the August 25, 2003 scene of "Crude", Kane endeavored to toss McMahon into a dumpster that was determined to flame, however McMahon kept away from it and tossed Kane into the dumpster. On September 8, 2003 amid a scene of "Crude", Eric Bischoff booked a Last Man Standing match among Kane and McMahon for Unforgiven. In that coordinate, Kane vanquished McMahon after McMahon was unfit to react to a ten tally. After SummerSlam, Eddie Guerrero started a contention with John Cena over the WWE United States Championship. Guerrero held the title in two title safeguards that occurred on "SmackDown!". Guerrero then occupied with a quarrel with Big Show. At No Mercy, Big Show vanquished Guerrero by means of pinfall to win the WWE United States Championship. 

The America West Arena has a most extreme limit of 19,000, yet that was diminished for SummerSlam 2003. The occasion earned over US$715,000 in ticket deals from a participation of 16,113, the most extreme permitted. This was later affirmed by Linda McMahon, WWE CEO, in an official statement on August 26, 2003. The occasion brought about 415,000 pay-per-see purchases (a 0.88 pay-per-see buyrate). The advancement's compensation per-see income was $24.7 million. 

Canadian Online Explorer's expert wrestling area appraised the whole occasion a 7 out of 10 stars. The rating was higher than the SummerSlam occasion in 2004, which was evaluated a 5 out of 10 stars. The Elimination Chamber headliner coordinate from the Raw brand was evaluated a 8.5 out of 10 stars, with an extra appraising of 1 out of 10 stars for the procedure in which the match finished. The SmackDown! brand's headliner, a standard counterpart for the WWE Championship, was evaluated a 9 out of 10 stars, a superior gathering than the Raw brand's headliner. Swim Keller assessed the occasion for the "Master Wrestling Torch". He evaluated the Angle-Lesnar coordinate 4-and-a-half out of 5 stars, proclaiming it a "superb match". The Elimination Chamber coordinate got a rating of 3 stars. The occasion was discharged on DVD on September 23, 2003 by Sony Music Entertainment.