Are You Experienced 

Are You Experienced is the presentation studio collection by English-American musical crew the Jimi Hendrix Experience. Discharged in 1967, the LP was a quick basic and business achievement, and it is broadly viewed as one of the best makes a big appearance in the historical backdrop of shake music. The collection highlights Jimi Hendrix's creative way to deal with songwriting and electric guitar playing which before long settled another heading in hallucinogenic and hard shake music. 

By mid-1966, Hendrix was attempting to procure a living playing the R&B circuit as a support guitarist. In the wake of being alluded to Chas Chandler, who was leaving the Animals and keen on overseeing and creating specialists, Hendrix was marked to an administration and generation contract with Chandler and ex-Animals administrator Michael Jeffery. Chandler conveyed Hendrix to London and started enrolling individuals for a band, the Jimi Hendrix Experience, intended to feature the guitarist's gifts. In late October, in the wake of having been dismissed by Decca Records, the Experience marked with Track, another name shaped by the Who's directors Kit Lambert and Chris Stamp. 

"Are You Experienced" and its previous singles were recorded over a five-month time frame from late October 1966 through early April 1967. The collection was finished in 16 recording sessions at three London areas, including De Lane Lea Studios, CBS Studios, and Olympic Studios. Discharged in the UK on May 12, 1967, "Are You Experienced" went through 33 weeks on the graphs, cresting at number two. The collection was issued in the US on August 23 by Reprise Records, where it achieved number five on the US "Bulletin" Top LPs, staying on the graph for 106 weeks, 27 of those in the Top 40. The collection additionally gone through 70 weeks on the US "Bulletin" Hot R&B LPs diagram, where it topped at number 10. The US variant contained a portion of Hendrix's best known melodies, including the Experience's initial three singles, which, however discarded from the British release of the LP, were top ten hits in the UK: "Purple Haze", "Hello Joe", and "The Wind Cries Mary". 

In 2005, "Moving Stone" positioned "Are You Experienced" fifteenth on its rundown of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time. The magazine put four melodies from the collection on their rundown of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time: "Purple Haze" (17), "Saucy Lady" (153), "Hello Joe" (201), and "The Wind Cries Mary" (379). That equivalent year, the record was one of 50 accounts picked by the Library of Congress in acknowledgment of its social centrality to be added to the National Recording Registry. Essayist and filer Reuben Jackson of the Smithsonian Institution expressed: "it's as yet a milestone recording since it is of the stone, R&B, blues ... melodic convention. It adjusted the linguistic structure of the music ... in a way I contrast with James Joyce's "Ulysses"." 

By May 1966, Jimi Hendrix was attempting to gain a living playing the R&B circuit as a back-up guitarist. Amid an act at one of New York City's most well known nightspots, the Cheetah Club, he was seen by Linda Keith, the sweetheart of Rolling Stones guitarist Keith Richards. Not long after, Hendrix moved to the city's Greenwich Village and started a residency at the Cafe Wha? fronting his very own band, Jimmy James and the Blue Flames. Keith prescribed Hendrix to Stones administrator Andrew Loog Oldham and maker Seymour Stein. They neglected to see Hendrix's melodic potential, and rejected him. She at that point alluded him to Chas Chandler, who was leaving The Animals and keen on overseeing and delivering craftsmen. Chandler enjoyed the Billy Roberts tune "Hello Joe", and was persuaded he could make a hit single with the correct craftsman. Inspired with Hendrix's live form of the tune with his band, he expedited him to London September 24, 1966, and marked him to an administration and generation contract with himself and ex-Animals supervisor Michael Jeffery. 

Promptly following Hendrix's landing in London, Chandler started enlisting individuals for a band, the Jimi Hendrix Experience, intended to grandstand the guitarist's gifts. Hendrix met the guitarist Noel Redding at a tryout for the New Animals, where Redding's learning of blues movements inspired Hendrix. Chandler inquired as to whether he needed to play low register guitar in Hendrix's band; Redding concurred. Chandler at that point started searching for a drummer and before long, he reached Mitch Mitchell through a common companion. Mitchell, who had as of late been terminated from Georgie Fame and the Blue Flames, took part in a practice with Redding and Hendrix where they reinforced over their common enthusiasm for cadence and blues. At the point when Chandler called Mitchell soon thereafter to offer him the position, he promptly acknowledged. In late October, in the wake of having been dismissed by Decca Records, the Experience marked with Track, another name framed by the Who's supervisors Kit Lambert and Chris Stamp. 

"Are You Experienced" and its former singles were recorded over a five-month time span from late October 1966 through early April 1967. The collection was finished in 16 recording sessions at three London areas, including De Lane Lea Studios, CBS, and Olympic. Chandler booked a large number of the sessions at Olympic in light of the fact that the office was acoustically unrivaled and furnished with the greater part of the most recent innovation, however it was all the while utilizing four-track recorders, though American studios were utilizing eight-track. 

Chandler's financial plan was restricted, so with an end goal to decrease consumptions he and Hendrix finished a significant part of the collection's pre-creation work at their common condo. From the begin, Chandler deliberately limited the imaginative contribution of Mitchell and Redding. He later clarified: "I wasn't worried that Mitch or Noel may feel that they weren't having enough—or any—say ... I had been visiting and recording in a band for a considerable length of time, and I'd seen everything end as a trade off. No one wound up doing what they truly needed to do. I was not going to give that a chance to occur with Jimi." When the Experience started studio practices, Hendrix previously had the harmony groupings and beats worked out for Mitchell, and Chandler would coordinate Redding's bass parts. 

Chandler and the Experience discovered time to record between exhibitions in Europe. They started on October 23, recording "Hello Joe" at De Lane Lea Studios, with Chandler as maker and Dave Siddle as specialist. The tune included support vocals by the Breakaways. Not long after the session started, Chandler requested that Hendrix turn his guitar intensifier down, and a contention resulted. Chandler remarked: "Jimi pitched a fit since I wouldn't give him a chance to play guitar uproarious enough ... He was playing a Marshall twin stack, and it was so boisterous in the studio that we were getting different rattles and clamors." According to Chandler, Hendrix at that point took steps to leave England, expressing: "On the off chance that I can't play as uproarious as I need, I should return to New York." Chandler, who had Hendrix's migration papers and visa in his back pocket, laid the archives on the blending console and advised Hendrix to "irritate". Hendrix snickered and stated: "OK, you challenged my false front", and they returned to work. Redding wrote in his journal that they finished two tunes amid the October 23 session, however the second one has never been emphatically distinguished. Creator Sean Egan theorized that it may have been Howlin' Wolf's "Executing Floor" or Wilson Pickett's "Property of a Thousand Dances". Chandler concluded that they should utilize an Experience unique for the B-side of the single, so he urged Hendrix to begin composing; he formed his first Experience tune, "Stone Free", the next day. Chandler, with an end goal to limit studio costs, bought practice time at the Aberbach House in London. He surrendered this training in the wake of acknowledging how rapidly the gathering could learn tunes while heating up in the studio. On November 2, 1966, the Experience came back to De Lane Lea to proceed with work on their first single. Amid the session, they recorded "Stone Free" and a demo form of "Would you be able to See Me". This denoted the first occasion when that the Experience recorded a tune that was in the long run included on the first UK arrival of the collection. 

Chandler had been disappointed with the sound quality at De Lane Lea, so he accepted the guidance of Kit Lambert and booked time at CBS Studios. On December 13, 1966, in the wake of taking a five-week break from account while they performed in Europe, the Experience reconvened at CBS. Helped by specialist Mike Ross, the band were particularly gainful amid the session, recording instrumentation and vocals for "Saucy Lady" and essential instrumental tracks for "Adoration or Confusion", "Would you be able to See Me", and "Third Stone from the Sun". Ross reviewed the effect of Hendrix's Marshall stacks: "It was so noisy you couldn't remain in the studio ... I'd never heard anything like it in my life." When Ross asked Hendrix where he might want the amplifier set Hendrix answered: "Goodness, man, simply put a mic around twelve feet away on the opposite side of the studio. It'll sound incredible." Ross concurred, and with a Neumann U87 tube mic he recorded Hendrix's guitar playing in a huge room that, as indicated by Ross, "was completely indispensable to the extraordinarily amazing Experience sound." Ross noticed that contribution from Mitchell and Redding was limited, and he affirmed that Chandler was unmistakably "the one in control" of the sessions. The band played together live at CBS; the lead and reinforcement vocals were overdubbed. Regardless of his decreasing accounts, Chandler urged the Experience to record various takes of a tune, managing them the advantage of rehashed endeavors at an agreeable chronicle. With a live instrument track as the establishment of the chronicles, they shunned the regular routine with regards to sorting out pieces of a few takes to make one consistent piece. After the December 13 recording session, the band made their TV debut, on Britain's "Prepared Steady Go!" 

On December 15, 1966, completing contacts were made on the four cadence tracks that were recorded the past session. Despite the fact that Chandler delighted in working at CBS and he valued the high caliber of the accounts they made there, he finished his expert association with the studio after a contradiction among him and proprietor Jake Levy over his inability to make installment. Chandler had intended to pay Levy for the sessions after the collection was finished, yet Levy requested installment forthright. Chandler saw this as an irrational desire, and he promised that he could never again work with CBS. The fifth and last tune recorded there was "Red House". As stereophonic sound was not yet prevalent among music fans, these chronicles were all monaural blends; Ross clarified: "back then ... mono was "best". All the exertion went into the mono." He evaluated that they spent close to 30 minutes blending any one track. 

The main Experience single, with "Hello Joe" as the A-side and "Stone Free" as the B-side, was discharged in the UK on December 16, 1966. Track Records was not yet operational, so their merchant, Polydor Records, issued the single with their logo. It achieved number six on the UK diagram in mid 1967. On December 21, 1966, Chandler and the Experience came back to De Lane Lea with Dave Siddle as designer. They recorded two exchange renditions of "Red House" and started take a shot at "Recollect"; the two tracks were fundamentally re-worked in April 1967 at Olympic Studios. 

Following a three-week break from account while they played gigs in England, including a December 29 appearance on "Top of the Pops", the Experience reconvened at De Lane Lea on January 11, 1967. As "Hello Joe" was picking up diagram force in the UK, they started chipping away at their second single, which included Hendrix's second songwriting exertion, "Purple Haze", as its A-side. The track displayed a more mind boggling course of action than the band's past accounts, and required four hours of studio time to finish, which Chandler thought about excessive. The session was the first occasion when that he and the gathering had tried different things with guitar impacts. Acoustic specialist Roger Mayer acquainted Hendrix with the Octavia, an octave-multiplying impact pedal, in December 1966, and he originally recorded with the impact amid the guitar solo of "Purple Haze". At the point when Track Records sent the ace tapes for "Purple Haze" to Reprise for remastering, they composed on the tape box: "Conscious contortion. Try not to address." 

On January 11, 1967, the Experience chipped away at their third A-side, "The Wind Cries Mary", a tune that denoted their first utilization of overdubbing in lieu of retakes as a technique for accomplishing an acceptable track. Chandler clarified: "There were five guitar overdubs all connecting in together to seem like one guitar." The tune, which Redding and Mitchell had not yet heard before that day, was finished amid the session. Chandler had concluded that they should dispose of the harsh variant of "Third Stone from the Sun" from December 13 and re-record the tune; they finished an essential track for the piece, however were unfit to accomplish a completed ace. The gathering figured out how to deliver a worthy live account of the essential track for "Flame" after seven takes. Next, they endeavored Hendrix's recently composed ditty, "The Wind Cries Mary". Without the advantage of practices, the band recorded the melody in one take, to which Hendrix included a few guitar overdubs; Chandler assessed that they went through around 20 minutes on the finished mood track. As per Chandler, at this point Redding and Mitchell had started to gripe about their constrained information. Chandler clarified that monetary contemplations impacted the innovative dynamic: "[They] were kind of battling the way that they had no state amid chronicle sessions ... they were beginning to think of proposals, but ... We didn't should be contending with Noel for ten minutes and Mitch for five ... We just couldn't manage the cost of the time." 

Between January 12 and February 2, 1967, the Experience enjoyed a reprieve from chronicle while they played 20 dates in England, including a second appearance on "Top of the Pops", on January 18. Chandler was disappointed with the sound nature of the January 11 chronicles and baffled by the expansive number of commotion objections that they had gotten from individuals living and working close De Lane Lea. He clarified: "There was a bank over the studio ... furthermore, it was when PCs were simply coming in ... we would play so uproarious that it would mess up the PCs upstairs." Brian Jones and Bill Wyman of the Rolling Stones urged Chandler to attempt Olympic Studios, which was viewed as the top autonomous London studio. In spite of the developing graph achievement of their first single, Chandler's cash issues endured. Olympic required development installment for studio time, yet Polydor had not yet discharged any assets to Track for dispensing. At the point when Chandler went to Polydor requesting alleviation they reacted by promising him a credit extension at Olympic. 

With his spending concerns mitigated, Chandler booked time at Olympic, where on February 3, 1967, he and the Experience met sound architect Eddie Kramer. Amid Kramer's first session with the gathering, he veered off from the standard account strategy that they had been utilizing at CBS and De Lane Lea, which was to record bass and drums in mono on two tracks. He rather recorded Mitchell's drums on two tracks in surround sound, leaving the staying two tracks accessible for Redding's bass and musicality guitar parts played by Hendrix. Kramer's irregular methodology, which was propelled by Hendrix's grumblings with respect to the impediments of four-track accounts, caught the live stable of the band utilizing each of the four accessible tracks. Kramer and Chandler then pre-blended and diminished the initial four tracks down to two, making two additional tracks accessible for lead guitar overdubs and vocals. This strategy fulfilled both Hendrix's hairsplitting and Chandler's craving to diminish the quantity of takes required for an attractive mood track, subsequently limiting their costs. Another change actuated by Kramer was the utilization of a blend of close and far off receiver positions when recording Hendrix's guitar parts though, amid past sessions, the mouthpieces had been put around twelve feet from Hendrix's intensifiers. Notwithstanding the standard decisions, Kramer utilized Beyer M1 60 lace amplifiers, which were regularly not used to record boisterous music. 

Amid the February 3, 1967, session at Olympic, the Experience improved the January 11 ace tape of "Purple Haze" by re-recording the vocal and lead guitar parts, and including another Octavia guitar overdub, which was accelerated and panned toward the finish of the tune. The gathering reconvened at Olympic on February 7, proceeding with their work on "Purple Haze" by chronicle Hendrix's mood guitar and vocal parts, just as Redding's experience vocals. They invested energy overdubbing encompassing foundation sounds by playing tapes through a lot of earphones that were held almost a receiver, making a reverberation impact as the earphones were drawn nearer; they finished a last blend of "Purple Haze" the next day. Amid the session, they dealt with the De Lane Lea ace tape of "Flame", supplanting everything aside from Redding's bass line, which he twofold followed with an end goal to emphasize the account's lower frequencies. Kramer put the second bass line on a devoted track and mixed Redding's unique bass line with Mitchell's recently recorded drum part. They likewise recorded Mitchell and Redding's supporting vocals. "Charming Lady" was additionally adjusted on February 8; Redding recorded another bass line and Hendrix and Mitchell added overdubs to their current parts. In the wake of chronicle backing vocals by Redding and lead vocals from Hendrix, Kramer arranged the melody's last blend. 

Hendrix was not as sure an artist as he was a guitarist, and in light of the fact that he firmly despised anybody watching him sing he asked the specialists at Olympic to develop a security hindrance among him and the control room. This made issues when the studio lights were low, and the designers were unfit to see him, making his viewable signs and prompts hard to convey. Just like the case at De Lane Lea, Hendrix's inclination for utilizing numerous enhancers at outrageous volume drew analysis and protests from the general population living and working close to the studio. Olympic tape administrator George Chkiantz reviewed: "At times, it got so uproarious we'd turn the [control booth] screens off and there was actually quite little contrast." Chkiantz noticed that responses to Hendrix's music were not constantly constructive: "I appear to review a great deal of artists, many individuals, saying, 'I can't perceive what all the whine is about myself', or 'I don't have a clue how you tune in to such commotion; I'd be terrified to work with him' ... Chas was persuaded that he was on to something. Not every person was persuaded that Chas was correct." Another issue that confused the sessions were the extensive number of female fans who might appear at the studio needing to watch the Experience record. As a propensity, Hendrix would unpredictably tell individuals where they would be on some random day, which prompted huge gatherings of fans tailing him all over the place. Olympic workers were entrusted with monitoring them and at a sheltered separation in order to not unduly load the chronicle procedure. Chkiantz remarked: "It was unprecedented. I worked with the Stones. I worked with the Beatles. I worked with Led Zeppelin. I was not as nervous; it was not as troublesome similarly as with Hendrix. It was something of an open house. Hendrix was not troublesome by any means, yet I for one would have favored not to have heaps of young ladies prowling in the woodwork." 

On February 20, 1967, the Experience kept dealing with "Are You Experienced", however planning clashes at Olympic drove Chandler to book time at De Lane Lea. Amid the session they recorded "I Don't Live Today", which highlighted a manual wah impact that originated before the pedal unit. They figured out how to finish a functioning expert before the day's over, however Hendrix in the end recorded another lead vocal at Olympic. 

The Experience took seven days break from account while playing gigs in England, and came back to De Lane Lea on March 1, 1967, to endeavor a studio recording of Bob Dylan's "Like a Rolling Stone". In spite of the fact that the melody had for some time been a staple of the gathering's live show, they neglected to accomplish a worthy fundamental track, owing for the most part to Mitchell's failure to keep predictable time amid the session. 

The second Experience single, "Purple Haze"/"51st Anniversary", was discharged on March 1. It entered the UK singles diagram on the 23rd, topping at number three. Amid that month, the band took another long break from account while they played gigs in Belgium, Germany, and the UK, including appearances on the UK TV program "Dee Time" and the BBC radio show "Saturday Club". Planning clashes at Olympic drove Chandler to book a March 29 session at De Lane Lea. On this date the band took a shot at another recently composed Hendrix piece, "Hyper Depression"; they completed a harsh blend before the finish of the session that was later rejected for a re-blend finished at Olympic. On April 3, the Experience came back to Olympic, including overdubs and finishing last blends on a few incomplete bosses. Amid the eight-hour session, the band recorded three new melodies, including "Interstate Chile", "May This Be Love", and "Would you say you are Experienced?". As the collection's title track highlighted in reverse cadence guitar, bass, and drums, replication of the beat caused Mitchell some dismay while endeavoring the melody live. Chandler finished last blends for "I Don't Live Today", "Are You Experienced?", and "May This Be Love" before the finish of a session that Kramer portrayed as "sorted out." 

With an end goal to free up space for Hendrix's lead vocals, further decrease blending was finished for "Are You Experienced?" amid a session at Olympic on April 4, 1967. With the title track total, the Experience moved their concentration to the January 11 unpleasant demo of "Third Stone from the Sun". Chandler concluded that they should dispose of the first De Lane Lea tape and record another adaptation of the tune. Amid the session, Kramer arranged a decrease blend of "Interstate Chile", which made two tracks accessible for Hendrix's lead guitar and vocal overdubs. In spite of the fact that sound system and mono blends were finished for the tune, Chandler favored the mono adaptation, which he combined with "The Wind Cries Mary" for discharge as the gathering's third UK single. A decrease blend was set up for "Affection or Confusion", and Hendrix exploited the recently empty tracks by including lead guitar and vocals. A last blend was finished before the finish of the session. On April 5, Chandler partook in an acing session at Rye Muse Studios for "Expressway Chile" and "The Wind Cries Mary", amid which arrangements were made with the goal that Track could start fabricating vinyls. On the tenth, he and the Experience came back to Olympic, spending the greater part of the session on altering exchange sections for "Third Stone from the Sun", which were then backed off and blended into the melody. Kramer focused his endeavors on the melody's muddled blend: "The tune resembled a watercolor painting ... each track was made out of four, genuinely thick composite pictures." 

After the April 10, 1967, recording session, the Experience went through the following two weeks playing shows and going to limited time appearances in England, including a spot on the BBC TV program "Monday" and BBC2's "Late Night Line-Up". Chandler, Hendrix, and Kramer finished the last blending of "Are You Experienced" at Olympic by 3 a.m. on April 25. Chandler had consented to try out the completed LP for Polydor's head of A&R, Horst Schmaltze, at 11 a.m., so following a couple of long periods of rest he arranged a reasonable vinyl demo and ventured out to Polydor. Chandler reviewed: "As Horst began to put the needle on the record, I broke out in a virus sweat, thinking ... when he hears this present, he's going to arrange the men in white coats to take me away ... Horst played the main side through and didn't let out the slightest peep. At that point he turned the circle over and played the opposite side. I began pondering how I was going to work out of this. Toward the second's end side, he just sat there. At long last, he stated, 'This is splendid. This is the best thing I've at any point heard.'" Horst promptly turned into a fervent supporter of the collection and the band, advocating the showcasing and conveyance of their introduction LP. 

As indicated by Hendrix biographer Harry Shapiro, the music on "Are You Experienced" consolidates an assortment of music kinds from beat and blues to free jazz; creator Peter Doggett noticed its "wide assortment of styles", while columnist Chris Welch said "each track has an alternate identity". Musicologist Gilbert Chase attested that the collection "denoted a high crest in hard shake", and music faultfinder Jim DeRogatis portrayed the LP and its former singles as "crude, centered hallucinogenic shake". A contemporary audit distributed in "Newsweek" in October 1967 distinguished the impact of soul music on the Experience and the collection. In 1989, "Hit Parader" magazine positioned it number 35 of every a rundown of the best 100 substantial metal collections. In 2006, essayist and filer Reuben Jackson of the Smithsonian Institution stated: "it's as yet a milestone recording since it is of the stone, R&B, blues ... melodic custom. It adjusted the language structure of the music ... in a way I contrast with, state, James Joyce's "Ulysses"." 

Included on the UK release of "Are You Experienced" were two tracks that spoken to the music Hendrix had played in the US before the arrangement of the Experience: the blues track "Red House" and the musicality and blues melody "Recollect". The collection's hallucinogenic title track, which creator Sean Egan portrayed as impressionistic, included the post-current soundscapes of in reverse guitar and drums that pre-date scratching by 10 years. Musicologist Ritchie Unterberger considers the verses to "I Don't Live Today" to be more at home in a gothic shake setting than in psychedelia, notwithstanding; he depicts the music as being "played and sung with an exuberance that gives a false representation of the obscurity of the verses." The melody's innate rhythms filled in as a stage for Hendrix's inventive guitar input act of spontaneities. While "Flame" is a funk and soul cross breed driven by Mitchell's drumming, "May This Be Love" and "The Wind Cries Mary" are delicate ditties that exhibit Hendrix's capacity to compose insightful verses and inconspicuous songs. The impact of raga shake can be heard in his sitar-like guitar solo on "Adoration or Confusion". "Would you be able to See Me" is an uptempo rocker that includes Hendrix's twofold followed vocals and his utilization of a one-note twist in the style of Hank Marvin. In spite of the fact that "Hello Joe" is a society tune, and the main spread on the collection, it would wind up a standout amongst Hendrix's most mentioned tracks. 

The UK version of "Are You Experienced" opened with "Charming Lady", a track that, except for a couple overdubs, was recorded in one session at CBS. Hendrix composed the melody about Heather Taylor, a London socialite who later wedded the Who's Roger Daltrey. It starts with the blur in of a F note that Hendrix is twisting up to F while applying liberal finger vibrato. Utilizing his guitar's control handle, he gradually builds volume until a sound input circle forms and he slides into the tune's predominant Fm7 harmony. Hendrix utilized a blend of regular enhancer overdrive and fluff box impacts units to make the tune's dangerously sharp guitar tone. Its blues– roused solo—his fourth since touching base in England—utilized pentatonic scales while displaying his imaginative way to deal with song; by misusing the expanded continue made by overdriving his enhancers, he moved consistently between the center and high registers with a liquid, singing tone. Creator Peter Doggett contrasted its moderate beat with Memphis soul; David Stubbs portrayed the track as a model for substantial metal groups, for example, Black Sabbath. 

In spite of the fact that the verses to "Purple Haze", which opened the US release of "Are You Experienced", are frequently confounded as portraying a corrosive trek, Hendrix clarified: "[It] was about a fantasy I had that I was strolling under the ocean." He hypothesized that the fantasy may have been roused by a sci-fi tale about a purple demise beam. Redding expressed that Hendrix had not yet taken LSD at the season of the melody's composition, which was after a gig in London on December 26, 1966. The principal draft of the verses was exceedingly long, so Chandler and Hendrix diminished its length to something suitable for standard popular music. It opens with a guitar/bass agreement in the interim of a tritone that was known as the "diabolus in musica" amid the season of the Spanish Inquisition. The Catholic Church precluded medieval writers of religious music from utilizing the tritone, or straightened fifth, in light of the fact that as musicologist Dave Whitehill stated: "to play it resembled ringing Satan's doorbell." In the conclusion of the writer Ritchie Unterberger, the opening riff has "become a lasting piece of shake's vocabulary." Whereas "Moving Stone" portrayed the melody as the start generally 1960s psychedelia, the writers Harry Shapiro and Caesar Glebbeek distinguished Hendrix's utilization of R&B, funk, and soul components in the track. 

In 1967, Hendrix told the writer Keith Altham that "Third Stone from the Sun" is about a meeting space outsider, endless supply of the human species, chooses that individuals are not fit to manage Earth, obliterates their development, and spots the planet being taken care of by chickens. The tune is made out of two differentiating areas, one that includes an energetic guitar song played in the style of Wes Montgomery over a direct shake rhythm, and another that features Hendrix's freestyle mixolydian mode guitar lines with a jazz beat. The track contains no appropriate vocals, rather utilizing spoken words played at half-speed to conjure pictures of interstellar space travel. Notwithstanding jazz components, Unterberger distinguished Hendrix's utilization of surf music themes in the track that are reminiscent of prior works by the Ventures, a gathering from the Pacific Northwest that Hendrix would have heard amid his adolescence. 

Hendrix depicted "Hyper Depression" as "monstrous occasions music"; amid a live act he clarified the significance of the verses: "It's a tale about a feline wishing he could have intercourse to music rather than a similar old ordinary lady." The melody is uncommon in that its written in triple meter, or 3/4 time, which is the time signature ordinarily connected with a three step dance; most shake music is written in 4/4. In spite of the fact that his conveyance is shake situated, Mitchell's drumming on the track is reminiscent of Elvin Jones' liquid jazz designs. Musicologist Andy Aledort noticed Hendrix's "sensational utilization of chromaticism" amid the tune's opening bars and the "vigorously vibratoed harmony twists" that augur what he portrayed as a standout amongst Hendrix's best guitar performances. 

"The Wind Cries Mary" is the principal number recorded by the Experience; Hendrix composed the verses after a contention with his sweetheart, Kathy Etchingham, whose center name is Mary. She clarified: "I crushed plates on the floor, [and] he cleared them up. He secured me in the washroom for totally ages and ... in the end Chas' better half Lotta let me out ... I headed out to get a taxi and was remaining under the traffic lights, and I had red hair and a red dress. I returned after I'd chilled off and he'd officially composed it." The tune highlighted a harmony movement roused by Curtis Mayfield and verses that mirrored Hendrix's profound respect of Bob Dylan. "Stone Free" communicated Hendrix's craving to protect his individual flexibility, disputing the ideas of congruity and long haul connections. He returned to this topic in "51st Anniversary" and "Expressway Chile". Overlooked from the American variant of the collection, "Red House" did not see an official discharge in the US until the 1969 aggregation "Raving successes". An unordinary highlight of the account is that it does exclude a low pitch guitar track; Redding rather played mood guitar with his leveling set firmly for bass tones. It is Hendrix's solitary unique twelve-bar blues. 

Chris Stamp planned the front of the UK form of "Are You Experienced", which included an image of Hendrix, Mitchell, and Redding by Bruce Fleming. The picture demonstrates Hendrix wearing a long dim cape while remaining over Mitchell and Redding, striking what Egan portrayed as a "Dracula-esque posture". Chandler reached Fleming dependent on the picture taker's past work with the Hollies, the Dave Clark Five, and the Animals. The photograph shoot occurred in February in the wake of Fleming had gone to a few chronicle sessions and Experience gigs. Chandler tried mentioning that the band part's appearances be obviously unmistakable in the photo; Fleming clarified: "[Album covers] got considerably more obscure as time went on, yet to build up the craftsman we needed to get their countenances crosswise over so the children would remember them." He took monochrome and shading shots of the band; Track chosen a picture from the last gathering. Fleming had demonstrated which picture he favored they use, denoting the shot with a cross, yet after the collection's discharge he understood that they had chosen another, less attractive picture. As indicated by Fleming, the shot that he picked was "progressively vile; additionally intriguing". Stamp procured visual craftsman Alan Aldridge to plan the sleeve's hallucinogenic lettering. Track mysteriously put just the collection's title on the spread, precluding the band's name; Polydor issued the discharge all through Europe with Hendrix's name printed at the top in coordinating text style. The spread craftsmanship's blend of dull green and dark colored tones, compared with the funny idea of the subject's posture, made a powerless by and large visual impression; Stamp remarked: "It is anything but an extraordinary spread by any stretch of the imagination. Ideally, we compensated for that in the various spreads." 

Hendrix despised the UK front of "Are You Experienced", so game plans were made for a photograph shoot with visual creator Karl Ferris. Hendrix needed "something hallucinogenic", so he mentioned Ferris in light of the fact that he valued the picture taker's sleeve-deal with the Hollies' June 1967 discharge "Advancement". Amid a gathering with the band, Ferris disclosed to Hendrix that he needed to hear a greater amount of their music from which to draw motivation. They obliged his solicitation by enabling him to go to a few sessions for their second collection, "". Ferris brought home tapes from the sessions, which alongside "Are You Experienced" he tuned in to eagerly. His early introduction of the music was that it was "so out of sight it appeared to originate from space", which motivated him to build up a backstory about an "amass going through space in a Biosphere on their approach to convey their unworldly space music to earth." With this idea at the top of the priority list, he took shading photos of the band at Kew Gardens in London, utilizing a fisheye focal point which was then famous in Mod sub-culture. Ferris utilized what Egan portrayed as "his very own infrared strategy development which joined shading inversion with warmth signature", further upgrading the fascinating idea of the picture. Ferris was an accomplished style picture taker, and his enthusiasm for the better subtleties of his spreads drove him to pick the band's closet. Subsequent to seeing Hendrix with his hair brushed far from the scalp, Ferris mentioned that he wear it that path amid the photograph shoot. Hendrix's better half, Kathy Etchingham, cut his hair to improve its symmetry, shaping an afro that turned into the premise of a homogenized Experience picture. Redding and Mitchell preferred Hendrix's new haircut, so Ferris contracted a beautician to style their hair likewise. In the wake of obtaining attire for Redding and Mitchell at the boutiques on King's Road—Hendrix wore garments from his closet, incorporating a hallucinogenic coat with a couple of eyes imprinted on the front which had been given to him by a fan—the Experience ventured out to Kew Gardens. With an end goal to concentrate staring Hendrix in the face, Ferris shot the band at a low point. The sunshine blurred not long after their landing in the greenery enclosure, so they restored the next day for a second shoot, which was not required; the picture chose for the US front of "Are You Experienced" was the primary shot taken the earlier day. Ferris picked the spread's yellow foundation and its dreamlike lettering, and he expected for a finished gatefold coat that Reprise, as a cost-sparing measure, did not support. 

The third Experience single, "The Wind Cries Mary" supported by "Parkway Chile", was discharged in the UK on May 5, 1967, while "Purple Haze" involved the number three spot in the graphs. The administration's choice to discharge the single while the past one was as yet present in the UK graphs was unconventional, just like the decision of "The Wind Cries Mary", which varied incredibly from "Purple Haze". Stamp reviewed: "We did that on purpose ... We needed musically to indicate who this individual was." Egan stated: "It cautioned general society to the way that the purported Wild Man of Borneo was equipped for melodies of delicacy and affectability." "The Wind Cries Mary" achieved number six in the UK in May. 

Track Records discharged "Are You Experienced" in the UK on May 12, 1967. It entered the graphs on May 27, where it went through 33 weeks, topping at number two. It stayed in the graphs sufficiently long that it was as yet present when the Experience discharged their second collection, "". The collection, which was discharged in the UK without the initial three singles, was kept from achieving the top spot by the Beatles' "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band". 

In France and the Benelux nations, Hendrix's accounts were discharged by Barclay Records in an appropriation bargain verified by Jeffery. 

Albeit well known in Europe at the time, the Experience's first US single, "Hello Joe", neglected to come to the "Announcement" Hot 100 outline upon its discharge on May 1, 1967. The gathering's fortunes improved when Paul McCartney prescribed them to the coordinators of the Monterey Pop Festival. He demanded that the occasion would be fragmented without Hendrix, whom he called "an outright pro on the guitar", and he consented to join the leading group of coordinators depending on the prerequisite that the Experience perform at the celebration in mid-June. Amid the peak of the celebration, which was shot by D. A. Pennebaker for the narrative "Monterey Pop", Hendrix consumed and crushed his guitar in front of an audience for emotional impact. 

After the show-taking execution, Reprise Records consented to appropriate "Are You Experienced". In any case, in spite of the expanded mindfulness that the Experience's execution at Monterey gave, the second Experience single, "Purple Haze"/"The Wind Cries Mary", discharged in the US on August 16, 1967, slowed down at number 65 on the "Board" Hot 100. In spite of the fact that the single performed ineffectively in the US graphs, its quality on underground FM radio stations, which were changing from simple tuning in and traditional music organizations to collection cuts, essentially supported offers of the LP. Repeat distributed a $20,000 special spending plan for the LP, which was an exceptional sum for a problematic craftsman. Discharged in the US on August 23 by Reprise, "Are You Experienced" achieved number five on the "Bulletin" 200. The collection stayed on "Billboard"s collection graph for 106 weeks, 27 of those in the Top 40. The North American version of "Are You Experienced" highlighted another spread by Karl Ferris and another track list, with Reprise excluding "Red House", "Recall", and "Would you be able to See Me", and including the initial three A-sides discarded from the UK discharge: "Hello Joe", "Purple Haze", and "The Wind Cries Mary". 

"Are You Experienced" was a quick business achievement, selling more than one million duplicates inside seven months of its discharge. Checking on the collection in 1967, "Tune Maker" commended its aesthetic uprightness and the Experience's fluctuated utilization of beat. "NME" Keith Altham said it is "a courageous exertion by Hendrix to deliver a melodic structure which is unique and energizing". Nonetheless, not every contemporary essayist gave the LP a positive survey; in November 1967, "Moving Stone" Jon Landau composed that in spite of the fact that he looked at Hendrix as an "incredible guitarist and a splendid arranger", he objected to his singing and songwriting. He reprimanded the nature of the material and portrayed the verses as stupid: "Over this record is tenaciously brutal, and expressively, inartistically savage at that." 

Numerous music commentators have since named "Are You Experienced" as one of the best shake and move debut collections. Columnist Ritchie Unterberger depicted it as "one of the authoritative collections of the hallucinogenic time." Author Chris Smith said the discharge was "a milestone in a late spring of milestone collections". Noe Goldwasser, the establishing editorial manager of "Guitar World" magazine, called it "a veritable reading material of what an artist can do with his instrument" and "the measure by which everything ... in shake and roll has been looked at since." According to music writer Charles Shaar Murray, the collection "totally changed ideas of what a guitar could seem like, or to be sure, what music could seem like", while "The Miami Herald" credited "Are You Experienced" with presenting corrosive shake, great shake, and the guitar tasteful of substantial metal. Commentator Robert Christgau considered it a "stunner debut" in his audit for "Blender" and said its melodies were imaginative for how they used three-minute pop structures as a mechanism for Hendrix's uncommonly overwhelming and fierce guitar and noisy, amazing snares, which significantly spoke to youthful audience members. 

"Moving Stone" incorporates the collection and a few tunes on different "best of" records, for example, 

Moreover, "Magic" magazine recorded "Are You Experienced" as the best guitar collection ever (2003). In 2005, "Are You Experienced" was one of 50 chronicles picked by the Library of Congress to be added to the National Recording Registry, which chooses accounts yearly that are "socially, verifiably, or stylishly noteworthy". The collection was additionally incorporated into "A Basic Record Library" of 1960s accounts—distributed in "" (1981)— and in the book "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die". 

Since the main arrival of "Are You Experienced" in 1967, there have been six distinctive track postings. Since 1997, minimal circle releases in the US and UK highlight 17 tracks, including all melodies that showed up on either the first UK/universal version of the collection or the first North American release, just as the Experience's initial three singles ("Stone Free", "51st Anniversary", and "Roadway Chile"). 

"Are You Experienced" was first issued on the Compact Disk Digital Audio or CD group in 1985 by Polydor Records (Track's successor) in Europe and Reprise in the US. These early CDs basically duplicated the first LP record collections and utilized similar tracks, sequencing, and spread workmanship as their 1967 partners. Both were reissued with minor changes in 1989– 1991 and the Reprise discharge CD sleeve included "Computerized re-acing by Joe Gastwirt, helped by Dave Mitson utilizing the Sonic Solutions NoNoise System, under the supervision of Are You Experienced? Ltd." 

In 1993, Alan Douglas, who dealt with Hendrix's chronicle inventory, achieved a concurrence with MCA Records for the future arrivals of Hendrix material. He additionally reported designs for new reissues of the three Experience collections: "Everything in the present index is a spending discharge... They're every one of the 25-year-old bundles. I need to take it abnormal state... with all these new components". Alongside new fine art and liner takes note of, the MCA reissue was remastered with just a single track determination and request for both the European and America markets. The 17-track CD incorporated the initial three Experience British singles (both A-sides and B-sides), trailed by the 11 tunes as they showed up on the Track/Polydor UK collection discharge. 

The 1993 Douglas reissues were fleeting; in 1997, his residency as the regulator of Hendrix's index was taken over by Experience Hendrix (the Hendrix family-controlled organization). By April 1997, another reissue was discharged, which reestablished the first craftsmanship and sequencing for both the US and UK discharges. Be that as it may, the two reissues incorporated an extra six additional tracks, which gave a similar 17 tracks (all the first singles and collection tracks) in the UK and US, in spite of the fact that in an alternate request. Since 1997, these have been the authority approved CD adaptations of the first collections. In 2010, Sony's Legacy Recordings turned into the elite wholesaler for the chronicles overseen by Experience Hendrix.