Banksia telmatiaea 

Banksia telmatiaea, regularly known as bog fox banksia or seldom bog banksia, is a bush that develops in bogs and bogs along the lower west shore of Australia. It develops as an upstanding shrub up to tall, with restricted leaves and a pale darker bloom spike, which can deliver plentiful amounts of nectar. First gathered during the 1840s, it was not distributed as a different animal varieties until 1981; likewise with a few other comparable animal groups it was recently incorporated into "B. sphaerocarpa" (fox banksia). 

The bush develops among scrubland in occasionally wet marsh regions of the waterfront sandplain among Badgingarra and Serpentine in Western Australia. A little contemplated animal categories, very little is known about its environment or preservation science. Reports recommend that it is pollinated by an assortment of feathered creatures and little warm blooded animals. In the same way as other individuals from arrangement ""Abietinae"", it has not been considered to have much agricultural potential and is once in a while developed. 

"B. telmatiaea" develops as an upstanding bramble up to 2 m (7 ft) high. It has bushy stems and branchlets, and straight, tight leaves from 1½ to 3 centimetres (½– 1 inches) long and about a millimeter ( in) wide. The leaves have a green upper surface and white bushy undersurface. The new development is pale darker, later turning green. 

Blossoms happen in "bloom spikes", inflorescences made up of many bloom combines thickly stuffed around a woody hub. Emerging from short parallel branchlets off stems more seasoned than four years old, the inflorescence of "B. telmatiaea" is generally oval to round and hollow, with a tallness of 3– 5 cm (1– 2 in) and distance across of 4– 7 cm (1– 2 in). It contains somewhere in the range of 500 and 900 brilliant dark colored to pale darker blooms, every one of which comprises of a cylindrical perianth made up of four intertwined tepals, and one long wiry style. The styles are snared instead of straight, and are at first caught inside the upper perianth parts, yet break free at anthesis. The species for the most part blossoms from April to August, in spite of the fact that blooms have been seen as late as November. They take five to about a month and a half to create from bud, at that point achieve anthesis over a time of about fourteen days. The blossoms produce bizarrely substantial amounts of nectar; to be sure a few blooms produce so much that it dribbles to the ground. 

The fruiting structure is a heavy woody "cone", with a bushy appearance brought about by the diligence of old shriveled blossom parts. Up to 70 woody follicles, every one of which contains a solitary seed, might be inserted in the cone. Likewise with other "Banksia" species, just a little extent of blossoms proceed to frame follicles; on account of "B. telmatiaea", the extent is around 4% for those "cones" that set some organic product. About 80% of fruiting structures set no natural product by any stretch of the imagination. As indicated by John K. Scott, "there [is] no conspicuous reason based on morphology of fertilization for this absence of seed set". 

"B. telmatiaea" was first gathered around 1840 by Ludwig Preiss and James Drummond. For a long time it was incorporated into "B. sphaerocarpa", however by 1980 it was perceived as a particular animal groups. In acknowledgment of its uniqueness from, yet liking with, "B. sphaerocarpa", it was for a period casually alluded to as "Banksia" aff. "Sphaerocarpa". It was in the long run distributed by Alex George in his 1981 monograph "The variety Banksia L.f. (Proteaceae)", in light of an example gathered by him on the Brand Highway about 45 kilometres (28 miles) north of Regans Ford on 14 May 1969, and named "A.S. George 9309". He thought that it was most intently looked like "B. leptophylla", yet respected its inclination for swampy as opposed to sandy soils and winter blooming as deserving of justifying species status. George gave it the particular name "telmatiaea" from the Greek stem "telmat-"/τελματ-("the mud of a lake"), in reference to its swampy natural surroundings. Along these lines the full name for the species is "Banksia telmatiaea" A.S.George. Normal names for "B. telmatiaea" incorporate bog fox banksia and bog banksia. 

George put "B. telmatiaea" in subgenus "Banksia" since its inflorescence is an ordinary "Banksia" blossom spike, area "Oncostylis" in light of the fact that it has snared styles, and arrangement "Abietinae" on the grounds that its inflorescence is generally round. He believed its nearest with respect to be "B. leptophylla" (Slender-leaved Banksia), which contrasts from "B. telmatiaea" in having longer leaves and bigger blossoms; yet in his game plan he put it between "B. scabrella" (Burma Road Banksia) and "B. laricina" (Rose-fruited Banksia). 

In 1996, Kevin Thiele and Pauline Ladiges distributed the aftereffects of a cladistic examination of morphological characters of "Banksia". They held George's subgenera and a significant number of his arrangement, however disposed of his segments. "B." ser. "Abietinae" was observed to be practically monophyletic, thus held. It further settled into four subclades, so Thiele and Ladiges split it into four subseries. "B. telmatiaea" showed up in the third of these: 

This clade turned into the premise of "B." subser. "Leptophyllae", which Thiele characterized as containing those species with "indurated and spinescent normal bracts on the infructescence tomahawks, and thickly arachnose seedling stems." In understanding with their cladogram, their course of action set "B. telmatiaea" by "B. scabrella". 

Thiele and Ladiges' course of action was not acknowledged by George, and was generally disposed of by him in his 1999 plan. "B." ser. "Abietinae" was reestablished to George's 1981 circumscription, and all of Thiele and Ladiges' subseries were relinquished. "B. telmatiaea" was moved in the phyletic request to between "B. grossa" (Coarse Banksia) and "B. leptophylla", in this way better concurring with the liking with "B. leptophylla" guaranteed by George in 1981. 

The situation of "B. telmatiaea" in George's 1999 game plan might be outlined as pursues: 

Since 1998, Austin Mast has been distributing aftereffects of progressing cladistic examinations of DNA arrangement information for the subtribe Banksiinae. His examinations propose a phylogeny that is altogether different from George's game plan. As for "B. telmatiaea", Mast's outcomes accord intimately with Thiele and Ladiges' course of action, deducing a polytomous clade comprising of "B. leptophylla", "B. telmatiaea", "B. scabrella" and "B. lanata", with "B. grossa" (Coarse Banksia) as the closest outgroup: 

Right off the bat in 2007, Mast and Thiele started an adjustment of "Banksia" by combining "Dryandra" into it, and distributing "B." subg. "Spathulatae" for the taxa having spoon-molded cotyledons. They foreshadowed distributing a full course of action once DNA examining of "Dryandra" was finished; meanwhile, on the off chance that Mast and Thiele's nomenclatural changes are taken as a break plan, at that point "B. telmatiaea" is set in "B." subg. "Spathulatae". 

"B. telmatiaea" becomes just in the Swan Coastal Plain, Geraldton Sandplains and Jarrah Forest biogeographic locales, inland from the coast however never east of the Darling Scarp. It happens from Hill River close Badgingarra in the north, to Serpentine in the south. Most populaces happen north of Moore River or south of Cannington, there being just a couple of dissipated populaces in the middle. 

The species favors swamp regions that are occasionally wet however never immersed, for example, the edges of bogs and bogs. For instance, in the Yule Brook Botany Reserve, where parallel sand edges cross a dirt level, "B. telmatiaea" happens neither in the least pieces of the level, where regular immersion happens; nor on the highest points of the edges, where the waste is great; however it is a standout amongst the most rich plants of middle of the road environments, on edge slants and in higher territories of the mud level. 

Favored soils are profound dark sandy topsoils or shallower sand overlying claypan. Related vegetation is regularly scrubland or shrubland, in spite of the fact that dampness adoring trees, for example, "B. littoralis" (swamp banksia) or "Melaleuca preissiana" (moonah) may likewise be available, now and again in adequate numbers to frame a low open forest. 

Like most other Proteaceae, "B. telmatiaea" has proteoid roots, roots with thick bunches of short sidelong rootlets that structure a tangle in the dirt just beneath the leaf litter. These roots are especially effective at retaining supplements from supplement poor soils, for example, the phosphorus-insufficient local soils of Australia. 

Not at all like many "Banksia" species, "B. telmatiaea" comes up short on a lignotuber, so plants are slaughtered by bushfire. It is adjusted to discharge its aeronautical seed bank following a bushfire, thus recovers quickly. This conduct, known as serotiny, makes "B. telmatiaea" subordinate upon an appropriate flame routine for effective recovery; without a doubt, unreasonable flame recurrence might be one motivation behind why "B. telmatiaea" does not happen further south, in spite of reasonable environment all through southwest Australia. Not at all like most serotinous "Banksia" species, the seeds of "B. telmatiaea" are not discharged following the section of a bushfire. The follicles open straight away, yet at first the seeds are shut from dropping out by the winged seed separator. Whenever dampened, these wings close up, and as they dry they open out once more, turning the seeds out of position, making it feasible for them to fall. This adjustment guarantees that seeds are discharged simply after the main downpours following a bushfire. 

Four types of flying creature have been watched visiting the blooms of "B. telmatiaea": the red wattlebird ("Anthochaera carunculata"), silvereye ("Zosterops lateralis"), New Holland honeyeater ("Phylidonyris novaehollandiae") and the darker honeyeater ("Lichmera indistincta"). The presented European bumble bee ("Apis mellifera") is additionally usually watched, and visits by ants and "Hylaeus" plasterer honey bees have been recorded. Visits by nectarivorous warm blooded animals have not been straightforwardly watched, however their contribution in fertilization is sure, as their scats have regularly been found on inflorescences, and investigations of other "Banksia" species have reliably exhibited their inclusion. In addition, various attributes of the "B. telmatiaea" spike are indicated to be adjustments to fertilization by nighttime warm blooded animals: the solid, musky scent, the event of inflorescences covered up inside the foliage near the ground, the a lot of nectar delivered, and the example of nectar generation, which crests at sunrise and nightfall. This last adjustment is thought to support visits by winged creatures and warm blooded creatures, which feed toward the beginning of the day and night individually, instead of creepy crawlies, which are most dynamic amid the day. 

Regenerative achievement is firmly influenced by bugs that plague the blossom spikes and fruiting structures. Pervasion of the blossom spikes isn't as serious as in other "Banksia" species: one examination found under 10% of "B. telmatiaea" inflorescences to be invaded, contrasted with over half for "B. attenuata" (candle banksia), "B. littoralis" and "B. menziesii" (Menzies' banksia), and over 90% for "B. grandis" (bull banksia). Additionally, while different species were assaulted by a scope of bugs, the inflorescence of "B. telmatiaea" was assaulted just by the tortrix moth "Arotrophora arcuatalis" (banksia exhausting moth), which tunnels into the woody pivot, rendering the spike desolate. Then again, a similar report watched overwhelming pervasion of fruiting structures, with over 90% of spikes with follicles found to contain something like one hatchling of a unidentified types of moth of the family "Xylorycta". These hatchlings tunnel from follicle to follicle to eat the seed, bringing about 100% seed misfortune for invaded spikes. 

"B. telmatiaea" is one of five "Banksia" animal varieties, all firmly identified with "B. sphaerocarpa", that have profoundly unordinary blossom nectar. Though other "Banksia" species produce nectar that is clear and watery, the nectar of these species is light yellow at first, yet bit by bit ends up darker and thicker, changing to a thick, olive-green adhesive inside one to two days of emission. On account of "B. telmatiaea", it in the long run turns into "a practically dark, thick irregularity clinging to the base of the blooms". This abnormal nectar was first noted in 1980 by Byron Lamont, who ascribed its change to the cyanobacteria that he watched bolstering off the nectar sugars. Taking note of that a considerable lot of these cyanobacteria had heterocysts, he guessed that they help the plant by fixing climatic nitrogen, which is then washed off the blossom heads by downpour, and consumed by the proteoid root tangle. This indicated advantageous interaction was researched in 1985, however no proof of nitrogen fixing was found. Further examinations in 1996 recommended that the discolouration isn't brought about by cyanobacteria or different microorganisms in the nectar, however is somewhat "a synthetic wonder of plant birthplace". As of February 2007, the reason was as yet obscure. Concoction investigation of "B. telmatiaea" nectar has appeared at have an ordinary nectar sugar piece, but overwhelmed by sucrose. 

"B. telmatiaea" is a genuinely secure animal categories, as most populaces are of in excess of 100 plants, and 26% of realized plants are in preservation holds. Its vicinity to Perth proposes that land clearing for urban improvement could represent a danger, and in 1988 "The Banksia Atlas" suggested that "the species should keep on being checked since land clearing could change the circumstance significantly, especially among its northern populaces." It is additionally known to be defenseless to dieback brought about by the presented plant pathogen "Phytophthora cinnamomi", a dirt borne water shape that causes root decay; in certainty it is so dependably vulnerable that it is utilized as a marker species for the nearness of the malady. An appraisal of the potential effect of environmental change on this species found that extreme change is probably going to prompt elimination; however under less serious change situations the dissemination may really develop, contingent upon how viably it can move into recently livable territories. 

In 1987, George connected the Rare or Threatened Australian Plants (ROTAP) criteria to the species, deciding it to have a protection status of "3R": an uncommon species found just in little populaces, yet not thought about imperiled or helpless. Western Australia's Department of Parks and Wildlife don't believe it to be uncommon, and have excluded it on their Declared Rare and Priority Flora List. 

"B. telmatiaea" is once in a while developed. It develops decently fast, yet will in general become messy as it ages. The blossom spikes, however appealing, happen inside the bramble where they are normally darkened by foliage. In its normal territory it blooms productively more than a while, yet as indicated by George it might be hesitant to blossom in development. It endures light pruning not underneath the green foliage. George prescribes a bright position in inadequately depleted soil, ideally with dampness in winter. Seeds don't require any treatment, and take around 14 days to develop.