Anne of Denmark 

Anne of Denmark (; 12 December 1574 – 2 March 1619) was Queen associate of Scotland, England, and Ireland by marriage to King James VI and I. 

The second little girl of King Frederick II of Denmark, Anne wedded James in 1589 at age 15 and bore him three youngsters who endure earliest stages, including the future Charles I. She showed a free streak and an ability to utilize factional Scottish governmental issues in her contentions with James over the guardianship of Prince Henry and his treatment of her companion Beatrix Ruthven. Anne seems to have adored James at first, however the couple step by step floated and in the end lived separated, however shared regard and a level of love endure. 

In England, Anne moved her energies from factional governmental issues to support of expressions of the human experience and developed her own eminent court, facilitating one of the most extravagant social salons in Europe. After 1612, she endured supported episodes of sick wellbeing and progressively pulled back from the focal point of court life. In spite of the fact that she was accounted for to have been a Protestant at the season of her passing, proof proposes that she may have changed over to Catholicism at some point in her life. 

Students of history have generally expelled Anne as a lightweight ruler, pointless and liberal. Notwithstanding, late reappraisals recognize Anne's self-assured freedom and, specifically, her dynamic essentialness as a supporter of expressions of the human experience amid the Jacobean age. 

Anne was conceived on 12 December 1574 at the palace of Skanderborg on the Jutland Peninsula in the Kingdom of Denmark. Her introduction to the world came as a hit to her dad, King Frederick II of Denmark, who was frantically seeking after a child. Yet, her mom, Sophie of Mecklenburg-Güstrow, was just 17; after three years she bore Frederick a child, the future Christian IV of Denmark. 

With her more established sister, Elizabeth, Anne was sent to be raised at Güstrow by her maternal grandparents, the Duke and Duchess of Mecklenburg. Contrasted and the meandering Danish court, where King Frederick was infamous for colossal dinners, overwhelming drinking and eager conduct (counting conjugal disloyalty), Güstrow furnished Anne with a parsimonious and stable life amid her initial adolescence. Christian was additionally sent to be raised at Güstrow yet after two years, in 1579, the Rigsraad (Danish Privy Council) effectively mentioned his evacuation to Denmark, and Anne and Elizabeth came back with him. 

Anne appreciated a nearby, glad family childhood in Denmark, on account of Queen Sophie, who breast fed the kids through their ailments herself. Suitors from all over Europe looked for the hands of Anne and Elizabeth in marriage, including James VI of Scotland, who favored Denmark as a kingdom improved in religion and a productive exchanging accomplice. 

James' different genuine plausibility, however 8 years his senior, was Catherine, sister of the Huguenot King Henry III of Navarre (future Henry IV of France), who was supported by Elizabeth I of England. Scottish ministers had at first focused their suit on the most established little girl, yet Frederick pledged Elizabeth to Henry Julius, Duke of Brunswick, promising the Scots rather that "for the second [daughter] Anna, if the King liked her, he ought to have her." 

The sacred position of Sophie, Anne's mom, wound up troublesome after Frederick's passing in 1588, when she ended up in a power battle with the Rigsraad for control of King Christian. As a relational arranger, be that as it may, Sophie demonstrated more industrious than Frederick and, beating staying focuses on the measure of the share and the status of Orkney, she fixed the understanding by July 1589. Anne herself appears to have been excited with the match. On 28 July 1589, the English covert operative Thomas Fowler revealed that Anne was "so far in adoration with the King's Majesty figuratively speaking demise to her to have it severed and hath made great verification jumpers methods for her warmth which his Majestie is adept not the slightest bit to compensate." Fowler's suggestion, that James favored men to ladies, would have been avoided the fourteen-year-old Anne, who devotedly weaved shirts for her life partner while three hundred tailors took a shot at her wedding dress. 

Whatever reality of the bits of gossip, James required a regal match to protect the Stuart line. "God is my observer", he clarified, "I could have went without longer than the weal of my nation could have allowed, [had not] my long deferral reared in the bosoms of numerous an incredible envy of my failure, as though I were a fruitless stock." On 20 August 1589, Anne was hitched as a substitute to James at Kronborg Castle, the service finishing with James' delegate, George Keith, fifth Earl Marischal, sitting by Anne on the wedding bed. 

Anne set sail for Scotland inside 10 days, however her armada was plagued by a progression of misfortunes, at long last being constrained back to the shoreline of Norway, from where she made a trip via land to Oslo for asylum, joined by the Earl Marischal and others of the Scottish and Danish international safe havens. 

On 12 September, Lord Dingwall had arrived at Leith, detailing that "he had come in organization with the Queen's armada three hundred miles, and was isolated from them by an extraordinary tempest: it was expected that the Queen was in peril upon the oceans." Alarmed, James called for national fasting and open supplications, kept watch on the Firth of Forth for Anne's landing, composed a few melodies, one contrasting the circumstance with the predicament of Hero and Leander, and sent a look party out for Anne, conveying a letter he had kept in touch with her in French: "Just to one who realizes me just as his very own appearance in a glass would I be able to express, my dearest love, the feelings of trepidation which I have encountered as a result of the opposite breezes and rough tempests since you embarked ...". Educated in October that the Danes had surrendered the intersection for the winter, and in what Willson calls "the one sentimental scene of his life", James cruised from Leith with a three-hundred-in number entourage to get his better half specifically, touching base in Oslo on 19 November in the wake of going via land from Flekkefjord by means of Tønsberg. As per a Scottish record, he introduced himself to Anne, "with boots and all", and, incapacitating her challenges, gave her a kiss in the Scottish style. 

Anne and James were formally hitched at the Old Bishop's Palace in Oslo on 23 November 1589, "with all the magnificence conceivable around then and spot." So that both lady and lucky man could comprehend, Leith serve David Lindsay led the function in French, portraying Anne as "a Princess both authentic and beautiful ... she giveth extraordinary happiness to his Majesty." A month of festivities pursued; and on 22 December, slicing his company to fifty, James visited his new relations at Kronborg Castle in Elsinore, where the love birds were welcomed by Queen Sophie, twelve-year-old King Christian IV, and Christian's four officials. The couple proceeded onward to Copenhagen on 7 March and went to the wedding of Anne's more established sister Elizabeth to Henry Julius, Duke of Brunswick, cruising two days after the fact for Scotland in a fixed up "Gideon". They landed in the Water of Leith on 1 May. After an inviting discourse in French by James Elphinstone, Anne remained in the King's Wark and James went alone to hear a lesson by Patrick Galloway in the Parish Church. After five days, Anne made her state passage into Edinburgh in a strong silver mentor brought over from Denmark, James riding close by on horseback. 

Anne was delegated on 17 May 1590 in the Abbey Church at Holyrood, the primary Protestant crowning ordinance in Scotland. Amid the seven-hour service, her outfit was opened by the Countess of Mar for managing clergyman Robert Bruce to pour "a bonny amount of oil" on "parts of her bosom and arm", so blessing her as ruler. (Kirk clergymen had questioned intensely to this component of the service as an agnostic and Jewish custom, yet James demanded that it dated from the Old Testament.) The ruler gave the crown to Chancellor Maitland, who put it on Anne's head. She at that point certified a promise to guard the genuine religion and love of God and to "withstand and scorn every papistical superstition, and at all services and rituals in spite of the expression of God". 

Apparently, James was at first hypnotized by his lady of the hour, yet his fascination vanished rapidly and the couple frequently wound up at loggerheads, however in the early long stretches of their marriage James appears to be dependably to have treated Anne with tolerance and fondness. Somewhere in the range of 1593 and 1595, James was impractically connected with Anne Murray, later Lady Glamis, whom he tended to in section as "my fancy woman and my adoration"; and Anne herself was additionally once in a while the subject of outrageous bits of gossip. In "Basilikon Doron", composed 1597– 1598, James depicted marriage as "the best natural felicitie or miserie, that can go to a man". 

From the principal snapshot of the marriage, Anne was feeling the squeeze to furnish James and Scotland with a beneficiary, yet the death of 1591 and 1592 with no indication of a pregnancy incited restored Presbyterian slanders on the topic of James' affection for male organization and murmurs against Anne "for that she demonstrates not with youngster". Thus, there was extraordinary open help when on 19 February 1594 Anne brought forth her first youngster, Henry Frederick. 

Anne before long discovered that she would have nothing to do with her child's consideration. James delegated as leader of the nursery his previous medical caretaker Helen Little, who introduced Henry in James' own oak support. Most distressingly for Anne, James demanded putting Prince Henry in the authority of John Erskine, Earl of Mar at Stirling Castle, with regards to Scottish illustrious convention. 

In late 1594, she started an incensed battle for care of Henry, enrolling a group of supporters to her motivation, including the chancellor, John Maitland of Thirlestane. Anxious of the lengths to which Anne may go, James formally charged Mar recorded as a hard copy never to surrender Henry to anybody aside from on requests from his very own mouth, "in light of the fact that in the surety of my child comprises my surety", nor to yield Henry to the Queen even in case of his own passing. Anne requested the issue be alluded to the Council, however James would not know about it. After open scenes in which James decreased her to fierceness and tears over the issue, Anne turned out to be so harshly disturbed that in July 1595 she endured an unnatural birth cycle. From there on, she ostensibly deserted her crusade, yet it was thought lasting harm had been done to the marriage. In August 1595, John Colville stated: "There is only sneaking contempt masked with shrewd dissimulation in between the King and the Queen, each planning by slight to defeat the other." Nevertheless, the Queen had six additional youngsters by James. 

Anne saw a late chance to pick up guardianship of Henry in 1603 when James left for London with the Earl of Mar to accept the English position of royalty following the passing of Elizabeth I. Pregnant at the time, Anne plummeted on Stirling with a power of "very much upheld" nobles, plan on evacuating the nine-year-old Henry, whom she had scarcely observed for a long time; yet Mar's significant other and child would enable her to carry close to two chaperons with her into the mansion. The obstinacy of Henry's managers sent Anne into such a fierceness, that she endured another unsuccessful labor: as indicated by David Calderwood, she "hit the hay in displeasure and separated with tyke the tenth of May." 

At the point when the Earl of Mar came back with James' guidelines that Anne go along with him in the Kingdom of England, she educated James by letter that she wouldn't do as such except if permitted guardianship of Henry. This "strong maternal activity", as student of history Pauline Croft portrays it, obliged James to move down finally, however he impugned Anne for "froward womanly anxieties" and depicted her conduct in a letter to Mar as "wilfulness". After a short healing from the unnatural birth cycle, Anne appropriately voyage south with Prince Henry, their advancement drumming up a buzz in England. Woman Anne Clifford recorded that she and her mom murdered three ponies in their flurry to see the Queen, and that when James met Anne close Windsor, "there was such an interminable number of rulers and women thus incredible a Court as I might suspect I will never observe the like again." 

Onlookers consistently noted episodes of conjugal conflict among Anne and James. The purported Gowrie trick of 1600, in which the youthful Earl of Gowrie, John Ruthven, and his sibling Alexander Ruthven were killed by James' specialists for an alleged strike on the King, set off the rejection of their sisters Beatrix and Barbara Ruthven as women in-holding up to Anne, with whom they were "in chiefest credit." The Queen, who was five months pregnant, would not get up except if they were restored and remained there for two days, likewise declining to eat. At the point when James endeavored to order her, she cautioned him to take care how he treated her since she was not the Earl of Gowrie. James appeased her for the minute by paying a popular stunt-devil to engage her, yet she never surrendered, and her obstinate help for the Ruthvens throughout the following three years was paid attention to enough by the legislature to be viewed as a security issue. In 1602, subsequent to finding that Anne had pirated Beatrix Ruthven into Holyrood, James completed an interrogation of the whole family unit; in 1603, he at last chose to allow Beatrix Ruthven a benefits of £200. 

In 1603, James battled with Anne over the proposed sythesis of her English family unit, sending her a message that "his Majesty took her proceeded with perversity in all respects grievously." In turn, Anne protested James' drinking: in 1604 she trusted to the French emissary that "the King drinks so much, and acts so sick in each regard, that I expect an early and underhanded outcome." 

A briefer encounter happened in 1613 when Anne shot and murdered James' most loved canine amid a chasing session. After his underlying anger, James smoothed things over by giving her a £2,000 precious stone in memory of the puppy, whose name was Jewel. 

In London, Anne received a cosmopolitan way of life, while James wanted to get away from the capital, frequently at his chasing lodge in Royston. Anne's minister, Godfrey Goodman, later summed up the illustrious relationship: "The King himself was a virtuous man, and there was little in the Queen to make him uxorious; yet they loved just as man and spouse could do, not bantering together." Anne moved into Greenwich Palace and after that Somerset House, which she renamed Denmark House. After 1607, she and James once in a while lived respectively, by which time she had borne seven kids and endured something like three unnatural birth cycles. After barely enduring the birth and demise of her last infant, Sophia, in 1607, Anne's choice to have no more youngsters may have enlarged the bay among her and James. 

The demise of their child Henry in 1612 at eighteen years old, presumably from typhoid, and the takeoff for Heidelberg of their girl Elizabeth in April 1613, subsequent to wedding Frederick V, Elector Palatine, further debilitated the family ties restricting Anne and James. Henry's passing hit Anne especially hard; the Venetian minister was exhorted not to offer sympathies to her "since she can't stand to have it referenced; nor does she ever review it without bounteous tears and moans". From this time forward, Anne's wellbeing disintegrated, and she pulled back from the focal point of social and political exercises, organizing her last known masque in 1614 and never again keeping up an honorable court. Her impact over James unmistakably disappeared as he turned out to be transparently reliant on ground-breaking top picks. 

Despite the fact that James had constantly received male top choices among his subjects, he presently urged them to assume a job in the legislature. Anne responded all around contrastingly to the two amazing top choices who ruled the second 50% of her better half's English rule, Robert Carr, Earl of Somerset, and George Villiers, the future Duke of Buckingham. She hated Carr, yet she energized the ascent of Villiers, whom James knighted in her bedchamber; and she grew neighborly relations with him, calling him her "hound". All things being equal, Anne wound up progressively disregarded after Buckingham's ascent and turned into a forlorn figure towards a mind-blowing finish. 

A further wellspring of contrast among Anne and James was the issue of religion; for instance, she swore off the Anglican fellowship at her English crowning celebration. Anne had been raised a Lutheran, yet she may have prudently changed over to Catholicism eventually, a politically humiliating situation which frightened pastors of the Scottish Kirk and caused doubt in Anglican England. 

Ruler Elizabeth had unquestionably been stressed over the likelihood and sent messages to Anne cautioning her not to tune in to papist advocates and mentioning the names of any individual who had attempted to change over her; Anne had answered that there was no compelling reason to name names on the grounds that any such endeavors had fizzled. Anne drew analysis from the Kirk for keeping Henrietta Gordon, spouse of the banished Catholic George Gordon, first Marquess of Huntly, as an associate; after Huntly's arrival in 1596, the St Andrews serve David Black considered Anne a nonbeliever and commented in a lesson that "the Queen of Scotland was a lady for whom, for the good of fashion, the pastorate may supplicate however from whom nothing more than trouble could be trusted." 

At the point when previous intelligencer Sir Anthony Standen was found presenting to Anne a rosary from Pope Clement VIII in 1603, James detained him in the Tower for ten months. Anne dissented her inconvenience at the blessing, however in the end verified Standen's discharge. 

Like James, Anne later upheld a Catholic counterpart for both their children, and her correspondence with the potential lady of the hour, the Spanish Infanta, Maria Anna, incorporated a solicitation that two ministers be sent to Jerusalem to petition God for her and the King. The papacy itself was never entirely beyond any doubt where Anne remained; in 1612, Pope Paul V prompted a nuncio: "Not considering the changeability of that Queen and the numerous progressions she had made in religious issues and that regardless of whether the facts might demonstrate that she may be a Catholic, one ought not take on oneself any judgment." 

In Scotland, Anne in some cases abused court factionalism for her very own closures, specifically by supporting the foes of the Earl of Mar. Subsequently, James did not confide in her with privileged insights of state. Henry Howard, dynamic in the exceedingly mystery strategy concerning the English progression, unpretentiously reminded James that however Anne had each excellence, Eve was ruined by the snake. By and by, Anne was minimal keen on high legislative issues except if they addressed the destiny of her kids or companions. 

In England, Anne to a great extent abandoned political to social and masterful exercises. Despite the fact that she partook completely in the life of James' court and kept up her very own court, regularly drawing in those not invited by James, she once in a while took political sides against her better half. Whatever her private troubles with James, she demonstrated a conciliatory resource for him in England, maintaining circumspection and charitableness out in the open. Anne assumed a vital job, for instance, in passing on to represetatives and remote guests the eminence of the Stuart administration and its Danish associations. 

The Venetian agent, Nicolo Molin, composed this portrayal of Anne in 1606: 

Anne has generally been respected with loftiness by antiquarians, who have underlined her detail and lavishness. Alongside James, she would in general be rejected by a verifiable convention, starting with the counter Stuart students of history of the mid-seventeenth century, which found in the guilty pleasure and vanity of the Jacobean court the causes of the English common war. History specialist David Harris Willson, in his 1956 life story of James, conveyed this condemning decision: "Anne had little impact over her better half. She couldn't share his scholarly advantages, and she affirmed the stupid disdain with which he respected ladies. Too bad! The ruler had hitched an inept spouse." The nineteenth century biographer Agnes Strickland sentenced Anne's activities to recapture authority of Prince Henry as untrustworthy: "It must lower the character of Anne of Denmark according to everybody, both as a lady and ruler, that she ... wanted to enjoy the negligible senses of maternity at the danger of including her better half, her newborn child, and their kingdom, in the struggle and hopelessness of unnatural fighting." 

Notwithstanding, the reassessment of James in the previous two decades, as a capable ruler who broadened imperial power in Scotland and safeguarded his kingdoms from war all through his rule, has been joined by a re-assessment of Anne as a persuasive political figure and self-assured mother, at any rate for whatever length of time that the regal marriage remained a reality. John Leeds Barroll contends in his social memoir of Anne that her political intercessions in Scotland were progressively noteworthy, and surely increasingly troublesome, than recently saw; and Clare McManus, among other social students of history, has featured Anne's persuasive job in the Jacobean social blossoming, not just as a benefactor of scholars and specialists however as an entertainer herself. 

Anne imparted to James the blame of luxury, however it took her quite a while to deplete her impressive settlement. She adored moving and expos, exercises frequently disapproved of in Presbyterian Scotland, yet for which she found a lively outlet in Jacobean London, where she made a "rich and cordial" social atmosphere at the regal court, turned into an excited playgoer, and supported luxurious masques. Sir Walter Cope, asked by Robert Cecil to choose a play for the Queen amid her sibling Ulrik of Holstein's visit, stated, "Burbage is come and says there is no new play the Queen has not seen but rather they have resuscitated an old one called "Love's Labor's Lost" which for mind and jollity he says will satisfy her exceedingly." Anne's masques, scaling remarkable statures of sensational organizing and scene, were eagerly gone to by outside ministers and dignitaries and worked as a powerful showing of the English crown's European centrality. Zorzi Giustinian, the Venetian represetative, composed of the Christmas 1604 masque that "as everyone would see it no other Court could have shown such ceremony and wealth". 

Anne's masques were in charge of practically all the cultured female execution in the initial two many years of the seventeenth century and are viewed as significant to the historical backdrop of ladies' execution. Anne now and then performed with her women in the masques herself, every so often insulting individuals from the gathering of people. In "The Vision of the Twelve Goddesses" of 1604, she played Pallas Athena, wearing a tunic that a few spectators viewed as excessively short; in "The Masque of Blackness" of 1605, Anne performed while a half year pregnant, she and her women causing outrage by showing up with their skin painted as "blackamores". Letter author Dudley Carleton detailed that when the Queen a short time later hit the dance floor with the Spanish envoy, he kissed her hand "however there was threat it would have left an imprint upon his lips". Anne appointed the main abilities of the day to make these masques, including Ben Jonson and Inigo Jones. 

Jones, a skilled designer saturated with the most recent European taste, additionally planned the Queen's House at Greenwich for Anne, one of the main genuine Palladian structures in England; and the Dutch innovator Salomon de Caus spread out her greenhouses at Greenwich and Somerset House. Anne especially cherished music and belittled the lutenist and arranger John Dowland, recently utilized at her sibling's court in Denmark, just as "in excess of a decent many" French performers. 

Anne likewise authorized craftsmen, for example, Paul van Somer, Isaac Oliver, and Daniel Mytens, who drove English preference for visual expressions for an age. Under Anne, the Royal Collection started afresh to extend, an approach proceeded by Anne's child, Charles. Student of history Alan Stewart proposes that a large number of the marvels currently observed as particularly Jacobean can be distinguished more intimately with Anne's support than with James, who "nodded off amid a portion of England's most commended plays". 

By late 1617, Anne's episodes of sickness had turned out to be crippling; the letter essayist John Chamberlain recorded: "The Queen proceeds with still not well arranged and however she would fain lay every one of her illnesses upon the gout yet a large portion of her doctors dread a further burden of an evil propensity or manner through her entire body." In January 1619, illustrious doctor Sir Theodore de Mayerne trained Anne to saw wood to improve her blood stream, yet the effort served to aggravate her. James visited Anne just multiple times amid her last sickness, however their child Charles regularly dozed in the connecting room at Hampton Court Palace and was at her bedside amid her last hours, when she had lost her sight. With her until the end was her own servant, Anna Roos, who had touched base with her from Denmark in 1590. Ruler Anne kicked the bucket matured 44 on 2 March 1619, of a risky type of dropsy. 

In spite of his disregard of Anne, James was sincerely influenced by her demise. He didn't visit her amid her diminishing days or go to her memorial service, acting naturally wiped out, the indications, as per Sir Theodore de Mayerne, including "blacking out, moaning, fear, amazing sadness ...". The examination found Anne to be "much squandered inside, exceptionally her liver". After a drawn out deferral, she was covered in King Henry's Chapel, Westminster Abbey, on 13 May 1619. The catafalque, planned by Maximilian Colt, put over her grave was obliterated amid the common war. 

As he had done before he at any point met her, James swung to section to offer his regards: 

<poem>So did my Queen from henceforth her court evacuate 

What's more, left off earth to be enthroned previously. 

She's changed, not dead, without a doubt nothing more than a bad memory ruler kicks the bucket, 

Be that as it may, as the sun, sets, just for to rise.</poem> 

Anne brought forth seven youngsters who made due past labor, four of whom kicked the bucket in early stages or early adolescence; she additionally endured somewhere around three unnatural birth cycles. Her second child succeeded James as King Charles I. Her little girl Elizabeth was the "Winter Queen" of Bohemia and the grandma of King George I of Great Britain. 

Anne was depicted in "". Finola Hughes was the voice on-screen character for her. 

Anne was depicted in the BBC television smaller than normal arrangement "Black powder, Treason and Plot" in 2004. She was depicted by danish on-screen character Sira Stampe.