Wihtred of Kent 

Wihtred () (c. 670 – 23 April 725) was lord of Kent from around 690 or 691 until his passing. He was a child of Ecgberht I and a sibling of Eadric. Wihtred climbed to the honored position after a befuddled period during the 680s, which incorporated a short success of Kent by Cædwalla of Wessex, and ensuing dynastic clashes. His quick antecedent was Oswine, who was likely plummeted from Eadbald, however not through a similar line as Wihtred. Not long after the beginning of his rule, Wihtred issued a code of laws—the Law of Wihtred—that has been protected in a composition known as the "Textus Roffensis". The laws pay a lot of regard for the privileges of the Church (of the timeframe), including discipline for sporadic relational unions and for agnostic love. Wihtred's long reign had couple of occurrences recorded in the archives of the day. He was prevailing in 725 by his children, Æthelberht II, Eadberht I, and Alric. 

The predominant power in late-seventh-century governmental issues south of the River Humber was Wulfhere of Mercia, who ruled from the late 650s to 675. The ruler of Kent for a lot of this time was Ecgberht, who kicked the bucket in 673. Ecgberht's children, Eadric and Wihtred, were most likely minimal more than newborn children, a few years of age, when their dad passed on; Wulfhere was their uncle by righteousness of his marriage to Eormenhild, Ecgberht's sister. Hlothhere, Ecgberht's sibling, progressed toward becoming lord of Kent, however not until about a year later, in 674, and it might be that Wulfhere contradicted the increase of Hlothhere and was the powerful leader of Kent amid this year-long interregnum. 

Eadric raised a military against his uncle and Hlothhere kicked the bucket of wounds continued fighting in February 685 or perhaps 686. Eadric kicked the bucket the next year, and as per Bede, whose "Clerical History of the English People" is one of the essential hotspots for this period, the kingdom went to pieces into turmoil. Cædwalla of Wessex attacked in 686 and set up his sibling Mul as lord there; Cædwalla may have ruled Kent straightforwardly for a period when Mul was slaughtered in 687. At the point when Cædwalla withdrew for Rome in 688, Oswine, who was most likely upheld by Æthelred of Mercia, took the royal position for a period. Oswine lost power in 690, yet Swæfheard (child of Sebbi, the lord of Essex), who had been a ruler in Kent for a year or two, remained. There is clear proof that both Swæfheard and Oswine were rulers in the meantime, as each saw different's contracts. It appears that Oswine was ruler of east Kent, which was normally the situation of the overwhelming lord, while Swæfheard was lord of west Kent. 

Wihtred rose up out of this disorder and progressed toward becoming lord in the mid 690s. Bede depicts his increase by saying that he was the "legitimate" lord, and that he "liberated the country from outside attack by his dedication and perseverance". Oswine was additionally of the imperial family, and seemingly had a case to the position of royalty; henceforth it has been recommended that Bede's remarks here are emphatically fanatic. Bede's journalist on Kentish issues was Albinus, abbot of the religious community of St. Subside and St. Paul (consequently renamed St. Augustine's) in Canterbury, and these perspectives can more likely than not be credited to the Church foundation there. 

Two sanctions give proof of Wihtred's date of promotion. One, dated April 697, shows Wihtred was then in the 6th year of his standard, so his increase can be dated to some time between April 691 and April 692. Another, dated 17 July 694, is in his fourth regnal year, giving a conceivable scope of July 690 to July 691. The cover in date ranges offers April to July 691 as the presumable date of his increase. Another gauge of the date of Wihtred's increase can be produced using the length of his rule, given by Bede as thirty four and a half years. He kicked the bucket on 23 April 725, which would infer an increase date in late 690. 

At first Wihtred led nearby Swæfheard. Bede's report of the decision of Beorhtwald as Archbishop of Canterbury in July 692 notices that Swæfheard and Wihtred were the rulers of Kent, yet Swæfheard isn't known about after this date. It gives the idea that by 694 Wihtred was the sole leader of Kent, however it might likewise be that his child Æthelberht was a lesser lord in west Kent amid Wihtred's rule. Wihtred is thought to have had three spouses. His initially was called Cynegyth, however a contract of 696 names Æthelburh as the imperial partner and co-contributor of a home: the previous companion must have kicked the bucket or been expelled a little while later. Close to the finish of his rule, another spouse, Wærburh, bore witness to with her significant other and child, Alric. 

It was additionally in 694 that Wihtred made harmony with the West Saxon ruler Ine. Ine's antecedent, Cædwalla, had attacked Kent and introduced his sibling Mul as ruler, however the Kentishmen had therefore revolted and consumed Mul. Wihtred concurred pay for the executing, however the sum paid to Ine is dubious. Most original copies of the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" record "thirty thousand", and some indicate thirty thousand pounds. On the off chance that the pounds are equivalent to sceattas, at that point this sum is the equivalent of a ruler's wergild—that is, the legitimate valuation of a man's life, as per his position. It appears to be likely that Wihtred surrendered some outskirt region to Ine as a feature of this settlement. 

The most punctual Anglo-Saxon law code to endure, which may date from 602 or 603, is that of Æthelberht of Kent, whose reign finished in 616. During the 670s or 680s, a code was issued in the names of Hlothhere and Eadric of Kent. The following lords to issue laws were Ine of Wessex and Wihtred. 

The dating of Wihtred's and Ine's laws is to some degree unsure, yet there is motivation to trust that Wihtred's laws were issued on 6 September 695, while Ine's laws were written in 694 or in no time previously. Ine had as of late concurred quiet terms with Wihtred over pay for the demise of Mul, and there are signs that the two rulers worked together somewhat in delivering their laws. Notwithstanding the occurrence of timing, there is one statement that shows up in practically indistinguishable structure in the two codes. Another indication of coordinated effort is that Wihtred's laws use "gesith", a West Saxon expression for respectable, instead of the Kentish expression "eorlcund". It is conceivable that Ine and Wihtred issued the law codes as a demonstration of glory, to restore expert after times of interruption in the two kingdoms. 

Wihtred's laws were issued at "Berghamstyde"; it isn't known for certain where this was, yet the best hopeful is Bearsted, close Maidstone. The laws are principally worried about religious issues; just the last four of its twenty-eight parts don't manage clerical undertakings. The principal statement of the code gives the Church opportunity from tax assessment. Resulting provisos determine punishments for sporadic relational unions, barbarian love, chip away at the sabbath, and breaking fasts, in addition to other things; and furthermore characterize how individuals from each class of society, for example, the ruler, religious administrators, clerics, ceorls, and esnes—can clear themselves by giving a pledge. Notwithstanding the focal point of the laws themselves, the presentation clarifies the significance of the Church in the administrative procedure. Bertwald, the Archbishop of Canterbury, was available at the get together which contrived the announcements, as was Gefmund, the Bishop of Rochester; and "each request of the Church of that country talked in unanimity with the steadfast individuals". 

The benefits given to the Church are eminent: notwithstanding the opportunity from tax collection, the pledge of a minister is "indisputable", which places it at a similar dimension as the vow of a lord, and the Church gets a similar dimension of pay for brutality done to wards as does the ruler. This has driven one antiquarian to portray the Church's capacity, not exactly a century after the first Roman mission arrived in Kent, as "everything except co-ordinate with the lord himself in the Kentish state", and it has likewise been depicted as assuming "an alarming level of illustrious power". Notwithstanding, the nearness of provisos that give punishments to any of Wihtred's subjects who "penance to villains" clarifies that despite the fact that Christianity was prevailing, the more established agnostic convictions of the populace had in no way, shape or form ceased to exist totally. 

Statement 21 of the code indicates that a ceorl must discover three men of his own class to be his "promise partners". A promise aide would make a solemn vow in the interest of a blamed man, to clear him from the doubt of the wrongdoing. The laws of Ine were more stringent than this, necessitating a high-positioning individual must be observed to be a promise partner for everybody, regardless of what class they were from. The two laws taken together infer a critical debilitating of a prior state in which a man's kinfolk were legitimately in charge of him. 

On his passing, Wihtred left Kent to his three children: Æthelberht II, Eadberht I, and Alric. The order of the rules following Wihtred is misty, in spite of the fact that there is proof of both a Æthelbert and something like one Eadbert in the next years. After Wihtred's demise, and the flight of Ine of Wessex for Rome the next year, Æthelbald of Mercia turned into the overwhelming force in the south of England. 

Essential sources 

Auxiliary sources