Scotland national football crew 

The Scotland national football crew speaks to Scotland in global football and is constrained by the Scottish Football Association. It contends in the three noteworthy expert competitions, the FIFA World Cup, UEFA Nations League and the UEFA European Championship. Scotland, as a constituent nation of the United Kingdom, isn't an individual from the International Olympic Committee and in this way the national group does not contend in the Olympic Games. Most of Scotland's home matches are played at the national arena, Hampden Park. 

Scotland is the joint most seasoned national football crew on the planet, close by England, whom they played on the planet's first universal football coordinate in 1872. Scotland has a long-standing contention with England, whom they played yearly from 1872 until 1989. The groups have met just multiple times from that point forward, most as of late in June 2017. 

Scotland have fit the bill for the FIFA World Cup on eight events and the UEFA European Championship twice, yet have never advanced past the principal assemble phase of a finals competition. The last real competition they met all requirements for was the 1998 World Cup. The group have accomplished some essential outcomes, for example, beating the 1966 FIFA World Cup victors England 3– 2 at Wembley Stadium in 1967. Archie Gemmill scored what has been depicted as one of the best World Cup objectives ever in a 3– 2 success amid the 1978 World Cup against the Netherlands, who achieved the last of the competition. In their passing gathering for UEFA Euro 2008, Scotland crushed 2006 World Cup sprinters up France 1– 0 in the two installations. 

Scotland supporters are all in all known as the Tartan Army. The Scottish Football Association works a move of respect for each player who has shown up for Scotland. Kenny Dalglish holds the record for Scotland appearances, having played multiple times somewhere in the range of 1971 and 1986. Dalglish scored 30 objectives for Scotland and offers the record for most objectives scored with Denis Law. 

Scotland and England are the most established national football crews on the planet. Groups speaking to the opposite sides originally contended at the Oval in five matches somewhere in the range of 1870 and 1872. The two nations challenged the primary authority global football coordinate, at Hamilton Crescent in Partick, Scotland, on 30 November 1872. The match finished in a goalless draw. Each of the eleven players who spoke to Scotland that day played for Glasgow beginner club Queen's Park. Throughout the following forty years, Scotland played matches only against the other three Home Nations—England, Wales and Ireland. The British Home Championship started in 1883, making these diversions focused. The experiences against England were especially furious and a competition immediately created. 

Scotland lost only two of their initial 43 universal matches. It was not until a 2– 0 home thrashing by Ireland in 1903 that Scotland lost a match to a group other than England. This keep running of achievement implied that Scotland would have normally bested the Elo appraisals, which were determined in 1998, somewhere in the range of 1876 and 1904. Scotland won the British Home Championship inside and out on 24 events, and imparted the title multiple times to no less than one other group. A vital triumph for Scotland before the Second World War was the 5– 1 triumph over England in 1928, which prompted that Scotland side being known as the "Wembley Wizards". Scotland played their first match outside the British Isles in 1929, beating Norway 7– 3 in Bergen. Scotland kept on challenging standard amicable matches against European resistance and delighted in wins against Germany and France before losing to the Austrian "Wunderteam" and Italy in 1931. 

Scotland, similar to the next Home Nations, did not enter the three FIFA World Cups held amid the 1930s. This was on the grounds that the four affiliations had been rejected from FIFA because of a difference in regards to the status of beginner players. The four affiliations, including Scotland, came back to the FIFA overlap after the Second World War. A match between a United Kingdom group and a "Rest of the World" group was played at Hampden Park in 1947 to praise this compromise. 

The readmission of the Scottish Football Association to FIFA implied that Scotland were currently qualified to enter the 1950 FIFA World Cup. FIFA exhorted that spots would be granted to the best two groups in the 1950 British Home Championship, however the SFA reported that Scotland would possibly go to the finals if Scotland won the challenge. Scotland won their initial two matches, however a 1– 0 home annihilation by England implied that the Scots completed as sprinters up. This implied the Scots had qualified by ideal for the World Cup, yet had not satisfied the need of the SFA to win the Championship. The SFA remained by this decree, in spite of supplications actually by the Scotland players, bolstered by England chief Billy Wright and the other England players. The SFA rather sent the Scots on a voyage through North America. 

A similar capability rules were set up for the 1954 FIFA World Cup, with the 1954 British Home Championship going about as a passing gathering. Scotland again completed second, yet this time the SFA enabled a group to take an interest in the Finals, held in Switzerland. To cite the SFA site, "The arrangement was appalling". The SFA just sent 13 players to the finals, despite the fact that FIFA permitted 22-man squads. Regardless of this deliberate hardship as far as players, the SFA dignitaries went in numbers, joined by their spouses. Scotland lost 1– 0 against Austria in their first diversion in the finals, which provoked the group administrator Andy Beattie to leave hours before the amusement against Uruguay. Uruguay were ruling bosses and had at no other time lost an amusement at the World Cup finals, and they vanquished Scotland 7– 0. 

The 1958 FIFA World Cup finals saw Scotland draw their first diversion against Yugoslavia 1– 1, however they at that point lost to Paraguay and France and went out at the main stage. Matt Busby had been expected to deal with the group at the World Cup, however the extreme wounds he endured in the Munich air debacle implied that mentor Dawson Walker assumed responsibility for the group. 

Under the administration of Ian McColl, Scotland delighted in continuous British Home Championship achievements in 1962 and 1963. Muscle head Stein, John Prentice and Malky MacDonald all had brief spells as chief before Bobby Brown was delegated in 1967. Darker's first match as administrator was against the recently delegated title holders England at Wembley Stadium. Regardless of being dark horses, Scotland won 3– 2 gratitude to objectives from Denis Law, Bobby Lennox and Jim McCalliog. Having crushed the title holders all alone turf, the Scotland fans hailed their group as the "informal title holders". Regardless of this well known success, the Scots neglected to fit the bill for any significant rivalries amid the 1960s. 

After Tommy Docherty's short spell as administrator, Willie Ormond was employed in 1973. Ormond lost his first match in control 5– 0 to England, yet recouped to guide Scotland to their first World Cup finals in 16 years in 1974. At the 1974 World Cup finals in West Germany, Scotland accomplished their most noteworthy execution at a World Cup competition. The group was unbeaten yet neglected to advance past the gathering stages on objective contrast. In the wake of beating Zaïre, they drew with both Brazil and Yugoslavia, and went out on the grounds that they had beaten Zaïre by the littlest edge. 

Scotland named Ally MacLeod as administrator in 1977, with capability for the 1978 World Cup in Argentina a long way from guaranteed. The group made a solid begin under MacLeod by winning the 1977 British Home Championship, to a great extent because of a 2– 1 triumph over England at Wembley. The Scotland fans attacked the pitch after the match, tearing up the turf and breaking a crossbar. Scotland's great structure proceeded as they verified capability for the World Cup with triumphs over Czechoslovakia and Wales. 

Amid the development to the 1978 FIFA World Cup, MacLeod fuelled the expectations of the country by expressing that Scotland would return home with a decoration. As the squad left for the finals in Argentina, they were given an energetic send-off as they were strutted around a pressed Hampden Park. Thousands additional fans lined the course to Prestwick Airport as the group set off for South America. Scotland's first diversion was against Peru in Córdoba. Two awesome objectives by Teófilo Cubillas implied that the outcome was a 3– 1 misfortune. The second diversion was an extremely baffling 1– 1 draw against newcomers Iran. The hopeless inclination of the country was reflected by film of Ally MacLeod in the burrow with his head in his grasp. 

In the wake of taking a solitary point from their opening two diversions, Scotland needed to vanquish the Netherlands by three clear objectives to advance. In spite of the Dutch leading the pack, Scotland battled back to win 3– 2 with an objective from Kenny Dalglish and two from Archie Gemmill, the second is viewed as one of the best World Cup objectives ever; Gemmill beat three Dutch safeguards before lifting the ball over goalkeeper Jan Jongbloed into the net. The triumph was not adequate to verify a spot in the second round, and Scotland were wiped out on objective contrast for the second progressive World Cup. 

MacLeod surrendered as director soon after the 1978 World Cup, and Jock Stein, who had won nine back to back Scottish association titles and the European Cup as chief of Celtic, was delegated as his successor. In the wake of neglecting to meet all requirements for the 1980 European Championship, Scotland fit the bill for the 1982 FIFA World Cup from an extreme gathering including Sweden, Portugal, Israel and Northern Ireland, losing only one match all the while. They beat New Zealand 5– 2 in their first diversion at the World Cup, however lost 4– 1 to a Brazil group containing Sócrates, Zico, Eder and Falcão. Scotland were again killed on objective distinction, after a 2– 2 draw with the Soviet Union. 

Scotland met all requirements for the 1986 FIFA World Cup, their fourth in progression, in horrible conditions. The squad went into their last capability coordinate against Wales requiring a point to advance to a passing playoff against Australia. With just nine minutes remaining and Wales driving 1– 0, Scotland were granted an extra shot, which was serenely scored by Davie Cooper. The 1– 1 draw implied that Scotland advanced, however as the players and fans observed, Stein endured a heart assault and passed on in a matter of seconds a short time later. His collaborator Alex Ferguson dominated. Scotland qualified by winning 2– 0 against Australia in a two-leg playoff, yet were dispensed with from the competition with only one point from their three matches, a goalless draw with Uruguay following thrashings by Denmark and West Germany. 

In July 1986, Andy Roxburgh was the unexpected arrangement as the new chief of Scotland. Scotland did not prevail with regards to fitting the bill for Euro 1988, yet their 1– 0 away success over Bulgaria in the last installation in November 1987 helped Ireland to an unexpected in front of the rest of the competition completion and capability for the finals in West Germany. 

Scotland fit the bill for their fifth back to back World Cup in 1990 by completing second in their passing gathering, in front of France. Scotland were attracted a gathering with Costa Rica, Sweden, and Brazil, however the Scots lost 1– 0 to Costa Rica. While they recouped to beat Sweden 2– 1 in their second amusement, they lost to Brazil in their third match 1– 0 and were again disposed of after the first round. 

By a thin edge, Scotland fit the bill for the UEFA European Championship without precedent for 1992. A 1– 0 annihilation by Romania far from home left capability subordinate upon different outcomes, yet a 1– 1 draw among Bulgaria and Romania in the last gathering match saw Scotland press through. Regardless of playing admirably in matches against the Netherlands and Germany and a fine win against the CIS, the group was thumped out at the gathering stage. Scotland neglected to meet all requirements for the 1994 FIFA World Cup. The group completed fourth in their passing gathering behind Italy, Switzerland and Portugal. When it turned out to be evident that Scotland couldn't qualify, Andy Roxburgh left his situation as group supervisor. 

New supervisor Craig Brown effectively guided Scotland to the 1996 European Championship competition. The principal diversion against the Netherlands finished 0– 0, raising resolve in front of an eagerly awaited amusement against England at Wembley. Gary McAllister missed an extra shot, and an objective by Paul Gascoigne prompted a 2– 0 thrashing. Scotland recouped to beat Switzerland 1– 0 with an objective by Ally McCoist. Britain taking a 4– 0 lead in the other match quickly set the two groups in a place to qualify, yet a late objective for the Netherlands implied that Scotland were thumped out on objectives scored. 

Dark colored again guided Scotland to capability for a noteworthy competition in 1998, and Scotland were attracted against Brazil the opening round of the 1998 World Cup. John Collins balanced from the punishment spot to level the score at 1– 1, yet a Tom Boyd claim objective prompted a 2– 1 thrashing. Scotland drew their next amusement 1– 1 with Norway in Bordeaux, yet the last match against Morocco finished in a humiliating 3– 0 thrashing. 

Amid the capability for the 2000 European Championship, Scotland confronted England in a two-legged playoff nicknamed the "Clash of Britain" by the media. Scotland won the second match 1– 0 with an objective by Don Hutchison, however lost the tie 2– 1 on total. 

Scotland neglected to fit the bill for the 2002 FIFA World Cup, completing third in their passing gathering behind Croatia and Belgium. This second progressive inability to qualify incited Craig Brown to leave from his situation after the last passing match. The SFA designated previous Germany supervisor Berti Vogts as Brown's successor. Scotland achieved the capability play-offs for Euro 2004. Scotland beat the Netherlands 1– 0 at Hampden Park, yet endured a 6– 0 annihilation in the arrival leg. Poor outcomes in amicable matches and an awful begin to the 2006 World Cup capability made the group drop to a record low of 77th in the FIFA World Rankings. Vogts declared his acquiescence in 2004, reprimanding the threatening media for his takeoff. 

Walter Smith, a previous Rangers and Everton administrator, was gotten to supplant Vogts. Improved outcomes implied that Scotland ascended the FIFA rankings and won the Kirin Cup, an inviting challenge in Japan. Scotland neglected to meet all requirements for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, completing third in their gathering behind Italy and Norway. Smith left the national side in January 2007 to come back to Rangers, with Scotland driving their Euro 2008 capability gathering. Alex McLeish was named as Smith's successor and Scotland's twentieth administrator. McLeish guided Scotland to wins against Georgia, the Faroe Islands, Lithuania, France and Ukraine, yet overcomes by Georgia and Italy finished their odds of capability for Euro 2008. These improved outcomes, especially the successes against France, lifted Scotland into the main 20 of the FIFA world rankings. 

After the restricted inability to fit the bill for Euro 2008, McLeish left to join Premier League club Birmingham City. Southampton director George Burley was contracted as the new administrator, however he came in for analysis from the media after the group lost their first qualifier against Macedonia. After Scotland lost their fourth match 3– 0 to the Netherlands, skipper Barry Ferguson and goalkeeper Allan McGregor were rejected from the beginning lineup for the accompanying match against Iceland due to a "break of control". Regardless of winning 2– 1 against Iceland, Scotland endured an awful 4– 0 thrashing by Norway in the accompanying qualifier, which left Scotland viably expecting to win their last two recreations to have a reasonable possibility of making the passing play-offs. Scotland crushed Macedonia 2– 0 in the first of those two recreations, yet were wiped out by a 1– 0 misfortune to the Netherlands in the second diversion. Burley was permitted to proceed in his post after a survey by the SFA board, yet an ensuing 3– 0 inviting annihilation by Wales prompted the SFA sacking him. 

The SFA designated Craig Levein as head mentor of the national group in December 2009. In UEFA Euro 2012 qualifying, Scotland were gathered with Lithuania, Liechtenstein, the Czech Republic and title holders Spain. They took only four from the initial four recreations, leaving the group requiring three successes from their staying four diversions to have a practical possibility of movement. They just overseen two successes and a draw and were disposed of after a 3– 1 annihilation by Spain in their last match. Levein left his situation as head mentor following a poor begin to 2014 FIFA World Cup capability, having taken only two from four amusements. 

Gordon Strachan was selected Scotland director in January 2013, yet crushes in his initial two aggressive matches implied that Scotland were the first UEFA group to be dispensed with from the 2014 World Cup. Scotland completed their capability segment by winning three of their last four matches, including two triumphs against Croatia. In UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying, Scotland seemed to have a superior possibility of capability as the finals competition was extended from 16 groups to 24. In the wake of losing their opening match in Germany, Scotland recorded home successes against Georgia, the Republic of Ireland and Gibraltar. Steven Fletcher scored the main cap trap for Scotland since 1969 in the diversion with Gibraltar. Later in the gathering, Scotland created a "characterless" execution as they lost 1– 0 in Georgia. A home thrashing by Germany and a late adjusting objective by Poland disposed of Scotland from conflict. After a success against Gibraltar in the last qualifier, Strachan concurred another agreement with the SFA. 

In capability for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, Scotland were attracted a similar gathering as England, confronting their opponents in an aggressive apparatus out of the blue since 1999. On 11 November 2016, England beat Scotland 3– 0 at Wembley. The arrival coordinate saw Leigh Griffiths score two late free-kicks to give Scotland a 2– 1 lead, however Harry Kane scored in added time to drive a 2– 2 draw. An attract Slovenia in the last round of the gathering finished Scottish any expectations of a play-off position, and Strachan in this way left his situation by shared assent. In February 2018, Alex McLeish was selected chief for the second time. 

Scotland did not contend in the initial three World Cup rivalries, held in 1930, 1934 and 1938. FIFA decided that all its part affiliations must give "broken-time" installments to cover the costs of players who took an interest in football at the 1928 Summer Olympics. In light of what they viewed as inadmissible impedance, the football relationship of Scotland, England, Ireland and Wales held a gathering at which they consented to leave from FIFA. The Scottish Football Association did not rejoin FIFA as a changeless part until 1946. The SFA declined to take part in 1950 in spite of the fact that they had qualified, as Scotland were not the British heroes. 

Scotland have since fit the bill for eight finals competitions, including five successive competitions from 1974 to 1990. Scotland have never progressed past the first round of the finals competition – no nation has met all requirements for the same number of World Cup finals without advancing past the first round. They have passed up advancing to the second cycle multiple times on objective distinction: in 1974, when Brazil edged them out; in 1978, when the Netherlands advanced; and in 1982, when the Soviet Union experienced. 

Scotland have met all requirements for two European Championships, however have neglected to progress past the first round on the two events. Their latest cooperation was at the 1996 European Championship, where the Netherlands advanced rather than Scotland on objectives scored. Scotland is because of host three gathering diversions and a last 16 coordinate in UEFA Euro 2020, which is being held at scenes crosswise over Europe. 

At the point when the UEFA Nations League was initiated in 2018– 19, Scotland were apportioned to League C. With a 3– 2 success against Israel in their last match, Scotland won advancement to League B of the 2020– 21 rivalry. 

Hampden Park in Glasgow is the customary home of the Scotland group and is portrayed by the SFA as the National Stadium. The present arena is one of three arenas to have utilized the name. Arenas named Hampden Park have facilitated global matches since 1878. The present site was opened in 1903 and turned into the essential home ground of the Scotland group from 1906. The participation record of 149,415 was set by the Scotland v England coordinate in 1937. Security guidelines decreased the ability to 81,000 by 1977 and the arena was totally redeveloped amid the 1990s, giving the present limit of 52,000. Hampden is evaluated as a class four (tip top) arena inside the UEFA arena classifications, having recently held the five-star status under the old rating framework. 

Some benevolent matches are played at littler scenes. Pittodrie Stadium in Aberdeen and Easter Road in Edinburgh were both utilized as scenes amid the 2012– 13 season. Different arenas were likewise utilized while Hampden was being redeveloped amid the 1990s. Celtic Park, Pittodrie Stadium, Ibrox Stadium and Rugby Park all facilitated matches amid the 1998 World Cup qualifying effort, while Tynecastle Stadium, Pittodrie, Celtic Park and Ibrox were utilized for Euro 2000 qualifying matches. Since the last redevelopment to Hampden was finished in 1999, Scotland have played the greater part of their aggressive matches there. The latest special case to this standard was in 2014, when Hampden was incidentally changed over into a games arena for the 2014 Commonwealth Games. 

Scotland's home matches are by and by secured by the compensation TV supporter Sky Sports. TV rights to away recreations change, in spite of the fact that Sky Sports additionally held the rights to both home and away qualifiers for Euro 2016 and the 2018 World Cup. The courses of action to demonstrate Scotland coordinates on pay-TV have been scrutinized by the Scottish Government, who have contended that passing matches ought to be incorporated into the rundown of games which must be communicated on allowed to-air TV. The SFA have contended that constraining the rights to allowed to-air supporters would seriously diminish the measure of income that they could produce. An autonomous warning board suggested that passing matches played by every one of the four Home Nations be added to the rundown, however UK Sports Minister Hugh Robertson conceded a choice until the consummation of the computerized switchover. 

BBC Scotland, STV, Setanta Sports, Channel 5 and BT Sport are among different systems that have recently demonstrated live apparatuses. All matches are communicated with full critique on BBC Radio Scotland and, when plans permit, BBC Radio 5 Live moreover. 

Scotland customarily wear dull blue shirts with white shorts and dim blue socks, the shades of the Queen's Park group who spoke to Scotland in the principal worldwide. The blue Scotland shirt was before utilized in a February 1872 rugby global, with reports expressing that "the scotch were effectively recognizable by their uniform of blue pullovers... the shirts having the thorn weaved". The thorn had recently been worn to speak to Scotland in the 1871 rugby global, however on "dark colored" shirts. The shirt is weaved with a peak dependent on the lion widespread of the Royal Standard of Scotland. 

Scotland have not constantly played in dull blue; on various events somewhere in the range of 1881 and 1951 they played in the primrose and pink dashing shades of Archibald Primrose, fifth Earl of Rosebery. A previous Prime Minister, Lord Rosebery was a powerful figure in Scottish football, filling in as privileged President of the SFA and Edinburgh group Hearts. His hues were utilized most often in the principal decade of the twentieth century, yet were ended in 1909. The hues were quickly repeated in 1949, and were last utilized against France in 1951. In 1900, when Scotland crushed England 4– 1, Lord Rosebery commented, "I have never observed my hues so very much donned since Ladas won the Derby". Rosebery hues were resuscitated as a change unit for the UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying matches. 

The present variant of the peak is a roundel like the peak utilized from 1961 to 1988 encasing a shield, with "Scotland" composed on the top and "Est 1873" on the base. In the shield foundation there are 11 thorns, speaking to the national blossom of Scotland, notwithstanding the lion wild. Since 2005, the SFA have bolstered the utilization of Scottish Gaelic on the national group's strip in acknowledgment of the language's restoration in Scotland. 

Scotland fans are all things considered known as the Tartan Army. Amid the 1970s, Scotland fans ended up known for their hooliganism in England, especially after they attacked the Wembley pitch and pulverized the goalposts after the England v Scotland coordinate in 1977. From that point forward, the Tartan Army have won honors from UEFA for their blend of vocal help, well disposed nature and philanthropy work. The Tartan Army have been granted a Fair Play prize by the Belgian Olympic Committee and were named as the best supporters amid the 1992 European Championship. The fans were likewise given a trophy for peacefulness in game and were casted a ballot by writers to be the best supporters for their feeling of reasonable play and donning soul at the 1998 World Cup in France. 

The accompanying players were called up for the matches against Kazakhstan and San Marino in March 2019. 

The accompanying players have likewise been chosen by Scotland in the previous a year. 

The Scottish Football Association works a move of respect for each player who has shown up for Scotland. there are 31 individuals from this move, with Craig Gordon the latest expansion to the rundown. The passing sign of 50 appearances implies that numerous remarkable Scotland players including Jim Baxter, Hughie Gallacher, John Greig, Jimmy Johnstone, Billy McNeill, Bobby Murdoch, Archie Gemmill and Lawrie Reilly are not on the move of respect. 

The Scottish Football Museum works a corridor of popularity which is available to players and directors engaged with Scottish football. This implies enrollment isn't limited to individuals who have played for Scotland; inductees incorporate Brian Laudrup and Henrik Larsson. At the latest enlistment service, Alan Rough, Martin Buchan, Eddie Gray, Tommy Docherty, Scot Symon and Bobby Walker were added to its participation. Sportscotland works the Scottish Sports Hall of Fame, which has enlisted a few footballers. 

From 1872 to 1953, and 1954 to 1957, the Scotland national group was delegated by a determination council. Andy Beattie was administrator for six matches in 1954 when Scotland contended at their first World Cup. After the competition the choice board of trustees continued their obligations, proceeding until the arrangement of Matt Busby in 1958. Busby was at first unfit to expect his obligations because of the genuine wounds he supported in the Munich air fiasco. 

Measurably the best director was Alex McLeish, who won seven of the ten amusements amid his first spell as chief. Limiting directors who assumed responsibility for under ten recreations, the most ineffective chief was George Burley, with only three successes in 14 diversions. 

Kenny Dalglish holds the record for Scotland appearances, having played multiple times somewhere in the range of 1971 and 1986. He is the main Scotland player to have achieved 100 tops. Jim Leighton is second, having played multiple times, a Scottish record for appearances by a goalkeeper. The title of Scotland's most elevated goalscorer is shared by two players. Denis Law scored 30 objectives somewhere in the range of 1958 and 1974, amid which time he played for Scotland on 55 events. Kenny Dalglish scored an equivalent number from 102 appearances. Hughie Gallacher just as being the third most elevated scorer is likewise the most productive with his 24 objectives originating from just 20 diversions (averaging 1.2 objectives per amusement). 

The biggest edge of triumph accomplished by a Scotland side is 11– 0 against Ireland in the 1901 British Home Championship. The record rout happened amid the 1954 FIFA World Cup, a 7– 0 shortfall against ruling title holders Uruguay. 

Scotland's 1937 British Home Championship coordinate against England set another world record for a football participation. The Hampden Park swarm was formally recorded as 149,415, however the genuine figure is obscure as an expansive number of extra fans increased unapproved section. This participation was outperformed 13 years after the fact by the unequivocal match of the 1950 FIFA World Cup, however remains an European record. 

Scotland has dependably taken an interest independent from anyone else in a large portion of the significant competitions, for example, the FIFA World Cup and the UEFA European Championship. At the Olympic Games the International Olympic Committee contract just grant a Great Britain Olympic football crew, speaking to the entire of the United Kingdom, to contend. Groups of novice players spoke to Great Britain at the Olympics from 1900 until 1972, yet the FA quit entering a group after then in light of the fact that the qualification among novice and expert was nullified. The effective offered by London for the 2012 Summer Olympics provoked the FA to investigate how a group could be entered. The SFA reacted by expressing that it would not take part, as it expected this would compromise the autonomous status of the Scotland national group. FIFA President Sepp Blatter denied this, however the SFA communicated worry that a future President could take an alternate view. An understanding was come to in May 2009 whereby the FA would be allowed to sort out a group utilizing just England-qualified players, however this was effectively tested by the British Olympic Association. Just English and Welsh players were chosen for the men's squad, however two Scottish players were chosen for the ladies' group.