Wōdejebato 

Wōdejebato (some time ago known as Sylvania) is a Cretaceous guyot or tablemount in the northern Marshall Islands, Pacific Ocean. Wōdejebato is likely a shield spring of gushing lava and is associated through a submarine edge to the littler Pikinni Atoll southeast of the guyot; not at all like Wōdejebato, Pikinni transcends ocean level. The seamount ascends for to profundity and is shaped by basaltic rocks. The name Wōdejebato alludes to an ocean lord of Pikinni. 

It was presumably shaped by a hotspot in what is available day French Polynesia before plate tectonics moved it to its present-day area. The Macdonald, Rarotonga, Rurutu and Society hotspots may have been engaged with its development. The principal volcanic stage occurred in the Cenomanian and was trailed by the development of a carbonate stage that immediately vanished beneath the ocean. A second volcanic scene somewhere in the range of 85 and 78.4 million years prior (in the Campanian) prompted the development of an island. This island was in the long run disintegrated and rudist reefs produced an atoll or atoll-like structure, covering the previous island with carbonates and consequently a second carbonate stage. 

The second carbonate stage suffocated around 68 million years back (in the Maastrichtian), maybe on the grounds that around then it was traveling through the central region which may have been excessively hot or too supplement rich to help the development of a coral reef. Warm subsidence brought down the suffocated seamount to its present profundity. After a break, sedimentation started on the seamount and prompted the affidavit of manganese outsides and pelagic dregs, some of which were later altered by phosphate. 

Wōdejebato is likewise composed as Wodejebato. The name of the seamount originates from Wōdejebato, the name of the most dreaded and regarded ocean lord of Pikinni Atoll. Wōdejebato was previously called Sylvania, after the , a ship which was engaged with its first mapping in 1946. The seamount was found in 1944, and was first explored, utilizing for the most part seismic information, amid Operation Crossroads (an atomic bomb test). Afterward, a few times rocks were dug from the seamount and drill centers were taken; centers 873– 877 of the Ocean Drilling Program are from Wōdejebato. 

Wōdejebato exists in the Ralik Chain of islands and seamounts in the northern Marshall Islands, which comprise of around three northwest-slanting gatherings of islands of volcanic birthplace. Pikinni Atoll (earlier named Bikini) is situated about southeast of the seamount. 

The seamount lies at a profundity of and is about long with a level top that limits southeastward from over to not exactly . The outside of the level top inclines internal and is secured by little discouragements and handles with a normal alleviation of about just as swell imprints. The level top is encompassed by an edge, which has a width of and a normal tallness of . On its northern and northeastern side, this edge is thus encompassed by another wide somewhat raised edge. The level top has been deciphered as a tidal pond encompassed by reefs which structure the internal edge; the external edge gives off an impression of being a heap of skeletal sand as opposed to a reef and might be a spit shaped by revised material. Little hills, presumably of natural cause, are found at the edges of the seamount. 

The seamount is high over the ocean bottom and has a sporadic shape, with goads anticipating from its periphery. These goads have widths of and surface highlights that are particular from those on the fundamental level top. The goads seem, by all accounts, to be break zones, like these shaped on Hawaii by dyke infusion albeit a portion of the edges at Wōdejebato may have an alternate root. Wōdejebato seems to have four such edges, which is more than is seen at Hawaii. One clarification is that the northwestern edge is another seamount; another that Wōdejebato comprises of more than one fountain of liquid magma in spite of the fact that the moderately little size of the seamount would contend against this view. Wōdejebato's inclines slide rather steeply until, at profundity, where they become increasingly delicate, they are finished with structures taking after cones and channels. Some portion of its southern flank, where there is a downdropped porch, appears to have fell before. Another satellite volcanic cone lies north of Wōdejebato at a profundity of . Wōdejebato contains a volcanic structure inside a shallow dregs top, and a free-air gravity abnormality has been seen on the seamount. 

Wōdejebato is associated with Pikinni by a wide, long and high submarine edge and both volcanoes share a platform; Wōdejebato is the greater of the two and its level top has a bigger surface than Pikinni's. Attractive peculiarities are additionally found on both volcanoes, with Wōdejebato including the more broad one. Flotsam and jetsam from these two volcanoes has framed a cover on their southwestern foot that is up to thick. The ocean bottom underneath Wōdejebato was framed amid the Jurassic Quiet Zone over 156.9 million years prior. More distant north from Wōdejebato lies Lōjabōn-Bar seamount, and Look Guyot is expected east. Wōdejebato gives off an impression of being one wellspring of turbidites in the Nauru Basin. 

The Pacific ocean bottom, particularly the Mesozoic ocean bottom, contains the majority of the world's guyots (otherwise called tablemounts). These are submarine mountains which are described by soak slants, a level top and for the most part the nearness of corals and carbonate stages. While there are a few contrasts to exhibit day reef frameworks, a considerable lot of these seamounts were once in the past atolls. A few atolls still exist, for instance at Pikinni. Every one of these structures initially framed as volcanoes in the Mesozoic sea. Bordering reefs may have created on the volcanoes, which at that point progressed toward becoming hindrance reefs as the well of lava died down and transformed into an atoll. The outside underneath these seamounts will in general die down as it cools, and hence the islands and seamounts sink. Proceeded with subsidence adjusted by upward development of the reefs prompted the arrangement of thick carbonate stages. At times volcanic action proceeded even after the arrangement of the atoll or atoll-like structure, and amid scenes where the carbonate stages transcended ocean level, erosional highlights, for example, channels and blue gaps created. 

The arrangement of numerous such seamounts has been clarified with the hotspot hypothesis, which portrays the development of chains of volcanoes which get dynamically more seasoned along the length of the chain, with a functioning well of lava just toward one side of the framework. Seamounts and islands in the Marshall Islands don't seem to have started from such basic age-dynamic hotspot volcanism as the age movements in the individual island and seamount chains are frequently conflicting with a hotspot cause. One clarification for this inconsistency might be that more than one hotspot went through the Marshall Islands, and it is likewise conceivable that hotspot volcanism was influenced by extensional twisting of the lithosphere. On account of Wōdejebato, hopeful present-day hotspots are the Macdonald hotspot which passed near the seamount amid the Aptian and Albian ages, somewhere in the range of 115 and 94 million years back in the early Cretaceous, and the Society hotspot and Rarotonga hotspot which moved toward the seamount in the late Cretaceous 85-80 million years prior, both timeframes where volcanism happened on Wōdejebato. A third hotspot which cooperated with Wōdejebato is the Rurutu hotspot. The last two are the hotspots well on the way to be seemingly perpetual, while numerous others, for example, the Marquesas hotspot, were likely dynamic irregularly or just for brief time interims. 

In view of plate movement reproductions, the area of the Marshall Islands was situated in the district of present-day French Polynesia amid the season of dynamic volcanism. The two locales have various island chains, bizarrely shallow sea depths and the nearness of volcanoes. Around eight hotspots have created an extensive number of islands and seamounts in that district, with different geochemistries. 

The stones at Wōdejebato incorporate basalt, breccia, carbonates, dirt, claystone, limestone, manganese, manganese phosphate, peloid, shale and tuff; with a bizarrely substantial measure of pyroclastic rocks present. Natural material, for example, kerogen, peat and woody material has likewise been found. Ferromanganese outside layers have been found on the seamount. The coverings are made out of asbolane, birnessite and buserite and contain iron and cobalt. Wōdejebato has been assessed as a conceivable digging site for its mineral stores. 

The limestones show up in a few structures, for example, floatstone, grainstone, micrite, packstone, peloid and wackestone. Some grainstones and rudstones seem, by all accounts, to be gotten from algal and creature fossils. Many carbonate rocks have been changed, for instance by cementation and draining of their segments and the disintegration of aragonite; in certain examples up to half of all the stone has been adjusted. These procedures are all in all known as diagenesis. 

Basalts at Wōdejebato generally structure a soluble base basalt suite yet in addition incorporate ankaramite and hawaiite. The stones contain clinopyroxene, olivine, plagioclase and pyroxene phenocrysts. Modification has prompted the development of calcite, chabazite, chlorite, hydromica, pyrite, serpentine and smectite, and holes and pits in the stone have been filled by residue. The component geochemistry of magmas from Wōdejebato looks like that of South Central Pacific islands, for example, Marotiri and Rarotonga and is steady with magma wellsprings of intraplate volcanism. Isotope proportions show affinities to those of volcanic rocks from the Macdonald, Rurutu, Rarotonga and Society hotspots; contrasts between isotope proportions of different phases of volcanism may mirror the entry of Wōdejebato over more than one "plumelet". 

Wōdejebato framed either previously or amid the Santonian age (86.3 ± 0.5 – 83.6 ± 0.2 million years back), with the Albian age (around 113 to 100.5 million years prior) being a feasible applicant. Wōdejebato started in the Southern Hemisphere and was moved by plate tectonics into the Northern Hemisphere, and paleomagnetism demonstrates that the seamount was situated at 10 degrees southern scope when the latest magmas emitted. It consequently experienced a few scenes of inspire and subsidence and in the long run suffocated, shaping the present-day seamount. Ruwitūntūn is another seamount in the Marshall Islands with a comparable history. 

Volcanism at Wōdejebato seems to have happened amid two stages over a timespan of around 20 million years. The principal stage occurred amid the Cenomanian (100.5 – 93.9 million years prior); it was portrayed by hazardous ejections and might be the wellspring of 93.9– 96.3 multi year old volcanic flotsam and jetsam found in the surroundings of Wōdejebato. The second stage happened amid the Campanian somewhere in the range of 78.4 and 85 million years back amid chron 33R; it gives off an impression of being a piece of a volcanic occasion that influenced various different islands and seamounts in the Marshall Islands and at Wōdejebato went on for no less than four million years. The second stage seems to have been an optional volcanic scene. Volcanic rocks examined at Wōdejebato all have a place with the second stage, most likely because of inspecting inclination as the examples all originate from the summit district. Structural proof shows that Pikinni shaped in the meantime as Wōdejebato, while the northern parasitic cone might be under 80 million years of age. A prior proposition by Schlanger "et al." 1987 visualized Eocene (56 – 33.9 million years back) emissions at Wōdejebato however today the more established ages are viewed as right. 

The volcanic movement created breccia and magma streams, most likely first producing a shield well of lava. Volcanic action happened both in shallow water and submarine framing hyaloclastite and very vesicular rocks amid phreatomagmatic emissions, or more ocean level as shown by the nearness of basaltic stones. Some early volcanic stores were covered by later action. There are clashing reports about whether aqueous movement occurred. Vegetation including greeneries and parasites developed on the uncovered island amid the Campanian, leaving bounteous wood leftovers. Enduring of basaltic rocks delivered dirt silt and soils thick have been gotten in drill centers. 

After volcanic action stopped, ecological procedures changed Wōdejebato into a level topped stage, equal to a present-day atoll, as the outside layer underneath Wōdejebato seamount died down. Disintegration and subsidence brought down the volcanic heap until seawater overwhelmed it and marine sedimentation started. This stage endured just around 10 million years and occurred in something like two phases, in accordance with the by and large brief length of such stage stages; they don't commonly last longer than 20 million years. The development of the stage was not persistent and was likely hindered by one suffocating occasion between the Albian and Campanian ages, like different seamounts in the Pacific Ocean which additionally suffocated amid this time. 

Limestones and carbonates shaping a stage amassed on Wōdejebato, with drill centers indicating complete thicknesses of . Compositionally, it comprises fundamentally of sandy carbonates that are regularly filtered and solidified by calcitic material. These stores in the end secured the whole upper zone of the volcanic high and shaped the internal edge. Varieties in ocean level sporadically prompted pieces of the stage either rising above ocean level or submerging, prompting disintegration that produced the external edge and to the improvement of trademark groupings inside the stores. 

Such carbonate stages look like present-day atolls however dissimilar to the biogenic structures of current atolls they were shaped by biogenic dregs; at Wōdejebato sandy shores seem to have been a vital part. These carbonate stores would then have been encompassed by a hindrance reef and the redeposition, trailed by adjustment, of dissolved material had a job in the advancement of the encompassing edge. Reef hills developed to a few several meters in tallness. Foraminiferal fossil information infer that lagoonal conditions existed on Wōdejebato. The focal piece of the guyot surface and its edges include diverse stage structures, and the stage has been subdivided into a few distinct collections based on foraminifera stages. 

Natural conditions on the stage were portrayed by tropical impacts. Wōdejebato was most likely situated in central waters with temperatures likely surpassing , with temperature scopes of amid the Maastrichtian. The stage was in some cases influenced by tempests that revamped the stone material. Soil properties suggest that precipitation on Wōdejebato was not exactly , yet disintegration by precipitation water and disintegration of parts of the carbonate stage have been induced from disintegration follows in the stones. Ocean level varieties prompted the development of step-like reef tracts on Wōdejebato's carbonate stage. 

A great part of the reefbuilding was done by corals, rudists and stromatoporoids. Not at all like present-day coral reefs, reef working in the Cretaceous was done for the most part by rudists which presumably begun showing up at Wōdejebato in the Albian; rudist taxa dynamic at Wōdejebato included caprinids and radiolitids, for example, "Antillocaprina", "Coralliochama", "Distefanella", "Mitrocaprina" and "Plagioptychus". 

Moreover, benthic foraminifers were dynamic from the Campanian to the Maastrichtian; they incorporate "Asterorbis", "Pseudorbitoides trechmanni", "Omphalocyclus macroporus" and "Sulcoperculina" just as different discorbids, lituolids, miliolids, opthalmiids, orbitoids, peneroplids, placopsilinids, rotaliids and textulariids. 

Different lifeforms that were fossilized in the carbonate reefs were green growth including green growth (codiaceans and dasycladaceans) and red green growth (corallinaceans, peyseonneliaceans and solenoporaceans); some green growth framed rhodoliths. What's more there were bivalves (inoceramids and pycnodonts), bryozoans, corals, gastropods, echinoderms, echinoids, ostracods and wipes. 

Almost certainly, Wōdejebato suffocated amid the Maastrichtian age around 68 million years back, presumably joined by an ocean level ascent of about . Before the terminal suffocating, Wōdejebato's carbonate stage rose up out of the ocean, prompting the improvement of karst highlights; two separate emersion occasions occurred 68 and 71 million years back. 

Ocean level ascent all alone most likely does not clarify the suffocating. Different paleoenvironmental stressors have been summoned to clarify the suffocating, for example, momentary atmosphere changes amid the Maastrichtian and the entry of the seamount through the tropical upwelling zone. The water in this area may have been unreasonably hot for the reef to endure: Other guyots in the Pacific Ocean, for example, Limalok, Lo-En and Takuyo-Daisan likewise suffocated when they were inside ten degrees from the equator on the Southern Hemisphere, inferring that this district of the Pacific Ocean was here and there destructive to shallow water reefs. The subsidence that happened after Wōdejebato moved far from the impact of the Rurutu hotspot may have likewise assumed a job. Pikinni was most likely higher than Wōdejebato right now and thus avoided suffocating. 

After the suffocating had occurred, warm subsidence of the outside underneath Wōdejebato happening at a rate of brought down the stage of Wōdejebato to a profundity of about beneath ocean level. Between the Maastrichtian and the Eocene, manganese coverings shaped on the uncovered limestones and rock framed by disintegration; thus they were liable to adjustment procedures, for example, phosphatization amid three unique scenes in the Eocene. 

Around 40 million years go between the suffocating and resulting affidavit occasions. Pelagic sedimentation occurred, which framed a seepage comprising of foraminiferal and nannofossil stores between the Miocene and Pleistocene, with a Miocene unconformity. In one drill center, this dregs layer is thick. Flows influenced mid-to late Pleistocene sedimentation. Among the foraminifera stored here are "Florisphaera", "Gephyrocapsa", "Globigerina", "Globorotalia", "Helicosphaera", "Pseudoemiliania" and conceivably "Sphaeroidinella" species. Foraminifera taken from Wōdejebato typically have a place with pelagic animal categories. Ostracods have likewise been recognized; basic taxa are cytherurids just as "Bradleya", "Cytheralison" and "Krithe" species. 

By and by, Wōdejebato lies beneath the thermocline and the temperature of the water washing over the seamount is about . Incidental proof demonstrates that profound seawater broke up a lot of carbonate rocks including aragonite after Wōdejebato was submerged; the seamount is situated underneath the aragonite immersion profundity and that makes the aragonite break down. A portion of the broke down aragonite has accelerated again as calcite, and residue include halfway filled pits inside the carbonate rocks.