Limalok 

Limalok (in the past known as Harrie or Harriet) is a Cretaceous-Paleocene guyot/tablemount in the southeastern Marshall Islands, one of various seamounts (a kind of submerged volcanic mountain) in the Pacific Ocean. It was likely shaped by a volcanic hotspot in present-day French Polynesia. Limalok lies southeast of Mili Atoll and Knox Atoll, which ascend above ocean level, and is joined to every one of them through a volcanic edge. It is situated at a profundity of and has a summit stage with a territory of . 

Limalok is shaped by basaltic shakes and was likely a shield spring of gushing lava at first; the Macdonald, Rarotonga, Rurutu and Society hotspots may have been associated with its development. After volcanic action stopped, the spring of gushing lava was dissolved and in this way straightened, and a carbonate stage framed on it amid the Paleocene and Eocene. These carbonates were predominantly delivered by red green growth, framing an atoll or atoll-like structure with reefs. 

The stage sank beneath ocean level 48 ± 2 million years prior amid the Eocene, maybe in light of the fact that it traveled through the central zone, which was excessively hot or supplement rich to help the development of a coral reef. Warm subsidence brought down the suffocated seamount to its present profundity. After a break enduring into the Miocene, sedimentation started on the seamount prompting the affidavit of manganese hulls and pelagic silt; phosphate collected in certain residue after some time. 

Limalok was in the past known as Harrie Guyot and is otherwise called Harriet Guyot; Limalok alludes to a conventional chieftess of Mile Atoll. Limalok is one of the seamounts focused amid the Ocean Drilling Program, which was an exploration program that gone for clarifying the land history of the ocean by acquiring drill centers from the seas. The extent of material recouped amid the penetrating was low, making it hard to remake the geologic history of Limalok. 

Limalok lies at the southernmost end of the Ratak Chain in the southeastern Marshall Islands in the western Pacific Ocean. Mili Atoll is situated from Limalok, with Knox Atoll in the middle of the two. 

The generally little seamount ascends from a profundity of to a base profundity of beneath ocean level. The highest point of Limalok is long and widens southeastward from not exactly to more than , shaping a summit stage. The carbonate stage of Limalok crops out at the edges of the summit level. Wide porches and various blame squares encompass the summit level; a portion of the last may have framed after the carbonate stage stopped developing. 

Mili Atoll and Limalok rise up out of a typical platform and are associated by an edge at profundity. The ocean bottom is 152158 million years of age, however it is conceivable that Limalok ascends from Cretaceous flood basalts instead of the ocean bottom itself. Volcanic residue in the Eastern Mariana Basin may originate from this seamount. 

The Pacific ocean bottom, particularly the parts that are of Mesozoic age, contains the greater part of the world's guyots (otherwise called tablemounts). These are submarine mountains which are portrayed by soak inclines, a level top and as a rule the nearness of corals and carbonate stages. These structures initially framed as volcanoes in the Mesozoic Ocean. Bordering reefs may have created on the volcanoes, which at that point were supplanted by obstruction reefs as the volcanoes died down and transformed into atolls. Proceeded with subsidence adjusted by upward development of the reefs prompted the arrangement of thick carbonate stages. Volcanic action can happen even after the arrangement of the atoll or atoll-like landforms, and amid scenes where the stages were lifted above ocean level, erosional highlights, for example, channels and blue openings created. The outside underneath these seamounts will in general die down as it cools and in this manner the islands and seamounts sink. 

The arrangement of numerous seamounts including Limalok has been clarified with the hotspot hypothesis, in which a "problem area" ascending from the mantle prompts the development of chains of volcanoes which get dynamically more established along the length of the chain, with a functioning spring of gushing lava just toward one side of the framework, as the plate moves over the hotspot. Seamounts and islands in the Marshall Islands don't seem to have begun from basic age-dynamic hotspot volcanism as the age movements in the individual island and seamount chains are regularly conflicting with this clarification. One answer for this problem might be that more than one hotspot went through the Marshall Islands, and it is additionally conceivable that hotspot volcanism was influenced by extensional distortion of the lithosphere. For Limalok, geochemical proof shows affinities to the Rarotonga hotspot which is not at all like the geochemical slants in the different volcanoes of the Ratak Chain. Recreations of the territory's geographical history propose that the primary hotspot to go by Limalok was the Macdonald hotspot 9585 million years prior, trailed by the Rurutu hotspot and the Society hotspot 7565 million years back. The Rarotonga and particularly the Rurutu hotspots are viewed as the no doubt contender for the hotspot that framed Limalok. In any case, some paleogeographical irregularities show that lithospheric breaks auxiliary to hotspot movement were likewise included. 

From plate movement reproductions, it has been built up that the Marshall Islands were situated in the time currently involved by present-day French Polynesia amid the season of dynamic volcanism. The two locales show various island chains, bizarrely shallow sea depths and the nearness of volcanoes. Around 8 hotspots have framed an expansive number of islands and seamounts in that area, with divergent geochemistries; the geographical region has been designated "South Pacific Isotopic and Thermal Anomaly" or DUPAL irregularity. 

Limalok has ejected basaltic rocks, which have been delegated soluble base basalts, basanite and nephelinite. Minerals contained in the stones are apatite, augite, biotite, clinopyroxene, olivine, nepheline and plagioclase, and there are ultramafic xenoliths. Shallow gem fractionation forms seem to have been engaged with the beginning of the magmas ejected by Limalok. 

Modification of the first material has shaped calcite, chlorite, earth, iddingsite, montmorillonite, zeolite, and a mineral that could be celadonite. Volcanogenic sandstones and hints of aqueous adjustment additionally exist on Limalok. 

Carbonate, mud, manganese phosphate outside layer materials and mudstones have been found in boreholes or have been dug from the seamount. The carbonates take different structures, for example, grainstone, packstone, limestone, rudstone and wackestone. Porosity is generally low attributable to cementation of the stores, a procedure in which grains in shake are hardened and pores filled by the statement of minerals, for example, calcium carbonate. The carbonate rocks show boundless proof of diagenetic adjustment, implying that the carbonates have been synthetically or physically altered after they were covered. For instance, aragonite, pyrite and natural material were shaped by change of living creatures inside the dirts and limestones. 

Limalok is the most youthful guyot in the Marshall Islands. Argon-argon dating has yielded periods of 69.2 and 68.2 ± 0.5 million years back on volcanic rocks dug from Limalok. Mili Atoll spring of gushing lava is most likely very little more youthful than Limalok. Amid the Cretaceous Limalok was most likely situated in French Polynesia; paleomagnetism demonstrates that Limalok shaped at 15– 10 degrees southern scope. Early limestones dug from Limalok were viewed as of Eocene age (5633.9 million years prior) before prior Paleocene stores were found also. 

Limalok first framed as a shield fountain of liquid magma. The volcanic rocks were emplaced as magma streams with thicknesses coming to . What's more, breccia and stones encased inside silt happen. 

Soils framed on the well of lava through the enduring of volcanic rocks, achieving a thickness of ; claystones and laterites were additionally produced through enduring. These stores shaped over quite a while on an island that ascended somewhere around a few meters above ocean level – the evaluated time it took to create the dirt profiles acquired in drill centers is around 13 million years. Warm subsidence of the outside layer and disintegration leveled the seamount before carbonate affidavit initiated on Limalok, and it is conceivable that the development of another spring of gushing lava south of Limalok 12 million years after Limalok created might be in charge of a southward tilt of the seamount. 

The dirts on Limalok were colonized by vegetation that left plant fingernail skin and woody tissues; angiosperms including palms, greeneries and organisms with a general low assorted variety created on the fountain of liquid magma. Living beings tunneled into the dirts, leaving pits. The atmosphere was likely tropical to subtropical, with a yearly precipitation of not exactly . 

The disintegration of the volcanic island was trailed some time by the start of carbonate stage development. Sedimentation started in the Paleocene with a couple of occasions in which the seamount was submerged; the beginning of sedimentation has been dated to about 57.5 ± 2.5 million years prior. After a Paleocene stage with untamed ocean or back-reef conditions, lagoonal situations created on the seamount amid the Eocene. It is conceivable that the stage intermittently risen above ocean level, prompting its disintegration. It isn't clear whether the stage appeared as an atoll, or of a shallow stage protected on one side by islands or reefs, like the present-day Bahama Banks. Ocean level ascent at the Paleocene-Eocene change may have set off a change from a somewhat protected stage to a genuine ring-molded atoll. 

The carbonate stage achieves a general thickness of in one drill center. Drill centers in the stage show varieties between individual carbonate layers that infer that pieces of the stage were submerged and developed after some time while the stage was as yet dynamic, potentially in view of eustatic ocean level varieties. Moreover, the stage was influenced by tempests which redeposited the carbonatic material. The testimony of the stage endured around 10 million years, spreading over the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) Drill center proof demonstrates that the PETM had little effect on carbonate affidavit at Limalok in spite of a reduction in the δ13C isotope proportion recorded in the carbonates, suggesting there was little change to sea pH around then. 

The prevailing living creatures on Limalok were red green growth that involved numerous biological specialties and framed rhodoliths. Different lifeforms were bivalves, bryozoans, corals, echinoderms, echinoids, foraminifera, gastropods, molluscs and ostracods. Species and genera arrangement shifted after some time, prompting diverse species being found in various pieces of the stage. Red green growth were critical early colonizers, and algal mats and oncoids were contributed by green growth as well as cyanobacteria. 

A carbonate stage is said to 'suffocate' when sedimentation can never again stay aware of relative ascents in ocean level, and carbonate affidavit stops. Limalok suffocated amid the early-center Eocene, not long after the beginning of the Lutetian, 48 ± 2 million years prior. It is the latest carbonate stage in the area to submerge: the comparable stage at neighboring Mili Atoll is as yet keeping carbonate. 

The drownings of carbonate stages, for example, Limalok, MIT, Takuyo-Daisan and Wōdejebato seem to have numerous causes. One is an ocean level drop bringing about the rise of a great part of the stage; this diminishes the space that carbonate-framing life forms need to develop upward when ocean levels again rise. A second factor is that these stages were false reefs but instead heaps of carbonate dregs shaped by life forms; these builds can only with significant effort out-develop ocean level ascents when developing on a compelled territory. Two last key variables are the entry of the stages through supplement rich tropical waters which cause the abundance of green growth that hampered the development of reef-framing life forms, and worldwide temperature limits that may overheat the stages particularly when near the equator; present-day coral dying occasions are regularly activated by overheating and Limalok and different seamounts were all moving toward the equator when they suffocated. On account of Limalok and some different guyots, paleolatitude information bolster the idea that moving toward the equator prompted the death of the stages. 

After the stage stopped developing, subsidence immediately brought down the tablemount underneath the photic zone, where daylight can even now infiltrate. Hardgrounds and iron-manganese coverings framed on the suffocated stage which contain Oligocene (33.923.02 million years prior) residue and planktonic fossils. A portion of the stones experienced phosphatization amid three separate scenes in the Eocene and Eocene-Oligocene which may have been activated by sea upwelling occasions around then. 

Until the Miocene, sedimentation on Limalok was most likely blocked by solid flows. Recharged sedimentation started by then after the suffocating of Limalok, with dregs comprising for the most part of foraminifera and different nanofossils. A portion of the silt were revised after testimony. Something like two layers framed amid the Miocene (23.35.333 million years back) and Pliocene-Pleistocene (5.3330.0117 million years prior), achieving a total thickness of . Artificially, the greater part of the dregs are calcite and they regularly happen in rudstone or wackestone structure. Bivalves, echinoderms, foraminifera and ostracods are fossilized in the silt, which here and there contain borings and different hints of organic action.