Siegfried Lederer's break from Auschwitz 

The evening of 5 April 1944, Siegfried Lederer, a Czech Jew, got away from the Auschwitz death camp wearing a SS uniform given by "SS-Rottenführer" Viktor Pestek. Due to his Catholic confidence and captivation by Renée Neumann, a Jewish detainee, Pestek contradicted the Holocaust. He went with Lederer out of the camp, and the two men made a trip together to the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia to get false archives for Neumann and her mom. 

Lederer, a previous Czechoslovak Army officer and individual from the Czech opposition, attempted ineffectively to caution the Jews at Theresienstadt Ghetto about the mass homicides at Auschwitz. He and Pestek came back to Auschwitz trying to safeguard Neumann and her mom. Pestek was captured under debated conditions and later executed. Lederer came back to involved Czechoslovakia, where he rejoined the obstruction development and endeavored to carry a report on Auschwitz to the International Committee of the Red Cross in Switzerland. After the war he stayed in Czechoslovakia. The narrative of the departure was retold by Lederer and essayists including antiquarian Erich Kulka. 

Siegfried Lederer or Vítězslav Lederer ( – ) was destined to a Jewish family in the Sudetenland, the German-talking some portion of Czechoslovakia. After the Sudetenland was attached to Germany in 1938, he moved to Plzeň and maintained manual sources of income, including agrarian work and a spell in a kaolin processing plant. As per Lederer, he joined the Association of Friends of the Soviet Union, was affected by Communist pioneer Marie Škardová, helped those living secluded from everything, and conveyed unlawful distributions. Lederer additionally said that he was an individual from the obstruction aggregate named after Lieutenant Colonel Jaroslav Weidmann. Afterward, Lederer joined Plzeňák 28, a Czech opposition gather in Zbraslav alleged in light of the fact that it had twenty-eight individuals, including Josef Pokorný, administrator of the Zbraslav gendarmerie. 

In November 1939 and again in November 1940, Lederer was captured by the Gestapo for supposed opposition action. On the two events, he was immediately discharged due to an absence of proof. He was captured a third time and detained with other political detainees at the Small Fortress of Theresienstadt. On 18 January 1942, he was exchanged to the nearby Jewish ghetto, and should be extradited on the following transport. Leo Holzer, the pioneer of the ghetto fire detachment—a hotbed of obstruction—caught wind of Lederer's opposition exercises and deferred his expelling by enlisting him into the flame unit. Lederer later guaranteed that he had kept up contact with the Plzeňák 28 while at Theresienstadt, however overcomers of that aggregate affirmed that they had heard nothing from him until his getaway. He was rejected from the flame detachment and lost his assurance from expulsion since he was found smoking. Extradited to Auschwitz inhumane imprisonment on 18 December 1943, Lederer was compelled to wear both yellow and red triangles, stamping him as a Jew and a political detainee. There is no proof that he was associated with the Auschwitz obstruction development. 

Viktor Pestek ( – ) was conceived in Czernowitz, Bukovina—which was then piece of Romania—to an ardently Catholic ethnic German family. Auschwitz watch Stefan Baretzki experienced childhood in a similar town; he and Pestek were associates as kids. Pestek, whose father was a metal forger and a little rancher, took in these exchanges as a young fellow. He joined the Waffen-SS, either on account of his intrinsic feeling of experience, or on the grounds that his mom influenced him to join. Amid his administration, Pestek was associated with hostile to fanatic fighting close Minsk, Belarus. His unit was requested to assault a town associated with containing partisans and to slaughter the occupants. At the point when Soviet partisans opened flame at the Germans, Pestek was injured in the arm and leg. Isolated from his unit, he covered up in an outbuilding with another injured SS man named Werner. 

After Werner passed on of his wounds, Pestek was found by partisans who saved his life regardless of the SS killings in the town. The mankind of his adversary obviously stirred Pestek's Catholic confidence and carried him into struggle with the destructive German arrangements. As indicated by Siegfried Lederer, Pestek later said of this occurrence: "I was a killer, and a Soviet fanatic saved my life at any rate". Upon his arrival to a German-controlled territory, he had lost the utilization of his hand. Discovered unfit for cutting edge administration, he was presented on Auschwitz inhumane imprisonment as a gatekeeper. Pestek was a "Rottenführer", a lesser non-dispatched rank in the SS. 

Jews transported from Theresienstadt to Auschwitz between September 1943 and May 1944 were housed in a different square at Auschwitz II-Birkenau, known as the Theresienstadt family camp. They were not expose to choice upon entry, were permitted to hold their non military personnel garments, and were not compelled to shave their heads. Families were permitted to remain together and keep in touch with their companions and relatives trying to misdirect the outside world about the Final Solution. The Nazis, in any case, were wanting to kill each gathering of detainees a half year after their entry. 

Pestek was at first named the chief of area BIId of Auschwitz II-Birkenau. In spite of the fact that he immediately built up a notoriety for exchanging booty, he was appalled by the mass killings at Auschwitz and by the scorn of some German SS individuals for "Volksdeutsche" (ethnic Germans), who included most of Auschwitz monitors. Some SS men framed associations with Jewish ladies in the family camp on the grounds that, in contrast to different detainees, they had been permitted to keep their hair. Pestek became hopelessly enamored with Renée Neumann, a Czech Jewish detainee at the family camp, despite the fact that she didn't restore his fondness. He organized Neumann to find a new line of work as a square assistant and offered to help her getaway by camouflaging her as a SS lady. This was fruitless, incompletely in light of the fact that Neumann was reluctant to abandon her mom. As indicated by Czech student of history Miroslav Kárný, Pestek ruled against getting away with Neumann and her mom as a result of their absence of contacts in the Czech underground who could enable him to sidestep arraignment until the finish of the war. 

On 8 March 1944, precisely a half year from their landing, the Jews from the family camp who had touched base in September were altogether gassed without a determination to locate those ready to work. Pestek safeguarded Neumann and her mom by incidentally moving them to an alternate square. Lederer was named square senior (Blockältester) of Block 14 inside the family camp soon thereafter. Alfred Cierer, a Czech Jewish industrialist, and his child Jakov Tsur moved in light of the fact that they knew Lederer. Acknowledging he would need to act rapidly to spare Neumann's life, Pestek started to approach other detainee functionaries and offer to enable them to get away. Among them were Rudolf Vrba and Alfred Wetzler, who denied the offer since they trusted it was a trap, and prompted different detainees not to trust Pestek. Already, a SS man named Dobrovolný—an ethnic German from Slovakia—had met a Jewish cherished companion at Auschwitz. Dobrovolný offered to enable him to escape however at that point handed him over, bringing about his fierce execution and a reward for the SS man. This and comparable episodes influenced Vrba, Wetzler and different detainees that watchmen couldn't be trusted under any conditions. As indicated by Wetzler, Pestek let him know, "I loathe myself for watching ladies and youngsters be executed. I need to accomplish something to overlook the smell of consuming human fragile living creature and feel a little more clean." Pestek likewise moved toward the Czech Josef Neumann (not a relative of Renée Neumann), a kapo on the "Leichenkommando", which was in charge of the transfer of cadavers; Neumann won't. 

As per Jakov Tsur, Pestek escorted Cierer to the Gestapo for cross examination and made an idea to him. At the point when examined later, Cierer asserted the offer was just an exchange to another piece of the camp, not a total getaway. Cierer, whose three youngsters were with him in the family camp, rejected the offer yet proposed Lederer. Cierer and Pestek talked in French to abstain from being comprehended. Cierer later imparted his contacts to Lederer with the expectation that his getaway would be effective, and the two men arranged together how to break updates on Auschwitz to the outside world—an arrangement they covered from Pestek until after the departure. Different sources express that it was Lederer whom Pestek escorted to the Gestapo. 

As an individual from the family camp and on the grounds that he was kept for his obstruction exercises, Lederer trusted he didn't have anything to lose. He revealed to Pestek he was well off and that his contacts in the underground would help Pestek and Neumann. Pestek and Lederer arranged their getaway, and their proposed come back to protect Neumann, in significant detail. Lederer would leave masked as a SS man. Subsequent to acquiring false records in the Protectorate, Lederer and Pestek would return, mimicking SS officers, and present a manufactured Gestapo warrant for the capture of Renée Neumann and her mom. The Auschwitz staff would give a vehicle and driver, who might be murdered while in transit to the Gestapo station. In the wake of discarding the body, the escapees would take an express train to the Protectorate. The arrangement depended on Pestek's information of convention from his involvement in the vehicle office. 

Since he was an injured fighter, Pestek was qualified for a long leave and mentioned it for 6 April 1944. On 3 April, he stole a SS uniform, gun, and paybook for Lederer, who shrouded them in a twofold divider. Prior to standing gatekeeper at the door of the family camp the evening of 5 April, Pestek left a bike by Lederer's garisson huts as a flag for him to turn out. Pestek gave the right passwords, telling different gatekeepers Lederer was on uncommon obligation, and the two men bicycled out of the front door. They went to the railroad station outside Auschwitz and got a train to Prague, dodging fringe control by professing to be gear investigators. Lederer's nonappearance was found toward the beginning of the day of 6 May by a SS man assessing the family camp who had seen a lady leaving Lederer's square and ventured in to explore, just to find Lederer missing. At 11:30, "SS-Sturmbannführer" Friedrich Hartjenstein, the commandant of Auschwitz II-Birkenau, sent a message to the German police informing them that Lederer had gotten away, most likely masked as a "SS-Rottenführer". Another message four hours after the fact detailed that a SS man—probably Pestek—was under doubt as a suspect for supporting the break. Cierer and others associated with being near Pestek or Lederer were examined. 

In Prague, Pestek and Lederer sold adornments that Lederer had acquired on the Auschwitz underground market and purchased non military personnel garments. They likewise adjusted their regalia to look like Waffen-SS fighters rather than death camp gatekeepers. From Prague they went to Plzeň, where the two escapees stowed away with Josef Černík, a previous Czechoslovak Army officer who had recently helped Lederer look for some kind of employment. The police posted a photo of Lederer yet did not offer a reward for his catch. Brigitta Steiner, the girl of a companion of Lederer's, gave false regular citizen papers to him. She was a "Mischling" whose incomplete German family line kept her expulsion. She additionally let them know of Faltys, a Jew sequestered from everything in Prague who could organize the remainder of the papers, including SS officer recognizable proof for Pestek and Lederer that would give them the expert to capture Renée Neumann and her mom. Faltys requested an extreme charge however offered a markdown on the off chance that they could pirate another lady out of Auschwitz. 

A few people helped shroud Lederer amid the late spring of 1944. In May 1944, Lederer was stowing away in Prague with Bedřich and Božena Dundr, at Vinohrady, Mánesova No. 16. Afterward, Lederer covered up with Mrs. Dundr's sibling Adolf Kopřiva in Na Závisti, Zbraslav, a suburb of Prague. The Černík, Dundr, and Kopřiva families worked together intently, giving fundamental needs to Lederer, and Černík and his better half were shadowed and questioned by the "Kriminalpolizei". Josef Plzák, who had known Lederer in the opposition, was captured in June 1944 under doubt of concealing him. Plzák gave help to those concealing Lederer and did not sell out him. Steiner, a German bank agent named Ludwig Wallner whose Jewish sister-in-law had been expelled to Auschwitz, and three others were arraigned by the Nazi specialists for concealing Pestek and Lederer, and giving false papers to them. 

On 20 April, Lederer made the first of four or five visits to the Theresienstadt Ghetto. Unbeknownst to him, Lederer was not the main Auschwitz escapee to bring updates on mass executions by gassing. Rabbi Leo Baeck, one of the pioneers of the Jewish self-organization, had been educated by an unknown escapee in August 1943. Lederer went to the close-by town of Travčice, where he met with Václav Veselý, a hair stylist who normally went into the ghetto to shave the Czech watchmen; he knew Lederer and had helped the Jews before. Veselý revealed to Lederer how to maintain a strategic distance from the guards, exploiting a security defenselessness around an emergency clinic situated outside the ghetto's border. Lederer crossed the open ground outside the ghetto while the guard was looking the other way and went through a fence. 

Lederer educated Leo Holzer regarding what he had seen at Auschwitz, and as per his later declaration additionally educated Jirka Petschauer, the chief of the Jewish police inside the ghetto, and Otto Schliesser, an individual from the Council of Elders. Holzer informed Baeck and , leader of the self-organization. Eppstein, Baeck, and Holzer concurred reality about Auschwitz must be kept carefully mystery, in case a "calamity" come to pass for the 35,000 detainees at Theresienstadt at the time. In spite of the fact that gossipy tidbits about the destiny anticipating them at Auschwitz had effectively spread around the ghetto, numerous individuals wouldn't trust them. Practically every one of the Jews who were ousted to the family camp in May 1944 were unconscious of Lederer's past visit to Theresienstadt, and the rare sorts of people who approached Lederer's reports endeavored to maintain a strategic distance from expulsion. Indeed, even the obstruction individuals in the flame unit restricted equipped opposition, confiding in the June 1944 Red Cross visit to guarantee the survival of Theresienstadt's Jews. 

Disclosing the response to the likelihood of approaching passing, Israeli history specialist and survivor Jakov Tsur expressed that nobody was equipped for understanding Auschwitz until the person in question had arrived and was experiencing choice. Miroslav Kárný said that he and his companions knew before their extradition on 28 September 1944 that there were gas chambers at Auschwitz, however that "no individual could acknowledge these actualities as truth". Lederer made a few treks into the ghetto in May, sneaking weapons and parts of a radio transmitter that he got from Josef Pokorný. 

Pestek and Lederer came back to Auschwitz, between late April and June, wanting to protect Renée Neumann, her mom, and Faltys' relative. What happened a short time later is debated. It is realized the SS captured Pestek and that Lederer got away catch. As indicated by Kárný, Pestek had outstayed his leave and was associated with having helped Lederer escape, and in this manner achievement was incomprehensible the situation being what it is. Lederer said Pestek had abandoned a few resources with a Polish sweetheart in Myslowitz and that she revealed him when he attempted to recover them. Kárný question that Lederer could have realized that she double-crossed him in light of the fact that as per Lederer, he had stayed at the Auschwitz train station while Pestek proceeded to Myslowitz. Kárný considers the clashing records make it difficult to realize what occurred, and he is persuaded Lederer's record isn't precise. 

Josef Neumann said he had been drawn closer by an obscure SS man—most likely Pestek—with an idea of getaway. Before they could authorize their arrangements, the alert was raised and numerous SS monitors arrived. Neumann and Pestek were gotten, bound together, and diverted; both were investigated and tormented at Block 11. SS watch Stefan Baretzki, who knew Pestek very much, affirmed that Pestek had been captured at Birkenau. Baretzki said he had seen different SS monitors beating Pestek. Ryszard Henryk Kordek, a detainee, said that Baretzki had raised the alert over Pestek's arrival and that Baretzki was one of the watchmen who beat Pestek. SS man Perry Broad said he heard kapos boasting about pursuing and getting Pestek in woods around the camp. Kárný theorizes that Pestek, acknowledging he had been perceived, surrendered his arrangements to spare Renée Neumann and her mom, and in this manner made the idea to Josef Neumann. Pestek was condemned to death by terminating squad in Kattowitz for favoring detainees and abandonment. He was executed in Międzybrodzie Bialskie on 8 October 1944 at 7:04. Individuals from Pestek's unit announced being requested to observe the shooting. Amid the second liquidation of the family camp in July 1944, Neumann and her mom were chosen for constrained work in the Hamburg zone. Both endure the war. 

Toward the beginning of June, Lederer endeavored to sneak a report on Auschwitz to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in unbiased Switzerland. In Plzeň, he met Czech columnist Eduard Kotora, to whom he trusted his arrangements. Kotora went with Lederer to the Křimice station, where the last boarded a train. Utilizing false papers given by Steiner and a bogus work license given by the Zbraslav opposition, Lederer proceeded to the Škodovák station, which was utilized by numerous Czechs crossing the fringe to work at the Škoda Works in the Sudetenland. As indicated by Lederer, he was then headed to Constance, on the other hand dressed as a non military personnel and a SS officer. He met the widow of Werner, Pestek's SS associate who was slaughtered in real life in Belarus, and gave her a portion of Werner's own belongings that had wound up in Pestek's grasp. Mrs. Werner acquainted Lederer with the skipper of a vessel on Lake Constance, who consented to pirate the report over the fringe to Switzerland and send it to the ICRC. 

There is no proof the report achieved its goal, or even that Lederer sent it as he portrayed. Kárný composes that the doubtlessly understanding is that the captain annihilated the report to dodge troubles with fringe control. As indicated by Czech student of history Erich Kulka, the ICRC likely did not get the report. Lederer said in 1967 that he had the chance to run away to Switzerland however chose not to in light of the fact that his family had just been slaughtered by the Germans and he felt obliged to keep on battling. As indicated by Kárný, Lederer viewed escaping to Switzerland as weakness and abandonment, despite the fact that Kárný takes note of that his declaration on Auschwitz would have been increasingly sound on the off chance that he had conveyed it face to face. 

As indicated by Lederer, he joined the Kriváň fanatic gathering and endeavored to cross the outskirt to battle in the Slovak National Uprising (August– October 1944), and was injured in the endeavor. In November, he made his last visit to Theresienstadt, remaining around eight days to aggregate an itemized report on the Small Fortress, the ghetto, and the Sudeten sleeping shelter to which the Germans had exchanged the Reich Main Security Office files in 1943. Lederer's report contained data for which, as indicated by Kárný, "each Allied mystery administration would have offered anything" to get. There is no proof that Lederer attempted to send it to the Allies. 

Following this, Lederer said he came back to Zbraslav and joined a fanatic gathering named after S. P. Vezděněv and proceeded with his action with Plzeňák 28. As per Kárný, Lederer's job in the last gathering, which amid 1944 concentrated on undermining the Roderstein capacitor production line and a nearby Wehrmacht establishment is vague. Kulka dissents, expressing that the report on Lederer's exercises in the Plzeňák 28 assemble affirms his declaration "to the littlest detail". Lederer stayed in Czechoslovakia after the 1948 Communist takeover and wedded. He passed on in Prague in 1972, matured 68. 

Pestek was one of just a few Auschwitz monitors who took a chance with their lives to help prisoners escape. As per Austrian student of history and Auschwitz survivor Hermann Langbein, his activities specifically show the points of confinement of without a doubt the extremist pecking order forced by SS pioneers. Langbein assesses Pestek's activities more positively than those of the watchmen who helped detainees evade amid the departure of the camp in January 1945 with expectations of keeping away from discipline for their violations. One survivor portrayed Pestek as "a not too bad individual who never beat detainees" and Yehuda Bacon said he was "progressively accommodating" than different SS protects. Czech detainees at the family camp purportedly called him "miláček", Czech for "sweetheart". Bacon likewise said Pestek kept up secret contact with Fredy Hirsch, an innovator in the family camp until his demise in the 8 March liquidation. As indicated by clinician Ruth Linn, Pestek may have helped Lederer trying to separate himself from Nazi wrongdoings since his home in Bukovina had been as of late involved by the propelling Red Army. Pestek isn't perceived as "Honorable Among the Nations" by Yad Vashem. 

Albeit depicted as "a standout amongst the most odd" getaways of World War II by history specialist Alan J. Levine, Lederer's flight was eclipsed by that of Rudolf Vrba and Alfred Wetzler two days after the fact, which delivered the Vrba– Wetzler report. Albeit a few creators, including Levine, have associated Lederer's report to the way that the second liquidation of the family camp saved those ready to work, Miroslav Kárný accentuates that the choice was made because of the expanding work deficiency. Kárný, who felt that Lederer's activities required no frivolity, found that Lederer and the Czech columnist Eduard Kotora, who pitched the previous' activities, overstated them. These mutilations were uncritically rehashed by different authors. One persuasive, albeit defamed, record of the getaway was Erich Kulka's semi-anecdotal 1966 book "Break from Auschwitz". Czech-brought into the world Israeli student of history Yehuda Bauer wrote in the presentation of the book that "The story that Erich Kulka tells isn't fiction". Kulka guaranteed that his work was verifiably exact, even while portraying it as a "chronicled novel".