Lou Spence 

Louis Thomas Spence, DFC and Bar (4 April 1917 – 9 September 1950) was a military pilot and squadron administrator in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Amid World War II he flew with No. 3 Squadron, procuring the Distinguished Flying Cross (DFC), and told No. 452 Squadron, accepting a Mention in Despatches. He drove No. 77 Squadron in the opening a very long time of the Korean War, and was granted a bar to his DFC, just as the US Legion of Merit and the US Air Medal, for his administration. 

Conceived in Bundaberg, Queensland, Spence worked in a bank before joining the RAAF in March 1940. In August the next year he was presented on North Africa with No. 3 Squadron, which worked P-40 Tomahawks and Kittyhawks against German and Italian powers; he was credited with shooting down two German airplane. Spence instructed No. 452 Squadron in 1944, flying Supermarine Spitfires with regards to Australia's North-Western Area against the Japanese. After a short come back to non military personnel life following World War II, he rejoined the RAAF in October 1946. He took direction of No. 77 Squadron, working P-51 Mustangs as a major aspect of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force in Japan, in February 1950. The squadron went energetically inside seven days of the episode of the Korean War in June. Spence was murdered amid a low-level mission over South Korea in September 1950. 

Conceived on 4 April 1917 in Bundaberg, Queensland, Louis Thomas Spence was the fifth offspring of Robert John Spence, rancher, and Louise Margaretta Marie, "" Koob. His parentage was Irish on his dad's side and German on his mother's. Spence went to Longreach State School from 1924 to 1931 and Thornburgh College in Charters Towers from 1932 to 1934. Fruitful scholastically, he likewise exceeded expectations at games including cricket, rugby association, and tennis. His light-fair hair earned him the epithet "Silver". He was utilized as an assistant at the Queensland home office of the Bank of New South Wales in Brisbane, and learned at the Bankers' Institute of Australasia. 

Spence joined the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) on 6 March 1940. Subsequent to flying preparing at Point Cook, Victoria, and Archerfield, Queensland, he was dispatched as a pilot officer on 26 August. On 28 October, he was allocated to No. 25 Squadron in Perth, Western Australia. The squadron worked CAC Wirraways. Spence was elevated to flying officer on 26 February 1941. He wedded Vernon Swain, a medical attendant, in St George's Cathedral, Perth, on 24 May; the couple had two kids. Swain's dad had been a pilot with the Royal Flying Corps in World War I. In August, Spence was presented on the Middle East. He experienced operational flying preparing in Khartoum, Sudan, before joining No. 3 Squadron in September. Situated in Egypt, No. 3 Squadron worked P-40 Tomahawk contenders against German and Italian powers. 

On 1 January 1942, having changed over to P-40 Kittyhawks, No. 3 Squadron assaulted sixteen Junkers Ju 87 "Stuka" plunge planes and their escort of six Messerschmitt Bf 109 warriors close Agedabia in Cyrenaica; Spence was credited with shooting down a Ju 87. He handled his single-situate warrior in the desert on 26 January to get another No. 3 Squadron pilot, Sergeant Walter Mailey, whose Kittyhawk had been constrained down. On 14 February, No. 3 Squadron and No. 112 Squadron RAF caught more than thirty Italian and German air ship endeavoring to assault Tobruk. The Allied pilots asserted twenty foe flying machine pulverized, one of which, a Bf 109, was credited to Spence. He asserted a plausible Bf 109 on 15 March, and was elevated to flight lieutenant on 1 April. In the first of his five forays in the Bir Hacheim territory on 16 June, Spence, alongside Nicky Barr, shelled and strafed a segment of German tanks and bolster vehicles, touching off shoot that sent the smell of copying substance into the cockpits of the low-flying air ship—a "frightful repulsiveness", as per Spence, that made him physically sick. His many ground-assault missions and two flying triumphs earned him the Distinguished Flying Cross. Barr reviewed Spence similar to the "most sweltering plunge plane in the Desert" and "one of the stones of the squadron". 

Coming back to Australia in September 1942, Spence was presented as an educator on No. 2 Operational Training Unit in Mildura, Victoria. The unit worked a few sorts of flying machine including Kittyhawks, CAC Boomerangs and Supermarine Spitfires. Spence was elevated to acting squadron pioneer on 1 February 1944 and expected order of No. 452 Squadron two days after the fact. Based close Darwin, Northern Territory, No. 452 Squadron was one of three Spitfire squadrons involving No. 1 (Fighter) Wing, whose job was to safeguard North-Western Area from Japanese air assault. On 8 March, No. 452 Squadron was critically dispatched to the region of Perth, Western Australia, because of worries that a Japanese maritime power would assault the zone, yet it demonstrated failed; no assault followed, and the squadrons were coordinated to profit to Darwin for 20 March. The voyage to Perth had taken No. 452 Squadron through awful climate, and Spence was referenced in despatches for his endeavors shepherding his Spitfires to their goal. From 9 to 21 May, Spence held direction of No. 1 Wing without the officer telling, Group Captain Peter Jeffrey. The following month, No. 452 Squadron exchanged from No. 1 Wing to the as of late shaped No. 80 (Fighter) Wing, instructed by Group Captain Clive Caldwell. Spence was elevated to brief squadron pioneer on 1 July. No. 452 Squadron finished change from Mk V Spitfires to Mk VIIIs that month. 

Spence was posted out of No. 452 Squadron toward the finish of November 1944. Early the next year he joined No. 8 Operational Training Unit, which was based at Parkes, New South Wales, and worked Wirraways, Boomerangs and Spitfires, among different sorts. He was released from the Air Force on 19 November 1945. 

Instead of resume his financial profession after the war, Spence joined the Department of Information in Canberra, at first in organization and later in aeronautics news coverage. He rejoined the RAAF in 1946, getting a commission as a flying officer (brief squadron pioneer) powerful from 17 October. His first arrangement was as senior regulatory officer at RAAF Station Canberra. On 13 September 1947, he traveled to Surabaya, Java, as one of Australia's military spectators with the United Nations commission checking the truce between Dutch powers and Indonesian patriots. That November, he was alloted to the as of late shaped RAAF College, Point Cook, where he was selected aide and in this manner drove the school's Cadet Squadron. In the last job he introduced the school's experience preparing, including kayak stumbles on the Murray River in water crafts built by the understudies themselves. 

Elevated to wing administrator, Spence was presented on Japan to assume responsibility for No. 77 Squadron on 28 February 1950. Based at Iwakuni, the squadron worked P-51 Mustangs as a feature of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force (BCOF). Initially one of three RAAF contender units under BCOF, No. 77 Squadron had since late-1948 been Australia's sole air segment in Japan, turning into the biggest flying squadron in the Air Force, with around 300 officers and men, forty Mustangs, and a few transport air ship. Occupation obligations had been uneventful, the primary operational errand being observation watches, yet the RAAF kept up a concentrated preparing routine and attempted consolidated activities with other Allied powers. On 23 June, No. 77 Squadron made what was required to be its last trip before pivoting back to Australia. 

Spence and his family were going to go on vacation before coming back to Australia when, on 25 June 1950, No. 77 Squadron was put on backup for activity in the Korean War, which had quite recently broken out. The unit was explicitly mentioned by General Douglas MacArthur, officer of United Nations (UN) powers. No. 77 Squadron flew its underlying escort and watch fights from Iwakuni on 2 July, turning into the first non-American UN unit to go energetically. That day, Spence took eight Mustangs on an escort mission for United States Air Force (USAF) B-26 Invaders assaulting an extension south of Seoul. Families as yet living at Iwakuni, pending their repatriation from what had turned into an operational theater, could watch the Mustangs leave for missions over Korea. 

A well disposed flame episode happened on 3 July 1950, when No. 77 Squadron assaulted a train brimming with US and South Korean troops on the primary interstate among Suwon and Pyongtaek, causing numerous setbacks, twenty-nine of them lethal. Preceding the mission, Spence had raised worries that the North Koreans couldn't have infiltrated so far south, however was guaranteed by USAF controllers that the objective was right. The episode was broadly detailed in American papers yet an open articulation by Lieutenant General George E. Stratemeyer, authority of the US Far East Air Force, cleared the RAAF of fault. Spence was suggested for the US Air Medal for "praiseworthy administration" in activities from 25 June to 15 July. His undeniably substantial taskload included conciliatory obligations and advertising, just as squadron organization and many battle forays. 

No. 77 Squadron did not experience foe flying machine in the opening period of the war, however regularly confronted exceptional ground fire. Amid July and August 1950, furnished with bombs, rockets and napalm, the Mustangs bolstered UN troops withdrawing before the North Korean development. As indicated by the official history of the Air Force in 1946– 1971, the squadron's part in the Battle of Pusan Perimeter earned acknowledgment "for the RAAF as well as Australia at the most astounding political dimensions in the United States". On 15 August, Prime Minister Robert Menzies displayed the Gloucester Cup to No. 77 Squadron as the RAAF's most capable unit of the previous year. General Stratemeyer touched base at Iwakuni seven days after the fact to astonish Spence with the honor of the US Legion of Merit for "exceptional authority in the readiness of his unit for battle". 

On 9 September, in shady conditions, Spence drove three different Mustangs in a low-level napalm assault on An'gang-ni. He endeavored to haul out of a precarious plunge yet slammed amidst the town and was executed. Regardless of whether he was hit by ground fire or had misconceived his assault is questionable. Spence's significant other and youngsters were all the while living at Iwakuni, and his passing rushed the flight for Australia of all families on the base. He was prevailing by Squadron Leader Dick Cresswell, who had twice instructed No. 77 Squadron amid World War II. Cresswell remarked that "on account of Lou Spence", the squadron "was driven splendidly in every one of the employments it did". 

As indicated by his sibling, cited in the Brisbane "Dispatch Mail", Spence wrote in his last letter home: 

Flight Lieutenant (later Air Vice-Marshal) Fred Barnes depicted Spence's passing as having "a colossal impact ... He was well known and regarded as an expert. It was acknowledged that he was en route to high position." The official history of the post-war Air Force battled that Spence "seemed bound for the most abnormal amounts of the RAAF". Stratemeyer appraised him "a standout amongst the most fit field administrators I have been related with", and "one of the noblest and best officers of any administration". 

Spence was prescribed for the Distinguished Service Order for his "remarkable valiant initiative and qualification" in Korea, yet the honor was changed to a bar to his DFC. The design was declared in "The London Gazette" on 17 April 1951 and exhibited to his better half on 22 February 1952. His honors of the US Legion of Merit and Air Medal were gazetted on 22 June 1951; the last was exhibited secretly to Vernon Spence. 

Propelling UN troops found Spence's body close to his slammed Mustang in October 1950. He is covered at the United Nations Memorial Cemetery in Busan, South Korea. His name shows up on Panel 2 of the Commemorative Area of the Australian War Memorial, Canberra.