Qatna 

Qatna (present day: , Tell al-Mishrifeh) is an antiquated city situated in Homs Governorate, Syria. Its remaining parts comprise an enlighten arranged concerning upper east of Homs close to the town of al-Mishrifeh. The city was an imperative focus all through the majority of the second thousand years BC and in the main portion of the primary thousand years BC. It contained one of the biggest regal royal residences of Bronze Age Syria and a flawless imperial tomb that has given a lot of archeological proof on the funerary propensities for that period. 

First occupied for a brief period in the second 50% of the fourth thousand years BC, it was repopulated around 2800 BC and kept on developing. By 2000 BC, it turned into the capital of a local kingdom that spread its position over substantial swathes of the focal and southern Levant. The kingdom delighted in great relations with Mari, yet was occupied with steady fighting against Yamhad. By the fifteenth century BC, Qatna lost its authority and went under the specialist of Mitanni. It later changed hands between the previous and Egypt, until it was vanquished and sacked by the Hittites in the late fourteenth century BC. Following its demolition, the city was diminished in size before being deserted by the thirteenth century BC. It was resettled in the tenth century BC, turning into a focal point of the kingdoms of Palistin then Hamath until it was pulverized by the Assyrians in 720 BC, which diminished it to a little town that in the long run vanished in the sixth century BC. In the nineteenth century AD, the site was populated by townspeople who were emptied into the recently assembled town of al-Mishrifeh in 1982. The site has been unearthed since the 1920s. 

Qatna was possessed by various people groups, in particular the Amorites, who built up the kingdom, trailed by the Arameans; Hurrians turned out to be a piece of the general public in the fifteenth century BC and affected Qatna's composed language. The city's specialty is unmistakable and hints at contact with various encompassing districts. The curios of Qatna show excellent workmanship. The city's religion was unpredictable and dependent on numerous factions in which precursor love assumed a critical job. Qatna's area amidst the Near East exchange systems helped it accomplish riches and flourishing; it exchanged with locales as far away as the Baltic and Afghanistan. The zone encompassing Qatna was rich, with plentiful water, which made the grounds appropriate for touching and bolstered a vast populace that added to the flourishing of the city. 

Third thousand years writings don't make reference to the name Qatna; the chronicle of Ebla specifies the toponym "Gudadanum" (or "Ga-da-nu"), which has been related to Qatna by certain researchers, for example, Giovanni Pettinato and Michael Astour, yet this is discussed. 

Beside a dark entry in the twentieth century BC Egyptian "Story of Sinuhe", where the name Qatna isn't plainly referenced, the most punctual event of the name originates from the Middle Bronze Age chronicle of Mari, where the city is referenced as "Qatanum", an Akkadianized group (Qa-ta-nim). In Alalakh, the name "Qa-ta-na" was utilized, an Amorite position that was abbreviated into Qatna amid the Late Bronze Age. The name is Semitic; it gets from the root "q-ṭ-n", signifying "slight" or "tight" in various Semitic dialects, for example, Akkadian, Syriac, and Ethiopian. "Ga-da-nu" from the Eblaite file may likewise get from that root. The toponym "Qatna" is carefully identified with conduits and lakes; this could be a reference to the counterfeit narrowing that made a lake from the springs found southwest of the city, since Qatna developed on the eastern shore of a now dried lake. 

The city is situated in the farmland, north of Homs. It was established on a limestone level, and its broad remains recommend rich surroundings with bottomless water, which isn't the situation in present day times. Three northward streaming tributary watercourses (Mydan, Zorat and Slik) of the Orontes River cross the district of Qatna, encasing a zone north– south and east– west. The city lay along the focal channel (Zorat), encompassed by somewhere around twenty five satellite settlements, the vast majority of them along the Mydan (denoting the eastern outskirt of the district) and Slik (denoting the western fringe of the area) aqueducts. The watercourses are presently dry the greater part of the year, however amid the stormy season their release is disproportional to the extent of their valleys, recommending that the area was significantly more sticky and water was progressively bounteous before. The early city, dating to the Early Bronze Age IV (2200– 2100 BC), was worked in a roundabout arrangement; this roundabout site turned into the upper city (acropolis) of Qatna's later stages and was encompassed by a lower rectangular city. 

The site was first involved amid the Late Chalcolithic IV period (3300– 3000 BC). This early settlement was focused on the focal piece of the upper town; its capacity is obscure and it finished in the late fourth thousand years BC. Following a rest of a few centuries, the site was reoccupied around 2800 BC amid the Early Bronze Age III. 

The most recent two centuries of the third thousand years BC observed broad interruption of urban settlements in Syria and the relinquishment of numerous urban areas; be that as it may, Qatna is by all accounts a special case, as it kept on developing. Amid the Early Bronze Age IV, Qatna achieved a size of ; it incorporated a thick private quarter and offices for the capacity and preparing of grains, particularly a vast multi-stayed storage facility like the one in Tell Beydar. The city may have been one of the urban focuses of the Ib'al alliance, maybe the focal point of a lord or sovereign. The early city involved the acropolis, and none of its remaining parts were found in the lower city. The vast majority of the little settlements encompassing Qatna, to , showed up amid this period; this may have been associated with the development of a focal foundation in the city. 

The Kingdom of Qatna was set up around 2000 BC. Toward the start of the Middle Bronze Age I, the city extended and secured a region of . This development diminished the quantity of the little settlements as individuals were drawn into the extended city. It is plausible that the most punctual notice of "Qatna" by this name dates to a similar period. As indicated by Thomas Schneider, a city named "Qedem", referenced in a dubious section in the "Account of Sinuhe" dating to the start of the Twelfth Dynasty of Egypt (mid twentieth century BC), is most presumably to be related to Qatna. Qedem in the Egyptian content is expressed "Qdm", and, in Egyptian, Qatna is composed as "Qdn". In the event that Schneider's elucidation is right, at that point this is the principal known composed notice of the city. The content additionally makes reference to that the title of the ruler was "Mekim" (or Mekum), a regal title known from Ebla. The hypothesis of Schneider is discussed: in Sinuhe's story, the hero swung back to Qedem subsequent to achieving Byblos; Joachim Friedrich Quack called attention to that the Egyptian action word ""ḥs ̯i"" utilized in the content was known to show that a specific endeavor had achieved its last goal and was currently coming back to Egypt, demonstrating that Qedem was south of Byblos, while Qatna is toward the north of Byblos. 

The following notice of Qatna after the "Tale of Sinuhe" originates from Mari in the eighteenth century BC, amid the rule of Išḫi-Addu of Qatna. Nonetheless, a tablet found in Tuttul, dating to the early reign of the Mariote lord Yahdun-Lim in the late nineteenth century BC, makes reference to a ruler named Amut-piʾel, who is most likely the dad of Išḫi-Addu; this would make him the primary known ruler of Qatna. Likewise amid the rule of Yahdun-Lim, the kingdom of Yamhad in Aleppo and its lord Sumu-Epuh enter the chronicled record through the writings of Mari. 

Right off the bat in their history, Qatna and Yamhad had unfriendly relations; Amut-piʾel I, in collusion with Yahdun-Lim and Ḫammu-Nabiḫ (most likely lord of Tuttul), assaulted the Yamhadite city of Tuba, which was an individual ownership of Aleppo's illustrious family, and took a substantial goods. Afterward, Yahdun-Lim set out on an undertaking to the Mediterranean Sea that was utilized for ideological purposes, as it was intended to reverberate Gilgamesh's deeds; the voyage likely had undeclared political intentions too, when found with regards to the coalition with Qatna. The Mariote– Qaṭanean collusion, which was most likely solidified by dynastic marriage, more likely than not incited Yamhad, which bolstered uprisings in Mari to engross Yahdun-Lim with his own issues. Regardless of the pressure and fights, a full-scale war with Yamhad was evaded. 

Qatna was at its pinnacle amid the rule of Išḫi-Addu. Mari was vanquished by Shamshi-Adad I of Assyria, who designated his child Yasmah-Adad as its ruler. Išḫi-Addu was aligned with Shamshi-Adad and is bore witness to comparing with Mari for a time of six years between . At its stature, the kingdom stretched out from the upper valley of the Orontes to Qadeš in the west, while Palmyra was Qatna's easternmost city. It was flanked by Yamhad in the north, while the south was commanded by Hazor, a Qaṭanean vassal. The numerous kingdoms of Amurru, which controlled the focal Levantine coast among Byblos and Ugarit, circumscribed Qatna from the west and were considered as a part of Išhi-Addu's vassals. Additionally under the standard of Qatna were different urban areas in the Beqaa Valley and the urban communities in the locale of Apum, in the cutting edge Damascus Oasis. 

The kingdom was at times undermined by migrants; a letter sent to Yasmah-Adad advises him that 2000 Suteans led an assault against Qatna. Relations with Yamhad declined amid Išḫi-Addu's rule and the contention advanced into fringe fighting; Qatna involved the city of Parga in the district of Hamath for some time before Sumu-Epuh retook it. In the south, Išḫi-Addu confronted a general defiance; the coalition with Assyria was solidified by the marriage of Išḫi-Addu's little girl to Yasmah-Adad in . The next year, after petitions by Qatna, Shamshi-Adad sent a military to help Išḫi-Addu manage the defiance. The Assyrian troops abstained from drawing in Yamhad and did not take an interest in its war with Qatna, while Išḫi-Addu moved to Qadeš to direct the concealment of the insubordination, which evidently was bolstered by Yamhad. Following four years in the administration of Qatna, Shamshi-Adad requested his troops to restore; this may have been associated with a harmony arrangement among Assyria and Yarim-Lim I, child of Sumu-Epuh. Išḫi-Addu, who in the past had proclaimed that "regardless of whether Shamshi-Adad would finish up harmony with Sumu-epuh, I will never make harmony with Sumu-epuh, as long as I live!", was conveyed an overwhelming blow, however Mari's sources are quiet on how the lord managed the circumstance, and when they continued referencing Qatna in , Išḫi-Addu was dead and prevailing by his child Amut-piʾel II. 

The political and military parity in the district changed drastically amid the rule of Amut-piʾel II; Shamshi-Adad I had kicked the bucket by around 1775 BC, and his realm deteriorated, while Yasmah-Adad was expelled from his position of authority and supplanted with Zimri-Lim. Yarim-Lim I picked up the high ground and transformed his kingdom into the incomparable power in the Levant; Qatna was compelled to regard the outskirts and interests of Yamhad. In Mari, Zimri-Lim, who was Yarim-Lim's protégé, wedded Amut-piʾel II's sister and Yasmah-Adad's widow Dam-Ḫuraṣi, and this appeared to fulfill the ruler of Qatna, as his relations with Mari were never threatening. In 1772 BC, the Banu-Yamina clans rebelled against Zimri-Lim, who approached Qatna for help; Amut-piʾel II sent his troops to Dūr-Yahdun-Lim (presumably present day Deir ez-Zor) to help Mari, yet when he requested Mariote military help sometime in the not too distant future, Zimri-Lim faltered as Yarim-Lim I was explicitly against such a dispatch. At the point when Qatna endeavored to build up a partnership with Eshnunna, Mari, which was at war with Eshnunna, captured the delivery people on the affection that Zimri-Lim dreaded for their security; in all actuality, the lord of Mari was most likely following up in the interest of Yamhad to keep Qatna from setting up such a union. 

The document of Mari reports an arrangement between Zimri-Lim, the ruler of Carchemish and the lord of Eshnunna (who made harmony with Mari), to assault Qatna. Such a coalition couldn't have been acknowledged without the support of Yamhad, overlord of both Mari and Carchemish; at last, the arrangement was not sought after and the strained relations among Qatna and Yamhad facilitated toward the most recent long stretches of Yarim-Lim's rule. In a letter written to Zimri-Lim, Yarim-Lim I consented to set up harmony with Qatna if Amut-piʾel II were to drop independent from anyone else to Aleppo, in this way recognizing the matchless quality of Yamhad; no confirmation can be appeared for a gathering occurring between the two rulers. Just before his demise in 1765 BC, Yarim-Lim assembled a conference of his vassals, and Zimri-Lim made a trip to Aleppo where he met detachments from Qatna and Hazor, showing that Amut-piʾel II began perceiving the amazingness of Yarim-Lim, and that Hazor, Qatna's vassal, was presently obeying Yamhad. Yarim-Lim's successor Hammurabi I orchestrated a harmony with Qatna that most likely did not require the Qaṭanean lord to visit Aleppo by and by, however showed Qatna's acknowledgment of Yamhad's predominance. This evident yielding appears an insignificant custom as Qatna proceeded with its yearnings for power, as turned out to be clear in its conduct amid the Elamite attack of Mesopotamia in year ten of Zimri-Lim's rule. An Elamite delegate came to Emar and sent three of his workers to Qatna; Hammurabi I of Yamhad scholarly of this and sent troops to capture them on their arrival. The workers were caught and addressed, uncovering that Amut-piʾel II guided them to tell their ruler that "The nation is conveyed to you, come up to me! in the event that you come up, you won't be shocked." The Qaṭanean ruler additionally sent two dispatchers to Elam, however they were most likely caught in Babylon. 

The authority of Yamhad influenced Qatna's economy; the exchange course associating Mesopotamia and Mari to Qatna through Palmyra lost its significance, while the exchange courses from the Mediterranean to Mesopotamia went under the full control of Aleppo, adding to Qatna's loss of riches. Following the devastation of Mari by Hammurabi of Babylon around 1761 BC, data about Qatna turns out to be rare; in the late seventeenth century BC, Yamhad attacked and crushed Qatna amid the rule of Yarim-Lim III. The political and business significance of Qatna declined rapidly amid the Late Bronze Age (LB I), around 1600 BC, because of developing Egyptian and Mitannian impacts. Various little states showed up in the area and segregated from Qatna. 

It isn't known when Qatna lost its autonomy. It turned into a Mitannian vassal in the sixteenth century BC, however the document of Qatna demonstrates that even in its last period amid the fourteenth century BC, Qatna kept up a specific level of self-sufficiency. Early Egyptian military interruptions to the area happened under Thutmose I (). The name Qedem shows up in an engraving found on a divided entryway from Karnak dated to the reign of Thutmose referencing a military crusade in the northern Levant. The engraving proposes that the referenced urban communities submitted to the ruler. The geographic succession given in the engraving is Qedem ("Qdm"), Tunip ("Twnjp") and "Ḏj3 wny" (possibly Siyannu); Qatna (Qdn in Egyptian) would fit better in the geographic grouping and Alexander Ahrens recommended that the engraving may have implied Qatna. Any pledges of steadfastness to Egypt taken by Levantine rulers were overlooked after Thutmose I's demise. The Egyptians returned under the initiative of Thutmose III (), who came to Qatna amid his eighth Asiatic crusade, . Thutmose III did not administer legitimately in Qatna but rather settled vassalage ties and went to a toxophilism challenge with the Qaṭanean lord. 

Towards the finish of Thutmose III's rule, and affected by Mitanni, the Syrian states changed their dependability, causing Thutmose's successor Amenhotep II () to walk north in his seventh year on the position of royalty, where he battled troops from Qatna close to the city. The danger of the Hittites incited Mitanni's lord to sue for harmony: Artatama I drew closer Amenhotep II for a partnership and long dealings began. The discussions kept going until after Amenhotep's passing, when his successor Thutmose IV () at last fixed a bargain that isolated the Levant between the two forces. Qatna and the states north of it, for example, Nuhašše, fell into the circle of Mitanni. Notwithstanding its diminished status, Qatna still controlled the Lebanon Mountains away in the fourteenth century BC. 

Amid the reign of Adad-Nirari of Nuhašše in the fourteenth century BC, Qatna may have progressed toward becoming piece of his kingdom. In 1977, Astour considered Qatna a constituent piece of the terrains of Nuhašše, and recognized a ruler of Qatna named Adad-Nirari with the Nuhaššite lord. Astour was trailed by Thomas Richter in 2002, who considered Qatna to be an auxiliary city in the space of the Nuhaššite ruler. The tablets of Qatna notice a "šakkanakku" (military senator) named Lullu, and Richter thought of him as an authority of Nuhašše. The speculation of Richter is discussed; various researchers acknowledge it, for instance Pfälzner, who recommended that the Nuhaššite lord may have dwelled in Qatna's regal royal residence. Richter dated the standard of the Nuhaššite lord to the period going before the Hittite ruler Šuppiluliuma I's first Syrian war, amid which Adad-Nirari of Nuhašše restricted the Hittites, was crushed, and, as per Richter, had his kingdom part between various Hittite manikins including Idanda of Qatna. 

Gernot Wilhelm saw no ground for Richter's supposition concerning the recognizable proof of the Nuhaššite ruler with the Qaṭanean lord. This recognizable proof lays on the hypothesis that Qatna had a place topographically with the district of Nuhašše, however no strong proof backings this suspicion, and the Shattiwaza arrangement between the Hittites and Mitannians plainly referenced Qatna as an alternate domain from Nuhašše amid the principal Syrian war when the Nuhaššite ruler ruled. In the event that Qatna was a piece of the Nuhaššite kingdom, its accommodation to the Hittites would not have been referenced independently in the bargain. Qatna was led by Idanda amid the main war and the Hittite archives don't make reference to a difference in rulers in Qatna made by Šuppiluliuma, leaving no motivation to presume that Idanda climbed the honored position because of the war. Jacques Freu in like manner dismissed Richter's speculation. Refering to various contentions, he presumed that Adad-Nirari of Nuhašše was a contemporary of Idanda, the successor of the Qaṭanean Adad-Nirari. 

Right off the bat in his rule, the Hittite ruler Šuppiluliuma I () went for vanquishing Mitanni's territories west of the Euphrates. Šuppiluliuma pursued a few crusades to accomplish his objective: the principal Syrian attack, the second Syrian raid, the primary Syrian war and the second Syrian war. The occasions and order of the Hittites' enslavement of Qatna are discussed. Ruler Idanda was a Hittite vassal; a letter sent by the Hittite general Ḫanutti contains an interest that Idanda brace the city. Freu trusted that Idanda deserted Mitanni and joined the Hittites because of Šuppiluliuma's first Syrian invasion. The Mitannian lord Tushratta struck back by attacking Qatna, and consuming the regal royal residence; an occasion dated to around 1340 BC. Wilhelm, then again, trusted that Idanda submitted to the Hittites because of the principal Syrian war. 

The occasions prompting the annihilation of the regal castle did not cause the pulverization of the entire city. The Shattiwaza bargain, which portrays the occasions of the principal Syrian war, makes reference to that Qatna was attacked and wrecked, and its kin were expelled amid the war. Be that as it may, Idanda's successor, Akizzi, was governing in the second 50% of the Egyptian pharaoh Akhenaten's rule following the primary Syrian war, or without further ado before the second Syrian war. This inconsistency can be clarified if the bargain did not make reference to the occasions in a sequential request; numerous researchers, for example, Wilhelm, trust that the creator of the report sorted out the content as per the guideline of affiliation, as opposed to following the arrangement of occasions. 

Akizzi reached Egypt and proclaimed himself a worker to the pharaoh. An enemy of Hittite alliance, most likely composed by Akizzi, was set up. Šuppiluliuma attempted strategic intends to unravel the contention however Akizzi rejected them. Hittite military intercession before long pursued and Akizzi approached Egypt for troops, yet gotten none. Šuppiluliuma himself came to Qatna, helped by Aziru of Amurru. The Hittite ruler took with him a statue of the sun divinity, which had been given to Qatna by a predecessor of Akhenaten. This move symbolized the last capitulation of the kingdom. 

Akizzi endure the pulverization of his city and proceeded with his correspondence with the pharaoh for quite a while; in an Amarna letter (EA 55), the lord of Qatna depicted to Akhenaten the activities of Šuppiluliuma and his pillaging of Qatna. Consequently, the last sack of Qatna happened after the imperial royal residence was obliterated in 1340 BC, and before the demise of Akhenaten, to whom the letter was tended to, in . Trevor Bryce recommended that Akizzi may have acknowledged Hittite overlordship once more. Regardless, he was the last known lord. The city lost its significance following its sacking and never recaptured its previous status. 

The obliteration of the illustrious castle comprised a break in Qatna's history; every other royal residence were deserted and the political framework fallen. An earthenware workshop was worked in the spot of the southern royal residence, while the lower city castle was supplanted by two adjoining yards encompassed by dividers. Archeological information propose a much diminished settlement with no provincial job. Following the thirteenth century BC, no archeological proof exists to demonstrate the city was involved; the toponym Qatna quit showing up and the following occupation level dates to the late tenth century BC, proposing it was uninhabited for three centuries. 

In the late tenth century and mid ninth century BC, the site was reoccupied yet its name amid that time is obscure; three human head figures made of basalt were found in the site; they most likely date to the mid-ninth century BC. Right now, the district was most likely under the control of Palistin, with Qatna under the standard of Hamath, which was presumably part of Palistin. The basalt heads bear likenesses to a statue found in Palistin's capital, however there isn't sufficient data to permit a general end over the fringes of Palistin and its degree into Qatna. The settlement was a little one; it included vast structures that were utilized both as living arrangements and assembling offices. 

By the eighth century, the site saw a recovery in settlement; the city extended and numerous houses, open structures, and capacity regions were manufactured. The recently extended settlement was a difference to the prior tenth/ninth century one; the presence of authority structures and the development of many satellite settlements encompassing Qatna recommend that the city was a neighborhood focus in the kingdom of Hamath. The official structures were viciously demolished, most likely because of the Assyrian lord Sargon II (), who attached the locale in 720 BC. The site kept on being occupied amid the Iron Age III, after the Assyrian decimation, however the settlement shrank significantly, being decreased to a town involving the focal piece of the acropolis. It was deserted in the mid-sixth century BC. 

In the mid-nineteenth century, an advanced town (al-Mishrifeh) was worked inside the antiquated site. Houses were based over the imperial castle floors, harming them to a specific degree, yet in addition ensuring the fundamental vestiges. In 1982, the Syrian Directorate-General of Antiquities and Museums resettled the occupants in another town alongside the old tell, accordingly making the site accessible for present day archeological research. 

The kingdom of Qatna had an overwhelmingly Semitic Amorite populace; all the individual names from Qatna in the Mari document were Amorite. The imperial family was additionally Amorite and it remained in that capacity amid the Mitannian time, which saw the development of Hurrians; by the fifteenth century BC, Qatna had a sizable Hurrian component. The Arameans were in charge of the re-control of the site in the primary thousand years BC. 

The Amorites in Qatna talked their own language, yet lords spoke with their partners utilizing Akkadian, which was the language of writing in the city. Qatna's Akkadian turned out to be vigorously affected by Hurrian in the fifteenth and fourteenth hundreds of years BC; Richter contended that an uncommon Akkadian– Hurrian cross breed vernacular created in Qatna. Writings from Qatna show numerous Hurrian components, demonstrating that Hurrian was conspicuous among recorders, yet its prevalence as a verbally expressed language by the overall population can't be resolved. 

Insights regarding the religious life in Qatna are not accessible because of the uncommonness of composed proof from the city; when all is said in done, numerous factions appears to have existed and blended in Qatna, most conspicuously the imperial precursor clique, the religion of divine beings and the religion of the dead. 

Belet-Ekallim (Ninegal) was a conspicuous god in Qatna; the inventories of blessings introduced to the divine beings found in lobby C of the royal residence demonstrate that she was an unmistakable component in the regal formality, where she was known as the "woman of the castle" and "Belet Qatna", making her adequately the goddess of the city. Notwithstanding, no hint of a sanctuary or holy place has been found in the structure. The inventories additionally notice the "divine forces of the ruler"; it is discussed whether this alluded to gods or to regal precursors. Jean Bottéro recognized the "divine forces of the lord" with the sun god Šamaš, whom Akizzi called the "lord of my dad" in his letter to Akhenaten. Gregorio del Olmo Lete considered Šamaš the divine force of Qatna's tradition, however the "lords of the ruler" likely included different gods also. Jean-Marie Durand considers Addu to be the divine force of the city dependent on a seal dating to Išḫi-Addu's rule depicting Addu thusly. Another sign of the divinities venerated in Qatna originates from the chronicle of Mari; the little girl of Išḫi-Add was committed to the goddess Ishtar and Zimri-Lim once welcomed Amut-piʾel II to Mari to partake in ceremonies for that goddess, demonstrating that the religion of Ishtar was unmistakable in Qatna. 

The writings of Mari demonstrate that the faction of stones, particularly the "sikkanum" (i.e., Betyles—sacrosanct stones), was across the board in western Syria, and its training in Qatna is conceivable. Du Mesnil du Buisson named room F in the regal castle "Haut-Lieu" and thought of it as a holy place of Ašera. Research done after 1999 precluded du Mesnil du Buisson's theory and inferred that the room is a washroom, however further research demonstrated that the restroom elucidation should likewise not be right. Pfälzner, in view of its design being appropriate for containing holy stones, recommended that room F was the royal residence hallowed place for the faction of Betyles. Pfälzner infers that "an extreme confirmation, in any case, for the capacity of Room F at Qaṭna can't be found from this parallel. Nor is there a hint with regards to the commitment of the conceivable Betyle-haven at Qaṭna". 

Predecessors were loved in Qatna; the imperial hypogeum gave a lot of information concerning the religion of progenitor adoring and the practices related with it. Two sorts of internments are recognized; an essential entombment expected to transport the dead into the netherworld, and an auxiliary entombment that was planned to change the expired into their definitive structure: a precursor. The illustrious hypogeum gives indicates the distinctive customs occurring amid an auxiliary entombment; a discernible character is that skeletons were not finished, and no skulls are found for most of optional internment remains. There is no proof that skulls rotted as they would have abandoned teeth, of which not many were discovered, demonstrating that the skulls were evacuated to be revered in another area. 

Bones in the auxiliary internment were masterminded without regard for anatomical request; it is conceivable to accept that the circulation procedure was the aftereffect of representative customs that demonstrated the changing of the expired's job by fusing the person in question into the gathering of illustrious precursors. Ceramics vessels were saved beside the optional entombment remains; they were fixed over sustenance contributions implied as a sustenance supply for the dead, giving proof for the execution of Kispu (supporting and thinking about one's progenitor through a customary supply of nourishment and drink). Many pilled vessels give proof that the living partook and ate with their precursors, adoring them. Pfälzner contends for a third internment process which he calls the tertiary entombment; the eastern assembly of the hypogeum was utilized as an ossuary where human remains and creature bones left from the Kispu were blended and pilled. Pfälzner infer that bones left in that chamber were kept there in light of the fact that they had turned out to be pointless in funerary customs, along these lines the chamber was their last resting spot. Bones in the eastern chamber were put away with no regard for the solidarity of an individual, showing that the people covered were currently part of the aggregate gathering of progenitors; this did not imply that the people were never again thought about, as the numerous dishes in the chamber demonstrate the continuation of nourishment contributions to those precursors. 

As per Pfälzner, a last entombment stage can be seen, which he calls the quaternary internment. Tomb VII, which most likely contained stays removed from the illustrious hypogeum, appears to have filled in as a capacity for the remaining parts of people whose Kispu cycle arrived at an end; not many dishes were found in that tomb. The Kispu was essential for showing the authenticity of the ruler, in this manner it should have been open and unmistakable to a substantial group; Pfälzner recommends that corridor An in the illustrious castle was the spot for the open Kispu and that the vestibule of the regal hypogeum was committed for private Kispu that included just the lord and the spirits of his progenitors. 

Because of its area amidst the exchange system of the old world, the social and social scene of the city was mind boggling, as the occupants needed to manage merchants and emissaries who carried with them diverse traditions from inaccessible areas. The inventories of blessings exhibited to divinities from the imperial castle show that Qatna utilized the sexagesimal numeral framework. 

Materials colored with regal purple, an image of economic wellbeing, were found in the regal hypogeum. In light of the imperial statues found in the illustrious hypogeum waiting room, a ruler of Qatna wore garments unique in relation to those ragged in Mesopotamia; his robes would have achieved his lower legs and the fix on his shawl would have been in the state of a thick rope, while his whiskers was short and his hood comprised of an expansive band. For illustrious essential entombments, a few stages were pursued: developing the internment holder, blessing the body with oil, warming the body, driving the entombment parade, laying the stone casket floor with materials, covering the body with another layer of materials, lastly keeping a layer of plants and herbs. Elephants, which lived in western Syria, were regarded in Qatna and associated with the regal family; they were obviously chased by the royals and the lord himself, as there is proof that their bones were shown in the royal residence; in this manner, elephants were a piece of the regal philosophy and chasing an elephant was an image of esteem that celebrated the quality of the ruler. 

A universal style in craftsmanship did not exist in Qatna; rather, a territorial cross breed style won where worldwide themes show up alongside local ones, yet every one of the pieces uncover enough highlights to follow them to Qatna. The volute-formed plant is a standout amongst the most boundless worldwide themes; numerous pieces from the imperial hypogeum were beautified with the theme, yet Qatna had its own normal volute, where the crown is a solitary long projection with dabbed pendants spreading out of the sides of the upper volute. The divider painting in Qatna's imperial castle bears witness to contact with the Aegean locale; they portray normal Minoan themes, for example, palm trees and dolphins. 

Qatna likewise had a particular neighborhood craftsmanship; the divider artistic creations in the regal castle, however including Aegean themes, delineate components that are not run of the mill either in Syria or the Aegean district, for example, turtles and crabs. This cross breed style of Qatna incited Pfälzner to recommend a "craftsmanship cooperation display", which depends on the supposition that Aegean specialists were utilized in neighborhood Syrian workshops. Nearby workshops demonstrated golden in Syrian style; numerous pieces were found in the imperial hypogeum including 90 dabs and a vessel in the state of a lion head. Ivory was associated with the illustrious family and the pieces found mirror an abnormal state of craftsmanship that was affected by Egyptian conventions. Gems was made to fit nearby tastes notwithstanding when the birthplace of the idea was remote; a precedent would be the scarabs, conventional Egyptian articles, that were changed in Qatna by etching them with neighborhood themes and encasing them with gold, which is atypical for Egyptian examples. Beside two brilliant dabs that appear to be imported from Egypt, no adornments found was of outside birthplace. 

Common western Syrian engineering conventions are found in the eastern royal residence, which has an awry arrangement and tripartite meeting rooms. The lower city royal residence likewise indicates normal second-thousand years Syrian highlights, being extended and without the enormous patios that were a customary Mesopotamian include; rather, the royal residence had a few little yards spread inside it. Qatna's imperial castle was novel in its grand engineering; it had an unmistakable establishment and the position of authority room dividers were wide, which does not happen somewhere else in the design of the old Near East. The period following the demolition of the illustrious royal residence demonstrates a reasonable break in culture, confirm by the poor structure materials and engineering systems. 

Finds in "Tomb IV" show that Qatna was occupied with long separation exchange since its initial history. The city's area on the edges of the Syrian steppes transformed it into a key stop for trains venturing out to the Mediterranean Sea from the east. The wide open encompassing the city gave the way to its accomplishment in the Early Bronze Age IV; those grounds were fit for supporting both agribusiness and pastoralism. Regardless of the cutting edge shortage of water, geoarchaeological look into on the watercourses of the area affirm the bounty of water amid the Bronze Age. The land was inexhaustible in field lands; when dry spell struck Mari, Išḫi-Addu enabled its wanderers to munch their groups in Qatna. 

The composed sources don't offer profound understanding on the economy of the kingdom; it tallied for the most part on agribusiness amid the Middle Bronze Age yet, by the Late Bronze Age, it ended up dependent on exchange with encompassing districts. Verifying crude materials rare close to the city was an essential worry for the rulers; basalt was a vital structure device and it was most likely procured from the Salamiyah area or Al-Rastan. Calcite was given from either the Syrian coast or Egypt, golden originated from the Baltic district, while locales in present day Afghanistan gave carnelian and lapis-lazul. 

The primary courses passing Qatna were from Babylon to Byblos through Palmyra, from Ugarit to Emar, and from Anatolia to Egypt. Expenses on bands crossing the exchange courses enabled the city's sovereignty to get rich; an understanding into Qatna's riches can be obtained from the settlement of Išḫi-Addu's girl, who was invested with 10 abilities of silver (288 kg) and 5 gifts of materials (worth 144 kg of silver). White steeds were among Qatna's most well known fares, notwithstanding great wines, woods from the close-by Lebanon mountain, and products, for example, chariots, from an exceptionally talented art industry. 

Numerous Egyptian imports were found in the city, including the "sphinx of Ita", which speaks to a girl of the Egyptian pharaoh Amenemhat II, and a vessel with the name of Senusret I engraved on it, in addition to around 50 stone vessels in the imperial hypogeum. Two units of weight and installment estimation are noticeable in Qatna: the mina and the shekel. The mina had diverse qualities from area to district yet it appears that in Qatna the favored esteem was 470 g, while the favored estimation of the shekel is difficult to figure. 

The presence of horticultural offices on the acropolis amid the EB IV early city demonstrates that a focal expert regulated the generation procedure; maybe the city was a focal point of one of the rulers of Ib'al. Another bit of proof is "Tomb IV", which contained the remaining parts of 40 individuals, 300 stoneware vessels, weapons and trimmings. The tomb likely had a place with the tip top or the decision group of the city. In the kingdom of Qatna, the crown sovereign had the city of Nazala as his space. The castle was basically a political and authoritative organization without religious capacities, as opposed to the royal residence of Mari. In the domain of Hamath, Qatna was a managerial focus likely responsible for the kingdom's southern locales. Amid the Assyrian time frame, Qatna lost its authoritative job and even its urban character until its deserting. 

Known rulers of Qatna are: 

Du Mesnil du Buisson drove unearthings beginning in 1924, and yearly from 1927 to 1929; the third thousand years BC remains gave rare examples and the vast majority of the information originate from Tomb IV. In 1994, a Syrian mission driven by Michel Al-Maqdissi directed a few reviews and surface unearthings, at that point, in 1999, a joint Syrian– Italian– German mission was shaped that was going by Al-Maqdissi, Daniele Morandi Bonacossi and Pfälzner. Because of the advancement of the unearthings, the Directorate-General of Antiquities and Museums split the mission into Syrian (headed by Al-Maqdissi), Syrian– German (headed by Pfälzner) and Syrian– Italian (headed by Morandi Bonacossi) missions in 2004. 

Research was centered around the upper city while the lower city remained to a great extent immaculate; by 2006, just 5% of the site's complete zone had been exhumed. The imperial royal residence was part into two unearthing zones: activity G covering the western part and task H covering the eastern part. Task J covers the summit of the acropolis, while the lower city royal residence is secured by activity K. A standout amongst the most essential disclosures came in 2002, when the file of ruler Idanda was found, containing 67 earth tablets. Because of the Syrian Civil War, unearthings halted in 2011.