Georgetown Car Barn 

The Georgetown Car Barn is a noteworthy structure in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, D.C., in the United States. Structured by the planner Waddy Butler Wood, it was worked somewhere in the range of 1895 and 1897 by the Capital Traction Company as an association terminal for a few Washington and Virginia streetcar lines. The nearby "Exorcist" steps, later named after their appearance in William Friedkin's 1973 blood and gore movie "The Exorcist", were worked amid the underlying development to associate M Street with Prospect Street. 

Planned for double use as a traveler station and as a capacity house for the streetcars, the Car Barn started Washington's solitary link vehicle framework. Very quickly after the structure opened, the framework was zapped and the Car Barn was changed over to oblige electric streetcars. Since its commencement as a terminal and storeroom, the Car Barn was never used to the degree foreseen by its development. 

The structure has experienced a few remodels, the most broad in 1911, when the first Romanesque Revival façade was fundamentally changed and the inside was totally gutted. Not long after its opening, the structure fell into dilapidation. Changing responsibility for, it kept up its unique capacity of lodging streetcars until 1950, when it was redeveloped as office space. Among its tenants was the International Police Academy, an arm of the Central Intelligence Agency, which worked out of the Car Barn during the 1970s. Today, it is utilized as a scholarly structure by Georgetown University. 

The Car Barn's unique establishment upheld a distribution center developed in 1761 to store tobacco available to be purchased emptied from boats docked at the present-day Key Bridge. The distribution center was changed over to keep ponies and their trolleys around 1861. On August 23, 1894, Congress approved the expansion of a current trolley line ending at the convergence of Bridge and High Streets (presently Wisconsin Avenue and M Street separately) to the crossing point of M and 36th Streets. With the approval, Congress necessitated that an association station be raised at the site. From there on, the site was utilized to store horse-drawn trolley vehicles. 

Development on the structure at that point known as Union Station started in mid 1895 under the building course of Waddy Butler Wood. The administrator and boss architect of the Capital Traction Company, D.S. Carll, was responsible for the development. Prior to development of the Car Barn, the two lanes were joined by a precarious slope that conveyed 36th Street. A lot of earth were exhumed—altogether—bringing about the sharp precipice that exists today. Neighboring the Car Barn are a lot of stairs ordinarily known as the "Exorcist" steps and a substantial holding divider, which were worked at the time the Car Barn was developed, to interface M and Prospect Streets. The means are so named as they given the area to the scene in the 1973 blood and gore movie "The Exorcist" where the minister is tossed down the stairs to his demise. 

The structure's development was contradicted by the adjacent occupant of the Prospect House, who outfitted sworn statements by noticeable engineers expressing that impacting from the development was harming her home; this prompted court-requested supervision of the impacting in 1894. After the Car Barn's development, the vast structure impeded the perspective on the Potomac River and Virginia from homes on Prospect Street, including the outstanding bungalow of E. D. E. N. Southworth. Consequently, some thought of it as a "defilement" of the neighborhood landscape. 

The three-story, building was opened on May 27, 1897, containing workplaces for the few inhabitant trolley organizations and lounge areas that were beautified with red oak cover framing, lavish iron stair railings, and stuccoed roofs. The outside was planned in the Romanesque Revival style. Its pinnacle, which achieved a tallness of , contained a lift that carried travelers between the terminals. A significant number of the structure's improvements mirror its unique capacity. The pediment confronting M Street peruses "Capital Traction Company" and contains three enhancing flywheels. 

The M Street-confronting first floor served the Washington and Georgetown Railroad. The second and third floors were associated with steel trestles to take into consideration trolleys going over the Potomac River from Rosslyn, which served Washington, Arlington, Falls Church, and were anticipated to serve the Great Falls and Old Dominion Railroad. The rooftop, which was level with Prospect Street, was utilized by the Metropolitan Railroad and had a secured walkway for travelers to get from the lift to Prospect road. 

The station worked as Washington's solitary link vehicle trolley terminal for not exactly a year. Very quickly in the wake of opening, the Car Barn was changed over to work the new electric streetcars. The Virginia lines never utilized the terminal and the Metropolitan Railroad did not utilize the station to the degree proposed. It proposed to put stockpiling tracks on the top of the structure, yet never did. 

Despite the fact that viewed too structured before 1900, the Car Barn from that point started a time of decay and disregard going on for a long time. The main phase of the progress from a trolley station to a place of business was completed somewhere in the range of 1906 and 1908, when parts of the second floor were changed over into office space. The zap of streetcars required an extensive scale re-structure of the Barn, which started in 1910. To oblige the bigger vehicles, the passageways to the structure were expanded and another lift was introduced to lift streetcars to the rooftop. This progress required a close total reproduction of the structure. The steel bolster shafts were supplanted and the whole façade was changed to stretch out toward M Street and increment its tallness to permit more office space. These adjustments were finished in 1911. 

Further changes of track space to office space happened somewhere in the range of 1921 and 1922. Broad rebuilding happened again in 1933 with the assignment of the Car Barn as the central command of the new Capital Transit Company, because of the merger between the Capital Traction Company and the Washington Railway and Electric Company, which expanded the quantity of office specialists at the structure. These progressions included the evacuation of the rooftop in the focal point of the structure, the formation of a lightwell on the third floor, the change of the third floor into office space, and the expulsion of the secured path on the rooftop. 

The last streetcar activities at the Car Barn finished with the conclusion of the Roslyn– Benning Line on April 30, 1949. The structure kept on putting away streetcars until May 1950. Close to the finish of 1952, the principal floor was changed over into office space. 

At the point when the Capital Transit Company converged with its rivals, the structure went under the responsibility for new corporate successor, the DC Transit System, in 1956. By at that point, the structure had fallen into such a condition of deterioration, that the organization thought about whether to devastate it completely. Trying to safeguard the noteworthy structure, it chose to redevelop it. The structure experienced significant inside remodels somewhere in the range of 1957 and 1960, which were expected to transform the structure altogether into a place of business. This included bringing down the roofs, which were recently intended to suit the tallness of the streetcars. The structure was incorporated into the Historic American Buildings Survey in 1967. 

By 1963, the Car Barn was home to the International Police Academy, worked by the Central Intelligence Agency (however authoritatively part of the Agency for International Development) that prepared Latin American police powers; individuals from these powers met at the Car Barn until the program was closed down in 1975. 

In 1992, the proprietor of the DC Transit System, O. Roy Chalk, was liable to abandonment, and the structure went under the responsibility for Lutheran Brotherhood. The Car Barn was obtained by Douglas Development Corporation in 1997—which proceeds to claim the structure—and it was redesigned the next year. The essential occupant is Georgetown University, which initially started renting space during the 1950s. Following two years of remodel by the college that finished in 2017, the main floor was changed over from a carport to house the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and the Georgetown University Press. The structure today has four stories and has a story region of .