Canal boat of the Dead 

"Canal boat of the Dead" is a scene of the American sci-fi TV arrangement "". It is the third scene of the and was first communicated by UPN on October 6, 1999. "Canal boat of the Dead" was created from a story by Ronald D. Moore and Bryan Fuller, who composed the teleplay, and was coordinated by Mike Vejar. Set in the 24th century, the arrangement pursues the experiences of the Starfleet and Maquis team of the starship USS "Voyager" after they are stranded in the Delta Quadrant, a long way from the remainder of the Federation. 

In this scene, the half-Klingon, half-human B'Elanna Torres (Roxann Dawson) has a brush with death and is sent to the Klingon rendition of Hell known as Gre'thor. There she experiences her Klingon mother Miral (Karen Austin), who is condemned in light of Torres' refusal to completely acknowledge her very own way of life as a Klingon. In the wake of being revived by the "Voyager" team, Torres winds up plan on returning to Gre'thor to spare her mom. The scene likewise visitor stars Eric Pierpoint as Kortar, who ships the spirits of the disrespected on the Barge of the Dead, and Sherman Augustus as the dead Klingon Hij'Qa. 

Moore initially built up the scene as a feature of a pitch for the "" scene "Warriors of the Empire". The thought was at first rejected, yet was returned to for "Star Trek: Voyager". Following the scene's consummation, both Moore and Fuller left the arrangement in light of disappointment with their absence of authority over its heading, and the apparent nonattendance of solid story bends over different scenes. "Freight boat of the Dead" was one of a few scenes that tended to Torres' stressed association with her folks and her Klingon legacy. Researchers have offered a scope of assessments on Gre'thor, with the setting and philosophy contrasted with Norse folklore, Greek folklore, and Catholic religious philosophy. The scene got a Nielsen rating of 3.8/6 evaluations offer, which means 3.8 percent of all family units with a TV saw it and six percent of that number were effectively watching it. It was a drop from the scene communicate the earlier week. Basic reaction to the scene was blended; some TV faultfinders adulated the emphasis on Torres and Dawson's execution, while others were condemning of the portrayal of Klingon otherworldliness. 

While coming back from an away mission, B'Elanna Torres experiences impedance from a particle storm which results in a blackout. Officer Chakotay finds a Klingon antiquity stopped inside Torres' shuttlecraft, and Torres sees this producing blood and hears voices talking in the Klingon language. Since the USS "Voyager" has been stranded in the Delta Quadrant, the team is a few thousand light-years from Klingon-controlled space. Assurance officer Neelix plans a festival of the revelation of the item, trusting it starts from the Alpha Quadrant and subsequently demonstrates that the USS "Voyager" is drawing nearer to home; Torres opposes the proposition for a gathering. She counsels with Security Chief Tuvok, who trusts her negative reaction to the item comes from her contempt of her Klingon legacy. Tuvok attacks Torres with a Klingon weapon called a bat'leth, saying she is certifiably not a genuine Klingon before rejecting her as disrespected. While going to the merriments in the chaos corridor, Torres notification and Seven of Nine singing Klingon drinking melodies and Tom Paris eating Klingon food. Subsequent to seeing a few Klingon warriors murdering the team, she falls and winds up on board a vessel. Torres finds that she is being transported to Gre'thor on the Barge of the Dead, and discovers that her mom Miral was put on board as a disrespected soul. 

Torres, who was in a state of extreme lethargy the whole time, is revived by Paris and the Doctor; she had nearly kicked the bucket from the mishap in the particle storm. Chakotay trusts that Torres' experience with her mom was a mind flight incited from her brush with death, yet she trusts that it was genuine. Torres trusts that her mom is being rebuffed in light of her girl's disrespect, expressing that she should come back to the Barge of the Dead to protect her. Chief Kathryn Janeway grants Torres to place herself in an incited extreme lethargies, with the Doctor checking the technique. In the wake of being set in a state of extreme lethargy, Torres effectively comes back to the freight ship. She reunites with her mom, however they contend about whether she has genuinely grasped Klingon otherworldliness. Miral reacts by revealing to her that she doesn't comprehend what it genuinely intends to be a Klingon. After their discussion, Torres chooses to assume her mom's position on the scow; despite the fact that Miral opposes the transference, she is permitted to proceed onward Sto-vo-kor (a rendition of life following death like the Norse Valhalla) while Torres is escorted into Gre'thor. She finds that "Voyager" is her form of Gre'thor, and is gone up against by substitute variants of the group. Miral comes back to clarify that she can't completely be discharged into Sto-vo-kor until Torres finishes her adventure. Tuvok assaults Torres again with a bat'leth, yet she surrenders instead of battling back. Miral recognizes this as the initial phase in her way. She educates Torres that they will rejoin either in Sto-vo-kor or when Torres returns home. Torres is revived and grasped by Janeway. 

The 43-minute, 56-second scene was created from a story by Ronald D. Moore and Bryan Fuller, who composed the teleplay, and was coordinated by Mike Vejar. David Bell altered the music, and Richard D. James was the generation architect. The idea for the scene created from Moore's fizzled pitch for the "" scene "Fighters of the Empire", which would have seen the Klingon starship "Rotarran" travel to Gre'thor. Moore's thought was dismissed as "unreasonably philosophical for this late in the ". The freight ship would later show up in "Star Trek Online", a greatly multiplayer online pretending diversion (MMORPG) created by Cryptic Studios dependent on the "Star Trek" establishment. 

Moore just added to two scenes in "Star Trek: Voyager", with the other being "", the quick forerunner to "Freight ship of the Dead". Talking about why he left the arrangement, he said that he needed to additionally grow a greater amount of its story curves and characters, especially concentrating on the "inside conflict among individuals caught on board ship(s) with no sensible any expectation of discovering asylum at any point in the near future". 

Fuller additionally left "Star Trek: Voyager" after the finish of the scene, refering to disillusionment in his absence of authority over the show's course. He said that he "started to get bothersome and needing to recount stories with somewhat more passionate profundity", and that he disdained how syndication disheartened longer story bends spreading over various scenes. Fuller's scenes oftentimes centered around "character advancement through affliction". ExtremeTech's Joel Hruska composed that the show's later seasons would commonly include Seven of Nine, the Doctor, and Janeway to the inconvenience of the remainder of the cast, while Fuller would attract more regard for the more underused characters. While examining the scene, performing artist Roxann Dawson depicted the storyline as a "great Star Trek story" because of its emphasis on family. The scene highlights Karen Austin as Torres' mom Miral, and furthermore incorporates Eric Pierpoint as Kortar, who ships the spirits of the disrespected on the Barge of the Dead, and Sherman Augustus as the dead Klingon Hij'Qa. 

"TrekToday's" Edward James Hines distinguished "Flatboat of the Dead" as the last piece of a "likely spontaneous 'Torres Trilogy'", which additionally incorporated the scenes "Day of Honor" and "". Every one was communicated as the third scene of their particular seasons; Hines saw every portion of the set of three as being connected by Torres' dread of death. He composed that the scene indicated how Torres moves toward becoming "dependable to herself and to other people - regardless of the hazard - while living". Essayist Paul Ruditis saw the accentuation on Torres' "duality of nature" as prompting the advancement of a few scenes conspicuously displaying her character, including "Freight ship of the Dead". Ruditis associated Torres' storyline to Seven of Nine's in "Survival Instinct", composing that they both "manage issues of life and demise, with sensational outcomes". He alluded to "Freight boat of the Dead" and "Survival Instinct" as "similarly dull scenes". "Freight ship of the Dead" was additionally one of three scenes that included Torres' association with her folks, with the scenes "" and "" settling her antagonism from her dad. 

"Freight boat of the Dead" was the primary scene to give a nitty gritty record of Gre'thor, which was recently referenced just in "Star Trek: The Next Generation". The title was created from "the Klingon conviction that the dead travel to Gre'thor on a scow controlled by a ferryman". Religious investigations researchers Ross Kraemer, William Cassidy, and Susan L Schwartz translated the portrayal of Gre'thor and Klingon otherworldliness as obtaining from Norse and Greek folklore, explicitly the intersection of the rainbow connect Bifröst or the stream Styx. Investigating the impact of the Greek story of Odysseus (Latin: Ulysses) on "Star Trek: Voyager", the Classical philologist Otta Wenskus focuses to Siren-like animals who get out with the voices of those adored by those on the freight ship. In spite of the fact that the theme of a freight boat and ferryman is absent in Homer's depiction of the black market in the "Odyssey", it was along these lines promoted by its utilization in Virgil's "Aeneid" and Dante's "Inferno". The pediatrician Victor Grech, in a paper on Klingon culture, deciphered Torres' faith in the Klingon legendary figure Fek'lhr, who torments the spirits of the shamed, as being in accordance with Catholic perspectives on Satan. 

Kraemer, Cassidy, and Schwartz contended that "Canal boat of the Dead" reflected the "" scene "Legitimate Heir" by not giving a reasonable answer whether Torres' encounters in the Klingon existence in the wake of death were genuine or part of a fantasy. The Native American investigations researcher Sierra S. Adare was reproachful of the depiction of Chakotay—a Native American character—as cavalier of Torres' genuine confidence in her encounters, composing that "[n]o Native individual could ever reject another's dreams as mental trips or guide them to disregard their religious convictions". She refered to it as one occurrence in which the arrangement spoke to Chakotay as "the quintessential Tonto in space". 

"Canal boat of the Dead" was first communicated on October 6, 1999, on UPN at 8:00 pm Eastern Standard Time in the United States. The scene got a Nielsen rating of 3.8/6 evaluations offer. This implies 3.8 percent of all families with a TV saw the scene, while among those family units sitting in front of the TV amid this timeframe six percent of them were effectively watching the program. "Freight boat of the Dead" put in 93rd spot generally speaking for the week. This denoted a drop in viewership contrasted with the past scene, "Survival Instinct", which had earned a 3.9 rating. 

The scene was first discharged for home media use on VHS in the United Kingdom, as a feature of a two-scene accumulation with "Tinker, Tenor, Doctor, Spy". It was discharged on DVD as a major aspect of the 6th season on December 7, 2004. It was the main "Star Trek: Voyager" scene included on the DVD aggregation "Star Trek Fan Collective - Klingon", which was discharged on August 1, 2006. The scene has additionally been made accessible on various gushing video on interest administrations, for example, Amazon Video, iTunes, Hulu, and Netflix. 

TV faultfinders reacted decidedly to Dawson's execution and the scene's emphasis on Torres. "IGN" Peter Schorn composed that the scene was "[a]nchored by Dawson's terrified execution", and adulated the emphasis on the character's inward clash. While checking on the scene as a piece of the "Torres Trilogy", Edward James Hines lauded it as "amazingly manag[ing] to weave a developing story of individual investigation"; he composed that the majority of the scenes associated with the set of three remaining an "inheritance of inventive, horrible narrating". 

The scene's portrayal of Klingon folklore accumulated negative audits from commentators. "TrekToday" Michelle Erica Green reacted decidedly to the exhibitions by Dawson, Tim Russ, and Kate Mulgrew, yet felt that the storyline bore such a large number of likenesses to those from prior "Star Trek" portions and the 1990 film "Flatliners". Hines, of a similar production, was baffled by the nonappearance of Fek'lhr, who had been presented in the "Star Trek: The Next Generation" scene "", and composed that the character could have been incorporated as guarding the doors to Gre'thor through CGI. Hines was incredulous of the parallels among Miral and Janeway, trusting certain groupings would have been increasingly successful without Janeway present. Positioning it at number thirteen out of the twenty-two "Star Trek" scenes composed by Fuller, Blastr's Dany Roth applauded the author's endeavor to all the more likely location Torres as a character, yet felt his way to deal with existence in the wake of death and otherworldliness were excessively immediate and strict. John Andrews of "Cave of Geek!" reacted decidedly to the scene's accentuation on Torres and Klingon folklore, however felt that it was "still really hokey".