Head over Heels (U.S. Television arrangement) 

Head Over Heels is an American TV sitcom made by Jeff Franklin that disclosed on United Paramount Network (UPN) from August 26 to October 28, 1997. The arrangement is set in the eponymous video dating organization situated in Miami Beach, Florida, and kept running by siblings Jack and Warren Baldwin (played by Peter Dobson and Mitchell Whitfield, separately). The rest of the cast comprises of their workers, played by Eva LaRue, Patrick Bristow, and Cindy Ambuehl. Connie Stevens was at first given a role as the Baldwins' mom, however never showed up in the show after the pilot was revised. Andrew Gottlieb was a co-maker, and Vince Cheung and Ben Montanio were counseling makers. 

The sitcom was the most reduced performing arrangement followed by Nielsen Holdings for the 1997– 1998 TV season. Since UPN essentially promoted its programming to African-American gatherings of people, faultfinders scrutinized the show's absence of a dark fundamental character. With its consideration of Ian, "Head Over Heels" was one of 30 U.S. projects to highlight a gay, lesbian or promiscuous character that TV season. It got a negative reaction from reporters, who censured its sex satire and characters. 

Set in Miami Beach, the arrangement is about the Head Over Heels video dating organization, worked by siblings Jack and Warren Baldwin (Peter Dobson and Mitchell Whitfield, individually). Depicted as contrary energies of each other, Warren is more associated with dealing with the organization than Jack. While Jack dates female customers, Warren still adores his offended spouse, who had an unsanctioned romance with an expert football player. 

The remainder of the staff incorporates two sentiment advocates: Carmen (Eva LaRue) and Ian (Patrick Bristow). A self-recognized women's activist, Carmen is a PhD understudy concentrating human conduct and sexuality. The swinger, abstinent Ian is oftentimes interrogated regarding his sexuality, and previous stripper Valentina (Cindy Ambuehl) is a secretary who is knowledgable about PCs. Karen Dior and Bernie Kopell visitor featured in the arrangement as themselves. Jim Lange, who Jack had adored since adolescence, additionally shows up in a scene as himself. 

"Head Over Heels" frequently depends on sex satire, driving "The Washington Post's" Tom Shales to portray it as a "smutcom". Alan Frutkin of "The Advocate" contrasted the show with the sitcoms "Companions" and "Wedded... with Children". The pilot scene highlights Warren having intercourse with a customer in his office in spite of the office's dating arrangement, and a swimsuit design appear. Storylines in different scenes incorporate Jack utilizing Cap'n Crunch as an assumed name in visit rooms to allure ladies and Valentina saying that she would open the mail topless for $1,000 every week. 

Montrose Productions delivered "Head Over Heels" in relationship with Jeff Franklin Productions and Columbia TriStar Television. Jeff Franklin was the show's maker and official maker. Alluding to Franklin's work on the sitcom "Full House", Dusty Saunders of the "Rough Mountain News" stated: "despite everything I wonder if Franklin isn't freeing himself of a great deal of sexual TV disappointment, after each one of those years with anecdotal jazzed relatives." Andrew Gottlieb co-created the arrangement, and Vince Cheung and Ben Montanio were counseling makers. In spite of being set in Miami Beach, "Head Over Heels" was taped in Los Angeles. Matthew Diamond coordinated three scenes, and Amanda Bearse and Asaad Kelada completed one scene each. Jonathan Wolf and Paul Buckley created the arrangement's music. 

Amid generation, Connie Stevens was set to play the Baldwins' mom in a repetitive job. An essayist for Turner Classic Movies portrayed the show as "resurrect[ing] [Stevens'] acting profession". Albeit United Paramount Network (UPN) had requested "Head Over Heels" because of Stevens, the system expelled her from the task following what it portrayed as "an imaginative change". In the arrangement's unique pilot scene, the mother is the dating organization's unique proprietor who passes it on to her children. A "horsing around airhead of a mother", she has an association with a Hispanic fitness coach and every now and again discusses having intercourse with him. References to the dating organization's history and the Baldwins' inclusion were expelled from the arrangement. For the second form of the pilot, LaRue was added to the show after her character (Maria Santos) was expelled from the cleanser musical show "Every one of My Children". 

UPN requested three new sitcoms for the 1997– 1998 TV season: "Head Over Heels", "Hitz", and "Uplifting news". They were a piece of the system's choice to extend its prime-time calendar to four evenings per week. Despite the fact that UPN focused on its programming at African-American groups of onlookers, "Head Over Heels" does not include a dark performer. System president Dean Valentine denied allegations from "industry onlookers" that he was "surrendering the dark gathering of people or turning down ventures highlighting dark stars and makers". 

"Head Over Heels" was one of 30 U.S. programs that season to include a gay, lesbian or indiscriminate character through its incorporation of Ian. About the character's sexuality, Patrick Bristow said he has "a rich, rich and spotted past". Humanist Suzanna Danuta Walters composed that Ian and Josh Nicolé Blair (in the sitcom "Veronica's Closet") spoke to a pattern in which "homosexuality is a running stifler", and characters were willfully ignorant about their sexuality. 

Airing after "Hitz", "Head Over Heels" was communicated on Tuesdays at 9:30 pm EST; it was initially booked for 8:30 pm. The arrangement had a TV-PG parental rating for suggestive language and sexual circumstances; the "Deseret News"' Scott Pierce felt that it ought to have gotten a TV-14 rating for its sexual substance. The arrangement pulled in a week after week normal of 2.3 million watchers. It tied with "Okay Already" as the least performing show (followed by Nielsen Holdings) of the period. The general review figures for the two shows was 2.7 million watchers. 

"Head Over Heels" was the main setback of the 1997– 1998 season. In spite of the fact that 13 scenes were requested, just eight were communicated. In spite of reports that the arrangement would air through November, its last scene was appeared on October 28, 1997. Dobson and Whitfield showed up in every one of the eight scenes, Bristow showed up in seven, and Ambuehl and LaRue showed up in four. 

The arrangement got negative audits from TV pundits; as indicated by "E! News"' Joal Ryan, it was known as the "Most noticeably bad New Show of the Season" amid its presentation. Analysis was basically aimed at its sexual cleverness, for example, a "Deseret News" essayist scrutinizing its "dull, indecent jokes about sexual execution, climaxes and substantial capacities". Refering to it as one of season's most exceedingly bad half-hour appears, the "Rough Mountain News'" Dusty Saunders depicted "Head Over Heels" as an ineffective endeavor to copy "Companions". Howard Rosenberg of the "Los Angeles Times" expelled the show as "the mother of every single stupid sitcom [and] a show with as much weight as a G-string". "Head Over Heels" received some positive comments. Notwithstanding considering the demonstrate a miss for UPN, Tom Shales composed that its funniness was not as "revolting and horrible" as the sitcom "Hitz"; he likewise applauded Patrick Bristow's scene stealer and Valentina's mechanical bent as "an adorable touch". The opening titles got acclaim from Adam Sandler of "Assortment", who portrayed it as "smart and provocative" and practically identical to those for the wrongdoing dramatization "Silk Stalkings". 

Commentators loathed the show's characters and called the female portrayals chauvinist. David Zurawik of "The Baltimore Sun" singled out Valentina and the Baldwins' mom as instances of the arrangement's poor portrayal of ladies. He was disparaging of the sexualization of Valentina, and the way that the Baldwins' mom is characterized through her relationship to her sweetheart. Sandler and the "Los Angeles Daily News" Keith Marder felt that the show's characters depended on prosaisms. Marder summed up the arrangement as "a wreck of crazy exaggerations and poor taste".