Ninja Gaiden (NES computer game) 

Ninja Gaiden, discharged in Japan as and as Shadow Warriors in Europe, is a side-looking over realistic activity platforming computer game. Tecmo created and distributed it for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES); its advancement and discharge corresponded with the beat them up arcade adaptation of a similar name. It was discharged in December 1988 in Japan, in March 1989 in North America, and in August 1991 in Europe. It has been ported to a few different stages, including the PC Engine, the Super NES, and cell phones. 

The story pursues a ninja named Ryu Hayabusa as he adventures to America to retaliate for his killed dad. There, he discovers that an individual named "the Jaquio" plans to assume responsibility for the world by releasing an antiquated devil through the power contained in two statues. Highlighting platforming ongoing interaction like "Castlevania", players control Ryu through six "Acts" that involve 20 levels; they experience foes that must be dispatched with Ryu's katana and other optional weapons. 

"Ninja Gaiden" is prestigious for its intricate story and utilization of anime-like true to life cutscenes. It got broad inclusion and won a few honors from video gaming magazines, while analysis concentrated on its high and unforgiving trouble, especially in the later dimensions. Over fifteen years after its discharge, the diversion kept on accepting recognition from print and online distributions, being refered to as one of the best computer games ever. It was novelized as a major aspect of the "Universes of Power" NES diversion adjustments composed by Seth Godin and Peter Lerangis, and it brought forth a soundtrack CD. 

"Ninja Gaiden" highlights a ninja named Ryu Hayabusa who looks for retribution for the demise of his dad and bit by bit ends up associated with an evil plot that undermines the whole world. The story opens with Ryu's dad Ken being murdered in a duel by an obscure aggressor. After the duel, Ryu finds a letter composed by Ken which instructs him to discover a prehistorian named Walter Smith in America. Before Ryu can discover Walter, he is shot and abducted by a strange young lady; she gives him a devilish looking statue before discharging him. Ryu then discovers Walter who lets him know of the evil presence statues he and Ken had found in the Amazon ruins. Walter tells Ryu of a malevolent evil spirit named Jashin, that "SHINOBI" vanquished whose control was bound into two "Light" and "Shadow" devil statues. Ryu demonstrates Walter the "Shadow" evil spirit statue given to him by the lady, however amid their discussion, a veiled figure, named Basaquer, all of a sudden breaks into the lodge and takes the Shadow statue. Ryu gives pursue, crushes the covered figure, and recovers the statue; however when he returns he finds that Walter is passing on, and the Light statue is absent. Directly after Walter bites the dust, three outfitted men go up against Ryu and instruct him to accompany them. 

Ryu is taken to a cross examination room, where he meets Foster, leader of the Special Auxiliary Unit of the Central Intelligence Agency. Encourage informs him regarding an over 2000-year-old sanctuary Walter found in certain remains in the Amazon. He keeps saying one day Walter bafflingly fixed the remains, and no one has since wandered close them. Cultivate discloses to Ryu they have been checking the action of somebody named Guardia de Mieux, otherwise called "the Jaquio", who as of late moved into the sanctuary. Utilizing the statues, the Jaquio plans to stir Jashin and use it to demolish the world. Encourage asks Ryu to go to the sanctuary and dispose of him. Subsequent to making it into the sanctuary, Ryu finds the Jaquio is holding hostage the young lady who gave him the "Shadow" statue prior. He arranges Ryu to surrender the evil presence statue in the wake of compromising the young lady's life. Ryu is then dropped from sight through a trapdoor and into a mausoleum. 

In the wake of battling his way back to the highest point of the sanctuary, Ryu experiences Bloody Malth, whom he vanquishes. As he is passing on, Malth uncovers that he was the person who dueled with Ryu's dad, that his dad is as yet alive, and Ryu will meet him as he presses forward. When he achieves the sanctuary's internal chambers, he finds his dad was not murdered but rather was controlled by an underhanded figure. He wrecks the malicious figure, which discharges Ken from its hold. Jaquio, maddened by Ken's discharge from his ownership, shows himself; he endeavors to slaughter Ryu promptly with a searing shot, however Ken tosses himself before Ryu and endures the shot. Jaquio is murdered by Ryu amid the resulting battle, yet then a lunar overshadowing happens, making the evil presence statues change into Jashin. After Ryu routs the evil presence, Ken reveals to him he doesn't have any longer to live on account of Jaquio's assault. He advises Ryu to abandon him in the sanctuary while it breakdown, and to take the young lady with him. A while later, Foster, imparting by means of satellite, arranges the young lady to murder Ryu and take the evil presence statues; she is with Ryu as opposed to doing the request. The two kiss, and the young lady discloses to Ryu her name, Irene Lew; they watch as the sun rises. 

"Ninja Gaiden" is a side-looking over stage amusement in which the player assumes responsibility for the player character, Ryu Hayabusa, and aides him through six "Acts" that include 20 levels. A real existence meter speaks to Ryu's physical quality, which diminishes when he is hit by a foe or shot. A "life" is lost when the existence meter is exhausted totally, when Ryu tumbles off the screen, or when the clock runs out. An amusement over screen shows up when all lives are lost; nonetheless, the player may restart the dimension where this happened by proceeding. Toward the finish of each Act, the player battles a supervisor; managers have life meters drained by player assaults. At the point when its life meter is drained altogether, a supervisor is vanquished. Each supervisor is one of the "Vindictiveness Four"— fiendish subordinates of the Jaquio, the amusement's principle opponent. The Malice Four comprise of Barbarian, Bomberhead, Basaquer, and their pioneer Bloody Malth. 

Players assault adversaries by pushing at them with Ryu's Dragon Sword—a katana-like sword go somewhere around the Hayabusa faction for ages. They can likewise utilize auxiliary weapons that expend Ryu's "otherworldly quality". These incorporate tossing stars, "windmill tossing stars" which slice through adversaries and return like boomerangs, a progression of spinning fireballs named "the specialty of the flame wheel", and a mid-air cutting procedure called the "bounce and cut". At the point when Ryu's otherworldly quality meter is excessively low, the player can't utilize auxiliary weapons. Players can renew Ryu's otherworldly quality by gathering red and blue "profound quality" things found in lights and lamps. Different things found en route incorporate hourglasses that solidify all foes and shots for five seconds, reward point compartments, elixirs that reestablish six units of physical quality, "powerful discharge wheels" that make Ryu briefly invulnerable to assaults and 1-ups. 

Ryu can hop on and off stepping stools and dividers, and by utilizing the directional cushion, he can scale or down stepping stools. Ryu can spring off dividers by holding the directional cushion the other way he is confronting and squeezing the hop catch. He can't assault while on dividers or stepping stools. Players can utilize this procedure to get Ryu to scale spaces among dividers and sections by holding down the bounce catch and shifting back and forth among left and ideal on the directional cushion. He can likewise climb a solitary divider vertically by springing off it and afterward rapidly squeezing the directional cushion back towards the divider. 

Tecmo first reported the Famicom rendition of the diversion in the January 15, 1988, issue of "Family Computer Magazine" under the title "Ninja Gaiden" (which would later be utilized for the amusement's American form). The amusement was discharged in Japan on December 9, 1988, under its last title "Ninja Ryūkenden", which generally means "Legend of the Dragon Sword". It was created and discharged around a similar time as the beat them up arcade form of a similar name; neither of the amusements were ports of one another yet were parallel ventures created by various groups. As indicated by designer Masato Kato (recorded as "Runmaru" in the amusement's credits), the expression "ninja" was picking up notoriety in North America, provoking Tecmo to build up a ninja-related diversion for the NES in the meantime the arcade adaptation of "Ninja Gaiden" was being created. Hideo Yoshizawa (recorded as "Sakurazaki") created and coordinated the NES form. "Ninja Gaiden" was Masato Kato's first full-time venture as a computer game fashioner, and he contributed the diversion's designs, movements and guidance manual representations. 

Drawing motivation from the "Mario" arrangement, Yoshizawa kept a similar title yet made a huge difference else; it turned into a stage diversion rather than a beat them up, for example, "Twofold Dragon"; the ongoing interaction was designed according to Konami's "Castlevania", with Ryu being outfitted with a katana-like Dragon Sword, shurikens, and ninpo strategies, for example, fire wheels. In structuring the hero Ryu Hayabusa, the improvement group needed him to be special from different ninjas. They planned him with a ninja vest to put accentuation on his muscles, and they outfitted him with a cowl that curved outward. They initially needed to outfit Ryu with sensors and a head protector with an inside screen to check his environment, yet that thought was rejected. As per Kato, they utilized explicit areas and situations to legitimize the requirement for having a ninja for a primary character. 

Yoshizawa set more noteworthy accentuation on the story, in contrast to the arcade form, and composed and planned a plot that included more than 20 minutes of artistic cutscenes—the first run through a NES amusement contained such groupings. Tecmo called the cutscene framework "Tecmo Theater" where the amusement uncovers the storyline between Acts using enlivened arrangements. They are utilized toward the start of each Act to present new characters, for example, Irene Lew, Walter Smith, and the Jaquio. This component utilizes systems, for example, close-ups, substitute camera edges, varying mood melodies, and audio effects to make the amusement increasingly agreeable for players. Not at all like prior titles, for example, "Last Fantasy", the cutscenes comprised of expansive anime craftsmanship on the top portion of the screen with discourse on the base half. This made the masterful style progressively reminiscent of other manga titles, for example, "Lupin III" and "Golgo 13". Dimitri Criona, Tecmo USA's chief of offers and advertising, said that comfort recreations had preference over arcade diversions in that they permitted the making of a more drawn out amusement and the incorporation of cutscenes, which Tecmo trademarked as "film screens". He noted support amusements required an alternate reward structure than arcade recreations. The amusement contains a component that was initially a glitch yet was left in the last diversion deliberately, as per Masato Kato; having lost to any of the diversion's last three managers, the player is sent back to the start of the 6th demonstration. 

At the point when the amusement's content was made an interpretation of from Japanese to English, the diversion should have been reinvented to achieve this; distinctive organizations dealt with this procedure in various ways. Tecmo's Japanese journalists composed unpleasant interpretations in English and after that faxed them to the American division. As indicated by Criona, the American division would "alter it and set up it back together, recounting to the story in a setting that an American English speaker would get it. This would return and forward a few times." Moreover, the diversion's content was put away in picture documents rather than crude PC content. As a result of the NES' equipment confinements, the English content should be clear and brief to fall inside those impediments; ordinarily, extraordinary words with a similar significance yet with less characters must be utilized. All images and items were examined by Nintendo of America, who had explicit principles on what could be incorporated for North American discharges; for example, any Satanic, Christian, or some other religious, sexual, or tranquilize related references were not permitted. 

Since the diversion's title was considered unreasonably troublesome for English groups of onlookers to peruse, it was renamed when it was discharged in Western markets. In mid 1988 ads from "Nintendo Fun Club News", Tecmo utilized "Ninja Dragon" as a conditional title for the U.S. discharge. They chose to utilize the title "Ninja Gaiden" (its unique working title) when the diversion was discharged in the U.S. in March 1989. The title truly signifies "Ninja Side-Story", yet the diversion was not expected as a turn off of any earlier work. As indicated by a meeting with engineer Masato Kato, when choosing how to make an interpretation of "Ryukenden" into English, the staff picked "Ninja Gaiden" "on the grounds that it sounded cool". In Europe, the amusement was planned to be discharged in September 1990, yet was postponed until September 1991. It was retitled as "Shadow Warriors"— similarly as "Adolescent Mutant Ninja Turtles" was renamed "High school Mutant Hero Turtles"— as ninjas were viewed as a forbidden subject in Europe. It was one of numerous ninja-related computer games around the time, for example, "The Legend of Kage", "Ninja Warriors", and "Shinobi". 

Upon "Ninja Gaiden"s North American discharge, Nintendo of America, whose play-analyzers preferred the diversion and gave it high appraisals, chose to help with its promoting. Nintendo's home organ "Nintendo Power" included it noticeably. As indicated by Criona, it didn't require a great deal of exertion to advertise the diversion through the magazine, nor did Tecmo or Nintendo do much else to advance it. "Ninja Gaiden" got solid attention in "Nintendo Power" in 1989 and 1990. "Ninja Gaiden" got review inclusion in the January– February 1989 issue of "Nintendo Power" in its "Pak Watch" segment. It "got the most astounding signs of any title ... [the magazine's staff had] found in quite a while". It was relied upon to be No. 1 on their "Player's Poll" rapidly. The see contrasted Ryu's capacity with trip and spring off dividers to the ongoing interaction in "Metroid". It was highlighted on the front of the magazine's March– April 1989 issue and was referenced in the accompanying issue in a "Howard and Nester" funny cartoon. It was one of the highlighted amusements in both March– April and May– June 1989 issues of the magazine; the two issues incorporated a walkthrough up to the fifth Act, an audit, and a plot outline. Underlining the diversion's trouble, it showed up in a few issues in the magazine's "Advocate's Corner" and "Grouped Information" help segments. 

The amusement was disclosed at the 1989 International Winter Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. Its showcase highlighted a demo of the diversion and a live individual dressed as a ninja. Tecmo anticipated that the amusement would be the top-selling, outsider title for the NES. 

Interest for the diversion in the long run surpassed its supply. While Tecmo foreseen the diversion would be a hit, as per Kohler they didn't understand at the time the effect it would have on the computer game industry "with its notable utilization of cinematics". Yoshizawa would proceed to coordinate the continuation "" (1990) and stayed as an official maker for "" (1991), while Masato Kato took over coordinating the amusement plan. 

A PC Engine port of "Ninja Ryūkenden" was created in 1992, distributed by Hudson Soft and discharged just in Japan. It includes increasingly brilliant and point by point designs, alongside trouble and ongoing interaction changes and an alternate soundtrack. This rendition additionally underpins three diverse language settings with Japanese, English and Chinese as the accessible choices. Notwithstanding, the English interpretation utilized in this form contrasts from the one utilized in the before NES adaptation. 

"Ninja Gaiden" showed up as a redo of the "Ninja Gaiden Trilogy" accumulation for the Super NES in 1995. A few analysts valued the redrawn designs and music in this adaptation, however others observed them to be an insufficient exertion. "Electronic Gaming Monthly" commentators contrasted it negatively with another refreshed NES change, ""; they called the form "a precise port-over with no perceptible upgrades in designs, sound and play control". Alongside the other two diversions in the "Ninja Gaiden" set of three, the SNES form was highlighted as an unlockable amusement in the 2004 Xbox Ninja Gaiden amusement. 

The NES adaptation was discharged on Wii's Virtual Console on April 10, 2007, in Japan and on May 14, 2007, in North America. Europeans, Australians, and New Zealanders had the capacity to buy the amusement as a major aspect of "Hanabi Festival" on September 21, 2007. The PC Engine variant was discharged for Virtual Console in Japan on April 21, 2009. The NES rendition was likewise discharged for the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console, with a unique discharge date set for November 8, 2012. Notwithstanding, it was deferred until December 13, 2012. The NES form was discharged on Wii U's Virtual Console in 2014. The amusement was additionally re-discharged as a component of the NES Classic Edition devoted reassure in November 2016, and for the Nintendo Switch in December 2018 as a feature of the NES: Nintendo Switch Online administration. 

The amusement appeared at No. 3 on "Nintendo Power"s Top 30 list for July– August 1989, behind "" and "Super Mario Bros. 2"; it remained at No. 3 in the September– October 1989 issue. The "Nintendo Power" Awards '89 highlighted the diversion as one of the top recreations that year. It was selected for Best Graphics and Sound, Best Challenge, Best Theme, Fun, Best Character (Ryu Hayabusa), Best Ending, and Best Overall; and it won for Best Challenge and Best Ending. In its review of "", the magazine said that "the vivid, nitty gritty and dynamic film scenes of the first "Ninja Gaiden" set a standard for activity amusement portrayal that has since been broadly imitated. These film scenes made "Ninja Gaiden" play practically like a motion picture." 

The diversion got solid surveys and attention from other video gaming magazines at the time. In a survey from "VideoGames and Computer Entertainment", the introduction and interactivity were contrasted with "Castlevania", while the realistic cutscenes were contrasted positively with "Karateka" and other PC amusements by Cinemaware. The survey lauded the amusement's activity in these cutscenes and noticed Tecmo's use of close-ups and body developments. The commentator said that while the cutscenes were not liquid, they were successful and engaging and given vital data about what the player should do. He valued the amusement had boundless proceeds with which marginally balanced its trouble, however he condemned it for having over-definite foundation illustrations particularly in the indoor dimensions, saying that some no-limit pits and things in these dimensions become somewhat disguised. From July to October 1989, the diversion was recorded at No. 1 on "Electronic Gaming Monthly"s Top Ten Video Games show; it tumbled to No. 2 on the rundown behind "Uber Man 2" in the November issue. In their Best and Worst of 1989, it got grants for Best Game of the Year for the NES and Best Ending in a Video Game for all consoles. The staff said that "Ninja Gaiden" "ended up being a moment victor" with its artistic cutscenes and one of a kind ongoing interaction. They included the diversion's peak was superior to anything a few motion pictures' peaks at the time and that it set up progression for a continuation, which would be discharged the next year. Later in June 1994, the magazine positioned it at No. 4 on a unique rundown of Top Ten Most Difficult Games ever for all consoles. 

The July 1990 pilot issue of UK magazine "Mean Machines" included "Ninja Gaiden" on the spread; the magazine was dispersed as a major aspect of the July 1990 issue of "PC and Video Games". In its survey, Julian Rignall contrasted the diversion with its beat them up arcade partner, which was titled "Shadow Warriors". He noticed the amusement has extraordinary illustrations that include various foundations and character sprites; he particularly lauded its utilization of animation like activity arrangements between Acts where the diversion's plot unfurls. He delighted in the diversion's trouble particularly with the supervisors, yet he noticed the amusement will appear to be extreme at first until players become acclimated with the controls. He scrutinized the amusement for its sound, which he said did not fit with the illustrations and was "suggestive" yet included "what's there is air and suits the activity". He exceedingly prescribed the amusement to aficionados of the beat them up and battle sorts. 

"Mean Machines" looked into the diversion once more (the NES form currently formally titled "Shadow Warriors" in Europe) in its July 1991 issue. In the survey, Matt Regan and Paul Glancey adulated its definite and energized character sprites and its trouble level. The amusement's exclusive expectations of interactivity, sound, and in general profundity inspired Regan; he noticed the diversion's baffling trouble yet called attention to that it has boundless proceeds. Glancey contrasted the amusement with the 1990 NES adaptation of "Batman" (discharged later in 1990) with its comparable of divider bouncing mechanics; he said that its designs were not too created as "Batman"s however were as yet agreeable. He lauded its nitty gritty sprites and their activitys alongside the "Tecmo Theater" idea, taking note of that the cutscenes "help supply a ton of environment". He said it is of the best arcade-style amusements on the NES just as the best ninja-related diversion on the framework. 

The Japanese magazine "Famitsu" gave it a score of 28 out of 40. The amusement got some applause and analysis in the August 1991 issue of German magazine "Strategic maneuver". The survey commended the diversion for its tender loving care and challenge and noted players need to ace certain interactivity abilities to proceed onward. Reactions incorporated an "absence of assortment" and bluntness in ongoing interaction which was contrasted with a "visit to the expense office". The PC Engine adaptation was quickly referenced in the December 1991 issue of "Electronic Gaming Monthly" as a major aspect of a survey of amusements that had been discharged outside the U.S. They noticed the unwavering interpretation from the NES form just as the patched up and increasingly point by point designs, saying "PC Engine proprietors ought not miss this one!" 

In 2004, Tecmo started discharging low-estimated verbose portions of "Ninja Gaiden" for AT&T and Verizon cell phones on both BREW and Java stages. The official English Tecmo Games' versatile site promoted it for a future discharge alongside a portable variant of "Tecmo Bowl". The organization wanted to discharge the whole amusement all through 2004 of every a progression of four portions—like what Upstart Games did when they ported the NES adaptation of "Castlevania" to cell phones. The port highlighted a similar visuals and soundtrack as the NES adaptation. Every portion was to comprise of a few dimensions of ongoing interaction at any given moment. The primary portion, titled "Ninja Gaiden Episode I: Destiny", was discharged on July 15, 2004; it included just the main Act from the NES form yet included two new dimensions. The second portion was wanted to be discharged in North America and was saw by "GameSpot" in September 2004, yet it—alongside the third and fourth portions—was never discharged. 

The cell phone port of "Ninja Gaiden" was met with some acclaim and analysis. IGN's Levi Buchanan and "GameSpot"s Damon Brown adulated the port for its precise interpretation from the NES to cell phones, saying the ongoing interaction, illustrations, and true to life cutscenes stay consistent with the NES rendition. They adulated the amusement's controls, in spite of the oversight of the capacity to dodge with the goal that squeezing "down" on the telephone's directional cushion could be utilized for optional weapons; Brown said the port would be wise to controls than most other cell phone recreations at the time. They both reprimanded the port for its absence of sound quality, yet Buchanan said this was not Tecmo's blame. In a see of the port, "GameSpot"s Avery Score indicated commonly mediocre American-made handsets as the purpose behind the sound's deficiencies. 

"Retro Gamer" investigated "Ninja Gaiden" in its March 2004 issue, when the 2004 Xbox revamp was discharged. They said the diversion thought outside the box of traditional computer game titles by incorporating a plot with artistic cutscenes included between ongoing interaction fragments, including that the idea of including cinematics for an amusement's presentation, plot, and closure was another idea which "normally awed the gaming open". The article noticed the diversion's abnormal state of trouble, saying the amusement "hurled a massive test notwithstanding for the veteran gamer, and nearly challenged you to finish it rationally and physically unblemished". Chris Kohler, in his 2004 book "", stated, while it was not as expansive as "Tecmo Bowl", "it wound up reforming computer games with its gutsy, remarkable, and trailblazing utilization of film scenes". 

Upon its discharge on the Virtual Console, "Ninja Gaiden" was met with high acclaim, particularly for its detailed story, measure of account, and utilization of anime-like true to life groupings. A few faultfinders have lamented its ongoing interaction for being excessively like "Castlevania"; similitudes incorporate indistinguishable shows on the highest point of the screen, things contained in delicate lamps, and an almost indistinguishable "optional weapons" include. A "1UP.com" audit noticed that the two amusements have distinctive elements and that few activities conceivable in "Ninja Gaiden" would be inconceivable in "Castlevania". Contemporary audits have considered the diversion "noteworthy" for its spearheading utilization of adapted cutscenes, great music, and dull air. One audit said that the diversion compensates for its high trouble level with great interactivity. IGN said that it is a standout amongst the best platforming computer games ever. 

Commentators have scrutinized the amusement for its high and unforgiving trouble level particularly late in the diversion, and it has been viewed for instance of "Nintendo Hard" computer games. A survey by "1UP.com" alluded to the later dimensions as an "out of line show of deliberate affordability". In his survey of the Virtual Console variant, "GameSpot"s Alex Navarro said "the amusement will thrash you almost to death" and that it "strikes you over and over with its rebuffing trouble, deceptively put foes, and wrath actuating supervisor battles". As per his survey, the amusement begins simple, however the trouble starts to increment part of the way during that time Act and proceeds through the 6th Act; Navarro portrays the 6th Act's trouble as "one of the base dimensions of gaming hellfire". IGN said that the diversion was a standout amongst the most troublesome computer games ever, setting the pattern for the remainder of the arrangement; nonetheless, they called attention to that its trouble and illustrations are "characterizing attributes [that] have helped over during that time into present day ["Ninja"] "Gaiden" continuations". ScrewAttack recorded the diversion as the seventh hardest title in the NES library. 

More than fifteen years after its creation, "Ninja Gaiden" has kept up its situation as a standout amongst the most well known recreations for the NES. A 2006 "Joystiq" peruser survey, with more than 12,000 votes, recorded the amusement at No. 10 on a rundown of top NES diversions. Another peruser survey from "GameSpot" recorded the amusement at No. 10 in its main 10 NES recreations list. It was No. 17 on IGN's Top 100 NES Games list. In August 2001 in its 100th issue, "Diversion Informer" recorded the amusement at No. 93 in their Top 100 Games of All Time list. In 2006 "Electronic Gaming Monthly" included a follow-up to their The 200 Greatest Videogames of Their Time, where perusers wrote in and talked about diversions they felt were disregarded on the rundown; the amusement was recorded at No. 16 of the main 25 diversions talked about. Toward the finish of 2005, "Nintendo Power" ran a sequential element titled The Top 200 Nintendo Games Ever. The rundown, which included diversions for all Nintendo frameworks, set the amusement at No. 89. In August 2008, a similar magazine positioned it the tenth best NES round ever; they applauded the ongoing interaction and portrayed the true to life cutscenes as progressive for now is the ideal time. The amusement's music got good notice on IGN's rundown of Best 8-Bit Soundtracks. IGN included its presentation on its Top 100 Video Game Moments list at #53; it was likewise recorded as the second best computer game cutscene ever in "Complex" magazine. 

"Nintendo Power" respected the amusement in its November 2010 issue, which commended the 25th commemoration of the NES. The magazine recorded its case workmanship, which portrays a ninja with a copying city out of sight, as one of its most loved plans in the NES library. The magazine's Editor-in-Chief Chris Slate was similarly inspired by the diversion's container workmanship. He likewise thought back about the diversion's abnormal state of trouble with its re-generating foes and adversary flying creatures that thumped players into pits, saying this amusement "may have shown me how to revile". He further adulated ongoing interaction highlights, for example, sticking on dividers and utilizing ninpo systems, and he noticed the diversion's true to life cutscenes, including the dismal opening grouping that included two ninjas who dispatch into the air at one another conflicting their swords in the twilight. He said that ""Ninja Gaiden" was about as cool as a 8-bit diversion could be, particularly for ninja-crazed children of the '80s who, similar to me, had destroyed their VHS duplicates of "Enter the Ninja"". In a July 2011 issue, "Retro Gamer" recorded the amusement's opening as a standout amongst the most well known at the time. The magazine noticed how its utilization of cutscenes, livelinesss, and by and large introduction put the diversion above most other activity titles at the time. While it praised the controls and ongoing interaction components, similarly as with different audits, it reprimanded the trouble, calling it "a standout amongst the most testing recreations on the comfort". It noticed how crushed foes re-bring forth in specific spots, how adversaries are set on the edges of stages, and the structure of the last dimension. 

In July 1990 Scholastic Corporation distributed a novelization of "Ninja Gaiden" under the "Universes of Power" arrangement of NES amusement adjustments, made and bundled by Seth Godin under the alias. X. Nine. Godin and Peter Lerangis, under the pen name. L. Vocalist, composed the novelization. As with different "Universes of Power" books, the measure of savagery present in the computer game was conditioned down in the novelization, on the grounds that Godin and Scholastic were worried that a portion of the material in the computer game was wrong for a youthful gathering of people. The tale did not stick carefully to the amusement's storyline; for example, the consummation was changed with the goal that Ryu's dad endure. Godin trusted the changed consummation was reliable with the "Universes of Power" character. As genuine dads Godin and Lerangis were hesitant to leave Ryu orphan. On the book's spread, generally a duplicate of the North American box workmanship, the kunai held in Ryu's front hand was enhanced with Photoshop out, abandoning him goading the air with an unfilled clench hand. 

Horse Canyon discharged a soundtrack CD, "Ninja Ryukenden: Tecmo GSM-1", in February 1989. The primary portion of the CD begins with a masterminded variety of the diversion's music. It proceeds with improved renditions of the diversion's music which utilized stereophonic sound and extra PCM channels. The remainder of the CD highlights music from the arcade adaptation. In 2017, Brave Wave Productions discharged a vinyl box set, "Ninja Gaiden-the Definitive Soundtrack", aced by unique author Keiji Yamagishi.