Stream (computer game) 

Stream (adapted as flOw) is a non mainstream computer game made by Jenova Chen and Nicholas Clark. Initially discharged as a free Flash diversion in 2006 to go with Chen's lord's proposal, it was revised into a 2007 PlayStation 3 amusement by his improvement studio, Thatgamecompany. SuperVillain Studios built up a PlayStation Portable variant of the diversion in 2008, and PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita forms in 2013. In "Stream", the player explores a progression of two-dimensional (2D) planes with a sea-going microorganism that develops by expending different microorganisms. The diversion's plan depends on Chen's examination into dynamic trouble alteration at the University of Southern California's Interactive Media Division, and on clinician Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi's hypothetical idea of mental inundation or stream. 

The Flash form of "Stream" got 100,000 downloads inside its initial two weeks of discharge, and had been played over 3.5 million occasions by 2008. Its PlayStation 3 re-discharge was the most downloaded diversion on the PlayStation Network in 2007, and won the Best Downloadable Game honor at the 2008 Game Developers Choice Awards. It was designated for honors by the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA). Analysts lauded "Flow"s visual and sound intrigue, yet noticed the straightforwardness of its ongoing interaction; a few believed it to be a greater amount of a workmanship piece than an amusement. 

In "Stream", the player manages a little, multi-fragmented worm-or snake-like animal through an oceanic domain. There are no menus or rules; the diversion starts right away. The amusement world, which is seen from a top-down point of view, comprises of two-dimensional planes stacked vertically upon one another. An obscured adaptation of the layer beneath shows up out of sight of each plane. Planes contain life forms of shifting sizes; the player's animal consequently endeavors to expend them when they are adjacent. Most of these animals are non-fierce, and are made out of cells that expansion the quantity of sections in the player's animal when eaten. All planes, aside from the most elevated and least, contain two extraordinarily hued life forms that move the player's animal up or down one plane when contacted. 

Certain planes include forceful, multi-fragmented animals that die when the majority of their sections are eaten by the player's animal; be that as it may, they can eat portions of the player's animal to regrow their own. These animals discharge numerous cells upon death, which can reestablish the wellbeing of the player's animal, briefly increment the extent of its mouth, or cause it to grow beautifying distensions. Players are not required to eat these or some other living beings; they may make a trip to higher or lower planes whenever. Being vanquished by forceful animals does not result in death, however aims the player's animal to buoy to a higher plane. In the Flash form, the player can replay the diversion with a jellyfish-like life form by overcoming a forceful animal on the base plane. In the event that the player achieves the base once more, the animal there is their unique worm-like animal, and vanquishing it begins the diversion once again as that living being. 

The PlayStation 3 adaptation of "Stream" highlights upgraded visuals and three extra playable life forms: one that can move with a short burst of speed, one that can deaden different animals, and one that rushes toward its prey's powerless point. The worm animal from the first amusement was enabled to move quicker, while the jellyfish may now make a vortex to pull in little animals. These extraordinary moves are actuated by hitting any catch on the controller. At the point when the player achieves the base plane with every animal, the following animal sort is opened and winds up selectable toward the start of the diversion. The PlayStation 3 form highlights a multiplayer mode for up to four players; a diversion in advancement can be joined whenever, players may play distinctive animals in the event that they want so. The PlayStation Portable variant contains the majority of the highlights presented by PlayStation 3 rendition, yet lessens the measure of each plane. On November 20, 2007, the PlayStation 3 form got an extra pack that permits players joining a multiplayer amusement to choose their animals. The pack likewise incorporates new adversaries, nourishment types, and a playable animal with a shield capacity. 

"Stream" was initially created as a feature of Jenova Chen's lord's theory for the Interactive Media Program at the University of Southern California's School of Cinematic Arts. His theory was on the idea of dynamic trouble alteration (DDA), wherein an amusement changes its responses to a player dependent on the over a wide span of time activities of that player. He represented his thoughts with "Stream", which he made in a joint effort with Nicholas Clark. Chen executed DDA by making the player change the diversion's trouble intuitively; he enabled players to jump between planes voluntarily, and gave the choice of eating or not eating any animal. Players may choose to surge downwards, or to develop more grounded before assaulting amazing rivals. Chen depicted "Stream" as "a straightforward amusement. It's the most straightforward trial of dynamic DDA." Another impact on the amusement was therapist Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi's work on stream, wherein an individual completely submerges themselves in a movement and additions a sentiment of empowered core interest. To accomplish this express, the individual or player must have power over the movement; Chen trusted that his DDA hypothesis gave players the control important to accomplish stream while playing. 

The diversion was discharged in March 2006, following two months of advancement—amid which Chen and Clark encouraged themselves Flash programming. The diversion's source code was later discharged in 2009. The amusement's score was made by Austin Wintory. A PlayStation 3 form was declared for the PlayStation Store in May of that year, and was discharged in February 2007. Chen had graduated by that point, and had established Thatgamecompany, which took care of the transformation to the PlayStation 3; Nicholas Clark was one of the workers and filled in as the amusement form's creator. Awed by "Stream", Sony furnished Thatgamecompany with funds, supplies, and extra staff, and offered them a three-amusement contract; the PlayStation 3 adaptation of "Stream" was the first of these. Chen initially trusted that the change could be finished in four months, and that it would be prepared for the November 2006 dispatch of the PlayStation Network. Be that as it may, when it was at long last discharged in February 2007, it did exclude "half of the first structure". 

A form for the PlayStation Portable, created by SuperVillain Studios, was discharged in March 2008. The organization coded it starting with no outside help, as the PlayStation 3 form's code and workmanship were too stage explicit to reuse. The extra pack for the PlayStation 3 adaptation was additionally created by SuperVillain. Thatgamecompany was not engaged with the improvement of either venture past a structure impact and workmanship heading job, as they were making their next title, "Bloom". Sony Santa Monica made ports of the PlayStation 3 amusement for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita, which were distributed in November 2013 to relate with the arrival of the PlayStation 4. Albeit no collection of music explicitly for "Stream" has been discharged, in 2012 Austin Wintory discharged "Adventure Bonus Bundle" as a download-just collection on Bandcamp, containing minor departure from topics from "Stream" and "Voyage", a 2012 PlayStation 3 amusement by Thatgamecompany. 

The Flash form of "Stream" got 100,000 downloads inside its initial two weeks of discharge. By July 2006, it had been downloaded more than multiple times; by February 2008, it had been played over 3.5 million occasions. Its PlayStation 3 re-discharge was the most downloaded diversion on the PlayStation Network in 2007. "Stream" got the 2008 Game Developers Choice Awards assignments for the Innovation Award and Best Debut, and was given Best Downloadable Game. The amusement was selected for the Best Downloadable Game of the Year grant at the 2008 Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences Interactive Achievement Awards, and for the Best Innovation grant at the 2007 British Academy of Film and Television Arts (BAFTA) grants. Its music collected assignments for Best Interactive Score and Most Innovative Use of Audio from the Game Audio Network Guild, and won author Austin Wintory the Rookie of the Year grant. "Stream" was a finalist at the 2007 Slamdance Guerrilla Games Competition, however pulled back alongside a few different finalists after "Super Columbine Massacre RPG!" was expelled from the challenge. In 2011 it was picked through an open vote out of an underlying choice of 240 to be one of 80 diversions displayed in a 2012 show at the Smithsonian American Art Museum titled "The Art of Video Games". 

"Stream" got blended surveys from commentators, who concentrated on the amusement's PlayStation variants. The visuals and introduction were among its most applauded components, with IGN's Chris Roper calling them "one of "Flow"s most noteworthy qualities". Alex Navarro of GameSpot concurred, saying that it was "difficult to contend with those style"; he praised the utilization of shading, the plans of the animals, and the dynamic soundtrack. Will Freeman of VideoGamer.com called it "appealing and beautiful", which made the amusement "hugely fulfilling to toy with". Richard Leadbetter of Eurogamer asserted that the diversion's primary object was to "look lovely" and "sound cool". 

Commentators were blended in their assessments on the interactivity; Roper said that "just see[ing] what's straightaway" was agreeable, yet recognized that the diversion's exercises were constrained past this perspective. Leadbetter went further, saying that "Stream" "feels like a tech demo from multiple points of view", and that its little measure of ongoing interaction existed fundamentally "to go about as a visit control" through the visuals and sound. Freeman said that "it would not be out of line to depict "Stream" as unfilled and without substance." Navarro reasoned that "Stream" was pleasant for the couple of hours expected to finish it, yet that it came up short on "an enduring ongoing interaction experience"; he ascribed this to the diversion's "overwhelming accentuation on style over interactivity". Luke Mitchell of PALGN, nonetheless, felt that "much else entangled would detract from the well disposed nature of an encounter of this sort." 

Analysts observed the diversion to be to a great extent unchallenging. Roper expressed that "there truly isn't any kind of a test here", especially because of the player character's powerlessness to bite the dust; Leadbetter summed up the amusement's trouble as "unimportant". Nonetheless, while evaluating the PlayStation Portable adaptation of the diversion, Justin Calvart of GameSpot took the view that "the amusement's trouble stunningly scales to coordinate your aptitude level", so it doesn't turn out to be excessively "wild or disappointing". Analysts were all around cavalier of the multiplayer mode, with Calvart saying that "whatever it will be, it's bad". Leadbetter called the PlayStation 3 variant's multiplayer "minimal in excess of an idea in retrospect", while Navarro said that it "doesn't add a lick of profundity to the experience". 

By and large, analysts considered "Stream" to be by and large more similar to a workmanship piece than a diversion. Navarro considered it a "diletantish bit of gaming", and complimentarily said that it had the "vibe of a craftsmanship school venture". Leadbetter trusted that it was a greater amount of a trial than a conventional diversion, and portrayed it as a "trippy adornment". Freeman considered it the PlayStation 3's "first workmanship house title". Roper abridged "Stream" as "less a diversion but rather more it is an encounter", and Mitchell asserted that it "endeavors to accomplish something completely one of a kind and trial, and on that dimension, it succeeds".