Eardwulf of Northumbria 

Eardwulf (fl. 790 – c. 830) was ruler of Northumbria from 796 to 806, when he was dismissed and went into outcast. He may have had a second rule from 808 until maybe 811 or 830. Northumbria in the most recent long stretches of the eighth century was the scene of dynastic difficulty between a few respectable families: in 790, the then-ruler Æthelred I endeavored to have Eardwulf killed. Eardwulf's survival may have been seen as an indication of awesome support. A gathering of nobles schemed to kill Æthelred in April 796 and he was prevailing by Osbald: Osbald's rule kept going just twenty-seven days before he was dismissed and Eardwulf progressed toward becoming ruler on 14 May 796. 

Little is recorded of Eardwulf's family, however his dad, likewise named Eardwulf, is known to have been an aristocrat. Eardwulf was hitched when he moved toward becoming ruler, however his significant other's name isn't recorded. It is conceivable he later marry an ill-conceived little girl of Charlemagne. In 798, from the get-go in his rule, Eardwulf battled a fight at Billington Moor against an aristocrat named Wada, who had been one of the individuals who executed King Æthelred. Wada was crushed and crashed into outcast. In 801, Eardwulf drove a military against Coenwulf of Mercia, maybe due to Coenwulf's help for different petitioners toward the Northumbrian honored position. 

Eardwulf was dismissed in 806 and as per a Frankish record, came back to his kingdom in 808. No record has made due of his passing or the finish of his rule: dates from 811 to 830 have been proposed. He was perhaps covered at the Mercian regal religious community of Breedon on the Hill, which conveys a devotion to Saint Mary and Saint Hardulph, with whom Eardwulf is recognized by a few history specialists. 

Amid the last 50% of the eighth century, the Northumbrian progression incorporated a long arrangement of killed and dismissed lords, as a few illustrious lines fought for the royal position. The primary lines were those of Eadberht, Æthelwald Moll and Alhred. In the eight years before Eardwulf's increase, each of the three of these dynastic lines were engaged with the battle for sovereignty: on 23 September 788, King Ælfwald I, grandson of Eadberht, was killed by the "patricius" Sicga close Hexham, and Ælfwald's cousin Osred progressed toward becoming ruler. Osred, who was of Alhred's line, was ousted following a year, and Æthelred, child of Æthelwald Moll, who had been dismissed in 778 at a youthful age, was reestablished to the majesty, continuing the title Æthelred I. 

Some Anglo-Saxon rulers are known to have been murdered by their families or in open fighting against opponents, however generally speaking the record is extremely scanty. The proof as respects the statement of lords is similarly constrained. Just two eighth-century statements offer any unique situation, those of Æthelwald Moll in Northumbria and Sigeberht of Wessex. In the two cases the choice is exhibited as that of some type of gathering. 

This record of questioned progression was in no way, shape or form one of a kind to Northumbria, and the kingdoms of Mercia and Wessex experienced comparative inconveniences amid the eighth and ninth hundreds of years. In Wessex, from the passing of Centwine in 685 to Egbert's seizure of intensity in 802, the connections between progressive rulers are a long way from clear and couple of lords are known to have been close family of their ancestors or successors. The equivalent might be valid for Mercia from the demise of Ceolred in 716 until the vanishing of the Mercian kingdom in the late ninth century. 

Rulers did not manage alone, yet rather represented together with the main churchmen and nobles. While Northumbria does not have the assemblage of contracts which shed light on the establishments of the southern Anglo-Saxon kingdoms, adequate proof makes due for history specialists to remake a few parts of Northumbrian political life. The proof for Northumbria endures to a great extent in Latin reports, and these utilization the words "dux" and "patricius" to depict the main aristocrats of the kingdom. "Dux" is typically deciphered by the Old English word ealdorman. The student of history Alan Thacker gauges that there were around eight men holding the title of "dux" in late Northumbria. The title "patricius" is typically deciphered as patrician, which eventually implies respectable, however in the last days of the Roman Empire spoke to a high-positioning position, second just to the ruler. The significance of the title in Northumbria is misty, yet it gives the idea that there was just a single "patricius". While it might be basically an option to "dux", it may speak to a position approximating to that of the Mayor of the Palace in late Merovingian Francia. 

The congregation in Northumbria was one of the significant landowners, maybe second just to the lord. At the leader of the Northumbrian church was the Archbishop of York, an office held by Eanbald I to 796, Eanbald II until some time after 808, and afterward by Wulfsige to around 830. Quickly underneath the diocese supervisor were three priests: the cleric of Lindisfarne, the religious administrator of Hexham and the priest of Whithorn. The regularly long haul of office of senior priests implied that lords frequently needed to work with men delegated by their forerunners, with whom their relations may be troublesome. 

Northumbria's southern neighbor Mercia was, under the standard of rulers Æthelbald, Offa and Coenwulf, the predominant kingdom in Anglo-Saxon England. Offa, the best of the three, ruled Mercia until 796, pursued not long after by Coenwulf. Offa's strength was verified to some degree by marriage partnerships with the other significant kingdoms: Beorhtric of Wessex and Æthelred of Northumbria were hitched to his little girls. Further away from home, Charlemagne, the pre-prominent ruler in the Christian West, seems to have taken a functioning enthusiasm for Northumbrian issues. Charlemagne at first administered Francia and parts of Italy, however by 796 had moved toward becoming expert of a realm which extended from the Atlantic Ocean to the Great Hungarian Plain. He was a staunch protector of the Papacy, and in the popes and the congregation pecking order he had partners whose impact reached out to Northumbria and past. Occasions in southern Britain to 796 have some of the time been depicted as a battle among Offa and Charlemagne, however the difference in their capacity was colossal, and Offa and after that Coenwulf were obviously minor figures by correlation. 

Early proof of benevolent relations among Charlemagne and Offa is tempered by indications of strain. Charlemagne protected two outcasts from England at his court: Odberht of Kent (most likely Eadberht Praen) and Egbert of Wessex. Eadberht Praen ruled the Kingdom of Kent for a brief timeframe after Offa's passing, yet was dismissed by Coenwulf. Egbert was progressively fruitful, taking and holding the royal position of Wessex in 802. Plainly Mercian and Frankish interests couldn't generally be accommodated and Frankish approach at that point moved towards help for Offa's adversaries. To Charlemagne this essentially implied Northumbria: as per Patrick Wormald, "Charlemagne ... considered England to be on the off chance that it were managed by two lords just: Æthelred administering Northumbria and Offa administering everything toward the south". Frankish help for Northumbria along these lines seems to have been driven by a craving to counter Mercian impact in southern Britain, a region with long-standing connections to Francia. It has likewise been proposed that Charlemagne's enthusiasm for Northumbria was roused by a longing for co-task against Viking marauders, who had first showed up in Northumbria in the mid 790s. On the other hand it might be that Charlemagne's origination of the circle of his power included Britain, which had once been a piece of the Roman Empire. 

At first, both Charlemagne and Offa seem to have shared a typical enthusiasm for supporting King Æthelred, Offa's child in-law. In the blink of an eye before Æthelred was killed in 796, a consulate from Francia conveyed presents for the lord and his ministers. At the point when Charlemagne scholarly of Æthelred's slaughtering he was goaded, called the Northumbrians "that tricky, unreasonable people...who murder their very own rulers", and compromised retaliation. His envoys, who had gone on to Ireland and were then returning home, were requested back to Northumbria to recoup the presents. Charlemagne in time turned into a supporter of Eardwulf. Eardwulf is said by the mid twelfth century "Records of Lindisfarne and Durham" to have hitched one of Charlemagne's little girls, data not found in different sources. In the event that this is right she more likely than not been ill-conceived, as the relational unions of all the authentic little girls are known. Coenwulf, then again, who moved toward becoming lord of Mercia soon after Eardwulf's promotion, is recorded as having battled with Eardwulf in 801. 

Eardwulf was not, so far as is known, associated with any of the groups that had been warring for the position of royalty up to the mid-790s. Nothing is certainly known about his experience, however Symeon of Durham's "History of the Kings", an early twelfth-century work dependent on the lost late tenth-century account of Byrhtferth, records that his dad's name was additionally Eardwulf, and both dad and child are given the title "dux". Student of history Barbara Yorke has suggested that he was a relative of one Eanwine who (as per Symeon of Durham) was executed in 740 on the requests of King Eadberht. This Eanwine might be related to King Eadwulf's child of a similar name. Eardwulf's dad may have been one of the two Eardwulfs whose passings are recorded by Symeon of Durham in 774 and 775. 

Eardwulf seems to have been a foe of Æthelred I. He initially shows up in the verifiable record around 790, when Symeon of Durham reports that:"Eardulf was taken prisoner, and passed on to Ripon, and there requested by the aforementioned lord [æthelred] to be killed without the entryway of the cloister. The brethren conveyed his body into the congregation with Gregorian reciting, and put it out of entryways in a tent; after 12 pm he was discovered alive in the congregation." A letter from Alcuin to Eardwulf recommends that this blessed recuperation was viewed as being extraordinary. 

Eardwulf's whereabouts after his recuperation are not known. In enduring King Æthelred's outrage he was luckier than Ælfwald's children, who were suffocated on Æthelred's requests in 791. Osred came back from outcast however was sold out, and slaughtered by Æthelred's direction on 14 September 792. Æthelred himself was killed on 18 April 796, maybe at Corbridge, by backstabbers driven by the "dux" Ealdred. Æthelred was pursued as ruler by Osbald, whose predecessors are obscure: he was removed following twenty-seven days and fled to the place where there is the Picts with a couple of supporters. 

Eardwulf progressed toward becoming lord on 14 May 796. The "Old English Saxon Chronicle" records that he was blessed by Eanbald I, Archbishop of York, and Bishops Æthelberht, Beadwulf and Hygebald, at York Minster on 26 May 796. 

Eardwulf was clearly hitched before he moved toward becoming ruler, as Alcuin blamed him for surrendering his better half for a mistress not long after his crowning ritual. This stressed relations with the new Archbishop Eanbald II—Eanbald I had kicked the bucket in the time of Eardwulf's royal celebration. Alcuin, while censuring common mistreatment of the congregation, influenced shock that while the Archbishop Eanbald was voyaging he was joined by an extensive entourage, including officers, and that he got and ensured the lord's adversaries. Eanbald was apparently in struggle with Eardwulf over property, however almost certainly, he additionally bolstered opponents for Eardwulf's honored position. 

Despite the fact that Æthelred had been Eardwulf's adversary, Æthelred's executioners turned out to be similarly unfriendly to Eardwulf. In 798 a "dux" named Wada, who was one of the individuals who had murdered King Æthelred, battled with Eardwulf on Billington Moor, close Whalley, Lancashire. Wada was put to flight and may have gone into outcast in Mercia. He may have planned to reestablish Osbald to the position of royalty. The proof for Osbald's proceeded with desire is a letter that Alcuin kept in touch with him, most likely in 798, in which Alcuin endeavored to deter Osbald from further mediations in Northumbrian issues. Alcuin's contentions seem to have succeeded, since Osbald is known to have turned into an abbot by 799 (when his demise is recorded), suggesting that he had surrendered his aspirations. 

Two further difficulties to Eardwulf are recorded inside the following two years, both obviously from among the respectable lines that had been battling for the position of authority over the earlier decades. In 799, a "dux" named Moll was slaughtered by Eardwulf's "critical order". Moll's name has recommended that he was a brother of the late King Æthelred, whose father was Æthelwald Moll. The next year, Ealhmund, "the child of King Alhred, as some state", was executed by Eardwulf's men. Ealhmund was recalled at Derby, in the neighboring kingdom of Mercia, as a holy person. 

Ruler Coenwulf of Mercia may have upheld the awful Ealhmund, and Symeon of Durham composed that in 801:"Eardwulf, lord of the Northumbrians, drove a military against Coenwulf, ruler of Mercians, on the grounds that he had offered shelter to his foes. He additionally, gathering a military, got a lot of assistants from different areas, having made a long endeavor among them. Finally, with the guidance of the religious administrators and head of the Angles on either side, they made harmony through the benevolence of the lord of the Angles." 

This settlement finished open fighting, however Eardwulf was removed in 806, in obscure conditions. Letters among Charlemagne and Pope Leo III recommend that Coenwulf took part in Eardwulf's expulsion. As indicated by the thirteenth-century recorder Roger of Wendover, Eardwulf was supplanted by King Ælfwald II, about whom nothing else is known from the composed sources, in spite of the fact that coins issued in his rule have endure. 

As the instance of Ælfwald appears, while the composed hotspots for later Northumbria are not many and regularly recorded hundreds of years after the occasions they depict, archeological proof from coinage is free of the enduring archives. Old English Saxon coins for the most part named the lord on whose orders they were issued and in some cases named the mint where they were struck—Northumbrian coinage names York as the spot of issue—and the moneyer who delivered them. Their weight and silver substance can be contrasted and different rules, giving a trace of the predominant financial conditions, and the style and size may likewise illuminate social impacts when the coins are contrasted and those of neighboring kingdoms and with different types of workmanship. The proof of Northumbrian coinage is especially profitable in the ninth century, when contemporary composed proof everything except vanishes. 

From the 740s until the finish of the Northumbrian kingdom, coins were issued by most lords, in spite of the fact that in factor amounts. As of not long ago no coins from Eardwulf's rule were known, which proposed that it might have been a period of flimsiness, or maybe that the kingdom was ruined by the installment of tribute to Offa and Coenwulf of Mercia. It is currently realized that the issue of new coins kept amid Eardwulf's rule, as two of his coins were distinguished during the 1990s. Issues of new money seem to have been constrained under Eardwulf, and huge quantities of Northumbrian coins are not again confirmed until the rule of Eardwulf's child Eanred. 

In the same way as other of his antecedents, Eardwulf took to banish when he was removed. Not at all like rulers with connections to Lindisfarne, who seem to have picked banish among the Picts, Eardwulf was connected to Ripon and picked a southerly outcast. The following reports of Eardwulf are in Frankish sources:"Meanwhile the ruler of the Northumbrians from the island of Britain, Eardwulf by name, being ousted from his kingdom and local land, went to the head while he was still at Nijmegen, and after he had made known the explanation behind his coming, he set out for Rome; and on his arrival from Rome he was escorted by agents of the Roman pontiff and of the master sovereign once more into his kingdom. Around then Leo III governed over the Roman church, and his ambassador, the minister Ealdwulf from that equivalent Britain, a Saxon by race, was sent to Britain, and with him two abbots, Hruotfrid the public accountant and Nantharius of St. Omer, sent by the head." 

An enduring letter of Leo III to Charlemagne affirms that Eardwulf visited Rome and remained at Charlemagne's court. 

The Frankish source is evident that Eardwulf was "came back to his kingdom", yet enduring Anglo-Saxon sources have no record of a second rule. Antiquarians differ concerning whether Ælfwald was supplanted by Eardwulf, who might along these lines have ruled a second time from 808 to 811 or 812, or whether the reign of Eardwulf's child Eanred started in 808. 

Ongoing investigations, in light of the revelation of a penny of Eanred for which a date no sooner than c. 850 is proposed, recommend an altogether different dating for ninth-century Northumbrian lords. From this, it is contended that Eardwulf's second rule finished around 830, instead of in the years not long after 810, and that the rules of consequent rulers ought to be re-dated in like manner: Eanred from 830 to 854, Æthelred II from 854 to 862, Rædwulf in 858, and Osberht from 862 to 867. 

Eardwulf is distinguished by students of history with the Saint Hardulph or Hardulf, to whom the Mercian imperial church of Saint Mary and Saint Hardulph at Breedon on the Hill is committed. The association, however dubious, has been made by a few history specialists and is uncontroversial. Supporting proof originates from a twelfth-century rundown of the internment spots of holy people ordered at Peterborough. This calls the Saint Hardulph to whom Breedon was committed ""Hardulfus rex""— King Eardwulf—and states that he was covered at Breedon. 

A framed stone structure in the congregation, cut with parades of hairy and robed figures under curves, appears to duplicate subtleties found in the "Book of Cerne", a work related with Bishop Æthelwold of Lichfield (818– 830). The boards, which may initially have been the external piece of a stone coffin worked to hold the remaining parts of a high status individual, for example, Saint Hardulph, are dated by their closeness to the delineations in the "Book of Cerne" to the primary third of the ninth century. As per a medieval schedule of holy people, the Benedictine priests at Breedon observed Hardulph's gala day on 21 August. 

The demise of Eardwulf isn't recorded. In spite of the fact that he had confronted extensive resistance and had been crashed into outcast, he prevailing with regards to establishing a line. His child Eanred and grandson Æthelred (II) ruled Northumbria for the majority of its outstanding presence as an autonomous kingdom.