Steve Bruce 

Stephen Roger Bruce (brought into the world 31 December 1960) is an English expert football supervisor and previous player. He is the administrator of club Sheffield Wednesday. Conceived in Corbridge, Northumberland, he was a promising student footballer yet was rejected by a few expert clubs. He was very nearly stopping the diversion by and large when he was offered a preliminary with Gillingham. Bruce was offered an apprenticeship and proceeded to play more than 200 games for the club before joining Norwich City in 1984, winning the League Cup in 1985. 

In 1987, he moved to Manchester United, with whom he made extraordinary progress, winning twelve trophies including three Premier League titles, three FA Cups, one League Cup and the European Cup Winners' Cup. He additionally turned into the principal English player of the twentieth century to chief a group to the Double. Notwithstanding his prosperity on the field, he was never chosen to play for the England national group. Reporters and peers have depicted him as a standout amongst the best English players of the 1990s never to play for his nation at full global dimension. 

Bruce started his administrative profession with Sheffield United, and invested brief times of energy overseeing Huddersfield Town, Wigan Athletic and Crystal Palace before joining Birmingham City in 2001. He twice driven Birmingham to advancement to the Premier League amid his residency of about six years, however surrendered in 2007 to start a second spell as chief of Wigan. Toward the finish of the 2008– 09 season he surrendered to take over as chief of Sunderland, a post he held until he was rejected in November 2011. After seven months, he was selected director of Hull City and drove the club to two advancements to the Premier League, just as the 2014 FA Cup Final, before leaving in July 2016. He took over at Aston Villa four months after the fact however was expelled in October 2018. He took over as administrator of Sheffield Wednesday in February 2019. 

Bruce was conceived in Corbridge in Northumberland, the senior of two children of Joe and Sheenagh Bruce. His dad was neighborhood, and his mom had been conceived in Bangor in Northern Ireland. The family lived in Daisy Hill close Wallsend, and Bruce went to Benfield School. 

Bruce, a childhood fanatic of Newcastle United, cases to have sneaked into St James' Park without paying to watch the group play, saying "I have dependably been a Newcastle chap and when I was a child, I slithered under the entryways to get in to attempt and spare a bounce or whatever it was. They were my group, I went to help them as a kid and being a Geordie it's in-reproduced, you pursue the club still a similar today." Like a few other future experts from the region, he played football for Wallsend Boys Club. He was likewise chosen for the Newcastle Schools agent group, and at 13 years old was among a gathering of players from the group chose to fill in as ball young men at the 1974 League Cup Final at Wembley Stadium. 

Having been turned somewhere near a few expert clubs, including Newcastle United, Sunderland, Derby County and Southport, Bruce was going to begin function as an understudy handyman at the Swan Hunter dockyard when he was offered a preliminary by Third Division club Gillingham, whose supervisor Gerry Summers had seen him playing for Wallsend in a global youth competition. He made a trip down to Kent with another player from the Wallsend club, Peter Beardsley, however despite the fact that Gillingham marked Bruce as a student, they dismissed Beardsley. At the time Bruce was playing as a midfielder, however he was changed to the focal point of barrier by the leader of Gillingham's childhood plot, Bill Collins, whom Bruce refers to as the single greatest effect on his vocation. 

Bruce spent the 1978– 79 season in Gillingham's hold group and, regardless of playing in barrier, scored 18 goals to complete the season as top scorer. In January 1979, he was chosen to speak to the England youth group, and he proceeded to increase eight tops, partaking in the 1980 UEFA European Under-18 Championship. He verged on making his presentation for the club's senior group in May 1979, however Summers chose ultimately that, as Gillingham were pursuing advancement from the Third Division, Bruce was not yet prepared to deal with the weight of the event. He in the long run made his senior introduction in a League Cup tie against Luton Town on 11 August 1979, and had a prompt effect in the group, winning the club's Player of the Year grant toward the finish of the 1979– 80 season. He proceeded to make more than 200 appearances for the club, and was twice casted a ballot into the Professional Footballers' Association's Third Division Team of the Year. 

Certain that he was being focused by clubs from higher divisions, Bruce settled not to sign another agreement with Gillingham when his current arrangement lapsed toward the finish of the 1983– 84 season. In an April 1983 match against Newport County, he endeavored, in a snapshot of annoyance, to purposely harm restriction player Tommy Tynan, however associated fumblingly and succeeded just in breaking his own leg, abandoning him unfit to play again for a half year. He returned so as to assume a key job in Gillingham accomplishing two attracts against Everton the FA Cup in 1984, drawing in the consideration by and by of scouts from First Division clubs. Arthur Cox, supervisor of Bruce's darling Newcastle United, communicated an enthusiasm for marking the player, however left his activity before any further move could be made. Bruce in the long run picked to sign for Norwich City in August 1984 for a charge differently detailed as £125,000 or £135,000. In 2009, he was casted a ballot into Gillingham's Hall of Fame. 

Bruce started the 1984– 85 season by scoring a possess objective in the principal moment of his introduction for Norwich against Liverpool, yet proceeded to score the group's triumphant objective in the semi-last of the League Cup against neighborhood rivals Ipswich Town, and was named man of the match in Norwich's triumph in the last. Bruce was casted a ballot Norwich City Player of the Year, yet the group was consigned to the Second Division. Bruce played in each match as Norwich won advancement back to the top division at the first run through of asking in the 1985– 86 season, after which he was picked to supplant the leaving Dave Watson as club chief. The accompanying season he helped the club to its most noteworthy ever class completion of fifth position. 

In 1987, he was picked to skipper the England B group in a match against the full national group of Malta, however it was to be his solitary appearance in an England shirt, and he has in this manner been depicted as a standout amongst the best safeguards of his time never to be chosen for the full England group. Bruce later expressed, "I caught previous England chief Bobby Robson in Benfica" (sic)". He came up to me and said 'I ought to have topped you'. It was pleasant to hear yet regardless it didn't get me one ... I'll generally be a little frustrated I didn't get one." 

Bruce started to draw in the consideration of enormous name clubs in late 1987, with Manchester United, Tottenham Hotspur, Chelsea and Rangers all answered to be keen on marking him. Manchester United immediately developed as the leaders for his mark, and Bruce openly communicated his longing to sign for the club. The arrangement verged on crumbling when Norwich requested an exchange expense of £900,000 after at first consenting to acknowledge £800,000, prompting Bruce declining to play any further counterparts for the club, which he felt was risking his fantasy move. On 17 December 1987, right away before his 27th birthday celebration, the arrangement was finished up and Bruce authoritatively left Carrow Road, for an expense revealed as £800,000 or £825,000. Norwich fans recollected his commitment, and in 2002 casted a ballot him into the Norwich City Hall of Fame. 

Bruce made his Manchester United introduction in a 2– 1 success over Portsmouth on 19 December 1987, and played in 21 of United's staying 22 league installations, helping the club to a main two spot in the First Division out of the blue since 1980. The group just completed in mid-table in the accompanying season, provoking supervisor Alex Ferguson to get a few new players, including Gary Pallister, who joined the club in August 1989 from Middlesbrough. His association with Bruce in the focal point of protection was portrayed in 2006 by the then-United chief, Gary Neville, as the best in the club's history. "Dolly and Daisy", as the pair were tenderly referred to, are depicted as "ostensibly the best" on the official Manchester United site. Bruce and Pallister were a piece of the group that won the 1990 FA Cup Final against Crystal Palace in a replay. 

Following the lifting of the five-year restriction on English clubs from European rivalries, which had been forced after the Heysel Stadium catastrophe, United turned into England's first participants into the European Cup Winners' Cup in the 1990– 91 season. Bruce played normally, and scored three objectives, in the group's advancement to the last against FC Barcelona. He verged on scoring the primary objective, just for Mark Hughes to avoid the ball over the line and guarantee the objective, and United proceeded to win 2– 1. This was an especially high-scoring season for Bruce, who found the net 13 times in the First Division and 19 times altogether in all rivalries. He additionally played again at Wembley, in the League Cup last, in which United were crushed by Sheffield Wednesday of the Second Division. 

Bruce missed half a month of the 1991– 92 season when he experienced a task on a longstanding hernia issue, in which Leeds United, after a season-long tussle, beat Manchester United to the title by four points. Bruce helped United win their first-since forever League Cup in April 1992, captaining the group in the last instead of the harmed Bryan Robson. Wounds kept on incurring significant damage upon Robson amid the 1992– 93 season, prompting Bruce captaining the group in most of United's matches amid the principal period of the new Premier League. Bruce scored two late objectives in a success over Sheffield Wednesday which demonstrated unequivocal in United winning the debut Premier League title, the first run through the club had won the title of English football since 1967, and he and Robson got the trophy mutually after the home triumph over Blackburn Rovers on 3 May. 

At the tallness of his prosperity with United, Bruce was reached by Jack Charlton, director of the Republic of Ireland national group, who had found that, because of his mom's place of birth, Bruce was qualified to play for Ireland. Bruce states in his self-portrayal that further examination uncovered that, while his prior appearance for England B in a well disposed match was not an issue, his appearances for the England Youth group in a UEFA-endorsed competition disallowed him from playing for the senior group of another nation. He has along these lines asserted that he decided not to play for Ireland as it would have caused issues for his club when UEFA confined the quantity of remote players that a club could have in their squad in its rivalries. 

Joined commanded English football in the 1993– 94 season, winning a second back to back Premier League title and afterward crushing Chelsea in the FA Cup last to turn out to be just the fourth group, and Bruce the main English skipper, to win The Double in the twentieth century, The 1994– 95 season was a disillusioning one for Bruce and United, as the club bombed in its offer to win a third continuous Premier League title and lost to Everton in the FA Cup last. 

Amid the accompanying season Bruce was offered the activity of director by three clubs, yet Ferguson wouldn't enable him to seek after the open doors as he felt the player still had a task to carry out in the United group. Bruce showed up, as United figured out how to beat a 12-point shortfall to Newcastle United to win the title indeed. After seven days he was let well enough alone for United's squad for the FA Cup last because of slight damage. Toward the finish of the match Eric Cantona, who had captained the group and scored the main objective in a 1– 0 success over Liverpool, endeavored to induce Bruce to be the one to get the trophy, yet Bruce declined. Ferguson denied that Bruce's oversight was an indication that his time at the club was nearing an end, yet Bruce, at that point 35 years old, trusted that he would be probably not going to be chosen for the group amid the year staying on his agreement. He selected rather to join First Division club Birmingham City on a free exchange, having marked an agreement esteemed at almost £2 million more than two years, which made him one of the most generously compensated players in the nation. 

Bruce was among five previous Premier League players marked by Birmingham director Trevor Francis to add involvement to a squad expected to challenge for advancement. He was made commander of the group, however his Birmingham vocation was hounded by a progression of conflicts with Francis. Chief David Sullivan wanted to freely deny bits of gossip that Bruce was arranged to supplant Francis as director after the club's financial exchange buoyancy. While playing for Birmingham, Bruce was the subject of a few offers from his old Manchester United associate Bryan Robson to sign for Middlesbrough, yet the exchange never occurred. 

The 1997– 98 season saw Bruce dropped without precedent for his vocation, for a match against previous club Gillingham, and he portrayed himself as "hurt and troubled" at being forgotten. By November 1997 he was as a rule forgotten all the more much of the time, and his oversight against Nottingham Forest incited an open war of words, which fuelled bits of gossip that the chief was to be rejected and that Bruce would take over as overseer until the finish of the period. Toward the finish of the period he acknowledged the post of player-chief of Sheffield United. In spite of the fact that the arrangement was postponed while Birmingham endeavored to arrange an exchange charge for his playing contract, he took up his new position on 2 July 1998. He played 11 matches for the club before resigning as a player, his last appearance being in a home match against Sunderland on 28 November 1998. 

Amid the early piece of his vocation, Bruce's occasionally over-eager playing style, which he later depicted as "rampaging", caused him disciplinary issues. He later formed into a strong and reliable all-round player, portrayed as "a legitimate trier who made unquestionably the a large portion of restricted characteristic capacity". In his prime, he was especially noted for his quiet and purposeful going of the ball, and his capacity to control it under strain, regularly with his chest. At the time, Mark Wright of Liverpool was said to be the main other focus back ready to coordinate Bruce's dimension of ability in these territories. 

Bruce was likewise known for his bizarrely high goalscoring rate for a middle back, coming about because of a mix of his capacity to intensely head the ball and his viability in taking extra shots. Albeit lacking balance and beauty, and regularly scrutinized for his absence of pace, his fortitude and eagerness to take thumps from restriction players made him the "heart" of the protection amid his time with Manchester United. He was outstanding for proceeding to play notwithstanding when harmed, including coming back to the United group at short notice in 1992 despite the fact that he was anticipating a task on a hernia. His dauntless soul and inspirational capacities were esteemed imperative to the United group, and Alex Ferguson has remarked on his "assurance and heart". 

In his first season as an administrator, Bruce guided Sheffield United to eighth spot in the First Division, nine far from a spot in the play-offs. He caused contention when he endeavored to take his group off the pitch amid a FA Cup coordinate against Arsenal. Bruce felt that the Gunners had defied an unwritten guideline of sportsmanship by scoring the triumphant objective from a toss in as opposed to restoring the ball to United, who had purposefully shown it out of play to enable a harmed player to be taken care of. Despite the fact that the amusement in the long run proceeded to a wrap up, a signal by Arsenal the match was proclaimed void and replayed. In May 1999, Bruce left his post after only one season in control, refering to unrest in the club's meeting room and a lack of assets for exchanges. He examined leaving football for a vocation in TV yet was convinced by Huddersfield Town proprietor Barry Rubery to turn into the club's director. 

Huddersfield were early advancement contenders in the 1999– 2000 season, winning six sequential matches to ascend to third place in the First Division table by late November, yet lost structure and neglected to achieve the play-offs. The group kept on battling toward the beginning of the 2000– 01 season, increasing only six from 11 matches, and Bruce was sacked in October 2000. He at that point wound up engaged with a question with Rubery, who blamed him for "squandering" £3m on players and having "an inner self to encourage". In spite of the fact that he was connected with the supervisor's position at Queens Park Rangers, Bruce stayed out of the amusement until he was selected director of Wigan Athletic in April 2001. The group achieved the Second Division play-offs however lost in the semi-finals, and Bruce very quickly left the club, where he had been in control for under two months, to take over as director of Crystal Palace. 

In spite of the fact that his new club started the 2001– 02 season emphatically, topping the First Division table and looking very much set for recovering the Premier League place that the club had last held in the 1997– 98 season, Bruce offered his renunciation under three months into the season so as to come back to Birmingham City as chief. In spite of the fact that he was at first kept from doing as such by a directive taken out by Crystal Palace, he was in the long run permitted to join the Midlands-based club after a remuneration bundle was concurred. At this point he had gained a notoriety for being a chief who seldom held down a vocation for a huge period of time. 

Upon his landing, the Blues were in a mid-table position in the First Division, yet an extensive unbeaten run saw the group meet all requirements for the play-offs. The group proceeded to beat Bruce's previous club Norwich City in the last after a punishment shoot-out to pick up advancement to the Premier League, finishing a 16-year nonappearance from the top dimension of English football. Birmingham spent the early piece of the 2002– 03 season battling close to the foot of the Premier League table, yet Bruce's marking of Christophe Dugarry renewed the group, who finished the season in thirteenth spot and completed higher than neighborhood rivals Aston Villa out of the blue since the 1970s. 

The accompanying season started well for Birmingham, who moved as high as fourth in the table, yet the group's fortunes declined and they could just complete in tenth spot toward the finish of the period. Notwithstanding this failure, Bruce marked another agreement in June 2004 intended to keep him at St Andrew's for a further five years, however only two months after the fact Freddy Shepherd, executive of Newcastle United, was accounted for to have made Bruce his fundamental focus in the look for another administrator to supplant Bobby Robson. The club was purportedly arranged to pay Birmingham more than £3 million in remuneration, and Bruce himself was said to be quick to take over at St James' Park, yet he eventually stayed at Birmingham. He expressed that "to the extent I'm concerned, I have an occupation to do [at Birmingham City] and I'm resolved to continue ahead with it", however it was additionally announced that Newcastle would have been required to pay an a lot bigger remuneration expense or face lawful activity had he been induced to switch clubs. Introductory desires were high for the 2004– 05 season, yet the club by and by completed in a mid-table position, finishing the season in 12th place. 

Following the sacking of Graeme Souness as Newcastle director in February 2006, Bruce was again connected with the activity, which at last went to Glenn Roeder. By this phase of the 2005– 06 season, Birmingham were battling in the group, and on 21 March 2006 were beaten 7– 0 at home by Liverpool in the FA Cup quarter-finals. A few supporters of the club started to require his acquiescence, yet Bruce demanded that he would battle on as chief. The group figured out how to move out of the assignment zone without precedent for almost a half year after a success over Bolton Wanderers toward the beginning of April 2006. Be that as it may, they were before long overwhelmed by Portsmouth, whose triumph over Wigan Athletic on 29 April left Birmingham scientifically unfit to coordinate their focuses complete and subsequently consigned. 

In spite of the fact that Bruce had the biggest move spending plan in the division made accessible to him, Birmingham made a moderate begin to the 2006– 07 season in the Championship and, after a 1– 0 annihilation at home to Norwich City, the group's fifth back to back match without a success, there were calls from fans and nearby columnists for the supervisor to be sacked. Bruce openly acknowledged obligation regarding the group's poor run and conceded that he dreaded for his activity, however the group reacted with a 1– 0 triumph over Derby County, and afterward recorded a further five back to back class triumphs to be joint pioneers of the alliance table by late November. On 29 April 2007, Birmingham verified advancement to the Premier League, with one match to play, by excellence of Derby County's 2– 0 annihilation at Crystal Palace. Executive David Gold told the press "There have been some dull days however Steve has been remarkable. He was resolved to bob back. He has modified the group and now we are on the whole back where we need to be." 

In May 2007, Birmingham's board concurred another agreement for Bruce, yet the reluctance of the club's forthcoming buyer Carson Yeung to approve it left his future dubious. In October 2007, Bolton Wanderers were declined authorization to address him about their administrative opportunity. 

Soon thereafter, Bruce and Yeung held a gathering which purportedly had positive outcomes. Bruce later guaranteed that Birmingham's overseeing chief Karren Brady had "shafted" him on another agreement with the club, and when Wigan Athletic mentioned authorization to address Bruce about their administrative opportunity, he was responsive to their methodology. As required under the terms of his agreement, Wigan consented to pay Birmingham a then-world record remuneration for the loss of his administrations of around £3m, and they were then permitted to address him. On 19 November, Wigan declared the marking of Bruce for a second time. 

On 21 November, amid a question and answer session which was expected to formally exhibit Bruce as the new director of Wigan, the club's CEO Brenda Spencer educated the media that the arrangement had been put on hold by "obscure issues" among Bruce and Birmingham City, answered to fixate on the development installment of the picture rights component of Bruce's agreement at St Andrew's. On 23 November 2007 Wigan reported that Bruce had now marked his agreement and would authoritatively rejoin the Latics. His first diversion in control was a 1– 1 home draw with Manchester City on 1 December 2007. Wigan spent the rest of the period battling against assignment, yet the club verified Premier League survival with triumph over Aston Villa in the penultimate round of the period. In September 2008, Bruce was by and by connected with the director's position at Newcastle United after the flight of Kevin Keegan. 

Bruce drove Wigan to an eleventh spot complete in the 2008– 09 season, in spite of the loss of midfielder Wilson Palacios to Tottenham Hotspur in the January exchange window. 

On 27 May 2009, Bruce was accounted for to have been offered authorization to converse with Sunderland about succeeding Ricky Sbragia, who surrendered as chief after the last match of the period. Bruce was affirmed as the new supervisor of Sunderland on 3 June in the wake of marking a three-year contract. He was joined at Sunderland by three of his previous Wigan Athletic instructing staff, right hand Eric Black, goalkeeping mentor Nigel Spink, and save group mentor Keith Bertschin. In his first season at Sunderland, regardless of a keep running of 14 amusements without a success, Bruce drove the Black Cats to a thirteenth spot complete in the Premier League. 

Bruce rolled out discount improvements to Sunderland's squad, marking 13 players and selling 15 in his initial year and a half at the club. On 25 February 2011, Bruce marked an augmentation to his agreement, keeping him at Sunderland until 2014, with administrator Niall Quinn expressing that "In just year and a half he has reshaped our squad to the point of being unrecognizable, getting some phenomenally capable players. He typifies the ethos of cooperation and the significance of brotherhood in making a magnificent soul of fellowship among the players and staff". 

Bruce was expelled as chief on 30 November 2011, with Sunderland in sixteenth position following a poor keep running of structure which finished with a 2– 1 home annihilation to base club Wigan four days sooner. He later connected his expulsion from the administrative post with the way that he is a fanatic of Newcastle United, Sunderland's severe opponents. 

On 8 June 2012, Bruce was delegated as administrator at Championship club Hull City on a three-year contract. In his first season with the club, he drove them to advancement to the Premier League, securing second spot in the Championship on the last day of the period. The accompanying season, the "Tigers" came sixteenth with a club record count of 37 points, and achieved the last of the FA Cup out of the blue. They took a two-objective lead in the initial ten minutes of the last, however rivals Arsenal scored an objective in every half to take the diversion into additional time and after that scored a third to win the trophy. Achieving the last qualified Hull for the 2014– 15 UEFA Europa League, their first European crusade. 

In March 2015, Bruce marked a three-year contract expansion. A keep running of poor structure left Hull close to the base of the table going into the last round of the 2014– 15 season and expecting to overcome Bruce's previous club Manchester United to stand any opportunity of evading transfer. They could just deal with a 0– 0 attract and were consigned to the Championship. The poor exhibitions of various players marked by Bruce, including club record marking Abel Hernández, were distinguished as key factors in the club's inability to stay in the Premier League. 

In January 2016, Bruce won the Championship Manager of the Month subsequent to driving Hull to four triumphs; Hernández, who scored multiple times, got the players' proportional. Body completed the season in fourth, fitting the bill for the play-offs, where they crushed Derby County in the semi-finals. In the last on 28 May, a 25-yard objective from Mohamed Diamé against Sheffield Wednesday won Hull advancement to the Premier League for the second time amid Bruce's spell in control. Bruce said after the diversion that he had considered renunciation following the group's assignment, and would hold chats with the imminent new proprietors to be guaranteed of his future. In July 2016, with his future at Hull apparently still questionable, he was met by authorities of The Football Association concerning the empty position of administrator of England. After three days, Bruce met with Hull City authorities and declared his abdication soon thereafter in the midst of cases he ended up baffled by an absence of exchange movement at the club. 

On 12 October 2016, Bruce was selected administrator of Championship club Aston Villa. In his second match in control, Villa crushed Reading, the club's first win in 11 diversions and the principal away win for 14 months. He got Colin Calderwood as aide director from Brighton and Hove Albion and Stephen Clemence from old club Hull City as first-group mentor. In the 2017– 18 season, Villa verified a play-off spot and crushed Middlesbrough to achieve the last, yet lost 1– 0 to Fulham in the last and in this way passed up advancement to the Premier League. On 2 October 2018, Villa surrendered a two-objective lead, drawing 3– 3 at home to base club Preston North End. One onlooker tossed a cabbage at Bruce and there were calls from home fans on the Holte End for Bruce to go. The next day, he was sacked by Villa after a poor keep running of structure. 

In January 2019, Bruce was selected director of Championship club Sheffield Wednesday with impact from the beginning of the next month. On 27 January, his deferral in taking up this arrangement was condemned by "Match of the Day" intellectuals Danny Murphy and Ruud Gullit amid a 3– 0 FA Cup rout away to Chelsea. Bruce accordingly shielded his choice, as he had two activities since leaving Aston Villa and required time to recover, just as the need to recuperate from the passing of the two his folks in 2018. 

Norwich City 

Manchester United 

Person 

Birmingham City 

Structure City 

Person 

Bruce has been hitched since February 1983 to Janet (née Smith), who is likewise from the Hexham territory, and went to a similar school as Bruce. The couple have two youngsters, Alex (brought into the world 1984) and Amy (brought into the world 1987). Alex is additionally a footballer, and was marked by his dad for Hull City in July 2012. He had recently played under his dad's administration at Birmingham City, however left the club in 2006, to some extent because of allegations of nepotism leveled at his dad. Amy was connected impractically with Aston Villa player Lee Hendrie in newspaper news stories in 2004, which incited a furious reaction from her dad, who portrayed the reports as "lies", and asserted that writers had ventured to such an extreme as to contact his specialist and inspect his family unit squander trying to reveal tattle. In September 2004, Bruce was engaged with a fight outside his home with two men who were endeavoring to take his little girl's vehicle. The affray left him with facial wounds yet did not keep him from venturing out to a Premier League coordinate that day. After the episode one paper endeavored to associate it with the claims concerning Hendrie, driving Bruce to think about legitimate activity. 

Bruce's collection of memoirs, "Heading for Victory", was distributed in 1994. In 1999, while chief of Huddersfield, he composed a trio of books: "Striker!", "Sweeper!" and "Safeguard!". The books fixated on anecdotal football director Steve Barnes, in light of Bruce, who tackled murder puzzles and obstructed fear mongers. Bruce later communicated his shame at the books, which have turned out to be looked for after collectables. 

Book index 

Commentaries