Irish phonology 

The phonology of the Irish language shifts from tongue to lingo; there is no standard articulation of Irish. Thusly, this article centers around marvels that relate by and large to most or all vernaculars, and on the significant contrasts among the tongues. Definite discourse of the tongues can be found in the particular articles: Ulster Irish, Connacht Irish, and Munster Irish. 

Irish phonology has been examined as a control since the late nineteenth century, with various analysts distributing graphic records of vernaculars from all areas where the language is spoken. All the more as of late, Irish phonology has been the focal point of hypothetical etymologists, who have created various books, articles, and doctoral theories on the subject. 

A standout amongst the most essential parts of Irish phonology is that practically all consonants come in sets, with one having an "expansive" articulation and the other a "thin" one. Expansive consonants are either velarized (that is, the back of the tongue is pulled back and somewhat up toward the delicate sense of taste while the consonant is being verbalized) or just velar (for example ). Slim consonants are palatalized, which implies the tongue is pushed up toward the hard sense of taste amid the verbalization. The complexity among expansive and slim consonants is urgent in Irish, on the grounds that the importance of a word can change if a wide consonant is substituted for a thin consonant or the other way around. For instance, the main distinction in articulation between the words ('cow') and ('alive') is that is articulated with a wide "b" sound, while is articulated with a slim "b" sound. The differentiation among wide and slim consonants assumes a basic job in recognizing the individual consonants themselves, yet in addition in the elocution of the encompassing vowels, in the assurance of which consonants can remain beside which different consonants, and in the conduct of words that start with a vowel. This expansive/thin qualification is like the hard/delicate one of a few Slavic dialects, similar to Russian. 

The Irish language imparts various phonological qualities to its closest semantic relatives, Scottish Gaelic and Manx, just as with Hiberno-English, with which it is in the nearest language contact. 

Until the finish of the nineteenth century, etymological dialogs of Irish concentrated either on the customary syntax of the language (issues like the emphasis of things, action words and modifiers) or on the chronicled improvement of sounds from Proto-Indo-European through Proto-Celtic to Old Irish. The primary unmistakable examination of the phonology of an Irish tongue was , which depended on the creator's hands on work in the Aran Islands. This was trailed by , a phonetic portrayal of the tongue of Meenawannia close Glenties, County Donegal. is overwhelmingly an authentic record, however has some depiction of present day tongues too. Alf Sommerfelt distributed early portrayals of both Ulster and Munster assortments ( and for the town of Torr in Gweedore, for Munster, and for the now wiped out vernacular of South Armagh). The tongue of Dunquin on the Dingle Peninsula was portrayed by . From 1944 to 1968 the Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies distributed a progression of monographs, each depicting the phonology of one neighborhood tongue: for West Muskerry in County Cork (Ballyvourney, Coolea and region), (first distributed 1945) for Cois Fhairrge in County Galway (Barna, Spiddal, Inverin and region), for A Rinn, County Waterford, for Tourmakeady in County Mayo, for Teelin, County Donegal, for Erris in County Mayo. Later illustrative phonology has been distributed by for Rosguill in northern Donegal, for Tangaveane and Commeen (additionally close Glenties), for Iorras Aithneach in Connemara (Kilkieran and region), and for the Dingle Peninsula in County Kerry. 

Examination into the hypothetical phonology of Irish started with , which pursues the standards and practices of "The Sound Pattern of English" and which shaped the premise of the phonology segments of . Expositions looking at Irish phonology from a hypothetical perspective incorporate , in optimality hypothesis, and in government phonology. 

Most vernaculars of Irish contain at any rate the consonant phonemes appeared in the accompanying diagram (see International Phonetic Alphabet for a clarification of the images). The consonant is neither wide nor slim. 

Wide (velar or velarized) consonants have a detectable velar offglide (an extremely short vowel-like sound) before front vowels, which sounds like the English "w" yet made without adjusting the lips. The IPA image for this sound is . In this way ('nine') and ('way, way') are articulated and , separately. This velar offglide is labialized (articulated with lip-adjusting, similar to "w") after labial consonants, so ('yellow') is articulated . 

Correspondingly, thin (palatal or palatalized) consonants have a palatal offglide (like English "y") before back vowels, for example ('thick') is articulated . 

At the point when an expansive consonant pursues a front vowel, there is a short vowel sound (called an onglide) just before the consonant, for example ('sell') is articulated . So also, when a slim consonant pursues a back vowel, there is an onglide before the consonant, for example ('place') is articulated , ('drinking' gen.) is articulated , ('understanding') is , and ('to us') is . 

(which can be composed as , or ) has two fundamental allophones: the labiovelar approximant and the velarized voiced labiodental fricative . The appropriation of these allophones fluctuates from vernacular to lingo. In Munster, by and large just is found, and in Ulster by and large just is found. In Connacht, is discovered word-at first before vowels (for example 'is') and in different positions (for example 'holy person', 'harvest time', and 'rushed'). 

The staying labial fricatives are normally labiodental , yet they just as the fricative allophone of have bilabial allophones in numerous lingos; the dispersion depends mostly on condition (bilabials are bound to be discovered adjoining adjusted vowels) and somewhat on the individual speaker. 

Among the coronals, most are alveolar, however the expansive stops and sidelong are ordinarily dental , and the thin coronal fricative is normally postalveolar . The thin coronal stops might be acknowledged as alveolo-palatal affricates in various tongues, including Tourmakeady, Erris, and Teelin. 

The slim dorsal stops might be enunciated as evident palatals or as palatovelars . 

The phoneme has three allophones in many tongues: a palatal approximant before vowels other than and at the closures of syllables (for example 'decent', 'will be'); a voiced (post)palatal fricative before consonants (for example 'sun'); and a halfway stable (with more frication than yet less frication than ) previously (for example 'rectified'). 

As in English, voiceless stops are suctioned (enunciated with a puff of air quickly upon discharge) toward the beginning of a word, while voiced stops might be not completely voiced yet are never suctioned. Voiceless stops are unaspirated after and (for example 'fear'); be that as it may, stops remain suctioned after the clitic "is" (for example 'it's abnormal'). A few scientists (for example , and ) use translations like , and so forth., showing they consider the stops that happen after voiceless fricatives to be devoiced allophones of the voiced stops instead of unaspirated allophones of the voiceless stops (as is really the situation in Scottish Gaelic), yet this is a minority see. 

In Old Irish, the sonorants (those spelled ) were separated into wide and thin sorts, yet additionally into fortis and lenis types. The exact phonetic meaning of these terms is to some degree obscure, yet the coronal fortis sounds (those spelled ) were presumably longer in span and may have had a bigger region of contact between the tongue and the top of the mouth than the lenis sounds. Fortis "m" was likely a typical , while lenis "m" was a nasalized semivowel , maybe tending towards a nasalized fricative or when palatalized. By tradition, the fortis coronals are translated with capital letters , the lenis with lower case (a few creators, for example, , rather utilize Latin for fortis and Greek for lenis). In this way Old Irish had four rhotic phonemes , four horizontal phonemes , and four coronal nasal phonemes . Fortis and lenis sonorants appeared differently in relation to one another among vowels and word-at last after vowels in Old Irish, for instance ('he shears') versus ('he may convey'); ('hazel') versus ('sin'); ('stake') versus ('sound'). Word-at first, just the fortis sounds were found, yet they progressed toward becoming lenis in conditions where morphosyntactically activated lenition was discovered: ('secret') versus ('his secret'), ('arrangement') versus ('his arrangement'). 

In the cutting edge language, the four rhotics have been diminished to two in all tongues, having converged as . For the laterals and nasals, a few vernaculars have kept every one of the four particular, while others have diminished them to three or two unmistakable phonemes, as outlined in the accompanying table. 

Concerning fortis and lenis "m", in time the lenis rendition (nasalized semivowel or labial fricative) came to be articulated as a customary semivowel or fricative alongside nasalization of the previous vowel. The later loss of between vowels has brought about phonemically nasalized vowels in some advanced lingos (see underneath), yet these are not vigorously kept up in any vernacular; the solid propensity is to kill the nasalization totally. The first nasalized semivowel is as yet reflected as in the spelling, in any case. 

The vowel sounds fluctuate from vernacular to lingo, however by and large Connacht and Munster in any event concur in having the monophthongs , and schwa (), which is discovered just in unstressed syllables; and the falling diphthongs , and . 

The vowels of Ulster Irish are increasingly dissimilar and are not talked about in this article. 

The backness of vowels (that is, the flat position of the most noteworthy purpose of the tongue) depends, all things considered, on the quality (wide or slim) of nearby consonants. A few specialists (for example , ) have contended that and are really allophones of a similar phoneme, as are and , as in a vertical vowel framework. Under this view, these phonemes are not set apart at a unique dimension as either front vowels or back vowels. Or maybe, they obtain a determination for frontness or backness from the consonants around them. In this article, nonetheless, the more customary presumption that are four particular phonemes will be pursued. The portrayals of the allophones in this segment originate from ; the elocutions thusly mirror the Munster pronunciation of the Dingle Peninsula. Except if generally noted, in any case, they to a great extent hold for other Munster and Connacht highlights also. 

The four close vowel phonemes of Irish are the completely close and , and the close and . Their precise elocution relies upon the nature of the encompassing consonants. is acknowledged as a front between two slim consonants (for example 'nation'). Between a slim and an expansive consonant, the tongue is withdrawn marginally from this situation (for which the IPA image is ), for example ('deal'), ('berry' gen.). Between two expansive consonants, the tongue is withdrawn considerably further, nearly to the point of being a focal vowel (in IPA, ): ('sheep'). is a completely back between expansive consonants (for example 'fortification'), yet between an expansive and a thin consonant, the tongue is fairly best in class (IPA ), for example ('three individuals'), ('eye'). Between two slim consonants, it is progressed considerably further, to a unified vowel (IPA ): ('calm'). 

The close vowels and demonstrate a comparable example. is acknowledged between slim consonants as a front , for example ('house' dat.). After a slim consonant and before an expansive one, it is a close front , for example ('piece'). After an expansive consonant and before a slim one, it is an increasingly withdrawn , for example ('gets it'). At last, between two expansive consonants it is a focal , for example ('salty'). is a close back when every single neighboring consonant are expansive, for example ('dark'), and a progressively concentrated after a slim consonant, for example ('cloth'). 

The acknowledgment of the long close-mid vowels and shifts as indicated by the nature of the encompassing consonants. is a front between two thin consonants (for example 'holler'), a concentrated between an expansive and a slim consonant (for example 'call'), and an increasingly open brought together between two expansive consonants (for example 'threat'). ranges from a back between two wide consonants (for example 'turf') to a progressed between an expansive and a thin consonant (for example 'turf' [gen.]) to a concentrated between two thin consonants (for example 'music' [gen.]). 

The short open-mid vowels likewise change contingent upon their condition. Short ranges from a front between thin consonants (for example 'will be') to a withdrawn between an expansive and a slim consonant (for example 'I will be', 'was') to a focal when the main adjoining consonant is expansive (for example 'cross' [dat.]). Short between two expansive consonants is typically a back , for example ('stone'), however it is a concentrated neighboring nasal consonants and labial consonants, for example ('there') and ('delicate'). Between an expansive and a thin consonant, it is an increasingly open : ('school'), ('drink'). 

Unstressed is acknowledged as a close, close front when contiguous a palatal consonant, for example ('pike'). By other slim consonants, it is a mid-brought together , for example ('salt water'). Contiguous expansive consonants, it is generally a mid focal , for example ('data'), however when the first syllable contains one of the nearby back vowels , it is acknowledged as a mid-incorporated back , for example ('shutting'), ('pigs'). 

The acknowledgment of the open vowels changes as indicated by the nature of the encompassing consonants; there is a critical contrast between Munster lingos and Connacht vernaculars too. In Munster, long and short have around a similar scope of acknowledgment: the two vowels are moderately back in contact with expansive consonants and generally front in contact with thin consonants. In particular, long in word-beginning position and after wide consonants is a back , for example ('place'), ('shoreline'). Between a slim and an expansive consonant, it is a withdrawn front , for example ('will cut'), while between two slim consonants it is a completely front , for example ('John' voc.). In Dingle, the back allophone is adjusted to after expansive labials, for example ('white'), while in Ring, County Waterford, adjusted is the typical acknowledgment of in all settings with the exception of between thin consonants, where it is a concentrated . Short between two thin consonants is a front , as in ('short'). Between a wide and a slim consonant, it is as a rule a withdrawn , for example ('man'), and ('worn'), yet after wide labials and it is an incorporated front , for example ('town'), ('harm'). When it is contiguous just to expansive consonants, it is a unified back , for example ('child'), ('state'). 

In Connacht assortments, the allophones of short are reliably further front than the allophones of long . In Erris, for instance, short ranges from a close open front vowel before thin consonants (for example 'earwax') to an open after slim consonants (for example 'splendid') to an incorporated back between wide consonants (for example 'horse'). Long , then again, ranges from a back between expansive consonants (for example 'pontoon') to a progressed back before slim consonants (for example 'to get') to a unified back after slim consonants (for example 'fine'). In Toormakeady, the back allophone is adjusted to after wide labials, for example ('white'). In Connemara, the allophones of are stretched in length, with the goal that just vowel quality recognizes the allophones of from those of . 

The beginning stage of reaches from a close open focal after wide consonants to an open-mid brought together front after slim consonants, and its end point ranges from a close front before thin consonants to a unified before wide consonants. Precedents incorporate ('maverick'), ('hound'), ('church'), and ('fix'). 

The beginning stage of reaches from a close open focal after wide consonants to an open-mid propelled focal after slim consonants, and its end point ranges from a close back before expansive consonants to a concentrated before thin consonants. Precedents incorporate ('hard of hearing'), ('improvement'), ('talk'), and ('memory'). In West Muskerry and the Dingle Peninsula, in any case, the beginning stage of is adjusted and further back after wide consonants, for example ('goat'). 

The beginning stage of reaches from a nearby front after thin consonants to a withdrawn after word-starting expansive (the main setting in which it shows up after a wide consonant). Its end point ranges from a mid focal before wide consonants to a nearby mid concentrated front before thin consonants. Models incorporate ('sense'), ('ever'), and ('fallen angels'). 

The beginning stage of is reliably a nearby back while the end point ranges from to : ('above'), ('sheep'), ('strike'). 

As a rule, vowels in Irish are nasalized when nearby nasal consonants. For certain speakers, there are accounted for to be negligible matches between nasal vowels and oral vowels, demonstrating that nasal vowels are additionally independent phonemes; these by and large outcome from a prior nasalized semivowel (verifiably the lenited rendition of ), that has since been lost. Nonetheless, the difference isn't strong in any tongue; most distributed depictions state that contrastively nasal vowels are available in the discourse of just a few (typically more established) speakers. Potential insignificant sets incorporate those appeared in the table beneath. 

Likewise, where a vowel is nasalized on the grounds that it is contiguous a nasal consonant, it regularly holds its nasalization in related structures where the consonant is never again nasal. For instance, the nasal of ('mother') is supplanted by nonnasal in the expression ('his mom'), however the vowel remains nasalized. Thus, in ('snow') the vowel after the is nasalized, while in ('the snow' gen.), the is supplanted by in some northern lingos, yet the nasalized vowel remains. 

The most fascinating parts of Irish phonotactics spin around the conduct of consonant groups. Here it is essential to recognize bunches that happen at the beginnings of words and those that happen after vowels, in spite of the fact that there is cover between the two gatherings. 

Irish words can start with bunches of a few consonants. When all is said in done, every one of the consonants in a bunch concur in their quality, for example either all are expansive or all are slim. Two-consonant bunches comprise of an obstruent consonant pursued by a fluid or nasal consonant (be that as it may, labial obstruents may not be trailed by a nasal); models (from ) incorporate ('draining'), ('fine'), ('catch'), ('law'), ('common'), ('simpleton'), ('cut'), ('snow'), ('poker'), and ('long for'). What's more, and might be trailed by a voiceless stop, as in ('handbag') and ('story'). Further, the group happens in the word ('ladies') and a couple of structures identified with it. Three-consonant bunches comprise of or in addition to a voiceless stop in addition to a fluid. Models incorporate ('uproar'), ('shout'), ('streak'), ('fun'), and ('streak'). 

One exemption to quality understanding is that wide is found before slim labials (and for certain speakers in Connemara and Dingle before too). Models include: ('berries'), ('grass shearer'), ('subordinate'), ('rouse'), and ('story'). 

In the earth of an underlying consonant transformation, there is an a lot more extensive scope of conceivable beginning groups; for instance, in a lenition domain the accompanying happen: ('tasted'), ('broke'), ('rehearsed'), ('bowed'), ('stuck'), ('acted'), ('slipped'), ('swam'), ('came to'). In an eclipsis domain, coming up next are discovered: ('blossom'), ('years'), ('you would break'), ('twist'), ('connect'), ('stepping stool'), ('you would dress'), ('you would abandon'), ('you would act'). 

In Donegal, Mayo, and Connemara vernaculars (yet not ordinarily on the Aran Islands), the coronal nasals can pursue just separately in a word-starting bunch. After different consonants, they are supplanted by : ('slope'), ('ladies'), ('enjoying'), ('long for'). 

Under lenition, become of course in these lingos, however after the distinct article "a" they become : ('snow'), ('snow' [lenited form]), ('the snow' gen.). 

Like word-introductory consonant bunches, post-vocalic consonant groups as a rule concur in expansive or slim quality. The main exemption here is that wide , not thin , shows up before the slim coronals : ('two individuals'), ('exchange'), ('entryways'), ('handle'), ('exhortation'). 

A bunch of , or pursued by a labial or dorsal consonant (with the exception of the voiceless stops , ) is separated by an epenthetic vowel : ('sudden'), ('blue'), ('botch'), ('certain'), ('administration'), ('outrage'), ('dim'), ('intense'), ('dove'), ('charming'), ('sparrow'), ('venom'), , (a name for Ireland), ('name'), ('mind'), ('creature'). 

There is no epenthesis, notwithstanding, if the vowel going before the bunch is long or a diphthong: ('wrinkle'), ('term'), ('knowledge'), ('obligation'). There is likewise no epenthesis into words that are something like three syllables in length: ('atmosphere'), ('throat'), ('dandelion'), ('Carmelite'). 

Vowel-starting words in Irish display conduct that has driven etymologists to propose that the vowel sound they start with superficially isn't really the primary sound in the word at a progressively dynamic dimension. In particular, when a clitic finishing in a consonant goes before a word starting with the vowel, the consonant of the clitic surfaces as either wide or thin, contingent upon the particular word being referred to. For instance, the "n" of the unequivocal article ('the') is thin before the word ('wonder') however wide before the word ('age'): ('the marvel' gen.) versus ('the age'). 

One examination of these certainties is that vowel-introductory words really start, at a theoretical dimension of portrayal, with a sort of "void" consonant that comprises of nothing aside from the data "wide" or "slim". Another investigation is that vowel-starting words, again at a theoretical dimension, all start with one of two semivowels, one activating palatalization and the other activating velarization of a first consonant. 

Where reflexes of the Old Irish fortis sonorants show up in syllable-last position (now and again, just in word-last position), they trigger an extending or diphthongization of the former vowel in many tongues of Irish. The subtleties fluctuate from lingo to tongue. 

In Donegal and Mayo, extending is discovered just before "rd, rl, rn", before "rr" (with the exception of when a vowel pursues), and in a couple of words additionally before word-last "ll", for instance, ('top'), ('tall'), ('inch'), ('turning wheel'), ('there'). 

In Connemara, the Aran Islands, and Munster, protracting is found commonly in the situations recorded above, yet additionally before "nn" (except if a vowel pursues) and before "m" and "ng" toward the finish of a word. For instance, the word ('gap') is articulated in these locales, while ('grasp') is articulated in Connemara and Aran and in Munster. 

Since vowels carry on contrastingly before expansive sonorants than before thin ones as a rule, and on the grounds that there is commonly no extending (with the exception of by similarity) when the sonorants are trailed by a vowel, there is an assortment of vowel variations between various related word-shapes. For instance, in Dingle ('head') is articulated with a diphthong, however (the genitive solitary of a similar word) is articulated with a long vowel, while (the plural, signifying 'heads') is articulated with a short vowel. 

This protracting has gotten various diverse clarifications inside the setting of hypothetical phonology. All records concur that some property of the fortis sonorant is being exchanged to the former vowel, however the insights concerning what property that is differ from analyst to scientist. contend that the fortis sonorant is tense (a term just dubiously characterized phonetically) and that this strained quality is exchanged to the vowel, where it is acknowledged phonetically as vowel length and additionally diphthongization. contends that the activating consonant is underlyingly connected with a unit of syllable weight called a "mora"; this mora then moves to the vowel, making a long vowel or a diphthong. develops that investigation to contend that the fortis sonorants have a propelled tongue root (that is, the base of the tongue is pushed upward amid explanation of the consonant) and that diphthongization is an articulatory impact of this tongue development. 

Where a voiced obstruent or comes into contact with , the is assimilated into the other sound, which at that point ends up voiceless (on account of , devoicing is to ). Devoicing is discovered most conspicuously later on of first conjugation action words (where the sound is spoken to by the letter "f") and in the development of verbal modifiers (where the sound is spelled "th"). For instance, the action word ('clear') finishes in the voiced consonant , however its future tense ('will clear') and verbal descriptive word ('cleared') have the voiceless consonant . 

Irish shows various outer sandhi impacts, for example phonological changes crosswise over word limits, especially in fast discourse. The most well-known sort of sandhi in Irish is osmosis, which implies that a sound changes its elocution so as to turn out to be increasingly like a nearby stable. One kind of osmosis in Irish is discovered when a coronal consonant (one of "d, l, n, r, s, t") changes from being wide to being slim before a word that starts with a thin coronal consonant, or from being thin to being wide before a word that starts with a wide coronal consonant. For instance, ('cheat') closes with a wide "ll", yet in the expression ('it tricked me'), the "ll" has turned out to be slim on the grounds that the accompanying word, , begins with a thin coronal consonant. 

The consonant "n" may likewise absorb to the spot of verbalization of a following consonant, getting to be labial before a labial consonant, palatal before a palatal consonant, and velar before a velar consonant. For instance, the "nn" of ('one') progresses toward becoming in ('a weak one') and in ('a scabbed one'). A voiced consonant toward the finish of a word may wind up voiceless when the following word starts with a voiceless consonant, as in ('he bowed'), where the "b" sound of ('bowed') has turned into a "p" sound before the voiceless "s" of . 

An Irish word regularly has just a single focused on syllable, in particular the main syllable of the word. In IPA interpretation, a focused on syllable is set apart with the image to one side of the syllable. Precedents incorporate ('left' [past tense of "leave"]) and ('shame'). Nonetheless, certain words, particularly qualifiers and loanwords, have weight on a noninitial syllable, for example ('just'), ('tobacco'). 

In most compound words, essential pressure falls on the primary part and an optional pressure (set apart with ) falls on the second part, for example ('spent lowland'). A few mixes, be that as it may, have essential weight on both the first and the second part, for example ('a horrible falsehood'). 

In Munster, stress is pulled in to a long vowel or diphthong in the second or third syllable of a word, for example ('young lady'), ('demand'). In the now-wiped out complement of East Mayo, stress was pulled in to a long vowel or diphthong similarly as in Munster; likewise, stress was pulled in to a short vowel before word-last "ll", "m", or "nn" when that word was additionally last in its articulation. For instance, ('horse') was articulated in disengagement or as the final expression of a sentence, yet as amidst a sentence. 

All in all, short vowels are altogether diminished to schwa () in unstressed syllables, however there are a few special cases. In Munster, if the third syllable of a word is focused and the previous two syllables are short, the first of the two unstressed syllables is "not" decreased to schwa; rather it gets an optional pressure, for example ('grass shearer man'). Additionally in Munster, an unstressed short vowel isn't decreased to schwa if the accompanying syllable contains a pushed or , for example ('craftsmanship'), ('accumulate'). In Ulster, long vowels in unstressed syllables are abbreviated however are not decreased to schwa, for example ('young lady'), ('gallon'). 

The voiceless velar fricative , spelled , is related with some bizarre examples in numerous tongues of Irish. For a certain something, its quality after the vowel triggers conduct atypical of short vowels; for another, and its thin partner trade with the voiceless glottal fricative in an assortment of ways, and can some of the time be erased out and out. 

In Munster, stress is pulled in to in the second syllable of a word in the event that it is trailed by , "gave" the principal syllable (and third syllable, if there is one) contains a short vowel . Precedents incorporate ('faltering') and ('chips'). Notwithstanding, if the first or third syllable contains a long vowel or diphthong, stress is pulled in to that syllable rather, and the before is diminished to as ordinary, for example ('tune in'), ('wether'). 

In Ulster, unstressed before isn't diminished to schwa, for example ('steers'). 

In numerous lingos of Irish, the voiceless dorsal fricatives and interchange with under an assortment of conditions. For instance, as the lenition of and , is supplanted by before back vowels, for example ('I would give'), ('drove'). In Munster, winds up after a vowel, for example ('twenty'). In Ring, progresses toward becoming toward the finish of a monosyllabic word, for example ('dread'). In some Ulster vernaculars, for example, that of Tory Island, can be supplanted by , for example ('not'), and can even be erased word-at last, as in ('voracious') In other Ulster vernaculars, can be erased before too, for example ('seven'). 

The accompanying table demonstrates some example sentences from the Aran tongue. 

The initial eight sections of Peadar Ua Laoghaire's collection of memoirs "" at Wikisource incorporate chronicles of the content being perused by a local speaker of Muskerry (Munster) Irish. 

Huge numbers of the phonological procedures found in Irish are found additionally in its closest relatives, Scottish Gaelic and Manx. For instance, the two dialects differentiate "expansive" and "slim" consonants, however just at the coronal and dorsal spots of explanation; both Scottish Gaelic and Manx have lost the qualification in labial consonants. The difference in and so forth to and so on. is found in Manx and in most Scottish tongues. Proof from composed original copies proposes it had started in Scottish Gaelic as ahead of schedule as the sixteenth century and was entrenched in both Scottish Gaelic and Manx by the late seventeenth to mid eighteenth century. Protracting or diphthongization of vowels before fortis sonorants is additionally found in the two dialects. The pressure example of Scottish Gaelic is equivalent to that in Connacht and Ulster Irish, while in Manx, stress is pulled in to long vowels and diphthongs in noninitial syllables, however under more limited conditions than in Munster. 

Manx and numerous lingos of Scottish Gaelic offer with Ulster Irish the property of not diminishing unstressed to before . 

Irish articulation has impacted the highlights of Hiberno-English. For instance, the majority of the vowels of Hiberno-English (except for ) relate to vowel telephones of Irish. The Irish stops are normal acknowledge of the English phonemes . Hiberno-English additionally permits where it is allowed in Irish however rejected in different vernaculars of English, for example, before an unstressed vowel (for example "Haughey" ) and toward the finish of a word (for example "McGrath" ). There is epenthesis in words like "film" and "structure" .