To the People of Texas &amp; All Americans in the World 

To the People of Texas and All Americans in the World is an open letter composed on February 24, 1836, by William B. Travis, officer of the Texian powers at the Battle of the Alamo, to pioneers in Mexican Texas. The letter is prestigious as an "assertion of resistance" and a "perfect work of art of American nationalism", and structures some portion of the history training of Texas schoolchildren. 

On February 23, the Alamo Mission in San Antonio, Texas had been blockaded by Mexican powers driven by General Antonio López de Santa Anna. Expecting that his little gathering of men couldn't withstand a strike, Travis composed this letter looking for fortifications and supplies from supporters. The letter closes with Travis' promise of "Triumph or Death!", a feeling which has been both lauded and mocked by antiquarians. 

The letter was at first endowed to messenger Albert Martin, who conveyed it to the town of Gonzales somewhere in the range of seventy miles away. Martin added a few postscripts to urge men to strengthen the Alamo, and after that gave the letter to Launcelot Smithers. Smithers included his own postscript and conveyed the letter to its planned goal, San Felipe de Austin. Nearby distributers printed over 700 copies of the letter. It additionally showed up in the two fundamental Texas papers and was in the end printed all through the United States and Europe. Halfway because of the letter, men from all through Texas and the United States started to assemble in Gonzales. Somewhere in the range of 32 and 90 of them achieved the Alamo before it fell; the rest of the core of the military which in the long run crushed Santa Anna at the Battle of San Jacinto. 

Following the finish of the Texas Revolution, the first letter was conveyed to Travis' family in Alabama, and in 1893, one of his relatives sold it to the State of Texas for $85 ($ today). For a long time it was shown at the Texas State Library; the first letter is presently ensured and a duplicate is in plain view under a picture of Travis. 

The Mexican Constitution of 1824 changed the nation's migration approaches, enabling outsiders to settle in fringe locales, for example, Mexican Texas. Individuals ran to the region; a 1834 evaluation assessed the Texas populace at 7,800 Mexicans and 30,000 English-talking individuals principally from the United States. Among the foreigners was William Barret Travis, an Alabama local who had differently functioned as an educator, a paper distributer, and a legal advisor. An enthusiastic peruser, Travis frequently ate up a novel in a solitary day. His taste ran principally to sentimental experience and history, particularly the books of Sir Walter Scott and Benjamin Disraeli and the verifiable works of Herodotus. History specialists have conjectured that Travis' decision of perusing material may have influenced his conduct—Travis was known for his exaggerated ways. 

In May 1831, Travis opened a law office in Anahuac, Texas. Very quickly, he and his law accomplice, Patrick Jack, conflicted with the nearby military administrator, Juan Davis Bradburn. Their consequent activities were instrumental in causing the May 1832 Anahuac Disturbances. As indicated by student of history William C. Davis, Bradburn "blew up and made legends of two nearby grumblers whose activities their very own kin generally had not been greatly disposed to authorize". Bradburn was compelled to leave his post and escape Texas. 

The Anahuac Disturbances harmonized with a Mexican common war. Texians adjusted themselves to defenders of federalism upholding a more grounded job for state governments, contrary to a brought together government that set most approaches at the national dimension. The federalists won, and their favored general, Antonio López de Santa Anna, was chosen president. In 1835, Santa Anna started combining power; accordingly federalists propelled outfitted resistance in a few Mexican states. Travis, a vigorous enemy of centralism, drove an assault on Anahuac in June 1835 and constrained the Mexican battalion to surrender. Numerous Texas pilgrims thought Travis' activity was hasty, and he was compelled to apologize. In spite of the fact that the Mexican government provided a warrant for his capture, neighborhood specialists did not authorize it. 

Texians turned out to be progressively disappointed with the administration as Santa Anna situated himself as a tyrant. In October, the Texas Revolution started and designates delegated a temporary government. Travis was authorized lieutenant colonel in the new ordinary armed force and requested to raise a mounted force organization. He took an interest in the Siege of Béxar, where he ended up being "a hasty, periodically disobedient, officer". 

Before the finish of 1835, Texians had ousted every single Mexican troop from Texas. Trusting the war finished, numerous Texians left the military and returned home. In January, the temporary government basically crumbled; in spite of an absence of power for any part of government to meddle with different branches, the assembly denounced Governor Henry Smith, who thusly disbanded the council. Nobody in Texas was totally certain who was in control. 

Indeed, even as Texian legislative expert declined, gossipy tidbits flew that Santa Anna would by and by lead an intrusion of Texas to suppress the defiance. Notwithstanding this news, Texian armed force quality kept on decreasing. Texas pilgrims were isolated on whether they were battling for freedom or an arrival to a federalist government in Mexico. The perplexity made numerous pilgrims stay at home or to return home. Less than 100 Texian officers remained garrisoned at the Alamo Mission in San Antonio de Béxar (presently San Antonio, Texas). Their leader, James C. Neill, expected that his little power would be unfit to withstand a strike by the Mexican troops. In light of Neill's rehashed solicitations for fortifications, Governor Smith relegated Travis and 30 men to the Alamo; they touched base on February 3. The greater part of the Texians, including Travis, trusted that any Mexican intrusion was months away. 

Travis expected order of the Alamo army on February 11, when Neill was conceded a vacation. On February 23, Santa Anna touched base in Béxar at the head of roughly 1500 Mexican troops. The 150 Texian fighters were not ready for this improvement. As they hurried to the Alamo, Texians immediately grouped dairy cattle into the complex and scavenged for sustenance in close-by houses. The Mexican armed force started an attack of the Alamo and raised a dark red banner flagging no quarter. Travis reacted with an impact from the Alamo's biggest gun. 

The principal night of the attack was generally peaceful. The next evening, Mexican gunnery started shooting on the Alamo. Mexican Colonel Juan Almonte wrote in his journal that the barrage got off two of the Alamo's weapons, including the huge 18-pounder gun. The Texians immediately returned the two weapons to support. Soon after, Travis composed an open letter arguing for fortifications from "the general population of Texas and All Americans in the World". 

To the People of Texas and All Americans in the World: 

Individual residents and comrades—I am assaulted, by a thousand or more of the Mexicans under Santa Anna—I have supported a constant Bombardment and barrage for 24 hours and have not lost a man. The foe has requested a surrender at watchfulness, generally, the army are to be put to the sword, if the post is taken—I have addressed the interest with a gun shot, and our banner still waves gladly from the dividers. I will never surrender or withdraw. At that point, I approach you for the sake of Liberty, of nationalism and everything dear to the American character, to go to our guide, with all dispatch—The adversary is getting fortifications day by day and will no uncertainty increment to three or four thousand out of four or five days. In the event that this call is dismissed, I am resolved to continue myself to the extent that this would be possible and bite the dust like a fighter who always remembers what is because of his own respect and that of his nation—""Victory or Death". 

William Barret Travis 

Lt. Col. comdt 

P.S. The Lord is our ally—When the adversary showed up in sight we had not three bushels of corn—We have since found in betrayed houses 80 or 90 bushels and got into the dividers 20 or 30 head of Beeves. 

Travis 

Travis endowed the letter to messenger Albert Martin, who rode during that time to cover the to the nearest town, Gonzales, as fast as could reasonably be expected. Amid his adventure, Martin included two postscripts. The first handed-off Martin's dread that the Mexican armed force had just assaulted the Alamo and finished "Rush on every one of the men you can in scurry". The second postscript is progressively hard to peruse, as the letter was later collapsed along one line of content. The paper has since incompletely frayed along the overlay, destroying a few words. The significance of the message, be that as it may, is that the men at the Alamo were "resolved to do or bite the dust", and Martin planned to accumulate fortifications and return as fast as could reasonably be expected. 

In Gonzales, Martin turned the letter over to Launcelot Smithers. At the point when the Mexican armed force touched base in Béxar, Smithers had quickly set out for Gonzales. Travis may have sent him as an official dispatch, or he may have ventured there without anyone else to caution the townspeople. Smithers included his own message under Martin's, urging men to accumulate in Gonzales to go to the alleviation of the Texians at the Alamo. 

Before withdrawing Gonzales, Smithers gave a letter to Andrew Ponton, the "alcalde" (or city hall leader) of the town. This second letter may have really been the reason Smithers gone to Gonzales, or it may have been a summarized rendition of the letter Martin had conveyed. The duplicate read: 

To All the Inhabitants of Texas: 

In a couple of words there is 2000 Mexican warriors in Bexar, and 150 Americans in the Alamo. Sesma is at the head of them, and from best records that can be gotten, they plan to demonstrate no quarter. In the event that each man can't swing out to a man each man in the Alamo will be killed. 

They have not more than 8 or 10 days arrangements. They state they will guard it or pass on the ground. Arrangements, ammo and Men, or endure your men to be killed in the Fort. In the event that you don't turn out Texas is no more. I left Bexar on the 23rd at 4 P.M. 

By request of 

W.V. ["sic"] Travis 

L. Smithers 

Ponton sent the Smithers duplicate of the letter to Colonel Henry Raguet, the authority of the Committee of Vigilance and Safety in Nacogdoches. Raguet kept the letter he got and sent a duplicate, with his extra remarks, to Dr. John Sibley, the administrator of the Committee of Vigilance and Safety for Texas Affairs in Natchitoches, Louisiana. 

Smithers rode hard and conveyed Travis' letter to San Felipe de Austin in less than 40 hours. In a swiftly sorted out gathering, town pioneers passed a progression of goals swearing help to the Alamo protectors. The consequences of the gathering were imprinted in a broadsheet nearby a multiplication of Travis' letter. In the wake of dispersing each of the 200 duplicates of their underlying print run, paper distributers Joseph Baker and Thomas Borden made something like four different generations of the letter, bringing about in excess of 500 extra duplicates. Their last printing incorporated a message from Governor Henry Smith encouraging the settlers "to travel to the guide of your attacked compatriots and not allow them to be slaughtered by a hired soldier enemy. ... The call is upon ALL who can remain battle ready, to rally immediately, or in fifteen days the core of Texas will be the seat of war." On March 2, the letter was imprinted in the "Texas Republican". It showed up in the other significant Texas paper, the "Transmit and Texas Register", after three days. The letter was in the long run republished all through the United States and quite a bit of Europe. 

This letter was one of a few that Travis sent amid the attack of the Alamo. Each conveyed a comparative message—the Mexican armed force had attacked Texas, the Alamo was encompassed, and the Texans required more men and ammo to wage a fruitful barrier. No help was prospective from the Texas government. By this point infighting had rendered the temporary government totally incapable, and delegates assembled on March 1 at the Convention of 1836 to make another administration. The vast majority of the representatives trusted that Travis misrepresented the troubles he confronted. 

Numerous Texas inhabitants couldn't help contradicting the tradition's discernment. As the message spread crosswise over Texas, pilgrims left their homes and gathered in Gonzales, where Colonel James Fannin was expected to land with the staying Texan Army troops. On February 27 one gathering of fortifications anxiously set out without anyone else; subsequently 32 extra Texans entered the Alamo. Research by student of history Thomas Ricks Lindley demonstrates that an extra 50 or 60 men strengthened the Alamo on March 4. 

Practically the majority of the Texans were executed at the Battle of the Alamo when the Mexican armed force assaulted on March 6; Travis was likely the first beyond words. Ignorant that the Alamo had fallen, fortifications kept on collecting; over 400 Texans were holding up in Gonzales when updates on the Texan annihilation achieved the town on March 11. Prior that day, General Sam Houston, recently reappointed administrator of the Texan Army, had landed in Gonzales. On knowing about the Alamo's fall, Houston took order of the gathered volunteers. The next month, this quickly sorted out armed force crushed Santa Anna at the Battle of San Jacinto, finishing the Texas Revolution. 

This letter may have affected the race of David G. Burnet as interval leader of the new Republic of Texas. In the wake of understanding one of the broadsheet adaptations of the letter, Burnet hurried to join Travis at the Alamo. In the wake of ceasing at Washington-on-the-Brazos to enlist fortifications from the men amassed at the Convention of 1836, Burnet turned out to be so "enlivened by their considerations" that he stayed as a guest. The tradition announced autonomy from Mexico on March 2, yet designates dreaded for the wellbeing of the new nation's officers. Talking secretly with a significant number of the representatives, Burnet proclaimed his readiness to fill in as leader of another republic, regardless of whether that made him an objective of Santa Anna. The most mainstream delegates were missing from the tradition on different business for the war exertion. Without enthusiasm for the situation from the vast majority of those remaining, Burnet was selected for president and vanquished the main other hopeful, Samuel Carson, by a 29– 23 edge. 

After the Texas Revolution finished, the first draft of the letter was given to Travis' family in Alabama. A few conspicuous Texians are known to have visited Travis' irritated spouse not long after the threats finished, yet students of history are uncertain which of these men may have conveyed the letter. Travis' little girl Susan (matured five at the season of his demise) passed the letter down to her relatives; it in the long run contacted her incredible grandson, John G. Davidson. In February 1891, Davidson loaned the letter to the Texas Department of Agriculture, Insurance, Statistics, and History. After two years, Davidson offered to pitch the letter to the province of Texas for $250 ($ today). This spoke to half of the yearly whole distributed for gathering chronicled original copies, and the state was reluctant to concur. After exchanges, Davidson consented to acknowledge $85 ($ today) for the letter, and on May 29 it formally go into state proprietorship. 

For a long time, the letter was freely shown, for the most part in a bolted glass case with different original copies and ancient rarities from the Texas Revolution. Now and again, it was organized close by the Travis family Bible and a duplicate of Travis' will. In 1909, the letter was moved to the Texas State Library and has since left that building just twice; it was among 143 documents loaned to the Committee on Historical Exhibits for the Texas Centennial Exposition in 1936, and it returned quickly to the site of the composition in 1986. The first letter is no longer on lasting presentation. In its place is, in the expressions of Michael Green, previous reference documenter for the Texas State Library Archives Division, "a demanding, unique copy". Straightforwardly over its showcase case is a representation of Travis. 

Four duplicates of the first broadsides are known to endure. One was set available to be purchased in 2004, where it was anticipated to achieve a cost of over $250,000. 

In October 2012, the Texas General Land Office declared designs to show the well known Travis Letter in the Alamo from February 23 to March 7, 2013. This denoted the first run through the notorious letter has come back to the Alamo since it was composed by Travis. The showcase was free and open to the overall population. 

Travis' letter is viewed as "the most popular archive in Texas history", however its far reaching dissemination permitted an effect outside the generally detached settlements in Texas. Students of history place the letter in a more extensive setting, "as one of the artful culminations of American energy" or even "one of the best revelations of insubordination in the English language". It is uncommon to see a book about the Alamo or the Texas Revolution which does not cite the letter, either in full or part. The letter likewise shows up in full in many Texas history course readings equipped towards rudimentary and center younger students. The postscripts, be that as it may, have once in a while been printed. In spite of its declared effect, negligible grant exists on the letter itself. 

Nearly from the snapshot of his entry in Texas, Travis had endeavored to impact the war motivation in Texas. As he understood the extent of the resistance he looked at the Alamo, the tone of Travis' compositions moved from spur of the moment reports to the temporary government to increasingly expressive messages went for a more extensive gathering of people. With restricted time and chance to influence individuals to his mindset, Travis' prosperity, and maybe his very survival, would rely upon his capacity to ""sincerely move" the general population". His past work as a columnist likely gave him a decent comprehension of the kind of language that would most resound with his target group. Travis utilized this specific letter not just as a way to promote his quick requirement for fortifications and supplies, yet additionally to shape the discussion inside Texas by offering "an all around created incitement" that may induce others to wage war. He picked "unambiguous and rebellious" language, bringing about an "exceptionally amazing" message. The letter spoke to an informal announcement of autonomy for Texas. Its oath use evoked the American Revolution and Patrick Henry's renowned cry of "Freedom or Death!" 

Pundits have criticized the letter for its emotionalism, taking note of that it seems to indicate "a distraction with sentiment and valor" normal to devotees of Sir Walter Scott. Specifically, they point to Travis' declared assurance to forfeit his very own life for an acts of futility.