No Me Queda Más 

"No Me Queda Más" ("There's Nothing Left for Me") is a tune by American vocalist Selena on her fourth studio collection, "Love Prohibido". It was discharged as the third single from the collection in October 1994 by EMI Latin. "No Me Queda Más" was composed by Ricky Vela, and generation was dealt with by Selena's sibling A.B. Quintanilla. A downtempo mariachi and pop melody, "No Me Queda Más" depicts the ranchera storyline of a lady in distress after the finish of a relationship. Its verses express a pathetic love, the artist wishing the best for her previous darling and his new accomplice. 

Adulated by music pundits for its emotive nature, "No Me Queda Más" was a standout amongst the best singles of Selena's vocation. It bested the United States "Board" Hot Latin Songs graph for seven non-continuous weeks, her third progressive number-one tune. It was Selena's first number-one track on the US Regional Mexican Airplay outline, and turned into the best US Latin single of 1995. It has been positioned the ninth-best Tejano recording by "Bulletin" magazine and the eleventh-best Hot Latin Songs outline single in 2011. 

The music video for "No Me Queda Más" was shot in San Antonio's Amtrak station. It got the Music Video of the Year grant at the "Board" Latin Music Awards, and the account got two Broadcast Music praises including Song of the Year. Numerous artists have since recorded spread adaptations, including Mexican vocalist Pepe Aguilar, American salsa artist Tito Nieves, and Mexican pop gathering Palomo. The Palomo adaptation topped at number six on the Regional Mexican Airplay outline, while Nieves' rendition achieved number seven on the US Tropical Songs diagram. 

In 1985, Ricky Vela joined Selena y Los Dinos as their keyboardist. Despite the fact that Vela was pulled in to the gathering's drummer, Suzette Quintanilla, he remained quiet about his sentiments. When he admitted his sentiments to Suzette's sibling, amass chief Abraham Quintanilla, III, he started prodding him about it. After Suzette's September 1993 marriage, Vela stated "No Me Queda Más" and it was given to Selena to record for "Love Prohibido". Selena's sibling A.B. Quintanilla did not discover the tune to have any potential; he has said that he later had a difference in heart. Despite the fact that the melody was initially expected as a mariachi track, EMI Latin president Jose Behar trusted that a mariachi recording would not speak to the well known market. The gathering offered it to Argentine arranger Bebu Silvetti to revamp into a pop-style track, and Behar asked Silvetti to "improve" the melody to support its airplay and diagram execution. The outcome upgraded Selena's pop-radio achievement. Behar said in an "Announcement" meet that the tune was "disguised" without influencing the creativity of its account. In a 2002 meeting, A.B. said that amid a chronicle session he had approached Selena to record the melody for a fifth time. The artist answered, "What you arrived is the thing that you got" and left to go out to shop. He pondered, "Presently thinking back, she truly completed an excellent activity when recording the tune, she had so much energy. The melody turned into a work of art." 

"No Me Queda Más" is a downtempo mariachi and pop anthem, fusing ranchera and flamenco impacts into its sound. Musicologists Ilan Stavans and Harold Augenbraum considered the tune a bolero-mariachi blend. This was reverberated by the "Lexington Herald-Leader", which noticed its bolero impacts. "Texas Monthly" proofreader Joe Nick Patoski composed that Vela "riffed off sentimental boleros" and the melody "showcase[d] Selena's vocal range and control". "No Me Queda Más" has a "customary [mariachi] trumpet two part harmony amicability", utilizing violins and guitars in a lavish string course of action. 

The tune utilizes the conventional ranchera storyline, with the female vocalist obsessing about the finish of a relationship. Its verses investigate pathetic love; when the vocalist's sweetheart abandons her for another lady, she by the by wishes them "only joy." According to creator Lori Beth Rodriguez, Selena sings the tune "in a low, calm voice", and pundit Howard Blumenthal includes that she does as such in an "edgy" and "nostalgic" way. Ramiro Burr of the "San Antonio Express-News" called her overdubbed vocals "incredible" and "emotive"; different faultfinders have depicted "No Me Queda Más" as "torchy", "sad", "puncturing" and "appalling". 

"No Me Queda Más" was generally welcomed, analysts depicting it as "reminiscent", "sentimental", and "self-contradicting"; A.B's. utilization of "world-music thrives" on the tune was noted enthusiastically by Michael Clark. Writing in "The Billboard Guide to Tejano and Regional Mexican Music", Ramiro Burr felt that the verses, about "finding the solidarity to leave", evoked "the agony of affection and the tone of reclamation". The melody turned into a "moment exemplary", as indicated by Roger Burns, writing in "Symbols of Latino America". Different analysts concurred that it was a standout amongst the best singles from "Love Prohibido", with Lisa Leal of KVTV remarking that the melody is a Spanish-language partner of the Beatles' 1965 single "Yesterday" in fan fame. 

The track got a few honors and awards. It was the Song of the Year at the 1995 Broadcast Music Awards, and Vela got the Songwriter of the Year grant in 1996. Its video was respected as the Music Video of the Year at the 1995 "Board" Latin Music Awards. "No Me Queda Más" was positioned as the ninth-best Tejano tune ever on Ramiro Burr's main ten rundown. It has showed up on a few pundits' "best Selena tunes" records, including BuzzFeed (at number one), "Latino Post" (number four), and "Latina" (number five). 

"Bulletin" reported that another airplay-estimating framework for its music graphs would be founded on Nielsen evaluations starting on November 12, 1994. "No Me Queda Más" entered the US Hot Latin Songs outline at number 40 on that date, and Selena's "Bidi Bom" stayed at number one. On November 19, the melody rose to number ten on that graph and therefore appeared on the US Regional Mexican Airplay diagram at number seven. The next week, it moved to the fifth and fourth positions on the Hot Latin Songs and Regional Mexican Airplay outlines, individually. "Announcement" supporter John Lannert, taking note of that three unique tunes had topped the Hot Latin Songs diagram since the initiation of the Nielsen-rating framework, anticipated that Luis Miguel's main single "La Media Vuelta" could be unseated by "No Me Queda Más". The next week, "La Media Vuelta" stayed on the outline and "No Me Queda Más" rose to number two. "No Me Queda Más" topped the Regional Mexican Airplay outline for three successive weeks starting on December 3, Selena's first number one on that graph. The tune crested at number one on the Hot Latin Songs diagram on December 17, her third continuous number one. It appeared at number 13 on the US Latin Pop Songs graph on January 7, 1995, staying on the Hot Latin Songs outline. The melody recovered the main spot on the Regional Mexican Airplay outline for January 14, unseating La Mafia's "Me Duele Estar Solo". La Mafia dislodged "No Me Queda Más" from the highest point of the Regional Mexican Airplay and Hot Latin Songs diagrams on January 21, finishing the tune's five-week rule on the last mentioned. The next week, "No Me Queda Más" recovered the highest point of the two diagrams. On February 4, it tumbled to number two on the Regional Mexican Airplay diagram and held the top spot on the Hot Latin Songs graph for its seventh nonconsecutive week. It was uprooted from the highest point of the Hot Latin Songs graph on February 11 by Grupo Bronco's "Que No Me Olvide". It was the most prominent tune from "Love Prohibido" on Mexican radio. 

Selena was shot and murdered on March 31, 1995 by Yolanda Saldívar, a companion who was the previous administrator of the vocalist's Selena Etc. boutiques. Four of her singles—"No Me Queda Más", "Bidi Bom", "Como la Flor" and "Love Prohibido"— returned the "Board" Hot Latin Songs and Regional Mexican Airplay diagrams on April 15. "No Me Queda Más" put fifth and eighth on the Hot Latin Songs and Regional Mexican Airplay outlines, individually, and stayed in the best ten of the Hot Latin Songs graph for 12 sequential weeks. "Board" after death named Selena the Top Latin Artist of the 1990s in acknowledgment of her fourteen top-ten singles on the Hot Latin Songs outline, including seven number ones. "No Me Queda Más" was the best US Latin single of 1995. It positioned eleventh on "Billboard"s 25 year festivity of the Hot Latin Songs outline in 2011. "Bulletin" started checking advanced downloads of Latin tunes amid the week finishing January 23, 2010. "No Me Queda Más" made its introduction at number 23 on the Latin Digital Songs graph following the twentieth commemoration of Selena's passing. On the Latin Pop Digital Songs graph, the tune appeared at number 22 and topped at number nine. 

A going with music video for "No Me Queda Más" was recorded in October 1994 at the San Antonio Amtrak station. Created by Summit Productions, the video was coordinated via Sean Roberts. Shooting took four days to finish. Jack Morgan was the on-set picture taker, and Diego Aguilar delivered the video. Selena wore a similar dress that she did when she won a Grammy Award for Best Mexican/American Album in 1994. Veronica Flores, a columnist for the "San Antonio Express-News", was approached to show up as a wedding visitor. American model Freddie Martinez depicted Selena's adoration enthusiasm subsequent to trying out for the job in San Antonio. 

The video's area was later utilized for Selena's design show scene in "Selena" (1997), featuring Jennifer Lopez. Hillary Clinton utilized "Bidi Bom" as a major aspect of her 2016 presidential crusade in San Antonio (which got a blended reaction from Hispanics), playing the tune at the area where Selena recorded the music video for "No Me Queda Más". Univision positioned the music video at number four on their best ten most loved music recordings of Selena. 

In the video, Selena is sitting in an eatery where a mariachi band is performing. A server offers her a glass of water. As the artist makes the most of her supper, the server comes back with a note saying that her darling (for whom she has been pausing) has abandoned her for another lady. Selena takes a taste of water before she leaves the eatery, crying. 

The vocalist is uninformed behind a bustling thruway, crying and stripping petals off a white rose in a round of He cherishes me... he cherishes me not as a montage is playing of pictures of Selena and her previous sweetheart. Selena then sings on a staircase in a white dress, joined by a symphony. She considers slamming her ex-darling's shoreline wedding, however rather flees in tears. Selena's ex-darling and his new spouse kiss, and a video plays in which he kisses Selena's hands. He at that point holds onto his significant other as Selena looks down, crying. 

American salsa artist Tito Nieves recorded "No Me Queda Más" for his third studio collection, "Un Tipo Comun" (1996). The melody was industrially more effective than the four singles discharged from the collection, where it crested at number seven on the US Tropical Songs graph. That equivalent year, Dominican vocalist Kat DeLuna won ahead of everyone else when she sang the melody at the New Jersey Hispanic Youth Showcase, a youngsters' singing challenge. In 1998, Los Tres Reyes (a mariachi assemble created by Abraham Quintanilla, Jr.) recorded a two part harmony form of the melody. Graciela Beltran secured the melody amid a remembrance for Selena in Houston in 2003. Mexican artist Pepe Aguilar performed and recorded "No Me Queda Más" for a live, broadcast tribute show, "Selena ¡VIVE!", in April 2005. As indicated by Michael Clark of the "Houston Chronicle", "[Aguilar's] vocal ... was reminiscent of Aaron Neville". 

Mexican pop gathering Palomo recorded "No Me Queda Más" for their live collection, "En Concierto-En Vivo Desde L.A." (2005). The tune appeared at number 37 on the Regional Mexican Airplay outline on March 19, 2005, and at number 46 on the Hot Latin Songs graph on April 2. It stayed on the outline until July 16, cresting at numbers 19 and six on the Hot Latin Songs and Regional Mexican Airplay diagrams, separately. Ricky Vela got a BMI Latin Music Award for the Palomo's spread in 2007. American artist José Feliciano recorded it for his collection, "Jose Feliciano y Amigos", in 2006; Ramiro Burr of the "Chicago Tribune" considered it a "self-contradicting ranchera". Cuban artist Toñita recorded the tune for her collection, "Desafiando al Destino", in 2007. After a year, American vocalist Maria Williams recorded an English-language form entitled "Nothing Left For Me" for her introduction collection "Crossover". American artist David Archuleta played out the melody as a tribute to Selena at the 2010 Tejano Music Awards, and Karen Rodriguez sang it amid the tenth period of "American Idol". On May 1, 2015, Jennifer Lopez played out "A Selena Tribute" at the 2015 Latin Billboard Music Awards, which notwithstanding "No Me Queda Más". Lopez was adulated by music faultfinders, who valued the artist's Selena-esque outfits. The chronicle appeared and topped at number 33 on the Hot Latin Songs outline. 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Love Prohibido".