Gerard (diocese supervisor of York) 

Gerard (passed on 21 May 1108) was Archbishop of York somewhere in the range of 1100 and 1108 and Lord Chancellor of England from 1085 until 1092. A Norman, he was an individual from the church building pastorate at Rouen before turning into an illustrious agent under King William I of England and in this manner his child King William II Rufus. Gerard was selected Lord Chancellor by William I, and he proceeded in that office under Rufus, who compensated him with the Bishopric of Hereford in 1096. Gerard may host been with the lord's chasing gathering when William II was killed, as he is known to have seen the principal sanction issued by the new ruler, Henry I of England, inside days of William's passing. 

Not long after Henry's crowning liturgy Gerard was named to the as of late empty see of York, and ended up entangled in the long-running question among York and the see of Canterbury concerning which archbishopric had supremacy over England. Gerard figured out how to verify ecclesiastical acknowledgment of York's case to locale over the congregation in Scotland, however he was compelled to consent to a trade off with his partner at Canterbury, Anselm, over Canterbury's cases to power over York, despite the fact that it was not authoritative on his successors. In the Investiture Controversy between the ruler and the papacy over the privilege to name religious administrators, Gerard chipped away at accommodating the cases of the two gatherings; the debate was at long last settled in 1107. 

Gerard was a supporter of learning, to the degree that he asked somewhere around one of his church to think about Hebrew, a language not regularly learned around then. He himself was an understudy of crystal gazing, which prompted recommendations that he was a conjurer and a magician. Incompletely in view of such gossipy tidbits, and his disliked endeavors to change his house of God church, Gerard was denied an entombment inside York Minster after his abrupt passing in 1108. His successor as ecclesiastical overseer along these lines had Gerard's remaining parts moved into the house of God church from their underlying resting place alongside the basilica patio. 

Gerard was the nephew of Walkelin, Bishop of Winchester, and Simon, Abbot of Ely. His folks were Osbert and Anna, and his sibling Peter was additionally a regal assistant. Where he was brought up is obscure; he is recorded as cantor of Rouen Cathedral, and precentor of a similar church building, in spite of the fact that the date of his arrangement to either office is unrecorded. By 1091 he had moved toward becoming archdeacon of Rouen. He served in the imperial chancery under progressive lords of England, William I and William II. 

Gerard was delegated Lord Chancellor of England in 1085, and was available at William I's deathbed in 1087. He proceeded as Chancellor to William Rufus until 1092; what hastened his loss of office is vague. He held the lord's trust, for Rufus utilized him in 1095 alongside William Warelwast on a political mission to Pope Urban II with respect to Archbishop Anselm accepting the pallium, the indication of a diocese supervisor's position. Rufus offered to perceive Urban as pope as opposed to the Antipope Clement III as an end-result of Anselm's affidavit and the conveyance of Anselm's pallium into Rufus' authority, to discard as he saw fit. The mission left for Rome in February 1095 and returned by Whitsun with an ecclesiastical legate, Walter the Cardinal Bishop of Albano, who had Anselm's pallium. The legate verified Rufus' acknowledgment of Urban, however consequently wouldn't think about Anselm's affidavit. Rufus surrendered himself to Anselm's situation as ecclesiastical overseer, and at the ruler's court at Windsor he agreed to Anselm being given the pallium. 

In spite of the fact that not yet appointed, Gerard was compensated with the Bishopric of Hereford, and he was sanctified by Archbishop Anselm on 8 June 1096; his appointment as an elder and minister had occurred the earlier day. He helped at the sanctification of St Paul's Cathedral in London on 9 June 1096. He may have been an individual from the chasing party in the New Forest on 2 August 1100 when Rufus was killed, as he saw King Henry I's crowning liturgy charter – now known as the Charter of Liberties – three days after the fact at Winchester, near to the New Forest. Gerard was available at Henry's crowning celebration that equivalent day, alongside Maurice, Bishop of London. Henry was most likely delegated by Maurice, however the medieval writer Walter Map expresses that Gerard delegated Henry as a byproduct of a guarantee of the primary empty archbishopric. Gerard may have helped Maurice in the royal celebration function. 

Gerard progressed toward becoming Archbishop of York in December 1100. No source specifies him being contributed by the lord, yet as Anselm asked Pope Paschal II to give Gerard his pallium, which he would have been probably not going to do if Gerard had been contributed by Henry, that plausibility appears to be remote. At Whitsun in 1101 King Henry I, with Anselm's help, denied Ranulf Flambard, Bishop of Durham, of the terrains of the see of Durham, in light of the fact that Ranulf had deserted to Henry's senior sibling Robert Curthose, who additionally asserted the English position of authority. Gerard then ousted Ranulf from his ministerial office. Not long after his interpretation to York, Gerard started a long question with Anselm, guaranteeing break even with power with the Archbishop of Canterbury and declining to make a calling of accepted dutifulness to Anselm, some portion of the long Canterbury– York debate. At the 1102 Council of Westminster, Gerard apparently kicked over the littler seat given to him as Archbishop of York, and wouldn't be situated until he was furnished with one as vast as Anselm's. He went to Rome in 1102 to get his pallium from the pope, to whom he introduced the lord's side against Anselm in the debate encompassing inaugurations. The pope ruled against the lord, however Gerard and two different clerics announced that the pope had guaranteed them that the different ecclesiastical declarations against the lay instatement of diocesans would not be implemented. Their case was denied by Anselm's agents and the pope, who suspended Gerard until he abnegated. 

Gerard verified ecclesiastical acknowledgment of York's metropolitan see for the Scots. He along these lines sanctified Roger as Bishop of Orkney, yet wouldn't sanctify Thurgot to the see of St Andrews on the grounds that Thurgot would not perceive the power of York. Gerard offered liberally to the religious communities of his see; the medieval recorder Hugh the Chantor expressed that Thomas II, Gerard's successor, blamed Gerard for having dispersed the see's blessing. Lord Olaf I of Man and the Isles wrote to "G", Archbishop of York, requesting the sanctification of "our minister" by York, however it doesn't seem to have occurred under Gerard or his successor. 

Amid the initial four years of Henry's rule Gerard was one of the ruler's main consultants, alongside Robert of Meulan, Count of Meulan in Normandy and later Earl of Leicester. Gerard was one of Henry's most noteworthy supporters among the diocesans amid the Investiture Crisis. In 1101 Gerard saw a settlement among Henry and Robert, the Count of Flanders, which looked quite far to separate Robert from any future clash among Henry and his senior sibling Robert Curthose, or among Henry and King Philip I of France. After Gerard's arrival from Rome he reestablished Ranulf Flambard to the see of Durham. In 1102 Anselm would not sanctify three ministers, two of whom had gotten inauguration from the ruler; Gerard offered to bless them rather, however all aside from one can't. From 1105 onwards Gerard gradually started to grasp the ecclesiastical position on inauguration of religious administrators, which restricted laymen contributing priests with the images of episcopal specialist. As a major aspect of his difference in position, Gerard pulled back from court to think about his ward. Towards the finish of 1105 Gerard endeavored to join Bohemond of Antioch, who was collecting a crusading power in France, yet it creates the impression that King Henry kept Gerard's takeoff. In 1106 Gerard wrote to Bohemond that he was all the while getting ready to go on campaign, yet he never did. At about a similar time, Gerard was attempting to discover a commonly satisfactory goals to the Investiture Crisis, composing various letters and different works supporting Anselm's and the pope's position. By 1107 King Henry and Anselm had achieved an understanding settling the question. 

Gerard consented to a trade off on the matter of compliance to Anselm. Lord Henry suggested that Anselm acknowledge a saw pledge from Gerard that he would stay bound by the calling he made to Anselm on his sanctification as Bishop of Hereford. Gerard made this promise at the Council of Westminster in 1107. It was a triumph for Canterbury, however not a total one, as Gerard abstained from making a composed calling, and it was explicit to Gerard, not to his office. Gerard kept on contradicting Anselm's endeavors to state Canterbury's supremacy, yet the two were accommodated before Gerard's demise. 

Gerard likewise had an uneasy association with his house of prayer part, in the wake of endeavoring to change his basilica pastorate by constraining them to surrender their spouses and courtesans and become appointed ministers. He kept in touch with Anselm in 1103 grumbling of the uncompromising nature of his church and begrudging Anselm's better relations with Canterbury's section, which was made out of priests rather than the mainstream ordinances who made up York Minster's part. In this correspondence, Gerard griped that a portion of the York standards would not be appointed as ministers, along these lines planning to abstain from taking the promise of abstinence. He additionally blamed them for tolerating prebends yet declining to live or work at the house of prayer, and of concentrating on a limited lawful meaning of abstinence without really being chaste. The standards' contention was that they were just required not to keep up ladies in their own homes, however they were not illegal to visit or engage ladies in houses having a place with others. It was not just Gerard who grumbled about the connection among him and his groups; the last blamed Gerard for devastating York by making blessings of grounds to other people. 

Gerard was a partner of the unknown writer of the "Quadripartitus" and the "Leges Henrici Primi", two twelfth century law books. The medieval writer William of Malmesbury accused Gerard of unethical behavior, voracity and the act of enchantment. Gerard energized no less than one of his pastorate to examine Hebrew, a language not regularly learned at the time. A few writers thought about his responsibility for Hebrew psalter to aggravate, considering it to be an indication of sin or mystery Judaism. Among the transgressions that Malmesbury attributed to him was the investigation of Julius Firmicus Maternus, a late Roman crystal gazer, each morning, which to Malmesbury implied that Gerard was a magician. Malmesbury further asserted that Gerard was "vulgar and licentious". To support Gerard, Anselm viewed him as educated and exceedingly clever. A few stanzas created by Gerard get by in unpublished structure, presently in the British Library original copy accumulation as a component of composition Cotton Titus D.xxiv. A gathering of his letters circled in the mid-twelfth century, some portion of an inheritance made to Bec Abbey in 1164 by Philip de Harcourt, the Bishop of Bayeux, however it is currently lost. 

Gerard kicked the bucket abruptly on 21 May 1108, at Southwell, on his approach to London to go to a chamber. His body was found in a plantation, by a book of "inquisitive expressions", his duplicate of Julius Firmicus. His standards would not permit his entombment inside his church building, however their threatening vibe likely owed more to Gerard's endeavors to change their way of life than to his supposed enthusiasm for magic. Gerard was at first covered adjacent to the yard at York Minster, however his successor, Thomas, moved the remaining parts inside the house of prayer church.