Lanny McDonald 

Lanny King McDonald (conceived February 16, 1953) is a Canadian previous expert ice hockey player for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Colorado Rockies and Calgary Flames of the National Hockey League (NHL). He played more than 1,100 diversions amid a 16-year vocation in which he scored 500 objectives and more than 1,000 points. His aggregate of 66 objectives in 1982– 83 remains the Flames' establishment record for a solitary season. 

McDonald was chosen by the Maple Leafs as the fourth by and large pick in the 1973 NHL Amateur Draft and set up himself as a hostile forward with three back to back 40-objective seasons in Toronto in the mid-1970s. His exchange to the Rockies in 1979 brought about Toronto fans challenging the arrangement before Maple Leaf Gardens. He played pieces of three seasons in Denver, before he was sent to Calgary in 1981 where he spent the rest of his profession. He co-captained the Flames to a Stanley Cup title in his last period of 1988– 89. 

McDonald is among the most mainstream players in Flames history and his identity and rugged red mustache made him a notorious figure inside the game. McDonald won the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy for commitment and sportsmanship in 1983 and in 1988 was named the debut victor of the King Clancy Memorial Trophy for his initiative and philanthropic nearness, specifically through his long relationship with the Special Olympics. 

Globally, McDonald spoke to Team Canada as a player on two events and in an administration job multiple times. His help made the competition winning extra time objective of the debut 1976 Canada Cup, and he was executive of player work force of Canada's 2004 World Championship winning group. 

The Flames resigned McDonald's uniform number 9 of every 1990. McDonald was enlisted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1992, the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame in 1993 and Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 2017. In 2015, he was named director of the leading group of the Hockey Hall of Fame, in the wake of serving nine years on the Hall's choice advisory group. 

McDonald was conceived February 16, 1953, in Hanna, Alberta. He is the most youthful of four youngsters after sibling Lynn and sisters Donna and Dixie. His dad, Lorne, tended the family ranch close to the village of Craigmyle, outside Hanna. The youthful Lanny saw his dad as his legend, frequently chasing after Lorne assisting with whatever tasks he could. McDonald credits his dad for showing him the estimation of genuineness and diligent work. His mom, Phyllis, was a full-time educator who was habitually included with network occasions. 

Figuring out how to skate at five years old, McDonald quickly built up an energy for hockey. He filled in as a stick kid, overseeing hardware, for his dad's locale group and grew up tuning in to the popular Foster Hewitt radio communicates of "Hockey Night in Canada". McDonald shared his dad's enthusiasm for the Toronto Maple Leafs; he was given his center name, King, after Maple Leafs' star King Clancy. He started playing sorted out hockey at six years old and, regardless of both having full-time responsibilities, his folks drove him and Lynn to Hanna for their practices and diversions. McDonald reviewed that half of his time in youth hockey was spent in Hanna, and the other half in the vehicle. He finished secondary school while playing in Lethbridge, staying with his lesser A group in 1970– 71 instead of join the Medicine Hat Tigers of the Western Canada Hockey League (WCHL) so he could total his certificate. 

McDonald started his lesser profession in 1969 with the Lethbridge Sugar Kings of the level II Alberta Junior Hockey League (AJHL). He showed up in 34 recreations for the Sugar Kings as a 16-year-old, scoring two objectives. The accompanying season, 1970– 71, he rose as a main scorer, recording 37 objectives and 82 points in 45 amusements. He was casted a ballot the alliance's most profitable player and named to the Second All-Star group. Also, McDonald showed up in six WCHL diversions with the Calgary Centennials. 

The Medicine Hat Tigers obtained McDonald's playing rights in an exchange amid the 1970– 71 WCHL season. He joined the group the next year, completing eighth allied scoring with 114 points, including 50 objectives. He improved to 62 objectives and 139 points in 1972– 73 to complete third generally allied scoring and was named to the WCHL All-Star Team at forward. McDonald included 37 points in the playoffs as the Tigers won the association title. 

In McDonald's draft year of 1973, the National Hockey League (NHL) was in rivalry with the adversary World Hockey Association (WHA) for ability. McDonald was viewed as a top junior prospect and was enlisted by the two classes. The Vancouver Canucks had the third by and large choice in the NHL draft and were keen on drafting him, however selected against it when McDonald made it obvious he would probably go to the WHA as opposed to play with Vancouver. Rather, he went to the Toronto Maple Leafs with the fourth by and large pick. In the WHA draft, he was chosen tenth by and large by the Cleveland Crusaders. McDonald played in the NHL, marking an agreement with the Maple Leafs that was viewed as among the most extravagant in the alliance. The arrangement, worth somewhere in the range of $175,000 and $200,000 per season, came because of the challenge between the two classes and McDonald found that a portion of the more established players in Toronto disdained him therefore. 

McDonald made his NHL debut with the Leafs on October 10, 1973, against the Buffalo Sabers. He helped on two objectives in the amusement, yet additionally endured a blackout and required a few lines subsequent to arriving on his head because of a check by Rick Martin. Following the custom of most NHL players at the time, he played the amusement without wearing a protective cap. It was the main time in his profession he did as such, as he felt that his damage added to his initial battles in the NHL. McDonald scored his first NHL objective on October 17 against Michel Larocque of the Montreal Canadiens, yet completed the season with just 14 objectives and 30 in 1973– 74. His proceeded with powerlessness to score right off the bat in the 1974– 75 season almost brought about an exchange. Atlanta Flames general director Cliff Fletcher tried to exploit the Maple Leafs' initial dissatisfaction in McDonald and concurred on a fundamental level to an exchange for the youthful forward in return for Curt Bennett. Be that as it may, McDonald scored three objectives in his following two recreations making Toronto pull out of the arrangement. McDonald recorded a humble improvement over his new kid on the block battle: 17 objectives and 44 points. 

The tolerance the Maple Leafs had appeared in his initial two seasons was remunerated in 1975– 76 when he rediscovered his hostile touch, scoring 37 objectives and including 56 helps. Following the season, he earned a welcome to the Canadian national group's mid year camp ahead of time of the 1976 Canada Cup. McDonald was named to the list, and showed up in five of Team Canada's seven diversions. He recorded two aids the competition, one of which went ahead Darryl Sittler's additional time objective that secured the debut Canada Cup title. 

A 43-objective season in 1976– 77 earned McDonald a few awards. He was named to the Wales Conference group at the 1977 All-Star Game where he scored two objectives in a 4– 3 triumph over the Campbell Conference. He was likewise named a Second Team All-Star at conservative after the season. It was the first of three sequential 40-objective seasons for McDonald, and he completed in the best ten in NHL scoring in both 1977– 78 and 1978– 79. He showed up in his second All-Star Game in 1978 and played for the NHL All-Stars in the 1979 Challenge Cup against the Soviet national group. 

The feature of McDonald's vocation in Toronto came in the 1978 Stanley Cup playoffs against the New York Islanders. The Maple Leafs were seen as longshots in the arrangement against an Islanders group that was viewed as among the best in the class. Toronto defeated a 2– 0 arrangement deficiency to constrain a seventh and choosing diversion. Playing notwithstanding breaking the two his wrist and nose amid the arrangement, McDonald scored the extra time winning objective that disposed of the Islanders and permitted the Maple Leafs to progress to the alliance semi-finals without precedent for a long time. Toronto was then wiped out by Montreal, who cleared the arrangement with four back to back triumphs. 

Punch Imlach was named Toronto general supervisor before the 1979– 80 season and quickly conflicted with group chief Darryl Sittler. Imlach needed to move Sittler to another group, yet the player would not forgo his no exchange condition. Imlach reacted by exchanging partners neighborly to Sittler. On December 28, 1979, Imlach managed McDonald to the Colorado Rockies, alongside Joel Quenneville, in return for Wilf Paiement and Pat Hickey. The arrangement came as an astonishment even to Toronto's head mentor. 

McDonald was crushed by the exchange, especially on the grounds that he and his significant other were anticipating their second kid and had quite recently obtained another house. In his 1987 collection of memoirs, he contended that Imlach made the exchange out of dislike. McDonald had likewise collided with Imlach while filling in as the group's delegate of the National Hockey League Players' Association (NHLPA) when the general chief would not respect an expansion in the routine set of expenses paid to every player. The exchange shocked fans in Toronto, where McDonald was among the group's most well known players. While fans picketed outside Maple Leaf Gardens in challenge, McDonald told the media that he felt blessed to have been exchanged far from the agitated circumstance the Leafs were in and accused Imlach for the group's disappointments on the ice. Sittler surrendered as the group's skipper following the exchange. 

Touching base in Colorado, McDonald wound up at the focal point of another power battle. Thoughtful to the way that his significant other was under about fourteen days from conceiving an offspring, head mentor Don Cherry gave McDonald authorization to leave the group on off-days to come back to his better half in Toronto. However, he did as such without picking up the endorsement of general administrator Ray Miron, who differ often with Cherry and terminated him following the season. On the ice, McDonald scored 35 objectives with the Rockies and completed with a sum of 40 between the two groups. 

Gossipy tidbits coursed following the season that Maple Leafs proprietor Harold Ballard had told the media that he was endeavoring to reacquire McDonald. The Rockies debated that any such arrangements had occurred and Ballard immediately apologized for the news story after Colorado took steps to record altering charges against the Maple Leafs' proprietor. McDonald filled in as the Rockies' skipper, and scored 35 objectives and 81 in 1980– 81, his solitary full season with the group. 

Expressing that his group expected to include character and administration, Cliff Fletcher at long last finished an exchange for McDonald seven years after his first endeavor. McDonald was procured by the Calgary Flames, alongside a draft pick, in return for Bob MacMillan and Don Lever on November 25, 1981. The arrangement happened one day after the last spot Rockies lost to the Flames by a 9– 2 score. When the group's plane arrived in Winnipeg, McDonald was educated of the exchange and advised to come back to Calgary. Incensed at first, he saw the arrangement as an affront, that the most exceedingly terrible group in the NHL had rejected him. 

McDonald additionally felt the weight of supplanting two famous ex-Flames in MacMillan and Lever while likewise attempting to beat an isolated shoulder he endured before in the year with the Rockies. He made his presentation with the Flames the next night, a 7– 1 triumph over the Los Angeles Kings, after which McDonald commented that it was the best time he had playing the diversion in quite a while. He was given an uproarious applause by the fans who promptly held onto him as a nearby saint, despite the fact that it took him seven diversions before he scored his first objective as an individual from the Flames. He scored 34 objectives in Calgary, and joined with the 6 scored in Colorado, completed with his fifth 40-objective crusade in six years. 

The 1982– 83 season was commanded by McDonald's fight with Wayne Gretzky of the Edmonton Oilers for the alliance lead in objectives. In the midst of the best hostile period of his profession, McDonald scored a cap trap against Pittsburgh to give him 47 objectives at the mid-season break for the 1983 All-Star Game, an absolute that tied his vocation high. He was named to the beginning lineup for the All-Star Game and was the group's driving objective scorer by then, two in front of Gretzky. McDonald completed with 66 objectives, five shy of Gretzky's 71. Around then, just Gretzky, Mike Bossy and Phil Esposito had ever scored more objectives in one NHL season. McDonald was named to the Second All-Star Team for the second time in his profession and was casted a ballot the champ of the Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy, given to the player who "best epitomizes the characteristics of steadiness, sportsmanship and commitment to hockey". His 66 objectives remains a Flames' single season record. 

Following the exchange of Phil Russell in the mid year of 1983, McDonald and Doug Risebrough were named co-chiefs for the 1983– 84 season. They were joined by Jim Peplinski the accompanying season. McDonald missed 15 diversions because of wounds which diminished his scoring to 33 objectives and 66, yet he played in his fourth All-Star Game. He scored the primary Flames objective in the Olympic Saddledome, on the structure's premiere night of October 15, 1983. 

McDonald turned into the 21st player in NHL history to score 400 profession objectives, achieving the imprint in a 7– 4 misfortune in Los Angeles on December 21, 1983. He was at first credited with scoring the achievement objective in his past diversion, against the Winnipeg Jets, however in the wake of looking into a replay of the objective himself, McDonald requested that the alliance credit it to colleague Eddy Beers who had redirected his shot. His damage issues exacerbated in 1984– 85 as he missed the beginning of the period with destroyed muscles and was restricted to only 43 amusements. 

As the 1985– 86 season drew closer, McDonald suffered inquiries concerning whether he was achieving the point where age and wounds implied he could never again be a viable NHL player. Planning to substantiate himself, he set an objective of playing every one of the 80 recreations for the Flames. He succeeded, and scored 28 objectives and 71 points all the while, in spite of disjoining his thumb in the pre-season and enduring minor knee and hip wounds over the span of the year. He later said it involved pride to him not to miss a diversion. In the playoffs, McDonald was observer to a standout amongst the most notorious oversights in NHL history. With the score tied at two in the seventh round of the Smythe Division last against Edmonton, McDonald pursued Oilers' new kid on the block Steve Smith around the Edmonton net. Smith endeavored to pass the puck forward, yet coincidentally hit the back of goaltender Grant Fuhr's skate, redirecting the puck into his own net. 

It ended up being the triumphant objective for Calgary who disposed of Edmonton to secure the Smythe Division title. The triumph over their commonplace opponents likewise contacted off a festival among the fans, of which more than 20,000 welcomed the group with wild cheering when their plane arrived at Calgary International Airport. An arrangement prevail upon the St. Louis Blues drove McDonald and the Flames into their first Stanley Cup Finals, against Montreal. The arrangement finished in dissatisfaction: He viewed from the seat as his partners fruitlessly endeavored to tie the choosing amusement in the last moment and the Canadiens vanquished the Flames in five diversions to win the Stanley Cup. 

Two separate knee wounds constrained McDonald in 1986– 87. His aggregate of 14 objectives in 58 recreations was his least since his new kid on the block season. He achieved an achievement in the Flames' last round of the period, showing up in the 1,000th round of his profession. Following a 10-objective crusade in 60 amusements in 1987– 88, McDonald achieved two extra significant achievements in the 1988– 89 season. On March 7, 1989, he scored the 1,000th purpose of his profession with a wraparound objective from behind the net against Bob Essensa in a 9– 5 triumph against the Winnipeg Jets. After two weeks, on March 21, he scored the 500th objective of his vocation on an about indistinguishable wraparound against Mark Fitzpatrick of the New York Islanders. It was the last normal season objective of McDonald's vocation. 

At 36 years of age and moving toward the finish of his profession, the 1989 Stanley Cup playoffs was possibly his last shot at winning the Stanley Cup. The Flames vanquished the Vancouver Canucks, Los Angeles Kings and Chicago Blackhawks to set up a Stanley Cup Finals rematch of the 1986 Stanley Cup Finals with the Montreal Canadiens. McDonald was let well enough alone for the Flames' lineup for the third, fourth and fifth amusements, yet with Calgary driving the arrangement three successes to two, head mentor Terry Crisp felt that if the Flames were to win the title, McDonald had the right to be in the diversion. Fresh's choice paid profits, as halfway through the 6th amusement, McDonald ventured onto the ice in the wake of serving a punishment to join Håkan Loob and Joe Nieuwendyk in a three-on-one surge toward the Montreal objective. Loob left the puck behind to Nieuwendyk, who saw a streaking McDonald coming up the correct side of the ice. McDonald got the pass at that point shot the puck over Montreal goaltender Patrick Roy's glove to give the Flames a 2– 1 lead. Doug Gilmour included two objectives, and Calgary won 4– 2 to win the establishment's first Stanley Cup title. Alliance president John Ziegler introduced the trophy to McDonald, co-chief Jim Peplinski and substitute Tim Hunter. Wearing the commander's "C" for the diversion, McDonald was the main individual from the Flames to convey the trophy as the group marched it around the Forum in festivity. 

McDonald declared his retirement as a player on August 28, 1989, expressing in a public interview that he made the assurance before the 1988– 89 season started that it would be his last. He additionally uncovered that he had gotten an idea from another, anonymous, group to play in 1989– 90 yet felt that it was the opportune time to end his vocation. The Flames made McDonald their Vice President in Charge of Corporate and Community Affairs. He picked the corporate position somewhat because of an interest with the business world, and incompletely to stay near his family as a job in hockey activities would have required more travel. His enthusiasm for business developed after his exchange to Calgary as he was included in various plugs and marked supports all through southern Alberta. He had likewise recently filled in as a VP of the NHLPA in the mid 1980s. McDonald changed jobs in 1992 as he was named the group's Vice President of Marketing. Subsequent to serving four years in that position, McDonald turned into the Vice President of Corporate Development in 1996. 

McDonald was a piece of a board of trustees entrusted with procuring another supervisory group in June 2000. The media hypothesized that following quite a long while in a corporate position, he would have liked to arrive a job as a VP inside hockey activities. He got no such job, and two months after the procuring of Craig Button as official VP and general supervisor of the Flames, McDonald declared he was leaving the association. McDonald denied claims from group sources that he was furious about not picking up another job when Button was enlisted. He expressed that following "nineteen extraordinary years here in one association", it was the correct time to resign. He held a little job in the association, filling in as a board individual from the Saddledome Foundation. 

Ken King, recently employed leader of the Flames, baited McDonald over into the association a year later by naming him an official right hand to hockey tasks. McDonald held the situation until 2003. He additionally served in hockey activities jobs with Hockey Canada. McDonald was the general director of Team Canada for the 2001 and 2002 World Championships. He returned in 2004 of every a job as executive of player faculty of Canada's gold award winning squad. 

McDonald was referred to fundamentally as a hostile player with a hard shot. His wrist shot was viewed as powerful, and his scoring abuses in junior hockey earned him the moniker "Automatic weapon Lanny". Red Kelly, McDonald's mentor in his first NHL seasons, reviewed that he was inspired with his young player's aptitude dealing with the puck and safeguarded McDonald against pundits who needed him moved out of Toronto because of his initial battles. In his NHL vocation, McDonald drove his group in objective scoring multiple times: 1976– 77, 1977– 78 and 1978– 79 with Toronto, 1980– 81 with Colorado, and 1981– 82 and 1982– 83 in Calgary. He was additionally a physical player, willing to play a hard-hitting style in the corners. 

As age and wounds incurred significant damage, McDonald's job with the Flames changed. His playing time diminished in his later years as he was never again depended on to be the group's essential hostile danger. Frequently let well enough alone for the lineup in his last season, McDonald was relied upon to give a lift to the group when he drew into the lineup. He was relied on to give a veteran nearness and to go about as a coach for the group's more youthful players. 

The Flames touched base in Calgary in the wake of moving from Atlanta for the 1980– 81 season. The association entered a transitional stage, the same number of players used to the warm climate and loosened up air of Atlanta were not able or reluctant to adjust to the higher desires fans in Calgary set on them. David Poile, at that point Flames partner general chief, expressed that the group had a personality emergency accordingly. It was in this climate that general director Cliff Fletcher made the exchange for McDonald on November 25, 1981, asserting that McDonald included two qualities the Flames needed: character and administration. 

McDonald's landing in Calgary was viewed as a defining moment for the association, one where his identity, manner and on-ice play came to characterize the Flames during the 1980s. Poile contended that it flagged the genuine start of the group in its new market: "The exchange for Lanny McDonald was the beginning of the Calgary Flames establishment. It gave us that Calgary character, that Western Canadian flavor." Columnist and co-creator of McDonald's self-portrayal, Steve Simmons, concurred. He included that the individual and expert disillusionments McDonald suffered in Toronto and Colorado brought about his picking up a more noteworthy valuation for both the amusement and himself. McDonald was incredibly prominent with his colleagues and the fans wherever he played, just as with the media – he was named Colorado's competitor of the year in 1980 by the state's sportswriters. 

Eminent for his authority capacity, McDonald developed the regard of the group's more youthful players. He came into the NHL when the fight with the adversary WHA for ability prompted new kids on the block marking for unmistakably more cash than the past age of players told. Thus, McDonald confronted the disdain of a few of Toronto's veteran players and made plans to indicate more prominent regard to those that tailed him. His endeavors left an enduring impact on his friends; among them was Tiger Williams who called McDonald "an incredible diplomat" for the NHL. 

The Flames made McDonald the main player in establishment history to have his pullover resigned when they raised his number 9 to the rafters of the Olympic Saddledome in a function on March 17, 1990. As a major aspect of its 1992 class, he was likewise the principal previous Flame to pick up acceptance into the Hockey Hall of Fame. After one year he was enlisted into the Alberta Sports Hall of Fame. McDonald's picture persevered through well into retirement; in 2008, he was the main competitor named in a rundown of Alberta's ten biggest natives gathered by the "Calgary Herald". In 2017, McDonald was enlisted into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame. 

McDonald met his significant other Ardell while playing junior hockey for the Medicine Hat Tigers. They were hitched in 1975, and have four kids: little girls Andra and Leah, and children Barrett and Graham. The family settled in Calgary after McDonald's exchange to the Flames. They likewise keep up a mid year home in Montana, where the family has put resources into eateries and a specialty bottling works in the network of Lakeside. Co-claimed by Andra, the distillery considers McDonald its motivation, and produces "Old 'Stache Porter" in his respect. 

His monster, walrus-style mustache is McDonald's most characterizing physical trademark and helped him become a notorious figure in the game. He created it in 1974, spending the late spring seeing what sort of whiskers he could develop. Realizing that the Maple Leafs did not enable players to keep up facial hair at the time, he settled on what he portrayed as an "ordinary mustache" when he came back to Toronto. Some time later, he was motivated by baseball player Sparky Lyle's mustache and grew one out of a comparative style. It turned into an image for the Flames as certain fans took to wearing phony red mustaches amid playoff runs. Razor producers offered supports in the event that he would shave it, which he won't. 

Among his beneficent and philanthropic endeavors, McDonald is best known for his cooperation with the Special Olympics. He originally ended up included with the association in 1974 when the Maple Leafs requested that he speak to the group at the Special Olympics Summer Games. The occasion started a decades in length relationship for McDonald. He was the privileged mentor of the 1986 Special Olympics Summer Games in Calgary, and filled in as a head mentor for the Canadian Special Olympics floor hockey group. In 1988, McDonald's commitments to the Special Olympics as a mentor and co-administrator of the association's raising support endeavors, just as his work with the Alberta Children's Miracle Network Hospitals, were perceived by the NHL as he was named the debut beneficiary of the King Clancy Memorial Trophy. The honor is given to the hockey player who best represents authority on the ice with philanthropic commitments off of it. McDonald was recently respected by the Flames as the main champ of the Ralph T. Scurfield Humanitarian Award in 1987, which he won again in 1989. 

McDonald's collection of memoirs, "Lanny", co-composed by Steve Simmons, was distributed in 1987. A Canadian blockbuster, it was a surprising accomplishment for distributer McGraw-Hill. The book sold 10,000 duplicates in its first couple a long time of distribution, for which the distributer made a gift of $10,000 to the Special Olympics. In 2008, McDonald was given a privileged doctorate from the University of Calgary.