Raymond Leane 

Brigadier General Sir Raymond Lionel Leane, (12 July 1878 – 25 June 1962) was an Australian Army officer who rose to direction the 48th Battalion then twelfth Brigade amid World War I. For his execution amid the war, Leane was portrayed by the Australian Official War Historian, Charles Bean, as "the preeminent battling pioneer" in the Australian Imperial Force (AIF), and "the leader of the most well known group of warriors in Australian history", among different awards. After the war, he filled in as Commissioner of the South Australia Police from 1920 to 1944, for which he was knighted. 

A businessperson and low maintenance Citizen Forces officer before the war, Leane was charged into the AIF and drove an organization of the eleventh Infantry Battalion at the arrival at Anzac Cove, Gallipoli, on 25 April 1915. He rose to incidentally direction his regiment, and was made a Companion of the Distinguished Service Order (DSO), granted the Military Cross, twice referenced in despatches and injured multiple times amid the Gallipoli Campaign. In the wake of coming back to Egypt, the AIF was re-sorted out, and Leane was designated as the boss of the recently framed 48th Battalion, which not long after was transported toward the Western Front in France and Belgium. Imperative fights that the 48th were engaged with under his order incorporated the Battle of Pozières in 1916, and the First Battle of Bullecourt and First Battle of Passchendaele in 1917. Amid the last fight, he was seriously injured. Amid 1916– 1917, he was referenced in despatches three additional occasions, was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George and granted a bar to his DSO. 

Subsequent to recovering, in mid 1918 he came back to his regiment and drove it amid the German Spring Offensive of March and April 1918, which included substantial battling close Dernancourt, for which he was again referenced in despatches. As a unit leader, he demonstrated a troublesome subordinate, ignoring the requests of his detachment authorities at both Pozières and Dernancourt. In June 1918 he was elevated to colonel and transitory brigadier general to direction the twelfth Brigade, which he drove amid the Battle of Amiens in August, and the battling to catch the Hindenburg Outpost Line in September. He was referenced in despatches a further multiple times after the finish of the war, and in mid 1919 was likewise granted the French Croix de guerre, and made a Companion of the Order of the Bath for his "heroic and capable" administration while directing the twelfth Brigade. Amid the war, four of his siblings and six of his nephews served, with two of his siblings and two of his nephews being executed. 

In the wake of administering the repatriation of officers back to Australia, Leane returned home to South Australia in late 1919. In May the next year he was chosen as the following Commissioner of the South Australia Police, taking up the arrangement in July. His arrangement was at first disputable inside the power, as there had been a built up routine with regards to choosing the chief from inside its positions. Leane additionally came back to low maintenance soldiering, directing at the detachment level until 1926, not without discussion. His organization of the police drive was by and large lauded, in spite of the fact that he had to face a few hardships, one of which included a Royal Commission into renumeration of a portion of his officers by bookmakers. He was an establishment part and debut leader of the Legacy Club of Adelaide, built up to help the wards of expired ex-servicemen. In 1928, amid a noteworthy argument about the mechanical honor applying to waterfront workers, Leane gave police assurance to non-association specialists, and on one event by and by drove a power of 150 police that effectively defied a horde of 2,000 waterside workers who needed to expel non-association laborers from Adelaide ports. As chief, he presented various developments, including cadets and trial preparing for youthful volunteers, police pooches, and car crash examination. After the flare-up of World War II, in spite of being on the resigned rundown, Leane turned into the state leader of the Returned and Services League-composed Volunteer Defense Corps, a type of home watchman, notwithstanding his obligations as official. In the wake of resigning in 1944, he was knighted for his administrations amid 24 years at the leader of the police compel. In retirement he ended up engaged with preservationist governmental issues, and stayed dynamic with restored servicemen's relationship until his demise in 1962. 

Raymond Lionel Leane was conceived on 12 July 1878 in Prospect, South Australia, the child of a shoemaker, Thomas John Leane, and his significant other Alice Short, who were of Cornish plunge. One of eight kids, he was taught at North Adelaide Public School until age 12, when he got down to business for a retail and discount business, which sent him to Albany, Western Australia. He later moved to Claremont. In June 1902, Leane wedded Edith Louise Laybourne, a sister of the engineer Louis Laybourne Smith. He and Edith inhabited Claremont for a long time, amid which he served on the neighborhood committee from 1903 to 1906. His enthusiasm for the military prompted Leane being appointed as a lieutenant in the eleventh (Perth Rifles) Infantry Regiment, a unit of the low maintenance Citizen Forces in 1905. In 1908, he purchased a retail business in Kalgoorlie and exchanged to the Goldfields Infantry Regiment. He was elevated to chief on 21 November 1910. 

On 25 August 1914, Leane joined the recently framed Australian Imperial Force (AIF) as an organization officer in the Western Australia-raised eleventh Infantry Battalion of the third Brigade, with the position of commander. The AIF was set up as Australia's expeditionary power to battle in the war, as the Citizen Forces were limited to home guard per the "Safeguard Act 1903". At the point when the contingent was framed, he was designated to order F Company. The force left for abroad in October and cruised to Egypt, arriving before the actual arranged time December. On 1 January 1915, the unit was re-composed into four organizations to reflect the British Army force structure, and another C Company was made by joining E and F Companies. Leane was picked to order the new C Company. 

Following a while preparing in Egypt, the third Brigade previously considered activity to be the covering power for the arrival at Anzac Cove, Gallipoli, on 25 April 1915 as was the main detachment shorewards about 04:30. Leane's C Company was in the primary wave, and landed just toward the north of the Ari Burnu headland at that point climbed it to Plugge's Plateau. By early afternoon on 30 April, the 1,000-in number eleventh Battalion had endured setbacks adding up to nine officers and 369 men. After four days, Leane was picked to lead a land and/or water capable ambush on Gaba Tepe, an unmistakable headland south of the Anzac border on which an Ottoman-held stronghold was arranged. The troops possessing the fortress were coordinating ordnance fire onto the situations around Anzac Cove. Arriving from water crafts on the shoreline at the foot of Gaba Tepe, the power comprised of more than 110 men from the eleventh Battalion and third Field Company. The power was instantly bound on the shoreline by overwhelming flame. Leane flagged the Royal Navy to expel his injured from the shoreline, which they did with a steamboat towing a dinghy. Having established that the withdrawal along the shoreline was unimaginable attributable to belts of security fencing, Leane then flagged the Royal Navy to expel the remainder of his gathering. The Navy sent two picket vessels towing two boats' water crafts. Destroyers set down covering fire, however while the Ottomans had held their flame for the clearing of the injured, they set down enormous flame on the pulling back pillagers. Numerous men were hit, including Leane, who was injured in the hand. The strike was a disappointment, however Leane's initiative, boldness and coolness enduring an onslaught had inspired, and he was granted the Military Cross (MC) for his activities. The suggestion from his leader read: 

Following the attack on Gaba Tepe, Leane rejoined his unit in the principle guarded line around the foothold. Before day break on 19 May, components of the Ottoman sixteenth Division assaulted the third Brigade positions on Bolton's Ridge as a feature of a more extensive counterattack against the Anzac segment. Amid the battling, Leane was situated in a forward sap of the force channels disregarding a ravine where the Ottoman troops were congregating. From this position, Leane and two other eleventh Battalion men executed an expansive number of Ottoman troops with their rifles, shooting from first light until early afternoon. On 28 June, Leane's organization went ahead of Bolton's Ridge towards Turkey Knoll to give covering flame to a failed assault by the ninth Battalion on Ottoman channels on Sniper's Ridge. This assault was a bluff, proposed to occupy the Ottoman administrators from strengthening their troops inverse an Allied assault at Cape Helles far toward the south. The forward organization position was totally illogical, the lead components of Leane's organization were raked by shrapnel and assault rifle discharge, and Leane was injured in the face. Regardless of this, he stayed with his unit. The two organizations of the eleventh Battalion that were resolved to help the assault lost 21 murdered and 42 injured. 

Amid the evening of 31 July, Leane drove a strike on an Ottoman channel inverse Tasmania Post, which was held by the eleventh Battalion. The assault was provoked by a craving to give the Ottomans the feeling that an endeavor would have been made to break out of the Anzac edge toward the south, while an arrival was arranged at Suvla Bay far toward the north. Leane's power comprised of four gatherings of 50 men, who were to attack the Ottoman channel after the terminating of four mines that had been uncovered to the adversary channel. At first just the northernmost and southernmost of the mines detonated, yet Leane drove out the assault in any case. While the gatherings were covering the separation between Tasmania Post and the Ottoman channel, a third mine detonated, potentially covering a few individuals from one of the attacking gatherings. The fourth mine neglected to detonate. Solid battling happened at certain purposes of the goal channel, yet the Ottomans were steered and the channel was united and correspondence channels driving towards the Ottoman back were blockaded. A few urgent bomb battles happened at the blockades. Work promptly started to change over the mine passages into correspondence channels prompting the recently caught channel. There were some weak counterattacks. At day break, Ottoman big guns started an extraordinary assault of the recently won position. Amid the shelling, Leane was addressing an eyewitness as a foe shell landed. The spectator was beheaded and Leane was injured in the head, yet stayed at his post. The position caught amid this activity ended up known as "Leane's Trench". While catching the channel, the eleventh Battalion had lost 36 slaughtered and 73 injured. 

Leane was elevated to transitory major on 5 August while recovering in emergency clinic on the island of Lemnos. He rejoined his unit four days after the fact and was prescribed to be made a Companion of the Distinguished Service Order (DSO), the second most astounding honor for demonstrations of bravery by officers, for his "incredible courage, coolness and dash". He briefly told the eleventh Infantry Battalion from 30 September, and was elevated to substantive major and transitory lieutenant colonel on 8 October. Leane stayed at Gallipoli until the regiment was cleared to Lemnos on 16 November. He was admitted to medical clinic with pneumonia in late November, and was emptied to Egypt, at long last being released toward the beginning of February 1916. For his administration amid the crusade, notwithstanding his MC and DSO, he was twice referenced in despatches. He additionally ended up known by the epithet "The Bull". As the Official Australian War Historian Charles Bean watched, his "tall square-carried outline, enormous jaw, firmly compacted lips, and sharp, relentless, entertaining eyes made him the very figure of an officer". 

On release from medical clinic, Leane at first came back to the eleventh Battalion, yet on 21 February 1916 was exchanged to be the leader of the arranged 48th Infantry Battalion. The 48th Battalion was appointed to the twelfth Brigade, some portion of the fourth Division. Leane was substantively elevated to lieutenant colonel on 12 March, and the brigade itself was raised four days after the fact. Like Leane himself, the 48th was both South Australian and Western Australian, having been raised from a unit drawn from the sixteenth Battalion strengthened by crisp enlisted people from Australia. Serving in the unit were some of Leane's relatives, including his more youthful sibling, Benjamin Bennett Leane, who was at first his assistant and later his second-in-direction. There were additionally three of his nephews in the unit (Allan Edwin, Reuben Ernest and Geoffrey Paul Leane), and a few different relatives. The 48th ended up referred to all through the AIF as the "Joan of Arc Battalion" since it was "made of All-Leanes" (Maid of Orleans). All through March and April 1916, the unit embraced preparing in the desert before being moved to Habieta toward the beginning of May where they quickly kept an eye on cautious positions as a safeguard against a conceivable Ottoman assault on the Suez Canal. On 1 June, after a starter walk to Serapeum, the legion was moved by rail to Alexandria and boarded the troopship "Caledonia", which cruised for France two days after the fact. They docked at Marseille on 9 June, after which they were moved to northern France by rail. 

After the contingent moved to France, its first genuine battling was amid the Battle of Pozières the evening of 5/6 August, when it was resolved to safeguard ground caught by the Australian second Division. On getting his requests, Leane promptly surveyed the situation with his organization authorities, amid which they were bound by a German blast and two of them were injured. His detachment leader, Brigadier General Duncan Glasfurd and his prevalent commandants trusted that a solid German counterattack would pursue the huge torrent at that point falling on the Australian-held positions. Glasfurd hence requested Leane to put two organizations north of Pozières, yet Leane was persuaded this would stuff the territory and result in unnecessary setbacks. His arrangement was to army his two channels with one organization each and hold his two save organizations well to the back of the town and he stood up to Glasfurd and requested composed requests. Glasfurd then gave Leane a composed request that his two save organizations were to be sent forward, yet Leane stayed disobedient, positioning just a single organization north of Pozières. As indicated by Bean, while defiance of requests is an unsafe practice as a rule, for this situation later occasions demonstrated that Leane was completely legitimized in this activity. As per the antiquarian Craig Deayton, Leane was at that point the prevailing impact in the detachment, and was turned out to be a "troublesome subordinate" for Glasfurd. Leane was not the only one in his methodology, as the boss of the flanking fourteenth Battalion, Lieutenant Colonel Charles Dare, received a similar attitude and resisted his very own unit authority in doing as such. Leane later portrayed the help of the past army as the most noticeably awful he encountered in the entire war, directed as it was under a huge German siege. When he visited his cutting edges in the early morning, he discovered leftovers of his two organizations, dispersed among shell openings as opposed to channels, and encompassed by dead and injured. 

By mid-evening on 6 August, it was obvious from the proceeding with overwhelming shelling that a German counterattack was not out of the ordinary. The two bleeding edge organizations had endured overwhelming misfortunes, and, as per Bean, Leane's choice to hold an organization in the back of the town was appeared to be a shrewd one. That night he assuaged his two forward organizations with the save organization, leaving the other organization north of the town. About 04:00 on 7 August a full scale German counterattack created, which took steps to invade the 48th Battalion. Leane submitted half of his outstanding organization, and this settled the circumstance. Leane's brigade was mitigated toward the evening. Leane's refusal to pursue Glasfurd's requests has been depicted as spilling out of "prominent good judgment and incredible good boldness", yet Deayton sees that the way that no request was embraced after the fight was a bombing by Leane's levels of leadership, which successfully gave Leane permit to ignore arranges in future. The connection among Glasfurd and Leane did not recuperate from this conflict. Deayton further sees that if the German attack had been propelled multi day sooner, and the forward channels lost, even briefly, Leane would almost certainly have been conveyed to represent his rebellion. In only one day and two evenings of fight, the 48th Battalion lost 20 officers and 578 men, for the most part from shell discharge. The force came back to the line at Pozières on 12– 15 August, losing another 89 setbacks. Following this, the unit embraced a guarded job around Mouquet Farm, before being moved to Flanders where they pivoted with the other three legions of the twelfth Brigade to man a division of the line south of Ypres. No real assaults happened in their segment amid this time, and despite the fact that there were a couple of setbacks, the force had the capacity to supplant a portion of its misfortunes, achieving a quality of around 700 men. Leane was again referenced in despatches, this time for "predictable, intensive and great work in raising and preparing his brigade" and his order of his unit at Pozières and Mouquet Farm. 

Amid the most exceedingly awful European winter in 40 years, the 48th Battalion kept on going ahead at the bleeding edge, and Leane was referenced in despatches for the fourth time. In March 1917 his contingent followed up the Germans as they pulled back towards the multi-layered Hindenburg Line of fortresses. Toward the beginning of April 1917, the twelfth Brigade was focused on an assault went for catching Bullecourt, with the 48th Battalion given the undertaking of catching the optional goal, following behind the 46th Battalion. Amid the arrangements, because of a misconception, Leane was requested by his detachment authority to send 200 troops into the town of Bullecourt, which Leane accepted to be all around safeguarded. Typically, Leane demanded that if the request must be done, it would include the devastation of one of his organizations, and he would need to pick that instructed by his nephew Allan. The auspicious landing of a divisional staff officer cleared up the circumstance, and the request was dropped. On the morning of 10 April, the unit was shaped up for the assault when the guaranteed tank support neglected to land on schedule, and the strike was delayed. Amid the withdrawal back to the bleeding edge, Leane's sibling, Major Benjamin Leanenow the second-in-order of the unitwas killed by shell discharge, and the contingent endured another 20 setbacks. Leane discovered Ben's body among the dead, and conveyed him to a spot where he burrowed a grave before raising a cross above it. 

The delayed assault was rescheduled for the next day, and in spite of further issues with the tank support, the 48th Battalion had the capacity to push through to the second line of German channels in the Hindenburg Line east of Bullecourt. The position was viewed as secure if close gunnery support was given. In any case, mixed up ordnance and air eyewitnesses demanded that they had seen Australian troops past the Hindenburg Line, messages from the forward legions did not return to their higher central command, and the mounted guns authorities would not cut down the defensive blast required. Fortifications were unfit to traverse in adequate quality. At the point when a huge scale German counterattack built up, the 48th Battalion was nearly cut off in the caught German channels, and needed to battle out, taking substantial setbacks all the while. Of the around 750 men of the contingent associated with the assault, the unit lost 15 officers and 421 men. Leane's nephew Allan, who had driven the battle in the caught German channel, was caught in the wake of being injured and later kicked the bucket in a German medical clinic. The Australian administrators were scorching of the tanks, accusing them for the most part for the disappointment, with Leane notwithstanding blaming the tank teams for "weakness and ineptitude". 

The force was next engaged with genuine battling amid the Battle of Messines. Despite the fact that in a supporting job for the unit's underlying development on 7 June, its organizations were before long dedicated to fortify the main legions. They kept on battling the Germans until 10 June when they were pulled back with the goal that the regiment could be re-composed all in all. Later that day the legion was recommitted to the cutting edge. The next morning, with trademark animosity, Leane drove a solid battling watch forward at sunrise, taking a shot at his suspicion that the channels and solid focuses inverse the legion were just being held around evening time, with the German army being pulled back amid the day. He ended up being correct, and the German positions were caught without a battle, alongside two field firearms and a huge amount of ammo. This activity verified the unit objective and connected up the twelfth Brigade with the thirteenth Brigade to its left side. Up until the force was pulled back from the fight on 12 June, it had lost 4 officers and 62 men. Leane was prescribed for a bar to his DSO after Messines for "sharp dealing with" of his brigade, yet he didn't get that grant. The contingent turned through rest, save positions and the cutting edge until the Battle of Polygon Wood in September. Amid this fight it was in a help job, connected basically in rescue in back regions, however all things considered experienced 27 losses substantial shell shoot. Before long, Leane was prescribed to be made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG). The proposal read: 

The brigade was next dedicated on the correct flank of the principle assault amid the First Battle of Passchendaele on 12 October. Regardless of introductory achievement and the catch of in excess of 200 Germans, the primary assault fizzled, leaving the left flank of the regiment uncovered. The primary German counterattack was beaten off, yet with its left flank unprotected, the second counterattack drove the 48th Battalion back to its begin line. Amid the battling, the unit experienced 370 losses its unique supplement of 621. Amid the withdrawal, Leane was coordinating his unit from his base camp close to an old German pillbox when the territory went under substantial German siege. A shell landed not exactly before him, Leane was seriously injured in the leg and hand, and was cleared to England for treatment. He was again prescribed for a bar to his DSO, this time effectively. The suggestion read: 

On 26 January 1918, Leane rejoined his brigade, having recovered from his injuries. His CMG and bar to the DSO had been declared while he was away, as had his fifth notice in despatches. For nearly the entire time of his nonattendance, the 48th Battalion had been retaining substitutions, resting and preparing in back territories, just coming back to its turn through to the bleeding edges, hold channels and rest regions in mid-January. Indeed, even its short periods in the cutting edge had been calm, for the most part occupied with improving channels and different barriers. In mid-February the force moved to billets close Meteren where it stayed until 25 March. On that day the 724-in number 48th Battalion was grabbed by truck and sent south to help meet the German Spring Offensive, which had just been propelled four days sooner, meeting with reverberating achievement. Subsequent to debussing north of Berles-au-Bois, the legion walked into that town and took up positions. The next evening they were requested to walk during that time another further south to Senlis-le-Sec, landing there on the morning of 27 March. After a concise stop they proceeded through Hénencourt and east to Millencourt, due west of Albert. 

The twelfth Brigade was at first set under the direction of the ninth (Scottish) Division, in charge of holding the bleeding edge west of Albert, which had fallen into German hands. Now, a winded British staff officer showed up, expressing that Dernancourt had fallen, and the Germans held the railroad line before Albert. His requests were to control the unit into help positions on high ground behind the remainders of the ninth Division. Under Leane's stern look and addressing, he was unfit to give the name of the authority of the twelfth Brigade, Brigadier General John Gellibrand, who had evidently issued the requests, and because of gossipy tidbits that alerts and false requests were being spread by Germans dressed as British staff officers, Leane confined him as a speculated covert operative. Leane went to discover Gellibrand himself, found that the requests were right, and the staff officer was discharged. After this postponement in arrangement, Leane coordinated his contingent east along the line of the Albert– Amiens street to the statures behind the ninth Division, which it came to in the early evening of 27 March. 

Gellibrand then arranged the 48th Battalion, and the 47th Battalion to its right side, to quickly take up positions on the forward slant of the high ground and drive presents forward on the railroad bank beneath. The forward slant was in full perspective on the moving toward Germans. The 47th pushed ahead promptly, went under substantial German shelling, and endured losses in moving the extent that an old half-finished channel some shy of the railroad line by 17:00. Leane took the view that Gellibrand did not know the full circumstance on the ground, and that he had the caution to pursue a strategy that would accomplish the target without pointless losses. He chose not to push his troops ahead until dim. Bean comments on Leane again resisting requests, yet takes note of that the risks of such activity are relieved when such subordinates, as Leane, have "remarkable characteristics of strength and judgment". He finishes up, "[b]ut Leane was Leane, and Gellibrand had the sense to know it". Deayton censures Leane's choice, depicting his inability to instruct the 47th Battalion with respect to his expectations as "unpardonable", and expressing that the genuine hazard made by Leane's choice could have brought about a catastrophe had there been a German assault that evening. Deayton additionally mirrors this was just the most recent in a progression of conflicts among Leane and Gellibrand since the last had assumed control over the detachment in November of the earlier year. 

After dim, the 48th Battalion assumed control over the line from the rest of the ninth Division. The 47th Battalion was still to its right side, and on the left was the British V Corps. The 48th Battalion involved a little remarkable among Albert and Dernancourt. Amid the night, erratic big guns and automatic weapon discharge was aimed at the contingent's positions. In the early morning light of 28 March, the forward two organizations could make out German infantry progressing through the haze. They drew nearer without the inclusion of a blast, and in very close arrangement, some had their rifles thrown. The men of the 48th Battalion rapidly conveyed their weapons to manage and the Germans quit progressing. A minor achievement on the right-flanking 47th Battalion was rapidly managed and thirty detainees taken. Amid the day, the Germans propelled another multiple times, each time all the more carefully and with somewhat more flame support. Yet, each time the Australians beat them back. Before sun-down the Germans seemed to have pulled back, and the 48th Battalion had endured the loss of 62 men. That night and the following two days passed generally discreetly, with Leane pivoting his organizations through the bleeding edge posts, with trademark care not to make blockage in the forward territories. The regiment was alleviated the evening of 30 March. 

The 48th Battalion came back to its previous positions on the railroad dike the evening of 3 April, in their nonappearance the line had been exposed to two increasingly German assaults which had been beaten off reasonably effectively. On this event, in spite of his standard hesitance to block his forward positions with troops, Leane requested consent to utilize two organizations forward on the railroad bank, and another forward in a progression of posts on the extraordinary left of the force part. These posts were on either side of a ravine only south of the Albert– Amiens street. He held his fourth organization in a channel called Pioneer Trench, that had been burrowed on the high ground disregarding the bank. He was additionally given an organization of the 46th Battalion which he held for possible later use close to his central command. On 4 April, the leader of the fourth Division, Major General Ewen Sinclair-Maclagan chose the fundamental line of guard would be the railroad bank, instead of the high ground behind it. While this did not change the airs of the 48th Battalion, it caused Gellibrand to issue a request that the dike must be held no matter what, which had huge ramifications for the coming fight. Around the same time, word was gotten that a German assault was not out of the ordinary the following morning. 

Leane himself, watching German channel mortar fire, and suspecting that they were enlisting focuses for a barrage, guaranteed his contingent was prepared for the approaching fight, and conveyed night watches that recognized huge convergences of German troops on a street just past the dike. Gellibrand requested Lewis firearm groups to be conveyed to start shooting at the amassing Germans, and called down big guns on the S.O.S. lines forward of the dike. He additionally conveyed the 45th Battalion up to dive in on the high ground close to Leane's base camp. At 07:00, an overwhelming German assault descended, at first on back territories of the fourth Division and its flanking arrangements, stretching out to the bleeding edge and supports about 08:00. Leane later seen that the flood was "the heaviest since Pozières". No assault quickly emerged on the 48th Battalion's front, albeit substantial gatherings of Germans started progressing following an hour of the torrent slipping on the forefront. In firm battling, the Germans were rebuffed on the 48th Battalion's front. Despite the fact that Leane had twice been arranged to disband the contingent scout company under another standard unit structure brought into power in 1917, he had as of late done as such, and just in a formal sense. Rather, at whatever point the brigade went enthusiastically, a comparable number of assigned scouts promptly answered to him, and he posted them at different areas to keep him educated of occasions. 

About 10:30, a portion of Leane's scouts detailed that the thirteenth Brigade, on the privilege of the twelfth Brigade and inverse Dernancourt, was falling back. Around a similar time, his privilege forward organization on the dike sent back a message demonstrating that the Germans had infiltrated on the privilege of the detachment in the territory of the 47th Battalion, and that it was assuming control over piece of the left of the 47th Battalion line to help. In light of a test by the Germans against his northern-most organization in the arrangement of posts close by the Albert– Amiens street, Leane quickly sent piece of his hold organization from Pioneer Trench to strengthen it. Detecting the risk in the thirteenth Brigade region, Leane requested Major Arthur Samuel Allen, telling the close-by 45th Battalion, to push his contingent ahead to empty channels disregarding that segment. As Allen was actualizing these requests, he got clashing requests from Gellibrand to send two organizations forward to Pioneer Trench. Allen saw the insight of Leane's requests, and endeavored to persuade the detachment significant that Leane's favored strategy was ideal. All things considered, Allen was coordinated to do Gellibrand's requests. Later occasions demonstrated that, being the most experienced authority on the ground, Leane really had the most precise origination of the genuine risk to the twelfth Brigade's position. 

At 12:15, with the 47th Battalion having offered route to the German invasion and pulling back past them up towards the high ground, the two forward organizations of the 48th on the dike started to pull back, leaving the northern-most organization in its posts around the crevasse close to the Albert– Amiens street. Before long, the northern organization was compelled to pull back its posts on the southern side of the chasm. When he knew about the withdrawal, Leane sent forward his second-in-order to build up the line that the force would now endeavor to hold. By 13:30, the 48th was all the while holding its left flanking posts close to the Albert– Amiens street, yet the remainder of the brigade had pulled back to Pioneer Trench on the high ground. The left flank posts were not pulled back until about 15:30. Now, a counterattack was requested, including the 49th Battalion of the thirteenth Brigade, which had been for possible later use, with everything except the extreme left flank of the twelfth Brigade adjusting with its development. Sinclair-Maclagan needed to utilize four accessible tanks to help the assault, however this was denied by the detachment administrators. Deayton induces that this dismissal of the tanks was at the asking of Leane, who had taken such a negative perspective on them at Bullecourt. Sinclair-Maclagan then contended that the target of the two detachments must be to retake the railroad line, however this was contradicted by Gellibrand, upheld by Leane, whose feeling he still esteemed profoundly. They contended that the twelfth Brigade should just plan to retake the previous help line mostly down the slope. Sinclair-Maclagan's view won, conceivably as he was acting as per bearing from higher base camp. Regardless of this, Leane, as the leader of the forward troops of the twelfth Brigade, by and by showed his solid autonomous streak, ignoring those requests and coordinating the troops' primary exertion towards recovering the help channels. 

The subsequent counterattack was depicted by Bean as "one of the best at any point completed by Australian troops". The 49th Battalion, flanked to its left side by a line comprising of two organizations of the 45th, the leftovers of the 47th, lastly the re-sorted out 48th, flooded forward at 17:15 into extremely substantial little arms fire, yet by dusk had achieved positions not far shy of the old help line. The 49th had battled its way to a position practically indistinguishable to that which Leane had needed the 45th to send prior in the day, when his requests had clashed with those of Gellibrand. The line set up medium-term was the special case that had actually ever been faultless. The forward troops of the twelfth Brigade were diminished medium-term by the 46th Battalion, and on 7 April the entire unit was soothed by the sixth Brigade of the second Division. Amid the last battling for Dernancourt, the 48th Battalion had lost another 4 officers and 77 men. 

After Dernancourt, the 48th Battalion walked to the back and started setting up a hold line at Beaucourt. On 18 April, Gellibrand was cleared debilitated and Leane was delegated to go about as unit authority in his place. The next day he was incidentally elevated to the position of colonel. Amid Gellibrand's nonattendance, on 27– 28 April the twelfth Brigade was conveyed to the line at Villers-Bretonneux, which had quite recently been recovered from the Germans. So as to push the bleeding edge further east of the town, it was important to catch firmly held German positions in Monument Wood, so-named as it was neighboring a dedication to the Franco-Prussian War. This errand was given to the twelfth Brigade, and Leane, realizing that the battling would be troublesome, connected his typical routine with regards to giving the most provoking missions to his own, the 48th Battalion. After the extreme battling at Dernancourt, the 48th had been strengthened with a critical number of unseasoned newcomers. The assault was made arrangements for 02:00 on 3 May, and so as to accomplish shock, there was to be just discontinuous shelling of the wood amid the day, and only a two-minute torrent with every single accessible weapon at the season of the assault. In the occasion, Leane's first fight as unit leader went gravely, with the mounted guns torrent being extremely feeble and neglecting to cut the wire before the wood, and the supporting tanks neglecting to have any effect. One gathering figured out how to get past the wire and catch 21 Germans in the homestead structures in the focal point of the wood, yet a German counterattack constrained the Australians back to their begin line, with lost 12 officers and 143 different positions, against German setbacks of 10 officers and 136 men. 

Leane came back to the 48th on 22 May and returned in rank, however barely seven days after the fact he was substantively elevated to colonel and incidentally elevated to brigadier general to order the twelfth Brigade, as Gellibrand had been elevated to significant general and selected to direction the third Division. For his "significant expertise and capacity" while acting detachment officer, Leane was suggested for the honor of the French Croix de Guerre, and was referenced in despatches for the 6th time. Preceding his supposition of order, the predetermined number of fortifications accessible, joined with misfortunes endured by the twelfth Brigade at Dernancourt and Monument Wood required the disbandment of one of the legions of the detachment, and the 47th Battalion was picked. Somewhere in the range of 25 and 27 May its labor was separated similarly between different regiments of the unit. 

Leane then driven his unit amid the profoundly effective Battle of Amiens on 8 August, amid which it led the fourth Division as it jumped through the third Division to catch the second and third destinations, enduring losses of nine officers and 212 different positions. The second goal was caught by the 45th and 46th Battalions, with the 48th Battalion catching the third goal, alongside 200 detainees and 12 automatic weapons. The Battle of Amiens was later portrayed by the German General Erich Ludendorff as "the dark day of the German Army". 

After a rest available for later positions, the twelfth Brigade was then in the cutting edge of the assault on the Hindenburg Outpost Line on 18 September, with the 48th Battalion driving the attack in the principal stage, trailed by the 45th which caught the second target. Regardless of assessments in actuality, Leane understood that the third "abuse" period of the assault would not be accomplished by watches, and would require the responsibility of a whole contingent, and he distributed the 46th to the assignment. As the Australians were resolved to push forward to the third target in spite of a more drawn out deferral on the second goal by the British on the correct flank of the twelfth Brigade, Leane gave the leader of the 46th Battalion quite certain guidelines with respect to his ambush, incorporating to assault in incredible profundity and ensure his correct flank. About 15:00, the assault of the 46th was held up by German opposition, so once he got this report, Leane went ahead and encouraged its boss to recharge the assault when big guns backing could be orchestrated. The boss contended against this methodology, saying that his men were depleted and required rest and nourishment. Leane acknowledged this, and it was chosen that the assault would be restored at 23:00. Leane, worried about his uncovered right flank brought about by the disappointment of the British to go ahead, requested two organizations of the 48th Battalion to get ready to assault over the divisional limit and catch a slope in the forward zone of the British first Division, yet needed to drop the request when the British divisional officer protested. Rather, he had the two organizations advance to a position securing that flank yet inside his detachment limit. 

That night, the 46th's assault was an incredible achievement, netting around 550 detainees. Leane put the two organizations of the 48th under the order of the 46th to aid combination of the position. The assault of the 46th, and to its left side flank, the fourteenth Battalion, was an "uncommonly brave assault", which, as per Bean, accomplished outcomes once in a while accomplished on the Western Front, and it was just on the Australian Corps front that the third goal of the assault was accomplished. The British on the correct flank over and again revealed that they had likewise caught the third target, however Leane, sending a watch to reach, immediately found out this report was wrong. It was later discovered that what had been alluded to as the Hindenburg Outpost Line was in truth being held as the primary German position. The twelfth Brigade had endured setbacks adding up to 19 officers and 282 men in making this progress. The fourth Division was then calmed and went to the back to rest. The unit did not come back to battle before the Armistice of 11 November 1918. 

After the war had finished, Leane went about as the leader of the fourth Division for a month, withdrew, was referenced in despatches for the seventh time, and was likewise granted the French Croix de Guerre. In April, he stopped to order the twelfth Brigade, as it had been amalgamated with another detachment as men were repatriated to Australia. Leane then headed out to the United Kingdom, where he was selected as General Officer Commanding No. 4 Group Hurdcott on the Salisbury Plain, which had an imperative job in repatriation. In June, he was made a Companion of the Order of the Bath. The suggestion for the honor read: 

In July, he was referenced in despatches for the eighth and last time. In September he surrendered his obligations at Hurdcott and set out to come back to Australia. Leane was differently portrayed by Bean in his "Official History of Australia in the War of 1914– 1918" as, "the leader of the most well known group of warriors in Australian history", "the battling general "second to none"", "the chief battling pioneer in the AIF", "an especially cool and coercive – and genuine authority", and an "extraordinary pioneer". He had a notoriety for being "a kind head, with extraordinary quality of character and a high feeling of obligation. In real life he was... unflappable and reckless of threat". Of Leane's four siblings who served in World War I, two were slaughtered. Six of his nephews additionally served, two of whom were murdered. The Leanes ended up one of the country's most recognized battling families, and were known as the "Battling Leanes of Prospect". 

Leane landed in Adelaide on 18 October 1919, and his arrangement in the AIF was ended, as per typical repatriation techniques, on 3 January 1920. Notwithstanding the improvements he had gotten amid the war, he was additionally issued with the 1914– 15 Star, British War Medal and Victory Medal. While conveyed abroad, he had been elevated to the brevet rank of lieutenant colonel in the peacetime Citizen Forces. On 13 May 1920, it was declared that Leane would be the following Commissioner of the South Australia Police from 1 July, supplanting Thomas Edwards. Leane's arrangement was something of an astonishment to senior cops, who, in light of long-standing courses of action, expected that the magistrate would be selected from inside the power. At the time, Leane was portrayed as a "breathtaking individual" by fighters who had served under his order, and it was seen that "class and firm choice" were exceptional highlights of his character. At the point when the Police Association, which spoke to the general population of the power, met on 29 June, Leane's arrangement was unreservedly talked about, and it was settled that, regardless of the way that they, as a body, were against the arrangement of an untouchable as Commissioner, they would be faithful to him. The gathering additionally chose to solicit Leane to meet with delegates from each part of the administration at the earliest opportunity, to examine different complaints and propose changes. 

In July 1920, Leane was delegated to order the low maintenance nineteenth Infantry Brigade, which included the metropolitan region of Adelaide and the south-east locale of South Australia, and was a piece of the peacetime military structure. Around the same time, he was designated as a "confidant" to the Governor-General. In May of the next year, as a component of a re-association of the Citizen Forces, he was named to order the third Infantry Brigade. Because of Leane's yearly report on the police constrain in December 1922, "The Register" paper saw that Leane had "dissipated, generally, any sentiment of disappointment at his arrangement which existed among individuals from the power", and that he had won their regard by his exacting unbiasedness, thought and feeling of equity. It likewise expressed that the states of police administration had extraordinarily improved in the a long time since his arrangement. 

In June 1923, Leane brought an instance of criticism against Harry Kneebone, the supervisor of the Australian Labor Party (ALP) paper, "The Daily Herald". The case asserted that Kneebone had denounced Leane's notoriety over the lead of the third Infantry Brigade yearly camp at Wingfield in March that year, over which Leane had directed. The paper had portrayed the camp as a "rearing ground for outlawry", had guaranteed that discipline was missing, and that the nourishment and convenience was poor, in addition to other things. Bill Denny, a legal counselor and ALP Member of Parliament, spoke to Kneebone. It was resolved that there was an "at first sight" argument against the respondent, and the issue was planned for preliminary in the Supreme Court in October, however the jury was unfit to go to a decision and were expelled. The case was surrendered in November. 

By July 1923, "The Advertiser" paper was revealing that Leane's methodology over his three years in charge had a huge effect in the organization of the South Australia Police, clarifying that Leane had shed status as the reason for advancement, by substituting legitimacy and productivity, just as choosing hopefuls who showed characteristics of compassion and civility in managing the general population. In February 1925, Leane facilitated a gathering of officials of police from around Australia held in Adelaide. Leane effectively upheld dedicatory exercises, for example, Anzac Day and Remembrance Day, and went to unveilings of commemorations. In April 1926, Leane surrendered direction of the third Infantry Brigade, and was set on the unattached rundown. For his military administration since 1905, he had likewise been granted the Volunteer Officers' Decoration. 

In 1926– 1927, a Royal Commission into pay off of individuals from the police by bookmakers was led, finding that it was plausible that two criminologists and a few casually dressed constables were blameworthy of accepting hush money. Subsequent to thinking about the report of the Royal Commission, Leane presented his own report to the legislature, in which he scrutinized the ambiguous idea of its discoveries, and keeping in mind that tolerating that some police may have taken hush-money, he attested that debasement was not across the board. One investigator and three constables were offered the chance to leave and took it, and another casually dressed constable was come back to formally dressed obligation. Throughout the imperial commission, a few different casually dressed constables had surrendered. Before the commission finished up, Leane prescribed to the Chief Secretary, James Jelley, who was the priest in charge of the police, that the casually dressed part of the police be abrogated, with formally dressed constables to be pivoted through those obligations as required. His suggestion was acknowledged. In January 1927, the structure by Leane's brother by marriage, Louis Laybourne Smith, was chosen for the National War Memorial in Adelaide. In mid 1928, Leane turned into an establishment part and the debut leader of the Legacy Club of Adelaide, built up to help the wards of perished ex-servicemen. 

In September 1928, Leane gave police security to non-association strikebreakers got to chip away at the Port Adelaide wharves to evade an argument about the modern honor that secured the waterfront. Leane went to the degree of expressly directing police tasks, in spite of an absence of turmoil toward the start of the question. There were recommendations that socialists were meddling in inward association consultations to determine the issue. After seven days, the proceeded with work of non-association work brought about huge brutality on the waterfront. On the morning of 27 September, a horde of between 4,000– 5,000 unionists and others overran the Port Adelaide wharves, boarding ships and harming and threatening strikebreakers. That evening, a horde of 2,000 walked the from Port Adelaide to Outer Harbor to go up against the strikebreakers working there. Leane, joined by only one investigator, met the pioneers and endeavored to deter them from entering the wharf zone. Rather, the group flooded forward towards the docks. Be that as it may, Leane, his overseers and around 150 mounted and foot police quickly set into movement plans to initially separate the mass of the group among the structures, at that point cordon off a huge bit of it in an open designation. For quite a while they stayed at a stalemate, however the group in the long run scattered having been unfit to approach any of the strikebreakers or the vessels they were taking a shot at. The unionists had assaulted various police and police steeds, there had been a lot of stone tossing by the group, and the police had utilized their rod unreservedly now and again. The occasions of the day were depicted in "The Register" as "likely without parallel ever of state". 

Over the next end of the week, somewhere in the range of 1,000 volunteers were confirmed as a component of the Citizens' Defense Brigade, a power of extraordinary constables raised at Leane's solicitation to enlarge the police in managing the waterfront question. The unit was based at Fort Largs and was outfitted with administration rifles and blades. The men were immediately presented at the wharves on keep up peace. Amid the question, Leane rested in an office at the port so he was close by to manage any crises. Leane's choice to arm the generally unpracticed volunteers with pikes was later scrutinized in Parliament. The question forged ahead, with significant unsettling influences at Port Adelaide on 14 January 1929 which brought about numerous wounds, and another on 17 January. A noteworthy police nearness was required at the wharves into 1930 to manage aggravations and strikes on non-association specialists, and Leane by and by administered police tasks there on a few events. 

In November 1928, two of Leane's children, Lionel and Geoffrey, had joined the mounted police. In 1931, "The Mail" paper distributed a shining article on Leane's eleven years as magistrate, lauding the order and productivity he had conveyed to the power, and portraying him as a "genuine warrior" and "accommodating pioneer", who "never requests that a man do what he would not do himself". In the next year, Leane presented 15– multi year old police cadets into the power, in a push to enroll all the more exceptionally prepared men. He determined that if every single other thing were equivalent, inclination for the cadetships would be given to the children of perished returned servicemen. In 1934, Leane based on this plan by presenting trial police preparing for adolescents matured 17 to 20. Leane was additionally a promoter for the job of female cops, and was the first to put a lady responsible for the female individuals from the power. In 1934, he brought police hounds into administration, and in the next year he divulged a dedication to cops who had passed on obligation since 1862. Likewise in 1935, Leane proposed an across the nation plan to break down auto collisions to decide the hazard factors adding to them, and tailor police traffic authorization activities, and then, actualized such a program in South Australia. In 1936, a true to life sketch of Leane referenced that he was an equity of the harmony, had been leader of the Commonwealth Club in Adelaide, was the director of the South Australian part of the Institute of Public Administration, and had been granted the King George V Silver Jubilee Medal the earlier year. 

In 1937, Leane was made an Officer of the Order of Saint John, and furthermore got the King George VI Coronation Medal. Around the same time he presented preparing in morse code for cops, forecasting the acquaintance of radio with the police constrain. In 1938, Leane was set on the resigned rundown of military officers, having achieved 60 years old. His administration in the police was stretched out by a demonstration of Parliament enabling him to serve until he was 65. Leane's proceeding with worry about car crashes and their outcomes was featured by a guide kept up in his office, on which all mishaps were stamped. In April 1939, with the threat of war in Europe, Leane turned into an individual from the State Emergency Civil Defense Council, with duties regarding interior security, assurance of helpless focuses, control of the common populace, knowledge, detainment of adversary common air ship, common flying, and the air examination administration. 

Around the same time, after the flare-up of World War II, Leane pushed for the presentation of radio interchanges into the police, focusing on the requirement for speedy reaction in instances of common crisis. On 18 June 1940, Leane was delegated as the leader of the Returned and Services League-composed Volunteer Defense Corps (VDC) in South Australia, an association like the Home Guard in the United Kingdom. Inside about fourteen days, more than 2,000 returned World War I servicemen had enrolled in the VDC. In light of the flare-up of war, by July 1940 Leane had approved the swearing-in of 3,000 unique constables to protect defenseless focuses and industry against fifth segment components. On 19 October, Leane told a procession of more than 5,000 VDC individuals, including 2,000 who had gone from nation regions. By February 1941, the VDC had expanded to a quality of 8,000 men. Amid World War II, South Australia was the main state to allow individuals from the police to enroll in the military, however this was pulled back after Japan entered the war, because of the need to keep up police numbers. In July 1943, Leane's arrangement as VDC leader was stretched out for a year, in spite of the way that he had achieved the typical Army retirement age of 65. On 30 June 1944, Leane resigned as police official, and was supplanted by William Francis Johns, a serving administrator. 

After Leane's retirement as police official, he quickly proceeded with his work with the VDC, leaving on 30 July 1944. He was knighted in the 1945 King's birthday respects for his administrations as police chief over a 24-year time span. For his administration with the VDC amid World War II he was issued with the War Medal 1939– 1945 and Australia Service Medal 1939– 1945. In 1946, he turned into the debut leader of the Plympton part of the traditionalist Liberal and Country League, the harbinger of the state Liberal Party. He kept on driving the Adelaide Anzac Day March every year, and on 7 September 1946 was contributed with his knighthood by the Governor-General of Australia, Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester. 

His police cadet framework was permitted to slip by after his retirement, yet it was re-presented by John McKinna, another previous officer, who progressed toward becoming chief in 1957. He remained a solid backer of low maintenance soldiering, just as an arrangement of all inclusive military preparing. Leane lived in Adelaide until his passing at the Repatriation General Hospital, Daw Park on 25 June 1962, with him and his better half commending their precious stone wedding commemoration two weeks before his demise. He was covered in Centennial Park Cemetery, and was made due by his significant other, Edith, and six youngsters: five children and a girl. His child Geoffrey was initially a mounted policeman then a criminologist, was a lieutenant colonel and twice referenced in despatches amid World War II, later turned into a police auditor, and was agent chief from 1959 to 1972. His namesake child, known as Lionel, turned into an analyst sergeant. Another child, Benjamin, was a warrant officer amid World War II, and endure being a wartime captive of the Japanese. 

On accepting the updates on his passing, McKinna said that Leane was "a terrific man and an astounding fighter", who "was extremely the dad of the present-day police drive, as amid his term as police chief he redesigned the entire power". He likewise said that, "The power was presently accepting the advantages of his revamping and the numerous new frameworks and enhancements he presented". He saw that Leane "was dependably an exacting taskmaster yet was carefully reasonable in the entirety of his dealings". The Premier of South Australia, Sir Thomas Playford, said that Leane "had been one of the extraordinary officers of World War I, and had likewise presented with obvious capacity as police chief for a long time".