Tokyo Mew 

The arrangement was adjusted into a 52 scene anime arrangement by Studio Pierrot. It appeared in Japan on April 6, 2002, on both TV Aichi and TV Tokyo; the last scene disclosed on March 29, 2003. A two-volume continuation of the manga, "Tokyo Mew in the current style", was serialized in "Nakayoshi" from April 2003 to February 2004. The continuation presents another Mew, Berry Shirayuki (signifying "White Snow Berry"), who turns into the transitory pioneer of the Mew Mews, while Ichigo (signifying "Strawberry") is on an excursion to England. Two computer games were likewise made for the arrangement: a riddle experience diversion for the Game Boy Advance framework and a pretending computer game for the PlayStation. 

Tokyopop initially authorized the manga arrangement for English-language production in North America and discharged the total unique arrangement just as the continuation, with Kodansha Comics wanting to re-distribute the arrangement with another interpretation in September 2011. 4Kids Entertainment authorized the anime arrangement for North American communicate under the name Mew Power. Vigorously altered and named, 23 scenes of "Mew Power" circulated on and 4Kids TV in the United States and the whole 26 scenes publicized on YTV in Canada. 4Kids Entertainment was unfit to permit the rest of the 26 scenes of the arrangement, in this manner were unfit to finish its communicated. They have never discharged the arrangement to home video. 

Generally welcomed by English-language perusers, a few volumes of the manga arrangement showed up in the Top 50 deals records for realistic books in their individual long stretches of discharge. Pundits commended the manga as a charming and engaging arrangement with free-streaming style and character plans. "in the current style" got acclaim as a decent continuation of the arrangement, but at the same time was scrutinized for offering just the same old thing new. The anime adjustment got high appraisals while airing in Japan, bringing about various promoting tie-ins. Notwithstanding analysis for broad altering that expelled the majority of the Japanese components, the "Mew Power" name turned into the most astounding appraised 4Kids show amid its communicate. It was authorized for territorial discharge in a few different nations rather than the first Japanese arrangement. 

In Tokyo, Japan, a young lady named Ichigo Momomiya goes to an imperiled species show with her "pulverize" Masaya Aoyama. After a seismic tremor, Ichigo and four different young ladies are washed in an odd light. A feline shows up before Ichigo, at that point converges with her. The following day, she starts acting like a feline and making feline plays on words. Subsequent to meeting Ryô Shirogane and Keiichirô Akasaka, Ichigo discovers that she was imbued with the DNA of the Iriomote feline. Ryou and Keiichirou clarify this enables her to change into Mew Ichigo, a ground-breaking brave feline young lady. She is requested to crush Chimera Animas—outsider parasites which taint creatures and transform them into beasts. Ryou and Keiichirou train Ichigo to locate the four different young ladies from the display—the rest of the Mew Mews. 

The principal Mew Ichigo experiences is Minto Aizawa, a ruined, well off young lady and ballet performer who is imbued with the qualities of the blue lorikeet; Retasu Midorikawa, a modest yet brilliant young lady who perseveres through steady harassing from three young ladies and ingests the qualities of the finless porpoise; a hyper but then young lady named Bu-Ling Huang who gets the qualities of the brilliant lion tamarin; and Zakuro Fujiwara, an expert on-screen character and model mixed with the qualities of the dim wolf. 

The five Mew Mews fight the Chimera Animas and their outsider controllers Quiche, Pie and Tart. Quiche begins to look all starry eyed at Ichigo where he endeavors to pick up her adoration notwithstanding the way that he is attempting to dispense with the other Mew Mews. Pie and Tart later join Quiche in attempting to devastate the Mew Mews. 

As the battling heightens, the Mew Mews are entrusted with discovering "Mew Aqua", a material made from unadulterated water that contains huge power for fighting the outsider assaults and can be detected by the Mew Mews. Amid a fight with Quiche at an aquarium, Ichigo is in peril of losing when the strange Blue Knight shows up and protects her. He returns intermittently all through the arrangement, shielding Ichigo from different threats. It is later uncovered that the Blue Knight is in reality Masaya. Soon after this revelation, Masaya crumples and changes once more. This time, he changes into Deep Blue, the outsider chief who needs to decimate mankind. In the wake of disclosing to Ichigo that Masaya was a bogus structure for brief use, Deep Blue assaults the Mew Mews. Pie and Tart attempt to stop the other mew mews while Ichigo follows Deep Blue. He and Quiche fight and Deep Blue successes. 

Masaya's identity quickly returns and he utilizes the Mew Aqua inside Deep Blue to spare Ichigo and tokyo, executing himself simultaneously. Crying over his body, Ichigo empties her capacity into Masaya to spare his life, losing her very own all the while. Masaya kisses her, changing her back to a human and resuscitates her. Ryou gives Pie the rest of the Mew Aqua to spare the outsiders' reality, after which Quiche, Pie, and Tart express their farewells and come back to their own reality. 

In the two-volume spin-off "Tokyo Mew in the current style", Ichigo and Masaya move to England to ponder jeopardized species. The rest of the Mew Mews keep on disposing of the Chimera Animas deserted by the outsiders. They face another danger as the Saint Rose Crusaders: people with extraordinary forces who want to vanquish the world and make a perfect world while assuming control over the rest of the Chimera Animas. Berry Shirayuki turns into the 6th Mew and briefly has Ichigo's spot as the pioneer. Berry is the main Mew to be mixed with the DNA of two imperiled species, the Andean mountain feline and the Amami rabbit. As one of the most grounded Mew Mews, Berry is focused by two of the Crusaders, who assault her at school. Ichigo comes back to give help amid this fight. For their last assault, two Crusaders mesmerize the residents of Tokyo and set them against the Mew Mews. Berry and her cherished companion Tasuku Meguro utilize their newly discovered sentiments of affection to invert the trance and cause a difference in heart in the Crusaders. 

Mia Ikumi went through a year structuring the "Tokyo Mew" manga before the arrival of the main volume in February 2001. The story she initially introduced to her editors, "Tokyo Black Cat Girl", included a courageous woman named Hime Azumi. An intergalactic cop named Masha enabled her to change into a feline young lady and requested that her guide him in overcoming outsider intruders called the Bugs. After the creation group chose to concentrate on five female superheroes, Ikumi was approached to remake the lead character. She had second thoughts about the changes, as the character was initially intended for a progressively sensational arrangement. 

As "Tokyo Mew" turned into a reasonable venture, Kodansha contracted Reiko Yoshida to be the arrangement's situation author and story chief. Yoshida and two different editors decided every volume's plot, made a situation by including stage headings and exchange, and exhibited it to Ikumi. Ikumi included her own thoughts and changes, making the original copy's first draft, which was taken to the distributers for conclusive survey and endorsement. This contrasts from most manga arrangement, in which the manga essayist likewise makes the situations and stories before submitting to their supervisor for endorsement. 

After the principal volume's discharge, a two-day "Tokyo Mew" celebration was held amid the Golden Week occasion—seven days in length range in late April and early May amid which four open occasions happen—to advance the arrangement. Occasions incorporated a "Tokyo Mew" craftsmanship display and the arrival of new stock. Ikumi, the arrangement's craftsman, made an exceptional notice for the occasion, including every one of the twelve characters. She likewise cosplayed as characters from the arrangement, as Minto Aizawa on one day and Retasu Midorikawa on the other. 

Composed by Reiko Yoshida and represented by Mia Ikumi, "Tokyo Mew" was first serialized in "Nakayoshi" magazine between September 2000 and February 2003. The twenty-nine sections were then gathered into seven "tankōbon" volumes by Kodansha. The primary volume was discharged on February 1, 2001, with the last volume discharged April 4, 2003. In April 2003, a continuation called "Tokyo Mew in the current style" debuted in "Nakayoshi". Running until February 2004 and composed exclusively by Mia Ikumi, the spin-off was distributed as two volumes. 

"Tokyo Mew" and "Tokyo Mew in the current style" are authorized for an English-language discharge in North America by Tokyopop. The primary volume of the fundamental arrangement was discharged on June 1, 2004, with volumes discharged accordingly until the seventh volume was distributed on December 15, 2005. The two volumes of "Tokyo Mew in the current style" were discharged on June 7 and September 13, 2005, separately. In contrast to the Japanese discharges, each Tokyopop part is named. The fundamental arrangement is authorized for an English language discharge in Singapore by Chuang Yi. Carlsen Comics has authorized the arrangement, through its provincial divisions, and discharged the arrangement in German, Danish and Swedish. The arrangement is additionally authorized for provincial language discharges in French by Pika Édition, in Polish by Japonica Polonica Fantastica, and in Finnish by Sangatsu Manga. "Tokyo Mew" was one of the first manga arrangement discharged in Spanish in North America by Public Square Books. Kodansha Comics discharged an omnibus rendition of the arrangement, including another interpretation in September 2011. 

Pierrot, Tokyu Agency and Eon adjusted "Tokyo Mew" into a fifty-two scene anime arrangement, coordinated by Noriyuki Abe. Communicate on both TV Aichi and TV Tokyo, the arrangement debuted on April 6, 2002, and disclosed week after week until its decision on March 29, 2003. The majority of the music for the arrangement was delivered by Shin Yoshimura and formed by Takayuki Negishi. Two bits of signature music were additionally utilized for the anime arrangement. "My Sweet Heart", performed by Rika Komatsu, was the arrangement opening topic. The closure topic "Koi wa A La Mode" is performed by the five voice on-screen characters who play the Mew Mews. In Japan, the arrangement was discharged crosswise over nine Region 2 DVD volumes. The ninth volume incorporated a reward DVD containing additional substance. Sooner or later amid the TV communicate, Eon changed its name to We've. 

"Tokyo Mew" was later authorized for an English-language named discharge by 4Kids Entertainment. In its declaration about the arrangement, 4Kids initially noticed that the show would be renamed to "Hollywood Mew" and that they would be intensely altering and restricting scenes with the goal that watchers would not perceive its Japanese roots. Ensuing 4Kids official statements about the arrangement alluded to the new arrangement as "The Mew Mews" and its unique name "Tokyo Mew". At the point when the arrangement debuted on 4Kids TV on February 19, 2005, it broadcast under the name as "Mew Power". Characters and scenes were renamed, scenes were cut and storylines were adjusted. The music was supplanted with another score and the opening topic was supplanted with the melody "Group Up", performed by Bree Sharp and Mollie Weaver. Twenty-six scenes of "Mew Power" publicized on 4Kids Entertainment in the United States in light of the fact that 4Kids was unfit to get a marketing bargain for the arrangement and the English name had ceased generation. The 4Kids scenes disclosed on YTV in Canada and on the Pop Girl satellite TV slot in the United Kingdom; these included three named scenes not communicate in the United States. 

In spite of the fact that "Mew Power" has not been discharged to home video in North America, ten of the 4Kids scenes have been discharged to Region 4 DVD in Australia and New Zealand by Magna Pacific and every one of the twenty-six 4Kids scenes were discharged to Region 2 DVD in South Africa. "Mew Power" was authorized for local airing in French by Arès Films, which discharged nine named 4Kids scenes to DVD in February 2006 as a solitary volume through Warner Home Vidéo France. The French name disclosed on Teletoon as a major aspect of their Code F square. The organization likewise authorized the staying twenty-six scenes of the arrangement that 4Kids had not gotten, discharging them in two DVD box sets through AK Vidéo. 

The arrangement additionally circulated in Hungary under the name of "Vadmacska Kommandó." 

Two computer games dependent on the "Tokyo Mew" arrangement were propelled in 2002 by Takara. The first, , a riddle experience amusement for the Game Boy Advance, was discharged in Japan on July 11, 2002. 

The second title, , was discharged in Japan on December 5, 2002. It is a PlayStation turn-based pretending computer game in which the player controls another Mew, , just as the first five courageous women. They should safeguard Ringo's island from Quiche, the Chimera Animas and another outsider named . Both Ringo Akai and Gateau were made by the manga's craftsman, Mia Ikumi, following plan determinations from Takara. The amusement utilizes voice performers from the anime arrangement, with the two new characters voiced by Taeko Kawata and Ryōtarō Okiayu, separately. Ikumi was satisfied with how the two characters turned out and communicated a craving to utilize Ringo as a standard character in a future manga arrangement. Ringo later joined the other Mew Mews in the "Petite Mew" reward story in the second volume of "Tokyo Mew in the current style". 

Various music and character CDs have been discharged for the "Tokyo Mew arrangement" by King Records. The initial, a CD single, contained the full and karaoke forms of "Koi wa A La Mode", performed by the five voice on-screen characters who played the Mew Mews, and a second melody performed by Saki Nakajima, who voices Ichigo. 

On July 24, 2002, a five-plate constrained version authority's crate set was discharged containing character melodies for every one of the Mew Mews, performed by their separate voice on-screen characters and a remix of "Koi wa A La Mode." The individual character tune circles were discharged as independent CDs on September 4, 2002. An extra character CD set, containing remixed variants of two tunes from every individual collection, pursued on December 25, 2002. A second character CD for Ichigo, containing five new tracks performed by Nakajima, was discharged on February 26, 2003. 

The principal full anime soundtrack, "Tokyo Mew Original Soundtrack" was discharged on September 25, 2002, by NEC. The CD incorporated the arrangement opening and completion subjects and twenty-seven bits of arrangement mood melodies. NEC discharged a second soundtrack on January 22, 2003; it contains the opening and shutting subjects, alongside an extra twenty-nine tracks of mood melodies. On March 26, 2003, two "best of" CDs were discharged for the anime arrangement: "Tokyo Mew Super Best Hit – Cafe Mew side" and "Tokyo Mew Super Best Hit – Tokyo Mew side". Every CD incorporates ten of the arrangement's "most well known" melodic pieces. 

The "Tokyo Mew" manga arrangement was generally welcomed by English-talking groups of onlookers. In March and April 2003, the primary volume sold an expected 1,597 and 1,746 duplicates separately. This put the volume at the low end of the main 50 deals for every month. By 2004, with a large portion of the arrangement discharged, it turned into a gentle accomplishment for licensor Tokyopop. It was positioned number 16 on the rundown of Manga Top 50 for the primary quarter of 2004 in the "ICv2 Retailers Guide to Anime/Manga", in view of offers from both standard book shops and comic book shops. Offers of the 6th and seventh volumes dropped somewhat; be that as it may, both were among the main 100 top rated realistic books in March and May 2004. The primary volume of "Tokyo Mew in the current style" appeared 63rd on the rundown of top 100 top of the line realistic books of May 2005, with about twofold the business figures of the last volume of the principle arrangement. On the Nielsen Bookscan graphs, the volume appeared at rank 39 preceding rapidly moving to the fourteenth spot. The second volume of "in the current style" saw comparable achievement, appearing in the 69th opening before progressing to the twelfth position, an aftereffect of the "Mew Power" show showing up on 4Kids TV. 

"Tokyo Mew" was commonly generally welcomed by commentators, who portrayed it as adorable and engaging. However "AnimeFringe" Patrick King takes note of that it's anything but an exceptionally savvy arrangement and that it maintains a strategic distance from complex plot focuses, he commended it as engaging "mind sweets" and a "charming activity sentiment" that has no "hallucinations of greatness". Faultfinders applauded the craftsmanship in both "Tokyo Mew" and the spin-off "Tokyo Mew in the current style". Ikumi's "free streaming" style and character structures were viewed as an ideal fit for the arrangement. Analysis of Ikumi's specialty centered around pictures which normally spilled out of board fringes and discourse rises with questionable speakers. Patrick King of "Animefringe" expressed: "a standout amongst the most alluring parts of Tokyo Mew is effectively Mia Ikumi's ultra-adorable fine art. Enormous eyes, feline ears, fluffy tails, and short skirts all met up in a charm combo that is difficult to stand up to." According to Carlo Santos of "Anime News Network", "Mia Ikumi's work of art is flawlessly fit to the story, and it isn't even all that wispy and frilly contrasted with other "shōjo" material. In the same way as other growing manga craftsman, Ikumi's most noteworthy quality is in deliberately presented character representations, and her productive utilization of tones makes interesting impacts while additionally avoiding the test of foundations." Conversely, recorded as a hard copy for "", Shaenon Garrity reprimands the arrangement, calling it "deadened", "stale" and "creative[ly] bankrupt" and feeling it was "obviously planned by its distributer to ride the supernatural young lady tidal wave for all it was worth: the makers' minimal notes are loaded up with references to enormous book signings, photograph shoots, and models procured to dress as the meagerly clad preteen courageous women." She likewise comments that the arrangement utilizes its jeopardized species topic, while as yet having a "long winded ecological subject". 

Over all "Tokyo Mew in the current style" had increasingly blended audits. Pundits applauded it for being a cutting edge manga that embodies the enchanted young lady equation, featuring the two its qualities and shortcomings. Mike Dungan, of Mania Entertainment, believed the first arrangement to be "very enchanting" and felt that "in the current style" was a decent continuation of the arrangement with "a similar fun and fervor" as its ancestor. Others felt Berry was an excessively shallow champion and that the continuation offered just the same old thing new for perusers with the Saint Rose Crusaders' outfits and plans being simply ideas acquired from "Mariner Moon". Janet Crocker, Shannon Fay and Chris Istel of "Animefringe" condemned "in the current style" for having the character Duke, the fundamental antagonist of the bend, wearing a white robe like those utilized by the racial domination gathering, the Ku Klux Klan. Garrity felt "in the current style" was a vehicle for referencing "Tokyo Mew" being a fan and stock and that Berry was a "straightforward wish-satisfaction hero". 

The anime adjustment has been contrasted with "Mariner Moon" because of both having female heroes, five unique colleagues with mark hues and controls, and comparable plot lines, as have numerous enchanted young lady arrangement. "Tokyo Mew" got high appraisals in Japan with broad merchandizing tie ins and advertising occasions to advance the arrangement. At the point when 4Kids declared their permitting of the anime, intensely altered and limited, aficionados of the arrangement were straightforwardly terrified and started different crusades to persuade the organization to discharge a whole form of the arrangement. After reviews of the retooled arrangement were discharged, watchers were less frustrated, yet at the same time irritated by the social moving and still wanted a whole DVD discharge. "Mew Power" turned into an effective communicate arrangement for 4Kids, turning into the most astounding evaluated 4Kids show toward the beginning of the fall 2005 season, however it was never discharged to DVD in North America. The 4Kids name, as opposed to unique Japanese adaptation, was in this way authorized for communicate in France, Latin America, Australia, New Zealand, Portugal, Greece, South Africa and Israel.