Time of Empires II 

Time of Empires II: The Age of Kings is a constant technique computer game created by Ensemble Studios and distributed by Microsoft. Discharged in 1999 for Microsoft Windows and Macintosh, it is the second amusement in the "Time of Empires" arrangement. A development, "", was discharged in 2000. 

"The Age of Kings" is set in the Middle Ages and contains thirteen playable human advancements. Players plan to accumulate assets, which they use to assemble towns, make armed forces, and thrashing their foes. There are five verifiably based crusades, which choke the player to particular and story-supported conditions. There are three extra single-player diversion modes, and multiplayer is bolstered. In spite of utilizing a similar diversion motor and comparable code to its ancestor, advancement of "The Age of Kings" took a year longer than anticipated, constraining Ensemble Studios to discharge "" in 1998. The plan group concentrated on settling critical issues in "Period of Empires", however noted on discharge that a few issues remained. 

Gathering of "The Age of Kings" was exceedingly positive. The critical number of new highlights was applauded, just like the interactivity upgrades. The Age of Kings got "all inclusive recognition", as indicated by computer game survey aggregator Metacritic. Three months after its discharge, two million duplicates of "The Age of Kings" had been transported, and it topped deals graphs in seven nations. The amusement won various honors and is today viewed as a great of its sort, having significantly affected future recreations in its class. Both the first "Time of Empires II" and the extension pack were later discharged as "The Gold Edition". 

In April 2013, "Period of Empires II: HD Edition" was discharged on the Steam computerized dispersion stage for Windows working frameworks. The "HD Edition" incorporates both the first amusement and the extension "The Conquerors", just as refreshed designs for high-goals shows. It additionally underpins client created content through the Steam Workshop and multiplayer recreations gave through the Steam servers. Three extensions have been discharged for the "HD Edition": "" in 2013, "The African Kingdoms" in 2015, and "Ascent of the Rajas" in 2016. 

"The Age of Kings" centers around structure towns, gathering assets, making armed forces and at last vanquishing adversaries by pulverizing their units and structures. Players vanquish rival towns and realms as they advance one of 13 civic establishments through four "Ages": the Dark Age, the Feudal Age, the Castle Age (being the High Middle Ages), and the Imperial Age, reminiscent of the Renaissance—a 1000-year time allotment. Progressing to another Age opens new units, structures, and advancements, yet players should initially fabricate certain structures from their present age and afterward pay an entirety of assets (normally nourishment and gold). 

Non military personnel units, called "townspeople", are utilized to assemble assets; they are either male or female—sexual orientation does not influence their capacities. Assets can be utilized to prepare units, develop structures, and research innovations, in addition to other things; for instance, players can examine better reinforcement for infantry units. The amusement offers four sorts of assets: nourishment, wood, gold, and stone. Nourishment is gotten by chasing creatures, gathering berries, collecting domesticated animals, cultivating, and shore angling and angling from pontoons. Wood is assembled by cleaving down trees. Gold is gotten from either gold mines, exchange or gathering relics in a religious community, and stone is gathered from stone mines. Residents require checkpoints, normally safe structures (town focus, mining camp, plant, and timber yard), where they can store assembled assets. 

Every human advancement can buy overhauls that expansion the rate of social event these assets. Players can build a commercial center for exchange; players can exchange wood, stone, and nourishment for gold, and utilize gold to purchase different assets. Market costs change with each exchange. Besides, markets and docks can likewise produce gold by utilizing exchanging trucks or machine gear-pieces which are utilized to visit outside business sectors and ports; when they come back to the player's market/dock, gold is added to the reserve. The measure of gold an exchange unit wins on each excursion is identified with the separation it needed to go to an outside market; progressively gold is earned on longer treks. It is conceivable to exchange with foes' business sectors or docks, yet the player's exchanging units might be assaulted or obliterated by adversary units all the while. Players don't have to continue exchanging physically, as once they select the port or market the exchanging units interminably keep on exchanging. 

There are five battles in "The Age of Kings", containing truly based situations, for example, Genghis Khan's attack of Eurasia, Barbarossa's Crusade, or Saladin's resistance of the Holy Land. In the Joan of Arc and William Wallace crusades, the player can control a unit dependent on its namesake; in others, players take orders from managing spirits illustrative of the military's officer. 

Extra diversion modes are accessible to the player in "The Age of Kings". One mode, irregular guide, produces a guide from one of a few arbitrarily picked guide creating contents, with players beginning in the Dark Age with a Town Center, three locals (or additionally relying upon development), and a scout unit. The diversion can be won through military success, by developing an exceptional structure known as a Wonder and keeping it representing a specific measure of time, or by acquiring control of all relics on the guide for a set measure of time. Deathmatch mode enables players in the first place a lot of assets, making an attention on military predominance, while in the regicide mode every player is given a ruler unit, winning by murdering the majority of the different rulers. 

Each player has a farthest point to the quantity of units they can make—a populace limit—however may not promptly utilize the whole potential populace. The populace limit, which can be topped at anyplace somewhere in the range of 25 and 200 in interims of 25, depends on the quantity of houses, Castles, or Town Centers—the principle working in a player's town—which have been constructed. "The Age of Kings" presented two noteworthy new highlights for unit the executives: the inactive resident catch, which enables players to distinguish locals that have not been allocated an undertaking, and the town chime, which sends each of the a player's townspeople into their Town Center, Castle, or tower for security; units garrisoned inside these three structures, particularly bowmen, increment the structure's capability (towers fire more bolts with units garrisoned inside) including the town focus, which can't fire anything at all without somebody garrisoned there. 

"The Age of Kings" likewise incorporates five kinds of military units: infantry, toxophilite, rangers, attack weaponry, and maritime units. Particular sorts of infantry, bowmen, and mounted force are "counter units" with extraordinary safeguards against different kinds of units. The three human classes of military by and large pursue a stone paper-scissors demonstrate. For instance, infantry are commonly ground-breaking against structures however powerless against rangers, hence the infantry counter units—spearmen and pikemen—have assault rewards against mounted force. 

Every Civilization in "The Age of Kings" has a couple of uncommon units that are select to that Civilization. For example, the Britons approach longbowmen, an arrow based weaponry unit with expanded range. These Civilization-explicit units are commonly progressively ground-breaking, yet at the same time pursue the essential shake paper-scissors display. The priest is an extraordinary sort of military unit that can change over foe units to the player's human progress, and to mend associated units. Priests are additionally used to gather relics. Relics amass gold once held in the player's cloister—the more relics are caught, the quicker the gold is aggregated. Gathering all relics on the guide is one technique by which a player can win an irregular guide diversion, contingent upon the triumph setting. When a player has every one of the relics in their cloisters, a clock is appeared all players. On the off chance that a contradicting player does not demolish a religious community holding a relic after the set time, at that point that player wins. 

Players play as one of 13 developments split into four structural styles—Western European, Eastern European, Middle Eastern, and East Asian—that decide building appearance in-amusement. The human advancements have shifting qualities and shortcomings concerning financial aspects, innovation, and fight, and every ha access to at least one extraordinary, ground-breaking "Special Units". Moreover, every human advancement gives an individual group reward in group recreations. To change it up, every human progress has a lot of sound chomps in its local language that are expressed by units when chosen or trained to play out an undertaking. 

The structures in "The Age of Kings" are part into the financial and military structures classes. Structures can examine advancements and overhauls that expansion financial, military or unit-based proficiency, just as give assets to the player. 

The most imperative financial structure is the Town Center, where residents are made, a wide range of assets can be put away, a few advances are looked into, and the player can progress to the following Age. The Town Center can fire bolts at foe units inside range if residents or bowmen are garrisoned while enduring an onslaught. Other monetary structures accessible incorporate capacity structures for assets, ranches, docks (the dock may likewise create a few military ships), and houses to help a higher populace. 

Military structures incorporate unit-delivering structures, for example, dormitory, arrow based weaponry ranges, stables, and strongholds, just as protective structures, for example, dividers and towers. Military structures can perform research to improve the capacities of military units, expanding their quality, guarded abilities, or different properties. Palaces are a key hostile and guarded structure as they can construct trebuchets, train the development's "interesting unit/s", and flame a hail of bolts at foe units inside range, with garrisoned units terminating additional bolts. Strongholds must be worked after a player has achieved the Castle Age, in spite of the fact that in some amusement alternatives, players start with an effectively manufactured château as ahead of schedule as the Dark Age. 

In the wake of progressing to the Imperial Age, players can likewise develop a Wonder, an incredibly costly non-military structure. On numerous interactivity modes, constructing a Wonder triggers a triumph commencement—except if it's crushed inside a certain time allotment, the structure player wins. Each progress' Wonder is in the state of a milestone special to that verifiable culture—the Temple of Heaven for the Chinese, for instance, or Notre Dame for the Franks. 

"The Age of Kings" initially delivered with five broad battles: William Wallace (Celts), Joan of Arc (Franks), Saladin (Saracens), Genghis Khan (Mongols) and Barbarossa (Teutons). The battles are arranged numerically to recognize trouble—The William Wallace Campaign being the least demanding, and Barbarossa being the most testing. 

William Wallace 

The Campaign of William Wallace goes about as an instructional exercise battle, much like the first "Time of Empires" amusement, and underlines on the most proficient method to move units, gather and assemble assets, get and store sacred relics and thrashing the adversary, which in this Campaign is introduced as the English amid the Wars of Scottish Independence, directed by the underhanded, unbearable yet gifted administrator Edward Longshanks. 

Joan of Arc 

Joan of Arc puts the player in order of the battered, bloodied and debilitated French amid the Hundred Years War against England. Toward the start of the crusade, about each major and unequivocal fight battled by the French has dependably prompted thrashing to the English. At France's breaking point however, a seventeen-year-old young lady—Joan of Arc means to spare France by the direction of God. She means to drive the English from France until the end of time. Her quality at the Siege of Orleans acquires her the epithet 'The Maid of Orleans', and she wins the certainty of the uncrowned Dauphin Charles VII by being given direction of the whole French Army, in spite of the fact that the Dauphin's counsels start to plot against Joan of Arc. At a few defining moments in the Hundred Years' War, to be specific the Loire Campaign where the whole English and Burgundian powers were gotten out, trust in a free France start to motivate more men to join the battle under Joan of Arc. 

In any case, the delegated Charles VII's consultants persuade the King not to send the guaranteed fortifications to Joan at the urgent Siege of Paris. Joan of Arc retreats to the Castle at Compiègne where the English and Burgundian troops lay attack. Caught outside the security of the Castle, Joan is caught by the Burgundians, trialed by the English as an apostate, and consumed at the stake. The last crusade mission, the Battle of Castillon, has a standout amongst Joan's most believed Lieutenants marshal an enormous power of wrathful French troops, and absolutely crush the English and Burgundian powers around and in Castillon, finishing the Hundred Years' War and removing the English from France, save Calais. 

Saladin 

This battle takes places a very long time after the occasions that prompted the First Crusade and catch of Jerusalem. Saladin (who the player goes about as all through this battle) is first entrusted with setting up himself in Egypt and evacuating the Crusaders there, so as to move toward becoming Sultan of Egypt. A wretched Crusader by the name of Reynald de Chatillon has ceaselessly disregarded the delicate harmony between the Crusaders and the Saracens, making extraordinary concern Saladin. Strikes by Crusaders in the Red Sea are in the long run stifled by the Saracens. At the Battle of Hattin, the Saracens prevail upon an unequivocal triumph the joined quality of the Knights Templar, Knights Hospitallers, Jerusalem and the English Crusaders, catch Reynold de Chatillon (who is the main detainee executed by Saladin by and by) and get a bit of the True Cross as a critical relic. 

With the quality of the Crusaders currently vigorously diminished since Hattin, Saladin dispatches the Siege of Jerusalem to free it from Crusader control. Notwithstanding, the Saracens must take incredible consideration not to obliterate the Monasteries inside the blessed city, and should likewise manage Templar and Hospitaller places to stay that flank the city. The Siege is effective, the Holy Land now by and by in Saracen control, save the Crusader conditions of Tiberias, Tire and Ascalon, yet are along these lines caught by Saladin. At the point when the Pope is educated of the Crusader rout in the Middle East, the Third Crusade is propelled, taking steps to fix Saladin's victory. The last mission requests that the player safeguard an intensely braced Citadel from consistent Crusader assaults, most strikingly King Richard of England, just as developing the Great Mosque of Samarra, the one of a kind Wonder building accessible to the Saracens in amusement. 

Genghis Khan 

The Genghis Khan focuses on the ascent of the partitioned, continually warring clans of Mongolia into the relentless, fearsome Mongol Empire. Early missions of the battle focus on joining the few steppe clans while likewise managing the 'Kara-Khitai', sworn adversaries of Genghis Khan. With different clans either joined together or crushed, Genghis now sets his eyes on global control. The immense wealth of the Khwaremia area in Persia would be the conspicuous decision, yet in spite of a promise of help to the Mongols, the mechanically unrivaled Chinese Kingdoms have won't, along these lines setting another precedent where Genghis coordinates his next crusade. With the total of China now under Mongolian standard, the Mongol crowd presently has the innovation equipped for thumping down the strongholds of Persia, and past. 

The accompanying victories of Khwarezmia and the Russian Principalities, the last by Subutai leaves Europe as the last landmass yet to be prevailed. In any case, Genghis Khan who is currently 80 years of age, bites the dust before the triumph can be finished. His child, Ogatai, guarantees to proceed with the war, stamping Poland as the main target. The Mongols, utilizing numerical predominance alone, can vanquish the mounted Knights of Poland, Bohemia just as the few German Duchies that rally to Poland's help. The last mission of the Genghis Khan crusade centers around Pax Mongolica, the term used to depict the stature of intensity appreciated by the Mongolian Empire. The last real power in Eastern Europe, Hungary, is such obstructs Mongolia's further invasions into Europe. 

Barbarossa 

This battle centers around the extension of the Holy Roman Empire by incorporating the quarreling German duchies under the standard of Frederick Barbarossa, the primary Holy Roman Emperor. The primary battle missions sees the player setting up Barbarossa's strength over the Central European forces of Austria, Saxony, Bavaria, Bohemia, and Burgundy, just as Swabia by gathering relics. In spite of the fact that having set up strength, Barbarossa still discovers adversaries to challenge his Empire's capacity as Poland, just as Henry the Lion, a regarded partner of Barbarossa. Henry is saved his life and titles as long as he guarantees to completely announce loyalty to Barbarossa. 

With Central Europe now under the Empire's predominance, Barbarossa directs his concentration toward Italy, to be specific Milan and the Pope. The ascent of the Holy Roman Empire has tested the intensity of the Pope in Europe, henceforth why Barbarossa must most likely enslave the Italian domains who plot against him. Indeed, Henry the Lion sells out Barbarossa, just this time he is deprived of his titles and constrained into outcast while Barbarossa can discover his prevalence in Italy. The Third Crusade starts in the Middle East, and Barbarossa promises his Empire's help to the coming effort. Be that as it may, the Holy Roman Empire's military is excessively solid for any naval force to convey, compelling Barbarossa to walk his troops through unfriendly Constantinople and Anatolia, which is creeping with Seljuk Turks. Amid this walk, Barbarossa suffocates by the heaviness of his shield in a waterway momentum, leaving his military to proceed to the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem with their dead Emperor to satisfy his desires. 

"The Age of Kings" underpins multiplayer over the Internet, or through a neighborhood (LAN). Up to eight players can partake in one amusement, with the majority of the single player diversion modes accessible. The MSN Gaming Zone upheld the diversion until the administration shut on June 19, 2006. From that point forward, different multiplayer gaming administrations, for example, GameRanger bolster it. Since April 2013, Steam underpins in-diversion multiplayer for HD goals requiring a web association. 

Before the consummation of "Period of Empires", Ensemble Studios had marked an agreement with Microsoft for a continuation. The plan group set "The Age of Kings" in the Middle Ages as a legitimate movement from the old period setting of "Time of Empires". The structure group was aware of endeavoring to catch the expansive intrigue of the main diversion without making the amusement's plan excessively comparative. In any case, they endeavored to interest the tremendous statistic who played "Time of Empires". "The Age of Kings"s configuration group planned to finish the diversion inside a year by utilizing code from the first and reusing the Genie amusement motor. A while into the procedure they discovered they would not have the capacity to finish a round of the quality they looked for in that time. Gathering Studios educated Microsoft they would require one more year and rather made "", an effectively created development pack of "Time of Empires", as a trade off which could be discharged for Christmas 1998. To help fulfill the following year's time constraint, extra software engineers, specialists, and planners were utilized. To defeat another noteworthy complaint to "Period of Empires"— that of way finding—the group totally upgraded the amusement motor's development framework. 

The first "Period of Empires" had been censured for its computerized reasoning (AI). Since the first AI did not "cheat" by crediting itself additional assets or utilizing different strategies the human player wouldn't, it be able to was simpler to crush than in numerous other ongoing procedure recreations. For "The Age of Kings", Ensemble Studios endeavored to build up an all the more dominant AI framework that did not bargain by swindling. Industry veteran Mario Grimani drove Ensemble Studios in the production of the new framework. "The Age of Kings" saw the presentation of a triggers framework for its situation supervisor. The triggers enable messages to be shown, or moves to make place, in light of pre-set criteria or "occasions". The situation manager was likewise improved by the new AI framework. The AI and trigger frameworks cooperated consistently in the single player battles. 

The group was less effective in settling different issues; software engineer Matt Pritchard griped following the arrival of "Period of Empires" that there was still no procedure by which patches could be issued. Broad deceiving in multiplayer rounds of "Period of Empires" came because of a few bugs in the amusement, which brought about Microsoft promising Ensemble Studios there would be a fix procedure for "The Age of Kings". On discharge, there were a few bugs that required prompt consideration, however the fix procedure was not yet prepared. The primary fix was discharged 11 months after the fact. 

Gathering Studios built up another landscape framework for "The Age of Kings", with 3D introduction abilities that were tremendously better than those of "Period of Empires". Pritchard noticed an improvement in the group's creative capacities following their work on the previous two recreations, and he is noted as saying that ""AoK" turned into a feature for their improved ability". Notwithstanding, he whined about the absence of a workmanship resource the executives device, while different divisions increased new apparatuses and computerized methods to aid structure and play testing. 

The soundtrack for "The Age of Kings" was coordinated by Stephen Rippy, who has since played that job for all recreations in the "Time of Empires" arrangement. Music for the diversion was part into two classifications. For "in diversion" music, Rippy's group took melodic components from an assortment of societies and joined them to make a blended sound. "Pre-amusement" music was intended to be one of a kind to the human advancement being referred to. Battles dependent on recorded figures would incorporate "a topic that will in any event be established in [the character's] culture". 

A demo of "The Age of Kings" was discharged on October 16, 1999. It highlighted the learning effort, an example of an irregular guide amusement, and the capacity to play by means of the MSN Gaming Zone. A lot to Ensemble Studios' failure, various inadequate adaptations of the diversion were spilled. These were gotten by warez locales, and sold wrongfully all through the Pacific Rim; warez forms of the amusement were even sold outside Microsoft's workplaces in South Korea. 

In 2012, Hidden Path Entertainment started chipping away at a top notch revamp of "Time of Empires II", an exertion led by Matt Pritchard, a unique Ensemble lead software engineer. On March 7, 2013, its discharge was declared, marked as "Period of Empires II: HD Edition". It has improved designs, widescreen support and new multiplayer choices through Steam. It was discharged on April 9, 2013, and there was a pre-request accessible on April 5. 

On August 21, 2017 at Gamescom, Microsoft reported a remaster titled "Period of Empires II: Definitive Edition" is being developed. 

In January 2000, three months after its discharge, Microsoft declared that they had sent two million duplicates of "The Age of Kings". The amusement topped deals diagrams in the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Australia, and South Korea. It would spend the following over two years on top 20 deals records. "The Age of Kings" was top selling diversion in October 1999, and the fourth most noteworthy selling amusement in 1999. The amusement's deals in the United States alone totaled 469,376 before the finish of 1999, which drew incomes of $20.2 million, the second-most astounding local gross that year behind "SimCity 3000". Local deals climbed another 442,318 units ($19.56 million) from January through October 2000, as per PC Data. It completed the year as the seventh-biggest PC diversion hit in the United States, with 595,016 in deals and $26.2 million in income. "Period of Empires II"s local achievement proceeded in 2001: with offers of 478,557 units ($19.4 million), it guaranteed tenth spot for the year. 

In the German market, "Time of Empires II" appeared in the lead position on Media Control's business outlines amid October 1999, and by March 2000 had gone through 17 weeks in the rankings. It got the Verband der Unterhaltungssoftware Deutschland's (VUD) "Platinum" grant inside one month of discharge, demonstrating offers of 200,000 units crosswise over Germany, Switzerland and Austria. Before the finish of February 2000, it had achieved "Twofold Platinum" status (400,000 deals) and become the German market's "best PC round of the previous a year", as indicated by the VUD. The amusement later got a "Platinum" deals grant from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), for no less than 300,000 duplicates sold in the United Kingdom. 

"The Age of Kings" got "widespread approval", as per computer game survey aggregator Metacritic. 

As per Eurogamer's Geoff Richards, "the rundown of new highlights and enhancements over the first diversion is over a page long". "GamePro"s survey also centered around "new increases to the class itself" which it contended made "The Age of Kings" extraordinary. These incorporated the inactive unit catch and town chime. GameSpy's Carlos Salgado was keen to different highlights; he adulated the capacity to make singular profiles for various players and to modify hotkeys. In the mean time, IGN valued the new capacities given to the resident unit—the audit expressed townspeople "now assume an imperative job in the gathering of assets, yet in addition around the local area barrier and even in battle." 

AllGame's Michael L. House delighted in the utilization of sound nibbles in human advancements' local dialects, which he said was "exceptionally compelling in building up a time upgrading climate". Eurogamer said this element "gives [villagers] an identity, as opposed to the standard 'Recognized' snort of military RTS recreations", likewise expressing that the utilization of female locals gave a decent assortment. Diversion Revolution's audit clarified that by being set in a later age of mankind's history, "The Age of Kings" had the capacity to "add character to a generally indifferent style of ongoing interaction". "PC and Video Games" endorsed of "The Age of Kings" utilization of shorter, progressively centered crusades, contrasted with its forerunner, while Game Revolution noticed that even in slower areas of the battle, the verifiable story kept up player intrigue. GameSpot said that with the screen loaded with units, "you can start to envision how their verifiable counterparts once succeeded", while GameSpy said "The Age of Kings" presents "authenticity once in a while found in the RTS classification". IGN staff contended that while the qualities and shortcomings credited to various civic establishments made the amusement progressively reasonable, the way that they were still for the most part the equivalent kept "The Age of Kings" from "conveying a similar combat zone effect of "StarCraft" or """. 

House likewise applauded the interactivity interface, which he said "couldn't be less complex", just as the propelled gathering and way discovering frameworks. Nash Werner of "GamePro" said that the arrangement devices were magnificent, and grumbled just that they couldn't be allocated to maritime units. "PC and Video Games" for the most part concurred, expressing that "the controls are very easy to understand and all around clarified". GameSpot's Greg Kasavin composed that in spite of the diversion's improved designs, "there's nothing outside about its appearance" and that most amusement highlights will be "promptly unmistakable in the event that you've played an ongoing technique amusement previously". "PC Zone" concurred, however in a negative sense—it contended that "The Age of Kings" "is basically an update of a two-year-old diversion". 

Richards was shocked by the nature of "The Age of Kings" illustrations, considering they were all bitmapped. Notwithstanding, AllGame grumbled that units were in some cases hard to differentiate, a point various analysts concurred on. It likewise called the sound of "The Age of Kings" as a negative, yet not something sufficiently noteworthy to draw players from the diversion's general quality. IGN expressed that cutscenes were fairly insipid, yet that generally the illustrations included "an astonishing measure of detail to the real amusement". IGN's fundamental analysis was for the in-amusement discourse utilized in battles; it logically asked "for what reason wouldn't they be able to simply discover a Frenchman to complete a French pronunciation?" Alex Constantides of "PC and Video Games" appraised the illustrations profoundly, saying that some in-diversion structures are "so fabulous you'll even feel regretful about copying them to the ground". Werner concurred; "the most discernible graphical headways", he composed, were "the sheer size and size of things". Diversion Revolution expressed ""AOE2" is the most attractive of the 2D RTS amusements out there this moment". 

"The Age of Kings" won GameSpot's Strategy Game of the Year in 1999, and was a chosen one for Game of the Year. GamePower likewise named it Strategy Game of the Year, while "PC Gamer" and "PC Gaming World" gave it Editor's Choice honors. The editors of "PC Gamer US" named it their 1999 "Best Real-Time Strategy Game", and composed that it "takes all that we think about the continuous technique classification and shines it, and shines it, and after that shines it some more." "The Age of Kings" won Strategy Game of the Year and Computer Game of the Year at the 2000 Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences grants. It was additionally selected for Game of the Year, Outstanding Achievement in Animation, Outstanding Achievement in Game Design, and Outstanding Achievement in Game Play Engineering. IGN positioned "The Age of Kings" the 53rd best round ever in 2005, and the tenth best PC round ever in 2007. GameFAQs clients put it 56th in a survey of the best amusements ever. 

"The Age of Kings" was exceedingly persuasive on its classification. "", a 2001 amusement by LucasArts, shared "The Age of Kings" diversion motor, and was intensely affected by its mechanics. "Domain Earth"s configuration was likewise like that of "The Age of Kings"; GameSpot said it "obtains the greater part of that amusement's controls, interface includes, and even a portion of its console alternate routes". Rick Goodman, architect of "Time of Empires" and "The Rise of Rome", planned "Domain Earth". GameSpot's Scott Osborne contended that the interactivity of "" was vigorously founded on "The Age of Kings". 

"Time of Empires II: HD Edition" got blended audits with total survey site Metacritic allotting a score of 68 out of 100 dependent on audits from 20 pundits. Faultfinders concurred that the "HD Edition" changed next to no from the first amusement. Daniel Starkey of Destructoid added that the hesitance to change the diversion highlights supports "a significantly more forceful, and over the top style of play". He features the way that huge numbers of the issues of endeavoring to run the first diversion on an advanced PC are gone, and calls its similarity with Steam's Workshop "a stunning reward". 

Paul Dean of Eurogamer was less lenient; in spite of the fact that he concurred that the Workshop similarity was a decent expansion and commended the players in the online network as "amazingly quiet and neighborly", he imagined that the amusement ought to have been refreshed more, refering to its "exhausting effort" and ineffectively matured ongoing interaction mechanics: "It simply doesn't play great, and its blemishes are more outright than any other time in recent memory". Underscoring his reactions of the absence of critical changes to the diversion, he portrayed it as "a rotten time-container that will probably deface your recollections of the first". 

A PlayStation 2 port was discharged by Konami in 2001, and a NDS spinoff, "" was discharged in 2006. 

An extension for "The Age of Kings", "", was discharged in 2000. It presented various new diversion highlights, including special advances for every development, and five new human advancements. Two of these, the Aztecs and the Mayans, speak to the New World and have new unmistakable building style. Other new human advancements are the Spanish, Huns, and Koreans. 

In 2005 a portable form of "Period of Empires II" was discharged for Java cell phones (J2ME), called "Time of Empires II Mobile" and created by In-Fusio. It highlighted much improved interactivity and illustrations, intended for the cell phones of the time. 

The third authentic diversion in the arrangement, "Period of Empires III", was discharged in 2005. The amusement depicted the European colonization of the Americas. Beside one noteworthy component, the home city, the diversion's plan was like that of its ancestor. 

The multiplayer-just "Time of Empires Online" was discharged in 2012. While the amusement was openly available, it included premium substance which could either be earned through ongoing interaction or acquired, empowering the player to utilize higher-level gear and new diversion modes. Dynamic advancement of the diversion finished on January 1, 2014, when official maker Kevin Perry expressed that including new substance was "never again practical," and reported that the amusement would move from "improvement stage" to its "bolster stage". The amusement servers were in this manner closed down on July 1, 2014. 

In August 2013 a development pack was declared for "Time of Empires II HD", entitled "The Forgotten". It depends on the fan-made development, "The Forgotten Empires". "The Forgotten" presents five new civic establishments: the Italians, Indians, Slavs, Magyars, and the Incas. It incorporates new maps, crusades, units, another diversion mode, an expansion of populace limit from 200 to 500 and various equalization and interactivity alterations. 

A second extension pack for "Period of Empires II HD" was declared on April 9, 2015, and discharged on November 5. "The African Kingdoms" presents four new civic establishments: the Berbers, Ethiopians, Malians, and the Portuguese. It incorporates new maps, battles (Sundjata, Francisco de Almeida, Yodit, and Tariq ibn Ziyad), and units, another amusement mode, and various parity and ongoing interaction changes. 

"Ascent of the Rajas" was discharged December 19, 2016. It is set in Southeast Asia, and includes four human advancements (Burmese, Malay, Khmer, and Vietnamese; each with its very own completely voice-acted crusade: Bayinnaung, Suryavarman I, Gajah Mada, and Lê Lợi) just as another guide type with situations, units, improved AI and the sky is the limit from there. 

Gajah Mada 

The battle begins with a mission clarifying the sources of the Majapahit Empire, wherein Raden Wijaya drives the Javanese to triumph against the Mongols, the Singhasari, and the Kediri. Gajah Mada appropriate at that point shows up on the scene to save King Jayanegara from the city of Trowulan, which is encompassed by dissidents. Notwithstanding, Jayanegara is wicked and is before long killed. His sister, Tribhuwana, takes control and chooses Gajah Mada as her head administrator. Gajah Mada then swears his renowned Sumpah Palapa vow to bind together Nusantara, whereupon he won't eat any nourishment containing flavors until the entire Indonesian archipelago is bound together. The Majapahit realm at that point continues to grow settlements to the islands of Bali, Sulawesi, and Borneo, and has clashes with the Sunda, Dhamasraya, and Temasek. The ruler official at that point surrenders to let her currently developed child, Hayam Wuruk, rise the position of royalty, and the Majapahit Empire at that point extends toward the east by annihilating the Docks of Makassar, Kutai, and Luwu. The sole gathering which remains are the Sunda, and Gajah Mada controls them into a snare by orchestrating a marriage between his ruler and a Sunda princess. While the Sunda trust that the marriage will result in a collusion, Gajah Mada has composed into the agreement that by means of the marriage, the Sunda will submit to Majapahit rule, unbeknownst to Hayam Wuruk. The outcome is the Pasunda Bubat Massacre, wherein all the Sunda rulers are slaughtered and Hayam Wuruk's lady of the hour ends it all out of sadness. Gajah Mada is then gathered to the ruler and banished for his activities. 

Suryavarman I 

Suryavarman begins by propelling a crusade against and killing King Udayadityavarman I in the city of Angkor. Following the effective pulverizing of a disobedience driven by Jayaviravarman, who is slaughtered in the fight, Suryavarman sends an agent through threatening domain to the Chola, offering extravagant endowments in return for a collusion against the Tambralinga. The Chola and Khmer at that point dispatch a two dimensional assault against the Tambralinga and the thalassocracy of Srivijaya. In the wake of crushing these two forces, Suryavarman then arrangements with household dangers from the Dai Viet, Cham, Indrapura, and Lavo, which have looked to exploit the ruler's diversion with remote victories. 

Bayinnaung 

1538 AD: Bayinnaung begins as the dependable devotee of King Tabinshweti. Together, they walk against the Hanthawaddy who harbor the Mon lord, Takayupti, and catch the city of Prome, regardless of the strikes driven by the Shan. 1543 AD: At this time, Bayinnaung helps the ruler in the victory of Ava by the killing of its lord, Hkonmaing, and fighting off resistance by the Shan and the Rakhine. They should store up an adequate whole of gold with the goal for Tabinshweti to be delegated in the religious city of Pagan. 1550 AD: Tabinshweti experiences a Portuguese dealer who drives him into alcoholic propensities, prompting Bayinnaung getting expanded expert as first pastor. Tabinshweti is eventually executed on requests of Smim Sawhtut, and Bayinnaung must vindicate his passing by putting down the uprisings driven by the conceivable fakers, incorporating Smim Sawhtut in his fortress of Pegu, Rakkate, Thado Dhamma Yaza, and Smim Htaw. 1563 AD: Bayinnaung, presently Cakkavati and King of the Toungoo Empire, looks to extend eastbound by conveying relics to the neighboring kingdoms to demonstrate his commitment. He faces the Ayutthaya, driven by King Chakkraphat, Bayinnaung's vassal Lan Na, and Lan Xang en route, notwithstanding different nats. 1580 AD: Bayinnaung closes the crusade by going into a reflective state as his children Nanda and Thinga Dathta lead the success of the Rakhine city of Mrauk U, and lead him to the four Buddhist sanctuaries in the district. 

Lê Lợi 

Lê Lợi is the pioneer of an uprising against the Ming Empire. The battle begins in 1418, where Lê Lợi is driving a guerrilla band in devastating all the Ming towers in the Vietnamese towns, with the assistance of the Trịnh and Nguyễn families. He at that point safeguards a post in Chí Linh with the assistance of Lê Lai, who masks himself as Lê Lợi and sallies forward to lead a self-destructive frontal strike upon the adversary, giving his life so that Lê Lợi and his troops can get away, when they have decimated the towers toward the east. Lê Lợi then advances upon Hanoi and prevails with regards to catching the city. A short time later, he walks towards the Ming capital of Nghệ A, yet winds up in transit there obliged to manage a fortification garrisoned by Cam Banh, a vassal of the Chinese. The Chinese send in their veteran general, Wang Tong, to diminish the stronghold, yet he is past the point where it is possible to prevent Lê Lợi from catching it. Lê Lợi then parts his powers into three gatherings: Dinh De to lead the mounted force upon Đông Đô to keep Wang Tong involved, Le Trien to move north to catch the Chinese fortifications under Liu Sheng, and Luu Nhan Chu and Bui Bi to Nghệ An. Marvelously, this triple arrangement works, provoking the Ming to acknowledge a harmony bargain. Notwithstanding, the neighborhood Vietnamese vassals of the Ming won't acknowledge this, provoking a last confrontation with Wang Tong. Harmony is at long last finished up, and Dai Viet is permitted to exist as a tributary condition of the Ming.