Horseshoe Curve (Pennsylvania) 

Horseshoe Curve is a three-track railroad bend on Norfolk Southern Railway's Pittsburgh Line in Blair County, Pennsylvania. The bend itself is about long and in width; it was finished in 1854 by the Pennsylvania Railroad as an approach to reduce the level to the summit of the Allegheny Mountains. It in the end supplanted the tedious Allegheny Portage Railroad, the main other course over the mountains for expansive vehicles. 

The rail line has been critical since its opening, and amid World War II the Curve was focused by Nazi Germany in 1942 as a feature of Operation Pastorius. The Curve was later claimed and utilized by Pennsylvania Railroad successors Penn Central, Conrail, and Norfolk Southern. Horseshoe Curve was added to the National Register of Historic Places and assigned a National Historic Landmark in 1966, and it turned into a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark in 2004. 

Horseshoe Curve has for some time been a vacation spot, as a trackside perception park had been finished in 1879. The recreation center was redesigned and a guest focus worked in the mid 1990s. The Railroaders Memorial Museum in Altoona deals with the middle, which has displays relating to the bend. 

Horseshoe Curve is on the Pittsburgh Line, the Norfolk Southern Railway Pittsburgh Division primary line among Pittsburgh and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Westward trains climb a most extreme evaluation of 1.85 percent for from Altoona to Gallitzin; only west of the Gallitzin Tunnels trains pass the summit of the Allegheny Mountains, at that point slip for to Johnstown on an evaluation of 1.1 percent or less. 

The bend is west of Altoona in Logan Township, Blair County at railroad milepost 242. The Blair County Veterans Memorial Highway (SR 4008) pursues the valley west from Altoona and passages under the bend. Horseshoe Curve twists around a dam and lake, the most elevated of three repositories along the valley which are claimed by the Altoona Water Authority and supply water to the city. Horseshoe Curve traverses two gorges shaped by springs: Kittanning Run on the north side of the valley, and Glenwhite Run on the south. 

For each , the tracks at the Horseshoe Curve twist 15 minutes with the whole bend totaling 220 degrees. The bend is long and, at its most stretched out, about over. The Horseshoe Curve plummets from an inexact rise of on the southern side to on the northern. The level of the bend was recorded by the Pennsylvania Railroad as 1.45 percent, and presently as 1.34 percent by Norfolk Southern. Each track comprises of , welded rails that were, , laid in 2011. Before dieselization and the presentation of dynamic braking and rail oilers, the rails along the bend would be transposed—left to right and the other way around—to even out the wear on each rail from the spines of passing steam trains and rail vehicles, in this way expanding their life expectancy. 

In 1834 the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania fabricated the Allegheny Portage Railroad over the Allegheny Mountains to associate Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, as a feature of the Main Line of Public Works. The Portage Railroad was a progression of trenches and slanted planes and stayed being used until the mid-nineteenth century. The Pennsylvania Railroad was fused in 1847 to assemble a railroad from Harrisburg to Pittsburgh, supplanting the lumbering Portage Railroad. 

Utilizing reviews finished in 1842, the state's designers prescribed a course west from Lewistown that pursued the edges with a greatest grade of 0.852 percent at stake. The Chief Engineer for the Pennsylvania Railroad, John Edgar Thomson, rather picked a course on lower, compliment landscape along the Juniata River and acknowledged the subsequent more extreme level west of Altoona. The valley west of Altoona was part into two gorges by a mountain; reviews had effectively discovered a course with a satisfactory evaluation east from Gallitzin toward the south side of the valley, and Horseshoe Curve enabled a similar evaluation to keep on altoona. Specialists assembled an earth fill over the main gorge experienced while rising, framed by Kittanning Run, cut the purpose of the mountain between the gorges, and filled in the second gorge, shaped by Glenwhite Run. 

Work on Horseshoe Curve started in 1850 and took more than three years. It was managed without overwhelming gear, just men "with picks and scoops, steeds and hauls". The whole line, including Horseshoe Curve, opened on February 15, 1854. The all out expense for of track among Altoona and Johnstown was $2,495,000 or $80,225 per mile ($49,850 /km). The rest of the piece of the mountain inside the bend was leveled in 1879 to permit the development of a recreation center and perception region—the main worked for survey trains. As interest for train travel expanded, a third track was added to the bend in 1898 and a fourth was included two years after the fact. 

From around the 1860s to simply before World War II travelers could ride to Kittanning Point station close to the Curve. Two branch railways associated with the principle line at Horseshoe Curve in the mid twentieth century; the Kittanning Run Railroad and the railroad claimed by the Glen White Coal and Lumber Company pursued their particular rivers to adjacent coal mineshafts. The Pennsylvania Railroad conveyed void container vehicles to the Kittanning Point station which the two railways returned stacked with coal. Opposite the station, a goad track on the slope provided a coal trestle, where trains could take on fuel and water amid the mid 1900s. A supply was worked at the pinnacle of the Horseshoe Curve in 1887 for the city of Altoona; a second repository, underneath the first, was done in 1896. The third store, Lake Altoona, was finished by 1913. A macadam street to the bend was opened in 1932 permitting access for guests, and a blessing shop was worked in 1940. 

Horseshoe Curve was delineated in handouts, timetables and other limited time material; Pennsylvania Railroad stock declarations were printed with a vignette of it. The Pennsylvania set the landscape of Horseshoe Curve against opponent New York Central Railroad's "Water Level Route" amid the 1890s. A raised-help, scale model of the bend was incorporated as a component of the Pennsylvania Railroad's show at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Pennsylvania Railroad conductors were advised to declare the Horseshoe Curve to daytime travelers—a custom that proceeds on board Amtrak trains. 

Amid World War II PRR conveyed troops and matériel for the Allied war exertion, and the Curve was under furnished gatekeeper. The military insight arm of Nazi Germany, the "Abwehr", plotted to disrupt essential mechanical resources in the United States in a venture code-named Operation Pastorius. In June 1942 four men were brought by submarine and arrived on Long Island, intending to demolish such locales as the Curve, Hell Gate Bridge, Alcoa aluminum processing plants and bolts on the Ohio River. The eventual saboteurs were immediately caught by the Federal Bureau of Investigation after one, George John Dasch, handed himself over. 

Amid the 1954 festival of the centennial of the opening of Horseshoe Curve, a night photograph was orchestrated by Sylvania Electric Products utilizing 6,000 flashbulbs and of wiring to light up the region. The occasion likewise honored the 75th commemoration of the radiant light. Pennsylvania steam train 1361 was put at the recreation center inside the Horseshoe Curve on June 8, 1957. It is one of 425 K4s-class motors, the key traveler trains on the Pennsylvania Railroad that consistently utilized the bend. The Horseshoe Curve was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places and was assigned a National Historic Landmark on November 13, 1966. The activity of the perception park was exchanged to the city of Altoona that year. The Pennsylvania Railroad was joined with the New York Central Railroad in 1968. The merger made Penn Central, which went bankrupt and was taken over by the government in 1976, as a component of the merger that made Conrail. The second track from within at the Horseshoe Curve was expelled by Conrail in 1981. The K4s 1361 was expelled from the bend for a rebuilding to working request in September 1985 and was supplanted with the ex-Conrail EMD GP9 diesel-electric train 7048 that was repainted into a Pennsylvania Railroad conspire. 

Beginning in June 1990, the recreation center at the Horseshoe Curve experienced a $5.8 million remodel financed by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation and by the National Park Service through its "America's Industrial Heritage Project". The remodels were finished in April 1992 with the devotion of another guest focus. In 1999 Conrail was isolated between CSX Transportation and Norfolk Southern, with the Horseshoe Curve being obtained by the last mentioned. The Horseshoe Curve was lit up again with firecrackers and rail-borne searchlights amid its sesquicentennial in 2004 as a reverence to the festivals in 1954. It was assigned a National Historic Civil Engineering Landmark by the American Society of Civil Engineers in 2004. 

Train include crested during the 1940s with over 50 passenger trains every day alongside many cargo and military trains. Interest for train travel dropped incredibly after World War II as expressway and air travel wound up prevalent. The bend is as yet occupied as a component of Norfolk Southern's Pittsburgh Line and, , was passed by 51 scheduled cargo prepares every day, excluding local people and partner motors which can twofold the number. The EMD SD40-2s and SD40Es partners are coupled to the back of long trains, giving force on the rising and helping with braking on the plummet. The 2012 Norfolk Southern track outline records the yearly traffic thickness passing Horseshoe Curve as , including trains. Amtrak's "Pennsylvanian" among Pittsburgh and New York City adjusts the bend once every way day by day. Normal speed for trains at Horseshoe Curve are for cargo and around for traveler trains. 

The Railroaders Memorial Museum in Altoona deals with a guest focus by the bend which is open April to October. The middle has authentic ancient rarities and memorabilia identifying with the bend, and a raised-help guide of the Altoona– Johnstown territory. Access to the bend is by a funicular or a 194-advance stairway. The funicular is single-followed, with the autos leaving each other mostly behind the slant; the vehicles are painted to look like Pennsylvania Railroad traveler vehicles. Alongside the train, a previous "guard's shanty" is in the recreation center. Horseshoe Curve is famous with railfans, particularly as watchers may see three trains going immediately. As a feature of Norfolk Southern's 21st Century Steam program, the previous Nickel Plate steam train 765 crossed Horseshoe Curve in August 2012—the primary steam train to do as such since 1977—while deadheading to and from Harrisburg. Nickel Plate 765 came back to the bend in May 2013 with open journey trains from Lewistown to Gallitzin.