William D. Boyce 

William Dickson Boyce (June 16, 1858 – June 11, 1929) was an American paper man, business visionary, magazine distributer, and adventurer. He was the organizer of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) and the fleeting Lone Scouts of America (LSA). Conceived in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, he gained an adoration for the outside right off the bat in his life. In the wake of filling in as a teacher and a coal digger, Boyce went to Wooster Academy in Ohio before moving to the Midwest and Canada. A sharp businessperson, Boyce effectively settled a few papers, for example, "The Commercial" in Winnipeg, Manitoba and the "Lisbon Clipper" in Lisbon, North Dakota. With his first spouse, Mary Jane Beacom, he moved to Chicago to seek after his innovative desire. There he built up the Mutual Newspaper Publishing Company and the week after week "Saturday Blade", which obliged a country gathering of people and was disseminated by a great many paper young men. With his novel work of newsies to help paper deals, Boyce's namesake distributing organization kept up a course of 500,000 copies every week by 1894. Boyce unequivocally upheld laborer rights, as shown by his organizations' help of trade guilds and his anxiety for his newsies' prosperity. 

By the early long periods of the twentieth century, Boyce had turned into a multi-tycoon and had made a stride once more from his organizations to seek after his interests in community undertakings, committing more opportunity to voyaging and taking an interest in campaigns. In 1909, he set out on a two-month trek to Europe and a vast photographic undertaking to Africa with picture taker George R. Lawrence and visual artist John T. McCutcheon. Throughout the following two decades, Boyce drove endeavors to South America, Europe, and North Africa, where he visited the newfound tomb of King Tutankhamun. 

Boyce found out about Scouting while at the same time going through London amid his first undertaking to Africa in 1909. As indicated by to some degree fictionalized legend, Boyce had turned out to be lost in the thick London haze, however was guided back to his goal by a young man, who revealed to him that he was only carrying out his responsibility as a Boy Scout. Boyce then read literature on Scouting, and on his arrival to the United States, he shaped the B.S.A. 

From its begin, Boyce concentrated the Scouting program on showing confidence, citizenship, cleverness, energy, submission, merriment, valor, and civility all together "to make men". In the wake of conflicting over the Scouting program with the principal Chief Scout Executive James E. West, he left the B.S.A. also, established the L.S.A. in January 1915, which obliged country young men who had constrained chances to shape a troop or a watch. 

In June 1924, five years before Boyce's demise, a merger was finished between the B.S.A. what's more, the battling L.S.A. Boyce got numerous honors and remembrances for his endeavors in the U.S. Exploring development, including the acclaimed "Silver Buffalo Award". 

Boyce was conceived on June 16, 1858 in New Texas, Pennsylvania – presently Plum Borough —to a Presbyterian ranch couple, David and Margaret Jane Bratton Boyce. The Boyces had three youngsters: William Dickson, Mary, and John. Amid his country youth, Boyce obtained an adoration for the outside. He started training school at 16 years old and after that worked quickly as a coal excavator. He came back to instructing before joining his sister at Wooster Academy in Ohio, which—as per school records—he went to from 1880 to 1881. It is questionable in the event that he graduated or was removed. 

He at that point filled in as an educator, logger, secretary, and sales rep in the Midwest and Canada before settling in Chicago, where he rapidly wound up known as a convincing and insightful sales rep and scholarly business rapidly. His books on business, travel, and undertakings regularly utilized the expression "We pushed on." On January 1, 1884, Boyce wedded Mary Jane Beacom (1865– 1959), whom he had known since his Pennsylvania youth. Boyce called her Betsy, yet to numerous her moniker was "Rattler Jane" on the grounds that she coordinated his ability in poker, was a specialist shot, and rode ponies cross seat. It had additionally turned out to be evident that she was more manly than Boyce himself, despite the fact that he had never conceded this, it turned out to be get out of his diary. 

Boyce's own exercises included chasing, yachting, Odd Fellows, Freemasonry, Shriners, golf, nation clubs and the Chicago Hussars—an autonomous equestrian military association. 

In 1903, Boyce obtained a four-story manor on in Ottawa, Illinois, which turned into the focal point of his family and social exercises. From that point, he demonstrated little enthusiasm for Chicago and its social exercises; he would just go there on business. Boyce and Mary drove progressively separate lives and in the long run separated, which was accounted for on the first page of the "Chicago Tribune" in view of the unmistakable quality he had accomplished at that point. The separation was finished in a Campbell County, South Dakota court in September 1908; his significant other's property settlement was near $1 million (USD). 

After the separation was finished, Boyce sought Virginia Dorcas Lee, a vocalist from Oak Park, Illinois, who was 23 years his lesser and the oldest offspring of Virginia and John Adams Lee, a previous Lieutenant Governor of Missouri. Both Virginia's folks and Boyce's child Ben contradicted the relationship. In May 1910, after the arranged marriage was reported, an angered Ben fought with his dad outside the Blackstone Hotel and Boyce continued a facial injury. Ben was captured for dislocated direct and fined $5 and court costs. After two days, Boyce and Virginia wedded and went to Europe on an all-inclusive special night. Very quickly, there was theory among relatives and in papers about issues inside the marriage. On April 9, 1911, Boyce and Virginia had a little girl, whom they named Virginia. A couple of months after the fact, in December 1911, Boyce consented to an arrangement to help and teach their baby little girl. After Boyce's better half sought legal separation in March 1912, she moved to Santa Barbara, California, with their little girl and her folks. Boyce did not challenge the separation and masterminded a $100,000 settlement. A long time later, the senior Virginia wedded Richard Roberts, a New York investor, and moved with her and Boyce's little girl to Greenwich, Connecticut. The more youthful Virginia took the surname Roberts. She didn't meet her characteristic dad, Boyce, until she was eight years of age. 

Ben wedded Miriam Patterson of Omaha, Nebraska, on June 11, 1912. Both Boyce and his first spouse went to the service. As of now Boyce's first spouse, Mary, traded a portion of her Chicago property for the home in Ottawa, which started theory that she and Boyce may accommodate. The following year they remarried on June 14, 1913, in Ottawa. They at that point left on a special night to Alaska, Hawaii, the Philippines, Panama, and Cuba, with their little girl Happy, child Ben, and his better half Miriam. 

As Boyce voyaged, he frequently began a paper wherever he went. His first endeavor into business distributing was aggregating a city catalog. He additionally worked quickly for a distributer in Columbus, Ohio, and a paper distributer in Kensington, Pennsylvania, some portion of Philadelphia. He at that point boarded a train for Chicago and filled in as a secretary and sales rep for ""Western"" magazine. Eager once more, he moved to Saint Paul, Minnesota, and sold commercials for a distributer for a brief timeframe and after that went through a month in Fargo, North Dakota, and Grand Forks, North Dakota. Further north in Canada, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, he and nearby inhabitant James W. Steen helped to establish ""The Commercial"" in 1881, a paper that went on for a long time. He sold a lot of ""The Commercial"" to his accomplice in 1882 and came back to Fargo where he turned into a columnist. In December 1882, Boyce moved to Lisbon, North Dakota, where he purchased the "Dakota Clipper". 

Starting in December 1884, Boyce oversaw columnists and news discharges at the "Department of Correspondence" at the half year long World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition in New Orleans, Louisiana. Nations from everywhere throughout the world sent showcases. Boyce was in charge of giving news stories on occasions and shows to more than 1,200 papers around the nation. He came back to North Dakota after the Exposition closed, yet by mid 1886 he had moved back to Chicago. He frequently returned in North Dakota for distributing business arrangements and deer-and duck-chasing excursions. 

In Chicago, he established the Mutual Newspaper Publishing Company in 1886 which gave promotions and articles to more than 200 papers. In 1887, he set up the week by week ""Saturday Blade"", a showed paper went for country gatherings of people and sold by a large number of paperboys—an advancement at the time. By 1892, the "Saturday Blade" had the biggest flow of any week after week paper in the United States. Boyce's definite reports of his remote voyages gave articles to the ""Saturday Blade"" and were reproduced in books by chart book/map distributer Rand McNally. The accomplishment of the ""Saturday Blade"" produced the W. D. Boyce Publishing Company, which Boyce used to purchase or begin a few papers and magazines. In 1892, Boyce purchased out the ""Chicago Ledger"", a fiction week after week production. In January 1903 he established the worldwide ""Boyce's Weekly"", which upheld laborer's rights. Boyce's unmistakable quality as a supporter of work pulled in labor/association pioneers, for example, John Mitchell of the United Mine Workers and Henry Demarest Lloyd as essayists and editors for ""Boyce's Weekly"". After eight months, ""Boyce's Weekly"" was combined with the ""Saturday Blade."" Boyce additionally settled the chose subject/topical papers ""Farm Business"" in 1914 and ""Home Folks Magazine"" in 1922. Diminishing deals prompted the 1925 merger of the ""Blade"" and ""Ledger"" into the month to month ""Chicago Blade and Ledger"", which was distributed until 1937. As Boyce's endeavors developed, he demanded caring for the welfare of around 30,000 conveyance young men, who were vital to his monetary achievement. Working with them may have helped him gain a comprehension of America's childhood. Boyce felt that conveying and selling papers showed an adolescent essential duties, for example, being well mannered, perusing human instinct, and dealing with cash. Boyce's engaged assurance was obvious in the exhortation he provided for young fellows: "There are numerous obstructions to survive, yet work, coarseness and perseverance will assist you with overcoming them all. Help yourself as well as other people will support you." and "whatever exchange you have chosen; never swerve from that reason a solitary minute until it is cultivated". 

In 1891, Boyce started taking a shot at his own 12-story place of business at 30 North Dearborn Street, known as the "Boyce Building", it was structured by modeler Henry Ives Cobb. Indeed, even 20 years later, this structure was perceived as the most costly structure (as far as dollars per cubic foot) in Chicago. In 1907, Boyce united his business tasks into another place of business, otherwise called the Boyce Building, at 500– 510 North Dearborn Street. Another four-story place of business—planned by the engineering firm of Daniel Burnham—was based on this area in 1912 and extended amid 1913– 14 with an extra six stories. This structure was later recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on February 29, 1996, kept up by the United States Department of the Interior and its National Park Service. 

When ladies experienced difficulty looking for some kind of employment and specialists were frequently persecuted, Boyce felt their rights were vital: his organizations utilized numerous ladies and he bolstered trade guilds. His papers frequently conveyed tales about the "honorability of work". His organizations had the capacity to pay out wages and advantages amid the Panic of 1893, when numerous organizations were laying off laborers and cutting wages. Amid the Pullman Strike of the Pullman Palace Car Company in 1894, which spread to 20 organizations in over a large portion of the states, Boyce called Eugene V. Debs, the communist work national pioneer of the American Railway Union, an "extraordinary work pioneer" and industrialist George Pullman, innovator of the railroad traveler and resting vehicle, the man "who caused all the inconvenience" (at that point current work and social/political difficulty of the 1890s). In 1901 when the Boyce Paper Manufacturing Company in Marseilles, Illinois, burned to the ground, he paid the specialists quickly and afterward enlisted them back as development laborers to modify the paper plant so they would not lose salary. However, he was likewise defensive of his cash. In late 1894, when two of his specialists were harmed by a fallen smokestack and won $2,000 each in a court judgment, Boyce advanced the case right to the Supreme Court of Illinois, and lost. He was additionally tireless in getting what he needed; in 1902, he sued the Marseilles Land and Power Company for not providing enough water capacity to his plants and won a $65,300 judgment. By 1903, the Marseilles Land and Power Company fell into receivership and Boyce purchased the organization up. 

Boyce enlisted his child, Ben, when he was 20 years of age, giving him abnormal state positions in his water and power organizations in and around Marseilles and Ottawa. In any case, their relationship was frequently stressed by Boyce's exclusive standards and Ben's imprudence with his assets in exercises, for example, wagering on pony races. 

Amid June– August 1906, the legislature proposed quadrupling the postage rate for below average mail, which included papers, from one penny to four pennies for every pound. Accordingly, Boyce proposed purchasing the Post Office Department for $300 million (USD), asserting that he would lessen postal rates significantly, dispense with unending shortfalls by applying business strategies to postal tasks, set up a country postal express, pay lease to the United States Department of the Treasury for postal structures, and return benefits more than seven percent. This offer was dismissed by the administration, yet it halted their arranged below average postage rate increment. 

Boyce was a multi-tycoon by the mid 1900s and by 1909 turned out to be progressively inspired by community undertakings and less in money. He likewise started to travel, frequently as a major aspect of chasing campaigns. He rented chasing lodges at Fort Sisseton, South Dakota, where he had chased as a young fellow. He frequently facilitated companions and relatives, particularly his child, for exercises, for example, chasing, angling, supper, poker, and ample alcohol. These progressions may have been to a limited extent brought about by the pulverization of his Ottawa house by flame in mid 1908, which was soon revamped, pursued three months after the fact by the closeout of his Marseilles paper plant because of another law that kept railways from consulting with shippers, and his September 1908 declaration that he and his significant other, Mary Jane, were isolating. 

In 1914 Boyce purchased two additional papers, the ""Indianapolis Sun"", which he renamed the ""Indianapolis Daily Times"", and the ""Inter Ocean Farmer"", which he renamed ""The Farming Business"". By 1920, most of Americans lived in urban communities rather than country regions. "Solitary Scout", ""Saturday Blade"", and ""Chicago Ledger"" all centered around country clients and started to flounder. Boyce propelled ""Home Folks Magazine"" trying to recover clients. By June 1925, deals had slipped so much that he combined the last two titles into the ""Blade and Ledger"", which made deals rise once more. This urged Boyce to begin ""Movie Romances"", one of the principal newspaper magazines about motion picture star sentiments. 

Boyce's achievement in the distributing business lay in his capacity to sort out the organization of a business and representative subtleties to subordinates. He in the end amassed a fortune of about US$20 million. Boyce's life paralleled Theodore Roosevelt's from numerous points of view: Both men were results of the Progressive Era, globally conspicuous, had worry for youngsters, upheld Scouting, were travelers and outdoorsmen, (present day "tree huggers"), and were keen on community change. In spite of the fact that Boyce appreciated and tried to outperform Roosevelt, his solitary attack into legislative issues was the 1896 Republican essential for a United States Representative (congressman) in the U.S. Place of Representatives – a sharply battled crusade which he lost to first-term officeholder George E. Foss. No doubt, Boyce met Roosevelt at the Union League Club of Chicago, of which the previous had turned into a part in 1891. His undecided frame of mind towards government was a typical one of the overall population amid the Progressive Era. In any case, Boyce's Republican accreditations and money related commitments earned him a solicitation to the presidential initiation and wad of recently chosen successor to "T.R.", the 27th President, William Howard Taft in March 1909. 

Boyce financed a campaign of the wayfarer Frederick Schwatka to Alaska in 1896. Schwatka found gold close Nome and Boyce announced this accomplishment in his papers, which drove him to fund other Schwatka campaigns just as those of different explorers, including a fizzled endeavor to the Yukon River in 1898. Boyce before long started to do his own undertakings. At the point when the United States entered the Spanish– American War in 1898, Boyce set sail for Cuban waters on board the ship "Three Friends". The idea of the exercises of Boyce and this ship are obscure. 

In March 1909, Boyce set out on a two-month trek to Europe, which incorporated a visit to his little girls, who were in Rome. On coming back to America, Boyce sorted out a photographic endeavor to Africa with the inventive elevated picture taker George R. Lawrence. Boyce met with safari coordinators and suppliers and provisioned his campaign in London and Naples. His child Benjamin and Lawrence's child Raymond were a piece of the campaign. Sketch artist John T. McCutcheon joined the endeavor while they were cruising from Naples to Africa. The gathering landed at Mombasa, Kenya, and was in Nairobi by September. In the wake of procuring neighborhood watchmen and guides, the whole undertaking totaled around 400 individuals, around three-fourths of whom were hirelings. It required 15 train vehicles to move the general population and hardware to the zone the undertaking would investigate close Kijabi and Lake Victoria. The endeavor was a disappointment in light of the fact that a zooming focal point was neither brought nor along these lines acquired, the sight-seeing balloons were not reasonable for the conditions on the fields of East Africa, and the cameras were so expansive and loud to move into position that the creatures were frightened off. The individuals from the endeavor needed to turn to purchasing photos of major game creatures from shops in urban areas, for example, Nairobi. The undertaking managed to effectively chase a few types of major game creatures. 

In December 1910, Boyce drove a nine-month, undertaking to South America that was broadly detailed in his papers. In late January 1915, Boyce cruised to England in light of his worry over World War I. He got authorization from the American Legation in Switzerland to go into Germany and Austria for about a month and a half to write about the modern and business impacts of the war on those nations. He sent broad reports to his papers and returned home around April– May. 

In late 1922, Boyce left on another endeavor to Africa, this time for a half year. Morocco helped him to remember the Dakotas, Kansas, Texas, Florida, and Arizona. In Egypt he visited the tomb of Tutankhamun, which had been found only a couple of months sooner. His endeavor at that point went to Luxor and cruised up the Nile River to Edfu, where the houses had no rooftops and keeping in mind that he was there it rained and hailed without precedent for decades. Boyce expressed that between his two undertakings to Africa, he had shot somewhere around one of each diversion creature. 

As Boyce's enthusiasm for magnanimity developed, he swung to his youth encounters in the outside as an asset, yet couldn't figure out how to channel his altruistic thoughts and dreams until a pivotal stop to England while "in transit" to what turned into the fizzled photographic endeavor to Africa. Occasions in London while in transit to and from this campaign would prompt the establishing of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA), one of numerous municipal and expert associations shaped amid the Progressive Era to fill the void of residents who had moved toward becoming enlarged from their rustic roots. Numerous young associations, for example, the Woodcraft Indians and Sons of Daniel Boone framed in America in the mid 1900s concentrating on open air character-building exercises. The works and undertakings of Theodore Roosevelt added to these developments, with their outside, nature, and pioneer subjects. When of his 1922 undertaking to Africa, Boyce was so all around regarded in Scouting that French Boy Scouts in Algeria saluted him and offered to escort him along a trail when they discovered he was the organizer of BSA and LSA in America. 

As indicated by legend, Boyce was lost on a foggy road in London in 1909 when an obscure Scout went to his guide, managing him back to his goal. The kid at that point rejected Boyce's tip, clarifying that he was simply performing his responsibility as a Boy Scout. Before long, Boyce met with Robert Baden-Powell, who was the leader of the Boy Scout Association around then. Boyce came back to America, and, after four months, established the Boy Scouts of America on February 8, 1910. He proposed to base the program around American Indian legend. This adaptation of the legend has been imprinted in various BSA handbooks and magazines. There are a few varieties of it, including ones that guarantee Boyce thought about Scouting before this experience and that the Unknown Scout took him to Scout home office. 

In fact, Boyce halted in London "on the way" to a safari in British East Africa. The facts confirm that an obscure Scout helped him and rejected a tip. Be that as it may, this Scout just helped him cross a road; he didn't take him to the Scout central command and Boyce never met Baden-Powell. Upon Boyce's solicitation, the obscure Scout gave him the location of the Scout base camp, where Boyce proceeded to get a duplicate of "Exploring For Boys" and other literature on Scouting. He read this while on safari and was impressed to the point that as opposed to making his arrival to America an around the globe trip by means of San Francisco, he came back to the Scout home office in London. He volunteered to compose Scouting in America and was informed that he could utilize their manual. While Boyce's unique record does not specify mist, a 1928 record says there was haze. Climatologists report no haze on that day in London. 

The Boy Scouts of America was joined on February 8, 1910, however it battled from deficiencies of money and authority first and foremost. Boyce actually gave $1,000 every month to keep the association running depending on the prerequisite that young men everything being equal and ideologies be incorporated, which was inconsistent with his own communicated faith in the prevalence of whites. He was not keen on coordinating the association, and turned over the running of the association to Edgar M. Robinson of the YMCA, who continued to select the perpetual official leading group of the BSA. The genuinely necessary authority and the executives arrived when the Sons of Daniel Boone and Woodcraft Indians converged with the BSA. 

Boyce felt that Scouting's accentuation on open air movement was urgent in delivering the kind of pioneers that America required in light of the fact that young raised in urban areas had a lot of accomplished for them, though those from the nation needed to figure out how to get things done for themselves. Exploring was centered around showing confidence, citizenship, creativity, nationalism, acquiescence, merriment, strength, and affability all together "to make men". 

Boyce conflicted with James E. West, the BSA's Chief Scout Executive, over a program for young men who lived excessively a long way from town to join a troop. Boyce offered to distribute a magazine for the BSA, as long as it was distributed in Chicago. The National Executive Board of the BSA turned this idea down and presently Boyce stopped being dynamic in authoritative exercises of the BSA, however he remained a staunch supporter of the program. Subsequently and his craving to serve young men who had constrained open doors as he himself did when he was youthful, Boyce began another Scouting-related endeavor: the Lone Scouts of America (LSA) on January 9, 1915. Dependence on Native American topics gave LSA a particular Native American flavor: Lone Scouts could frame little gatherings known as "clans", the clan's treasurer was known as the "wampum-conveyor", and LSA instructed young men to regard nature. Boyce's yearly commitment to the LSA developed to $100,000. In both the BSA and the LSA, Boyce was a director and had minimal direct contact with the Boy Scouts. Upon his arrival from investigating World War I, Boyce promptly started growing the LSA by beginning "Solitary Scout" magazine and enlisting Frank Allan Morgan, a prominent Chicago Scoutmaster, to lead the LSA. By November 1915, the LSA had more than 30,000 individuals. Warren presented upon Boyce the title "Boss Totem". Young people could join the LSA just via mailing in certain coupons and five pennies. By 1916, the BSA and the LSA were in direct challenge for individuals. In the late spring of 1917, amid his yearly Dakota chase, the Gros Ventres Indian clan made Boyce a privileged boss with the name "Enormous Cloud" amid a three-day service. With America at war, Boyce consented to the making of a Lone Scout uniform in late 1917. In spite of the fact that he had a uniform made for himself, he stipulated that no Lone Scout was required to buy one. 

Boyce felt that "Solitary Scout" was the best magazine he had ever done. "Solitary Scout" was popular to the point that it couldn't deal with all the material that was submitted, such huge numbers of nearby and territorial "Clan Papers" were begun. By 1922, Boyce's paper business was enduring and "Solitary Scout" was losing cash—it changed from a week by week to a month to month. Boyce's racial preference was uncovered when the racial strains in Chicago expanded during the 1920s. The LSA issued a formal declaration in late 1920 that it would just acknowledge whites and in 1922 changed the masthead of "Solitary Scout" from "A Real Boys' Magazine" to "The White Boys Magazine". 

The fortunes of the LSA had started to decay by 1920 when Boyce enlisted the main expert manager for "Solitary Scout", George N. Madison. Madison found that the LSA's participation list was uncontrollably mistaken: it was loaded with duplications and inert individuals. The revealed 490,000 Lone Scouts in 1922 was a tremendously swelled number. Boyce at last acknowledged West's yearly idea to converge with the BSA in April 1924, with the merger formalized on June 16, 1924. Some Lone Scouts did not exchange to the BSA, however the BSA proceeded with Lone Scouting as a different division for one more decade, slowly losing its extraordinary projects. Present day Lone Scouts utilize the standard Cub Scouting and Boy Scouting projects and exercises, however are not part of a pack or troop all the time on account of components, for example, separate, climate, time, incapacity or different troubles. 

Benjamin Boyce kicked the bucket in 1928 of a heart embolism. His dad did not arrive home until after his child's demise. Boyce was so disheartened over his child's passing that his own wellbeing endured. One of Boyce's last endeavors was to distribute his child's letters from his South Seas campaigns: "Dear Dad Letters from New Guinea". Boyce passed on from bronchial pneumonia on June 11, 1929, in Chicago and was covered in his received main residence of Ottawa, Illinois, on June 13, 1929, in the Ottawa Avenue Cemetery, with West conveying the tribute. Boy troopers kept up a ceremonial group with an American banner in a substantial rainstorm in two-hour shifts at his Ottawa home and 32 Boy Scouts were picked as privileged pallbearers. BSA authorities sent his widow a message that said the whole American country owed him an obligation of appreciation. A statue that recognizes his commitment to the Boy Scouts of America was set close to his grave on June 21, 1941, which West devoted. 

Boyce was perceived with the Silver Buffalo Award in 1926, the main year it was granted, for his endeavors in beginning the BSA. He was the third beneficiary, after Baden-Powell and the Unknown Scout. Amid the BSA's 50th commemoration in 1960, 15,000 Scouts and a few of Boyce's relatives assembled in Ottawa for a Boyce Memorial weekend. Illinois representative William Stratton conveyed the key location and Bridge Street was renamed Boyce Memorial Drive. In 1985, around 2,500 Scouts went to a 75th commemoration journey in Ottawa, gone to by his last enduring kid, Virginia, and the Union League of Chicago named Boyce its first Hall of Fame part. Boyce had been a part from 1891 until he kicked the bucket. On December 6, 1997, a Scouting exhibition hall opened in Ottawa. The W. D. Boyce Council of the BSA is named in his respect. A Pennsylvania State Historical Marker situated on Boyce Campus of Community College of Allegheny County in Monroeville, Pennsylvania, perceives his accomplishments to Scouting. Not a long way from the marker is a province park, Boyce Park, that was named for him. An emblem of Boyce is close to the White House as a major aspect of The Extra Mile – Points of Light Volunteer Pathway. In 2005, the BSA presented the William D. Boyce New Unit Organization Award, exhibited to the coordinator of any new Scouting unit. 

The Extra Mile National Monument in Washington, DC chose Boyce as one of its 37 honorees. The Extra Mile pays praise to Americans like Boyce who put their own personal circumstance aside to help other people and effectively conveyed constructive social change to the United States.