Sideshow Bob 

Robert Underdunk Terwilliger Jr., PhD, otherwise called Sideshow Bob, is a common character in the energized TV arrangement "The Simpsons." He is voiced by Kelsey Grammer and first showed up quickly in the scene "The Telltale Head". Weave is a self-announced virtuoso who is an alum of Yale University, an individual from the Republican Party, and a boss of high culture. He started his vocation as a sidekick on Krusty the Clown's network show, yet subsequent to suffering steady maltreatment, Bob endeavored to outline his boss for furnished burglary in "Krusty Gets Busted". The arrangement was thwarted by his most outstanding foe, Bart Simpson, and Sideshow Bob was sent to jail. 

Bounce showed up in season three's "Dark Widower"; the journalists resounded the reason of the Coyote pursuing the Road Runner by having Bob surprisingly embed himself into Bart's life, taking steps to upset – and some of the time end – it. In every appearance from that point, Bob has expected the job on "The Simpsons" of an insidious virtuoso. Scenes in which he is a focal character commonly include Sideshow Bob being discharged from jail and executing an intricate retribution plan, normally thwarted by Bart and Lisa. His arrangements frequently include murder and obliteration, as a rule focused at Bart or, less regularly, Krusty, however these plans regularly include focusing on the whole Simpson family. In 2015, be that as it may, amid the "Treehouse of Horror" section, "Needed: Dead, Then Alive", Bob at last gets his desire of executing Bart, remarking that he went through 24 years attempting to slaughter a ten-year-old tyke; in any case, he winds up exhausted with Bart dead, so he breathes life into him back so he can more than once murder Bart again and again. 

Sideshow Bob shares some identity characteristics of Grammer's character Frasier Crane from the sitcoms "Cheers" and "Frasier", and has been portrayed as "Frasier cured in arsenic". A few parallels have been unequivocally attracted "The Simpsons" among Bob and Frasier Crane – Bob's sibling Cecil and his dad were played by David Hyde Pierce and John Mahoney separately, reverberating the jobs they played in "Frasier". Grammer, who put together Bob's voice with respect to that of on-screen character Ellis Rabb, has been commended for his depictions of the character. In 2006, he prevailed upon an Emmy for Outstanding Voice Performance for his work in the scene "The Italian Bob". 

As of December 2017, Bob has had talking appearances in 20 scenes and been included in 13; the latest of the last mentioned, "Gone Boy", circulated amid the 29th season. Notwithstanding his common job in the arrangement, Sideshow Bob has shown up in other "Simpsons" media. He shows up in the "Simpsons Comics", appearances in the 2007 computer game "The Simpsons Game", and stars as the principle enemy in "The Simpsons" Ride at Universal Studios' amusement parks. An admirer of Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, Sideshow Bob is likewise known for his performing voice; a few of Grammer's exhibitions have been incorporated into "The Simpsons" melodic aggregations. 

The character of Sideshow Bob started his profession as the non-talking sidekick on Krusty the Clown's network show. The scene "Sibling from Another Series" (season eight, 1997) uncovers that Bob just got the activity after his more youthful sibling Cecil fizzled a tryout, in light of the fact that Krusty believed Bob to be an ideal comic foil. After rehashed occasions of maltreatment, including being shot from a gun and hit always with pies, the Yale-instructed Bob wound up furious at Krusty and angry of the jokester's prosperity. In "Krusty Gets Busted" (season one, 1990) Bob camouflaged himself as Krusty and encircled him for equipped theft of the Kwik-E-Mart. After Krusty is captured, Bob assumes responsibility for the show, acquainting kids with components of high culture. Be that as it may, Bob's rule is fleeting; Bart Simpson uncovered him as the burglar, Krusty is discharged, and Bob is terminated and sent to imprison. 

In "Dark Widower" (season three, 1992), Bob's first significant appearance in the wake of encircling Krusty, he is discharged from jail and weds Bart's auntie Selma Bouvier. As a major aspect of a plan to acquire cash she has put resources into the securities exchange, Bob endeavors to explode Selma amid their special first night. Bart again thwarts the arrangement and Sideshow Bob comes back to jail. In the wake of being paroled from jail in "Cape Feare" (season five, 1993), Bob targets Bart legitimately, undermining him over and again and driving the Simpsons into covering up as a major aspect of the Witness Relocation Program. Weave tails them to their den, a houseboat on Terror Lake, and, in the wake of repressing the family, gets ready to execute Bart. He permits a last solicitation, nonetheless, and Bart requests to hear Bob sing the whole score of "H.M.S. Pinafore". The deferring strategy prompts Bob's third capture. 

Bounce is discharged from jail by and by in "Sideshow Bob Roberts" (season six, 1994), and keeps running for Mayor of Springfield as the Republican Party competitor. He crushes Democratic Party officeholder Joe Quimby in an avalanche, however Bart and Lisa find that Bob fixed the decision, prompting another imprisonment. Bounce escapes from jail without precedent for "Sideshow Bob's Last Gleaming" (season seven, 1995), and takes steps to explode Springfield with an atomic bomb except if the city quits telecom all TV programs. He is obstructed when he discovers that the bomb itself is a failure, at that point abducts Bart and flies the Wright Brothers' plane trying to slaughter himself, Bart, and Krusty (who is stowing away inside a shack, extemporizing an execution on the Emergency Broadcast System). This also is upset, and Bob comes back to jail. In the accompanying season, Bob exploits the jail's work discharge program, and gives off an impression of being truly reclaimed. In "Sibling from Another Series", Reverend Lovejoy proclaims him a changed man and prescribes him for a work discharge opportunity. Bounce is released from jail into the consideration of his sibling Cecil, who is Springfield's boss hydrological and hydrodynamical engineer. In any case, the plotting Cecil, as yet stinging over his fizzled tryout for Krusty, attempts to outline Bob by undermining the Springfield Dam. Weave, Bart, and Lisa together stop Cecil and spare the town, and the two siblings, notwithstanding Bob's certifiable blamelessness, are sent to jail. 

In "Day of the Jackanapes" (season 12, 2001), Bob finds that Krusty has deleted the majority of the early shows highlighting Sideshow Bob as Krusty himself is proclaiming his fifth and last retirement in the wake of being irritated with the system officials. Sway is discharged from jail and builds up a plot to slaughter Krusty utilizing Bart as a suicide plane amid Krusty's retirement uncommon. Similarly as Bob was to succeed, he catches Krusty freely considering himself in charge of transforming Bob into a criminal, communicating his lament of abusing Bob amid his years as Sideshow. To pacify things, Krusty sings himself a melody for Bob's sake, and being contacted by this, Bob chooses to prematurely end his arrangement of endeavored murder and accommodates with Krusty, despite the fact that he is come back to jail for it. Sway's guide is looked for by Springfield police in "The Great Louse Detective" (season 14, 2002). After an endeavor is made on Homer Simpson's life, Bob is discharged from jail to help discover the guilty party. At the point when the riddle is tackled, he comes back to kill Bart. In any case, Bob discovers he is "familiar with [Bart's] face" and can't do it. 

It is uncovered in "The Italian Bob" (season 17, 2005) that Bob has moved to Italy to make a new beginning. He is chosen civic chairman of a town in Tuscany and weds a nearby lady named Francesca, with whom he has a child named Gino. The Simpson family, in Italy to recover a vehicle for Mr. Consumes, experiences him by possibility. Bounce invites them with accommodation relying on the prerequisite that they not uncover his felonious past; nonetheless, a smashed Lisa jokes about Bob's criminal deeds, estranging Bob from his natives. He, his significant other and child swear a feud on the Simpsons. The whole Terwilliger family returns in "Burial service for a Fiend" (season 19, 2007) in which Bob's dad, Robert Terwilliger Sr., and mother, Dame Judith Underdunk, show up. Sway fakes his very own demise and secures Bart in the pine box, which he endeavors to incinerate at the generally vacant memorial service home as all the Terwilligers giggle twistedly. They are thwarted by Lisa and the remainder of the Simpson family and sent to jail. Bounce quickly returns in the season 20 scene "Wedding for Disaster", when Bart and Lisa at first speculate Bob of abducting Homer to keep him from going to his second wedding with Marge (due to a keychain they found had a 'S' and a 'B'), yet Krusty gives him a plausible excuse, disclosing to the children that Bob was with him the entire day. In the end, Bob and the children find the genuine guilty parties, Patty and Selma. 

Weave returns again in the scene "The Bob Next Door" (season 21, 2010), where he switches faces with his jail cellmate Walt Warren. Bounce comes back to Springfield and moves into the house beside the Simpson family, expecting Walt's personality. He misuses this to make his most recent endeavor to murder Bart lawfully over state lines, however is thwarted again and escapes by state police. Weave quickly shows up in "At Long Last Leave" (season 23, 2012), where he goes to a town meeting to choose if the Simpson family ought to be exiled from Springfield, and is one of numerous who express their craving for it to occur. In "The Man Who Grew Too Much" (season 25, 2014), he was uncovered as a Chief Scientist for a hereditary building organization named Monsarno, having gotten the situation after he was chosen as a guinea pig and distributed the consequences of the examinations to which he was oppressed. He and Lisa bond over their enthusiasm for Walt Whitman, however Bob before long uncovers that he has additionally hereditarily changed himself to give himself different superhuman capacities, aiming to obtain DNA from the relics of different chronicled figures put away in the Springfield Museum to make himself a superhuman despot. In any case, after he is incited into a battle, he understands that he has turned into an unrefined beast and bounces off the Springfield Dam, enduring on the grounds that the gills he gave himself enable him to make due in the lake. 

Sway quickly shows up in "Comedian in the Dumps" (season 26, 2014), where offered his sympathies to Krusty after the demise of his dad, Rabbi Krustofsky. He likewise showed up on "Blasted and Confused" (season 26, 2014), where he meets Mr. Lassen, Bart's previous educator, who was presently diminished to working in jail as a gatekeeper after Bart's activities got him terminated. Notwithstanding Lassen's idea to get him out, Bob rejects that they collaborate as Lassen felt that they would alternate gutting Bart. In "Treehouse of Horror XXVI" portion "Needed: Dead, at that point Alive", Bob effectively murders Bart, yet discovers his life so inane in Bart's nonattendance that he makes a machine to breath life into Bart back with the goal that he can continue executing his adversary again and again, until different Simpsons salvage Bart and Bart utilizes the revival machine to transform Bob into a curved amalgamation of animals. Bounce has shown up in "Lady of Constant Sorrow", snorting in inconvenience as he clears off Bart's spray painting from Hettie Mae Boggs' promotion notice on the divider alongside Snake Jailbird and different prisoners. Sway showed up in the 29th season in "Gone Boy" when he attempts to find the whereabouts of Bart Simpson. 

Notwithstanding standard jobs in the TV arrangement, Sideshow Bob has shown up in other "Simpsons" media. Kelsey Grammer recorded a few Sideshow Bob lines for "The Simpsons Movie," yet the scene was cut. Sideshow Bob has shown up in the month to month "Simpsons Comics", and a few of Kelsey Grammer's singing exhibitions have been incorporated into "The Simpsons" CD accumulations. His execution of the "H.M.S. Pinafore" in "Cape Feare" was later included on the collection "Run Simpsonic with The Simpsons," and the tune "The Very Reason That I Live" from "The Great Louse Detective" was incorporated on "". A formerly unaired tune, "Hullaba Lula", initially composed for "Day of the Jackanapes", was additionally included on that aggregation. The makers demonstrated the tune after "Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah", however were compelled to expel the melody from the scene when they were unfit to get the rights to it. 

In "The Simpsons Game", discharged in November 2007, Bob has a talking appearance toward the finish of the section titled "Intrusion of the Yokel-Snatchers" in which he was working with Kang and Kodos. Sideshow Bob shows up in the 1991 "The Simpsons Arcade Game", on the fifth dimension where he is pulling a truck containing a dish chicken wellbeing get. Weave was likewise included as a dimension manager in the 1991 computer game "". Sideshow Bob assumes a lead job in The Simpsons Ride, which opened at Universal Studios Florida and Universal Studios Hollywood in May 2008. Voiced by Grammer, he is the primary scalawag in the ride, having gotten away from jail to get vengeance on the Simpson family. 

In "", a city developer amusement discharged in February 2012, Sideshow Bob happens as a little something extra. Springing up each couple hours, the players are allowed to tap on him to get a little whole of cash, and "send" him to imprison. In a later update to the amusement, Sideshow Bob additionally has a remain in Krusty Land, where player get the opportunity to pop inflatables for an opportunity to win doughnuts and Krusty tickets. The Simpsons: Tapped Out Terwilligers content update was discharged April 14, 2015 and has a few references to the Simpsons scenes with Sideshow Bob. This diversion occasion was part in 3 acts and finished June 4, 2015. New characters, skins and ensembles incorporate Sideshow Bob, Cecil Terwilliger, Gino Terwilliger, Francesca Terwilliger, Dr. Robert Terwilliger Sr., Judith Underdunk, Captain Bob and Opera Krusty. A large portion of the occasion move makes place at Monsarno Research and Opera House. 

Sideshow Bob previously showed up in "The Telltale Head", the eighth scene of season one. His structure was generally basic contrasted with later manifestations, and his haircut was adjusted. Be that as it may, towards the finish of the scene, he shows up once more, in a panning shot of a group, with his natural hairdo. His first real appearance was in season one's twelfth scene "Krusty Gets Busted", composed by Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky. Sway's plan was refreshed for "Krusty Gets Busted"; as the scene's movement style advanced, chief Brad Bird made the character of Sideshow Bob sleeker and progressively refined, to accommodate Grammer's voice method. Following the re-structure, artists attempted to redraw his scenes in "The Telltale Head", however had lacking time before the show was created. 

Sway has no lines of discourse amid the main portion of "Krusty Gets Busted"; the character's solitary correspondence appears as a slide whistle. This was intended to influence Bob to seem oversimplified, with the goal that when he at long last talked, watchers would be astonished to hear his refined vocabulary. An early form of the content for "Krusty Gets Busted" called for James Earl Jones to voice Bob, yet the makers rather chose Kelsey Grammer. For Bob's voice, Grammer played out an impression of theater performer and chief Ellis Rabb. Grammer had once worked for Rabb, whose "bemoaning tones moved toward becoming [the] establishment for Sideshow Bob". 

Sideshow Bob's full name is Robert Underdunk Terwilliger. His last name was first uncovered in "Dark Widower" while his center name was first referenced in "Sideshow Bob Roberts". Contending hypotheses with regards to the inception of his name exist; a few sources state he was named after the character Dr. Terwilliker, a neurotic outsmarted by a kid named Bart in the film "The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T" by Dr. Seuss, however others state he was named after Terwilliger Boulevard in Portland, Oregon. One more hypothesis is that he was named after Sergeant Terwilliger and Mrs. Underdunk in the pilot scene of the TV show "Seeker". 

For season three's "Dark Widower", the essayists resounded the reason of Wile E. Coyote pursuing the Road Runner from Looney Tunes kid's shows by having Bob out of the blue supplement himself into Bart's life and endeavor to murder him. Official maker Al Jean has contrasted Bob's character with that of Wile E. Coyote, noticing that both are canny, yet constantly thwarted by what they see as a second rate judgment. For "Dark Widower", chief David Silverman refreshed the character model to mirror the liveliness of executive Brad Bird. A standard for prior scenes highlighting Bob required a recap of his detestable deeds; this was dropped after season eight's "Sibling from Another Series" when the order turned out to be excessively long. Another standard set up by the show's authors ordered Bob's arrival to jail toward the finish of every scene, in spite of the fact that this example was deserted in later scenes like "The Great Louse Detective" and "The Italian Bob". 

Bill Oakley and Josh Weinstein, the showrunners for the seventh and eighth seasons, trusted that each period of the show ought to contain a scene featuring Sideshow Bob. In any case, by the seventh season Bob had just been the focal point of four stories, and scholars were experiencing difficulty growing better approaches to incorporate him. Weinstein portrays Bob's exchange as hard to compose, because of his novel and refined style of talking. In spite of these difficulties, be that as it may, makers of "The Simpsons" typically anticipate "Sideshow Bob scenes"; the essayists think of them as agreeable to compose, and previous executive Dominic Polcino portrays them as "a treat" to chip away at. 

Kelsey Grammer at first expected Sideshow Bob to be a one-time job, and calls him "the most well known character I've at any point played". Grammer ordinarily joins the show's "table readings" (wherein cast individuals read each content together out of the blue), and previous official maker David Mirkin portrayed working with Grammer as wonderful, because of his enthusiastic comical inclination. Grammer, Mirkin says, is fit for immaculate readings, however noticed that the on-screen character detests performing Sideshow Bob's abhorrent chuckle. In a 2007 meeting, "Simpsons" official maker Al Jean recorded Grammer as one of his most loved visitor stars (second just to Phil Hartman), saying "his voice is so rich." Writer George Meyer remarked that "composing for Kelsey is incredible, he can give the sort of purple, colorful, exaggerated talks that the vast majority of the characters could never give. What's more, he can sing." 

The show's scholars respect Grammer's performing voice, and endeavor to incorporate a melody for every appearance. Alf Clausen, the essential author for "The Simpsons", remarked that "[Grammer] is so incredible. He's simply astounding. You can tell he has this adoration for melodic theater and he has the vocal instrument to run with it, so I realize whatever I compose will be sung the manner in which I've heard it." Clausen formed Sideshow Bob's subject, which is played at whatever point Bob escapes jail or is going to submit a vile activity, and was first utilized in "Cape Feare". It depends on the score of the film "Cape Fear", created by Bernard Herrmann. The melodic score for "Cape Feare" earned Clausen an Emmy Award assignment for Outstanding Dramatic Underscore – Series in 1994. 

Sway's detainee number is regularly 24601, which is Jean Valjean's detainee number in "Les Misérables". Another trademark for Bob is a visual muffle of venturing on a rake and being hit in the face with its handle; this joke previously showed up in "Cape Feare". To fill time, the journalists included nine back to back cycles of a similar joke with hardly a pause in between. The succession has turned out to be known as the "rake joke" and was portrayed by "Excitement Weekly" as appearing "in its redundant idiocy." 

The scene "Sibling from Another Series" presents Bob's sibling Cecil. After essayist Ken Keeler was doled out to compose a scene including Sideshow Bob, he drew motivation from scenes of "Frasier". He chose to consolidate components of Grammer's other show into the character of Sideshow Bob, and structured Cecil to take after Grammer's sibling on "Frasier". Cecil is voiced by David Hyde Pierce, who depicted Frasier Crane's sibling Niles. Penetrate remarked, "Regularly, I would not accomplish something like this. However, how regularly do you get an opportunity to work with a performing artist like Kelsey Grammer and, all the more vitally, play his sibling?" Several of "Frasier" makers were approached to audit the first content and give criticism. Their remarks were certain; they just communicated worry with an exceptionally short scene in which Cecil converses with an obvious character whom he alludes to as "Maris". In "Frasier", Maris Crane is a concealed character, and the makers of "Frasier" asked that the scene be evacuated. A considerable lot of the connections among Bob and Cecil depended on those of Niles and Frasier. Cecil was attracted to look like David Hyde Pierce, while holding a visual closeness to Sideshow Bob. As indicated by executive Pete Michels, it was hard to draw Bob and Cecil standing together, on account of their humorously curiously large feet. 

Cecil returns in season 19's "Memorial service for a Fiend", which presents the siblings' beforehand concealed dad, Dr. Robert Terwilliger, played by John Mahoney. Mahoney depicted Martin Crane, the dad of Grammer's and Pierce's characters in "Frasier". While in "Frasier", Mahoney played the "practical, normal person" to Grammer's and Hyde Pierce's "vain upstarts", Robert Terwilliger Sr. was depicted as similarly highbrow as Bob. His better half, Bob's mom, is Dame Judith Underdunk, "the best established performer of her age." She sports a similar wavy spiked hair as her two children. Weave additionally has a spouse named Francesca (voiced by Maria Grazia Cucinotta) and a child named Gino, both of whom were presented in season 17 scene "The Italian Bob" and returned for "Memorial service for a Fiend". 

The character of Sideshow Bob and Grammer's voicework have gotten numerous honors. In 2006 IGN recorded him as the second-best "fringe character" on "The Simpsons", remarking that Bob is "a man of logical inconsistencies; his ridiculous appearance, complete with palm tree like hair, doesn't appear to coordinate to the articulate and even musically skilled insane person." Also that year, "Wizard Magazine" appraised Bob as the 66th most noteworthy antagonist ever. Adam Finley of TV Squad composed that "that baritone voice, the Shakespearean conveyance, and the capacity to go from quiet and gathered to bonkers all around the same time make Sideshow Bob a standout amongst the best repeating characters on the show." 

Kelsey Grammer has reliably gotten commendation for his voicework, and has been portrayed as "splendid", "supreme" and "a dining experience of mid-Atlantic anglophilia". In 2006, Grammer won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Voice-Over Performance for his job in "The Italian Bob"; he had recently won four honors in the Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series class for his depiction of the title job on "Frasier". In 2008, Grammer was incorporated into "Excitement Weekly"s rundown of the sixteen best "Simpsons" visitor stars; Hyde Pierce was additionally incorporated into that rundown. Ken Tucker of "Stimulation Weekly" composed that "Kelsey Grammer's fantastic voice-execution as Sideshow Bob is Frasier cured in arsenic." In her book "My Life as a 10-Year-Old Boy", Nancy Cartwright (who plays out the voice of Bart Simpson) composed that "Kelsey Grammer scores big-time by infusing acidic, severe, derisive and delectably disgusting vitality into his interpretation of Sideshow Bob. Springfield just wouldn't be the equivalent without him." 

The greater part of the scenes highlighting Bob have been generally welcomed by fans and faultfinders. "Cape Feare" is for the most part viewed as a standout amongst the best scenes of "The Simpsons" and set third on "Excitement Weekly"s 2003 rundown of the show's best 25 scenes. IGN thinks of it as the best scene of the fifth season. In 2007, "Vanity Fair" considered it the show's fourth-best scene, on account of its "unbelievable coordination of filmic spoof and a common character". Ben Rayner of the "Toronto Star" recorded "Cape Feare", "Sideshow Bob's Last Gleaming" and "Sibling From Another Series" among the best scenes of the arrangement, stating "overlook "Frasier", these are Kelsey Grammer's best jobs." "The Italian Bob" and its essayist John Frink won a Writers Guild of America Award in 2007 in the activity classification. In December 2009, Robert Canning of IGN positioned the ten scenes to highlight Bob that had disclosed at the time. The initial five Bob scenes took up the best five, with "Cape Feare" being positioned first. "The Italian Bob" was positioned tenth, with the clarification that "Every one of the things we adore about a Sideshow Bob episode – the retribution, the well-known settings and characters, the expand scheming – were absent from this half-hour. Without it, Bob wasn't so engaging, and the scene didn't result in a ton of giggles." He noticed that just "The Italian Bob" and the ninth positioned "Burial service for a Fiend" were "the main ones I'd think about clunkers. The rest of the scenes are generally very fun." 

In "Planet Simpson", writer Chris Turner composes that Bob is incorporated with a highbrow pretender and moderate Republican so the authors can consistently utilize him as a strawman and pincushion. He speaks to high culture while Krusty speaks to low culture, and Bart, stuck in the middle of, dependably wins out. In the book "Leaving Springfield", David L. G. Arnold remarks that Bart is a result of a "mass-culture childhood" and along these lines is Bob's adversary. Baffled by his initial job as the objective of "Krusty's shoddy stiflers", Bob outlines Krusty and assumes control over the show. He changes the substance of that show to exhibit readings of exemplary writing and portions inspecting the enthusiastic existences of pre-teenagers. He trusts that by presenting the children to high culture he will improve their lives. Arnold composes that "Weave's own soul and ethical quality are unmistakably unaffected by the high culture he speaks to." He likewise endeavors to "control the flavors of the majority" by turning into a criminal brains. Arnold trusts this is most clear in "Sideshow Bob Roberts", wherein he fixes the decision to turn into the civic chairman of Springfield. At the point when blamed for decision extortion, he rages, "Your feelings of remorse may constrain you to cast a ballot Democratic, yet subtly you long for a heartless Republican who'll cut expenses, brutalize hoodlums, and rule you like a ruler! You need me, Springfield!" He views himself as an individual from the social world class, and cheerfully utilizes Machiavellian strategies to procure and look after power. 

Sway's insight serves him from multiple points of view. Amid the scene "Cape Feare", for instance, the parole board asks Bob for what reason he has a tattoo that says "Bite the dust, Bart, Die". Bounce answers that it is German for "The, Bart, The"; individuals from the board are awed by his thinking. Trusting that "no one who communicates in German could be an abhorrent man", they discharge him. Be that as it may, his adoration for high culture is now and then utilized against him. In a similar scene, Bob consents to play out the operetta "H.M.S. Pinafore" completely as a last solicitation for Bart. The strategy slows down Bob sufficiently long for the police to capture him.