William de Longchamp 

William de Longchamp (kicked the bucket 1197) was a medieval Lord Chancellor, Chief Justiciar, and Bishop of Ely in England. Destined to an unassuming family in Normandy, he owed his progression to imperial support. Albeit contemporary journalists blamed Longchamp's dad for being the child of a laborer, he held land as a knight. Longchamp first served Henry II's ill-conceived child Geoffrey, however immediately exchanged to the administration of Richard I, Henry's beneficiary. At the point when Richard progressed toward becoming ruler in 1189, Longchamp paid £3,000 for the workplace of Chancellor, and was before long named to the see, or precinct, of Ely and delegated legate by the pope. 

Longchamp administered England while Richard was on the Third Crusade, yet his position was tested by Richard's sibling, John, who in the long run prevailing with regards to driving Longchamp from influence and from England. Longchamp's relations with the other driving English nobles were likewise stressed, which added to the requests for his outcast. Not long after Longchamp's takeoff from England, Richard was caught on his voyage back to England from the campaign and held for payoff by Henry VI, Holy Roman Emperor. Longchamp ventured out to Germany to help arrange Richard's discharge. In spite of the fact that Longchamp recovered the workplace of Chancellor after Richard's arrival to England, he lost a lot of his previous influence. He stimulated a lot of antagonistic vibe among his peers amid his profession, yet he held Richard's trust and was utilized by the ruler until the religious administrator's demise in 1197. Longchamp composed a treatise on the law, which stayed understood all through the later Middle Ages. 

Longchamp's predecessors started in the town of Longchamps, Normandy. Despite the fact that it is realized that he was conceived in Normandy, the accurate area is obscure, with it maybe being close to the Norman town of Argenton. His dad, Hugh de Longchamp, likewise held land in England, as did numerous other Norman nobles after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066. Hugh Nonant—one of Longchamp's rivals—pronounced that the senior Longchamp was the child of a laborer, which appears to be improbable, as Hugh de Longchamp seems to have held a knight's tenure in Normandy. The family was initially of humble foundation, yet ascended through support of King Henry II. The senior Longchamp likewise held land in Herefordshire in England, including the house of Wilton close Ross in Wales. Hugh wedded a lady named Eve, a relative of the Lacy family. Student of history David Balfour recommends that Eve was the little girl of Gilbert de Lacy, the child of Roger de Lacy, banished by King William II in 1095 for insubordination. 

Longchamp's sister, Richeut, wedded the castellan of Dover Castle. A second sister, Melisend, came to England with Longchamp, yet generally is obscure. A sister is recorded as having hitched Stephen Devereux, however whether this is Melisend is vague. Of Longchamp's siblings, Osbert remained a layman, and owed a lot of his progression to William; Stephen served King Richard I on campaign; Henry, another layman, turned into a sheriff alongside Osbert; and Robert turned into a priest. Two of Longchamp's siblings progressed toward becoming abbots. 

Longchamp entered open life at the end of Henry II's rule, as an authority for the King's ill-conceived child Geoffrey. He before long left Geoffrey's administration, and served in Henry II's chancery, or composing office, before he entered administration with Henry's child Richard. Richard, who was Duke of Aquitaine at the time, named Longchamp chancellor of the Duchy of Aquitaine. Longchamp first separated himself at the court of King Philip II of France in Paris in 1189, when he went about as Richard's emissary in a question with William Marshall, King Henry's agent. At that point, Longchamp was at that point one of Richard's confided in counsels. 

On Richard's increase to the position of royalty of England in 1189 Longchamp moved toward becoming Chancellor of England. Longchamp paid 3,000 pounds (£) for the workplace of Chancellor. This was trailed by an expansion in the cost of having chancery records fixed with the Great Seal, fundamental for their verification, maybe to help Longchamp recover the expense of office. At the committee held at Pipewell on 15 September 1189, the King raised Longchamp to the church district of Ely. Richard named three different priests in the meantime: Godfrey de Lucy to Winchester, Richard FitzNeal to London, and Hubert Walter to Salisbury. Longchamp was blessed on 31 December 1189 and enthroned at Ely on 6 January 1190. 

Prior to leaving England in 1189, Richard put the Tower of London in Longchamp's grasp and delegated him mutually with Hugh de Puiset, the Bishop of Durham, to the workplace of Chief Justiciar, around then not carefully a legal office. Rather, the justiciar was the individual depended with a great part of the ruler's power when the lord was outside the kingdom, ready to act in the lord's name. Alongside Puiset, the ruler named Hugh Bardulf, William Briwerre, Geoffrey fitz Peter, and William Marshall as partners in the justiciarship, under Puiset and Longchamp. As Justiciar, Longchamp sent judges all through the nation to visit the shires on legal visits, despite the fact that he had no past learning of the legal executive. Longchamp and Puiset were unfit to cooperate, thus in March 1190 Richard gave expert north of the River Humber to Hugh, and specialist south of the waterway to Longchamp. Student of history's conclusions are partitioned whether Richard unequivocally made Longchamp better than Puiset right now, or if in principle the two should corresponding in their individual circles. By June, Longchamp had backed Puiset out of intensity and the justiciar's office. He likewise got a commission as an ecclesiastical legate from Pope Clement III as of now. As far as anyone knows Richard paid 1,500 marks (£1,000) to the papacy to verify the legateship for Longchamp. 

Longchamp allowed the residents of London the privilege to choose their very own sheriffs, and to gather and transmit their money related toll of £300 straightforwardly to the Exchequer, the treasury of England. On Longchamp's visits to his see he was joined by a substantial train of retainers and creatures, which ended up infamous all through the nation as an indication of his excess. Under his legatine specialist, the priest held legatine chambers of the congregation at Gloucester and Westminster in 1190. He additionally acted to reestablish expert in York, which had endured a breakdown all together after the slaughter of Jews in March 1190. Likewise in 1190, he sent a military against Rhys ap Gruffydd, a Welsh ruler who was endeavoring to lose the control of the marcher masters that encompassed Wales. 

Longchamp's relations with the English individuals were made increasingly troublesome on the grounds that he was a local of Normandy, and regularly unfeeling to English traditions. The medieval essayist William of Newburgh asserted that Longchamp was "a dark outsider of problematic capacity and dependability". For instance, it seems likely that Longchamp did not communicate in English, making his relations with his run progressively troublesome. The main nobles whined that Longchamp minimized different authorities Richard had designated to present with him, and that he acquired outsiders to fill workplaces. Despite the fact that the principal charge is for the most part false, the second seems to have been substantial, as Longchamp installed non-locals in legal workplaces and as sheriffs. He likewise endeavored to catch control of various English mansions by allowing their authority to relatives and wards. 

All through 1190, Longchamp's relations with Richard's more youthful sibling John were troublesome. This prompted Longchamp assaulting Lincoln Castle on the grounds that the castellan would not surrender the château and enable himself to be supplanted by Longchamp's candidate. The castellan, Gerard de Camville, had sworn faithfulness to John and expressed he would never again perceive the chancellor's position. Accordingly, John took the two mansions of Tickhill and Northampton. Updates on the debate came to Richard, who sent Walter de Coutances, the Archbishop of Rouen, to England in pre-summer 1191, with requests to arrange a harmony among John and Longchamp. In the long run, Walter facilitated a trade off between the two because of which Gerard was affirmed as castellan and John surrendered the palaces. Longchamp likewise consented to work to guarantee John's progression to the position of authority in case of Richard's demise. 

Longchamp's legatine bonus from the papacy terminated in spring 1191, on the demise of Clement III, in this manner expelling one of Longchamp's capacity bases. The legation was, be that as it may, reestablished a couple of months after the fact by Clement's successor, Celestine III. A further difficulty for Longchamp emerged in September 1191, when Henry II's ill-conceived child Geoffrey, Archbishop of York, was captured by Longchamp's subordinates, driven by the castellan of Dover Castle, Longchamp's brother by marriage. Their requests had been to capture the Archbishop of York as he arrived at Dover on the ecclesiastical overseer's arrival to England, however Geoffrey had been cautioned of their arrangements, and fled to asylum in St. Martin's Priory. Longchamp's men laid attack to the monastery, and following four days persuasively expelled Geoffrey. The brutality of the assault helped people in general to remember Thomas Becket's affliction, and popular feeling betrayed Longchamp. Longchamp guaranteed that Geoffrey had not sworn fealty to Richard, yet this was likely only a reason to take out an adversary. 

A serious purposeful publicity battle driven by partisans of John followed. One of the pioneers of the crusade against Longchamp was Hugh Nonant, the Bishop of Coventry, and he alongside different magnates, including Geoffrey, who had been discharged, gathered a preliminary on 5 October 1191 at Loddon Bridge close London. Longchamp did not visit, yet he was ousted and expelled, and subsequent to attempting to hold the Tower of London, he was compelled to surrender because of absence of help from the residents of London. The chamber at that point proclaimed his workplaces relinquish, and requested the surrender of the mansions in his guardianship. The primary charge against Longchamp seems to have been his despotic conduct. 

Longchamp went to Dover in late 1191 to look for transport to the landmass. Amid his departure, he was unfit to answer the nearby individuals when they addressed him in English. He endeavored to leave England in different camouflages, including a priest's propensity and ladies' garments. Hugh Nonant composed that Longchamp endeavored on one event to stow away dressed as a whore, which prompted him being ambushed by an angler who confused him with a prostitute. Longchamp in the long run prevailing with regards to leaving England, on 29 October. 

Longchamp went to the court of Henry VI, the Holy Roman Emperor, who was holding King Richard hostage at Trifels. The religious administrator orchestrated Richard to be held at the supreme court and arranged an installment plan for the payment, 100,000 marks, under the terms of which the head consented to discharge Richard once 70,000 marks had been paid and prisoners for the installment of the rest had been gotten. At the point when the Emperor in January 1194 assembled a conference of the magnificent magnates to discuss King Philip II of France's idea to pay the Emperor to keep Richard hostage, Longchamp went to alongside Walter of Coutances and Eleanor of Aquitaine, Richard's mom. After further strategic wrangling, Richard was liberated on 4 February 1194. 

Richard compensated Longchamp with the authority of Eye and an arrangement as Sheriff of Essex and Sheriff of Hertfordshire when the pair came back to England, however Longchamp before long wound up involved in a recharging of his conflict with Archbishop Geoffrey of York. Richard left England in May 1194, and Longchamp went with him to the mainland, never to come back to England; Longchamp came back to the Emperor's court in 1195. Richard kept on utilizing Longchamp in tact—in spite of the fact that it was Geoffrey who masterminded a ceasefire with King Philip in 1194—just as holding the religious administrator as chancellor, however the primary influence in England was currently Hubert Walter. Longchamp spent an incredible remainder outside his see, normally going with the ruler. 

Longchamp passed on in January 1197, at Poitiers, while on a strategic mission to Rome for Richard, and was covered at the convent of Le Pin. A significant part of the data on his vocation originates from individuals antagonistic to him, for instance, Gerald of Wales called Longchamp that "beast with numerous heads". The history specialist Austin Lane Poole says that Gerald depicted Longchamp as more like a gorilla than a man. Longchamp was allegedly a refined and accomplished man. He was bolstered by others among his peers, including Pope Clement III, who, when he named Longchamp legate, composed that he did as such at the encouraging of the English religious administrators. When he was one of four men named religious administrator in 1189, medieval recorder Richard of Devizes composed that the four new diocesans were "men of no little ethicalness and distinction". Student of history John Gillingham composed that Longchamp's "record of his life in governmental issues and organization was a decent one, ruined just by his disappointment in 1191". 

One of Longchamp's plausible advancements as chancellor was the substitution of the primary individual particular recently utilized in records drafted in the lord's name with the glorious plural or "regal we". He composed a work on law entitled "Practica legum et decretorum", a manual on the utilization of both common and ordinance law in the Angevin assets on the mainland, made at some point somewhere in the range of 1181 and 1189. It was notable in the Middle Ages, and filled in as a down to earth direct for those associated with prosecution. The medieval writer Nigel Wireker (otherwise called Nigel de Longchamps) devoted to the priest an ironical ballad, "Speculum Stultorum" ("Mirror of Fools"), on the propensities for understudies. Richard Barre, a medieval essayist and judge, devoted his work "Abstract de veteris et novo testamento" to Longchamp. Longchamp was one of Barre's supporters, and verified the post of Archdeacon of Ely for him just as legal posts. 

Two essayists have found in the get together that met to attempt Longchamp in 1191 an antecedent to the get-together at Runnymede in 1215 that drew up Magna Carta, as it was one of the soonest instances of the nobles of the domain meeting up to power the legislature to run with their recommendation. Longchamp likewise advanced the professions of his siblings; Henry and Osbert moved toward becoming sheriffs during the 1190s, Osbert the Sheriff of Yorkshire. His sibling Robert, a minister, likewise profited, getting to be earlier of the Ely house of prayer section and later abbot of St Mary's Abbey, York.