Geoffrey (diocese supervisor of York) 

Geoffrey (c. 1152 – 12 December 1212) was an ill-conceived child of Henry II, King of England, who moved toward becoming religious administrator choose of Lincoln and ecclesiastical overseer of York. The character of his mom is unsure, yet she may have been named Ykenai. Geoffrey held a few minor administrative workplaces before getting to be Bishop of Lincoln in 1173, however he was not appointed as a minister until 1189. In 1173– 1174, he drove a crusade in northern England to help put down a defiance by his real stepbrothers; this battle prompted the catch of William, King of Scots. By 1182, Pope Lucius III had requested that Geoffrey either leave Lincoln or be blessed as religious administrator; he surrendered and moved toward becoming Chancellor. He was the just a single of Henry II's children present at the lord's demise. 

Geoffrey's stepbrother Richard I named him diocese supervisor of York in the wake of prevailing to the position of royalty of England, likely to constrain him to turn into a minister and consequently wipe out a potential opponent for the royal position. After some question Geoffrey was blessed ecclesiastical overseer in 1191. He before long wound up entangled in a contention with William Longchamp, Richard's official in England, in the wake of being kept at Dover on his arrival to England following his sanctification in France. Geoffrey asserted haven in the town, yet he was seized by specialists of Longchamp and quickly detained in Dover Castle. Along these lines, a chamber of magnates requested Longchamp out of office, and Geoffrey had the capacity to continue to his archdiocese. The diocese supervisor spent a lot of his archiepiscopate in different question with his stepbrothers: first Richard and afterward John, who prevailing to the English position of royalty in 1199. Geoffrey likewise squabbled with his suffragan clerics, his house of prayer section, and other pastorate in his see. His last fight with John was in 1207, when the ecclesiastical overseer would not permit the accumulation of an expense and was crashed into outcast in France. He kicked the bucket there five years after the fact. 

Geoffrey was most likely conceived in around 1152, preceding his dad Henry, later Henry II of England, wedded Eleanor of Aquitaine, and was likely named after his fatherly granddad, Geoffrey of Anjou. In spite of the fact that he is frequently given the surname "Plantagenet" in present day accounts, that name was not being used amid his lifetime. The date of his introduction to the world is dictated by explanations of Gerald of Wales that he was scarcely 20 when chosen diocesan in 1173, and by the way that he was around 40 when sanctified ecclesiastical overseer in 1191. His mom's personality is indistinct. The medieval recorder Walter Map guaranteed she was a prostitute named Ykenai, and that he was not really Henry's child. This is the main contemporary source that gives her name, and as Map was threatening to Geoffrey, the data must be judged cautiously. Rather, Ykenai may have been a little girl of a knight. Another probability for Geoffrey's mom is Rosamund Clifford, however a large portion of the proof for this is conditional. It is expected that Geoffrey was the oldest of Henry's youngsters, genuine or ill-conceived. 

Geoffrey was raised with Henry's authentic youngsters. There is no proof that Henry attempted to deny Geoffrey's paternity, in spite of the fact that Walter Map said that Henry's affirmation was done "inappropriately and with little carefulness". Geoffrey had a sibling named Peter, who seems to have been his maternal relative, as Peter is by and large thought to be probably not going to have been Henry's child. 

Geoffrey was Archdeacon of Lincoln in the bishopric of Lincoln by September 1171, and presumably held that office until he was affirmed as cleric choose in 1175. He likewise held a prebend, a pay from land possessed by a house of prayer part, in the see of London, however there is little proof that he executed the obligations of either office. There are a few signs that he contemplated ordinance law at a school in Northampton, and that he educated in Paris amid the mid 1170s. He likewise went about as an ecclesiastical judge-delegate around then. Pope Alexander III at first would not affirm Geoffrey's choice as Bishop of Lincoln in about May 1173, inciting Geoffrey to make a trip to Rome in October 1174 to verify affirmation of this office. He was affirmed in the workplace of religious administrator by July 1175, however he was not appointed around then, as he was under the accepted age for holding a ministerial office. Geoffrey's childhood was one of Alexander's protests to Geoffrey's decision, and the pope just affirmed the workplace under coercion. Another potential issue was Geoffrey's wrongness, which ordinarily disbarred an individual from holding clerical office, however that was managed by the giving of an ecclesiastical allotment. 

In 1173 and mid 1174 Geoffrey battled a military crusade in northern England in help of his dad's endeavors to repress the Scots, who were supporting the defiance by Geoffrey's authentic stepbrothers against their dad. The crusade brought about the catch of William the Lion, the King of Scots, at the Battle of Alnwick and furthermore constrained Hugh du Puiset, the Bishop of Durham, to promise fealty to Henry II. Amid the crusade, Geoffrey caught a few strongholds held by Roger Mowbray, a supporter of the Scottish ruler. It was after this crusade Henry said of Geoffrey "My different children are the genuine mongrels. ... This is simply the special case who's demonstrated authentic!" After Geoffrey was affirmed as religious administrator by Pope Alexander in 1175, the priest choose made a formal visit to Lincoln on 1 August 1175. He hence went to learn at Tours, where he most likely become friends with Peter of Blois, a medieval artist and ambassador who devoted a later work on St Wilfrid to Geoffrey. The diocesan choose made a few presents to the church building at Lincoln, including two ringers for the chime tower. While Geoffrey was the religious administrator choose at Lincoln, it gives the idea that Adam, Bishop of St Asaph, completed the episcopal obligations in the see of Lincoln, as Geoffrey had not been blessed and was unfit to play out those capacities. By and by, he figured out how to recuperate a few terrains of the see that had been lost just as reclaiming pawned clerical things. In spite of the fact that he helped the accounts of his bishopric with these recuperations, in 1180 he saddled his see vigorously enough to gain him a reproach from his dad. In 1181 Pope Lucius III wound up worried that Geoffrey was never going to be appointed or sanctified, and requested that the diocesan choose's position be regularized, either through sanctification as religious administrator or through renunciation. 

Geoffrey formally surrendered the see of Lincoln on 6 January 1182, at Marlborough in England, instead of be appointed as Pope Lucius III had requested. Henry had named him Chancellor of England in 1181, after Geoffrey demonstrated he would leave the ward in February 1181. Despite the fact that Geoffrey surrendered the episcopal office, he kept on holding benefices in majority, which was ordinarily in opposition to group law. These workplaces incorporated the Treasurer of York from 1182, the Archdeaconry of Rouen from 1183, and presumably the Archdeaconry of East Riding. Henry additionally gave him two mainland palaces, one in Anjou and one in Touraine, alongside terrains in England and Normandy worth 1000 denotes a year. In spite of the fact that Geoffrey held the workplace of Chancellor, he shows up in just couple of records, predominantly somewhere in the range of 1182 and 1185. After 1185 he doesn't show up in any contemporary reports until 1187, and it is conceivable that he invested some energy outside his dad's areas. Dwindle of Blois composed that few rulers considered Geoffrey as a conceivable successor for their kingdoms in Italy or the Holy Land, and that he was really offered the position of royalty of Jerusalem by Heraclius, the Patriarch of Jerusalem. It is conceivable that Geoffrey's non-appearance in reports was because of his nonappearance from his dad's spaces in quest for these desire. Amid Geoffrey's term of office as Chancellor Walter de Coutances filled in as his "seal-guardian"; the requirement for somebody to play out this capacity adds additional proof to the probability that Geoffrey's time as Chancellor was spent on irrelevant obligations for his dad. William Longchamp satisfied a similar right hand job for the archdeaconry at Rouen. 

Following the affirmation of war on Henry by Prince Richard and King Philip II of France in 1187, Geoffrey was given direction of a fourth of the English illustrious armed force. He and his dad were driven from Le Mans, Henry's origin, in 1189. Geoffrey did not go to the resulting meeting at which Henry submitted to Philip preceding Henry's demise, reluctant to observe his dad's mortification, however he helped nurture him amid his last days. Henry made a bedside wish that Geoffrey be made either Archbishop of York or Bishop of Winchester, and Geoffrey utilized his dad's seal to make arrangements to York after Henry's passing. Geoffrey then escorted Henry's body to Fontevrault Abbey for entombment. He was the just a single of Henry II's children present at his demise. 

Richard named Geoffrey Archbishop of York on 20 July 1189, inside long periods of taking the honored position; the formal decision occurred on 10 August. What occurred with the empty archbishopric of York after Richard took the position of royalty, and why, just as the careful order of occasions, is entangled by the conflicting idea of the fundamental contemporary records. Gerald of Wales expresses that Geoffrey was hesitant to acknowledge York, yet another recorder, Benedict of Peterborough relates that Geoffrey rapidly assumed responsibility for the archiepiscopal bequests. Anyway the decision happened, Geoffrey's sanctification did not occur until some other time, and not long after his race, he either surrendered or was deprived of his office of Chancellor. A further confusion was that the house of prayer section had before chosen the Dean of York, Hubert Walter, as diocese supervisor. 

Richard most likely offered York to Geoffrey in the desire for constraining him to turn into a full minister, and in this manner dispense with a potential adversary for the position of royalty. Richard likewise required Geoffrey to swear that he would stay outside England for a long time amid the time Richard expected to be out of the nation on campaign. The ruler along these lines discharged Geoffrey from the vow, the underlying swearing of which was obviously another of Richard's endeavors to keep Geoffrey's conceivable aspirations towards the English position of authority within proper limits. Yet, the house of God section at York debated Geoffrey's arrangement, guaranteeing that in light of the fact that the Dean of York, Hubert Walter, and some others of the part had not been available, the race was invalid. Walter's decision to York was upheld by Richard's mom, Eleanor of Aquitaine, whom a recorder asserted loathed Geoffrey as the result of one of her better half's undertakings. Richard thus held his authority over the domains of the archbishopric, and did not affirm the decision until a committee held at Pipewell on 16 September. At that gathering Richard likewise designated three men to workplaces inside the ward of York: he made Henry Marshal the dignitary; Burchard du Puiset, a relative of Hugh du Puiset, moved toward becoming treasurer; and Roger of London the abbot of Selby Abbey. Geoffrey protested these arrangements, and subsequently his homes were appropriated by the lord until he submitted and turned into a cleric. The students of history Ralph Turner and Richard Heiser conjecture that Richard's technique in making these arrangements was to keep Geoffrey occupied by issues inside his ward, and in this way unfit to challenge for the English position of authority. The two students of history likewise propose that Richard may have been making a case of Geoffrey, in a showing that he could be unforgiving even with his very own relatives. 

Geoffrey's appointment as a cleric occurred at Southwell on 23 September 1189, in a function performed by John the Bishop of Whithorn. Geoffrey then went to York, yet until his decision was confirmed by the pope he would not permit Burchard to take up his office. This position was upheld by a large portion of the York church part. Geoffrey then was sent by Richard to escort William the Lion from Scotland to Canterbury. It was at Canterbury that ecclesiastical consent to Geoffrey's decision was verified in December, when Giovanni d'Anagni, the ecclesiastical legate, affirmed the race, yet dismissed the different interests made by the house of God section against Geoffrey. In any case, the ruler constrained Geoffrey to permit the regal arrangements, and pay a fine of £2000 before his territories were reestablished, in spite of the fact that Geoffrey was enabled some an opportunity to make the full installment. 

In mid 1190 Geoffrey requested an end to religious functions in the house of prayer and banished Henry Marshal and Burchard in countering for a question amid a prior chapel gathering. Richard, who was in Normandy getting ready to go on the Third Crusade, requested Geoffrey to the ruler's essence in Normandy. In spite of the fact that Hugh du Puiset, who was Justiciar, was hampering Geoffrey's endeavors to gather income for the prior fine, Richard demanded prompt full installment. At the point when Geoffrey was unfit to pay Richard re-reallocated his territories, expanded the measure of the fine, and requested a guarantee that Geoffrey would not visit England for a long time. The debate was settled afresh when the pope ventured in and confirmed Geoffrey's decision, along these lines empowering a compromise between the ruler and the diocese supervisor at Tours in June. Geoffrey's bequests were come back to him in July, subsequent to paying 800 characteristics of his fine. 

Geoffrey was blessed on 18 August 1191, at Tours in France, by Barthelemy de Vendôme, the Archbishop of Tours, after the papacy consented to permit the sanctification. This consent was verified by the mediation of the ruler and his mom, Eleanor of Aquitaine. Turner and Heiser see the assumed inspiration driving Eleanor and Richard's help as a feature of a push to verify a stabilizer to the influence practiced in England by the Chancellor, William Longchamp, about whom objections had come to Richard in Sicily. Geoffrey got his pallium, the image of an ecclesiastical overseer's position, at his sanctification. In September 1191, after the sanctification, he endeavored to go to York, yet was met at Dover by operators of Longchamp, and despite the fact that he took asylum in the convent of St. Martin in Dover, was hauled from haven and detained in Dover Castle. Longchamp guaranteed that Geoffrey had not sworn fealty to Richard, however this was presumably only a reason to dispose of an opponent. Another complexity was that the English clerics had spoke to the papacy on the grounds that Geoffrey had not been sanctified by the Archbishop of Canterbury, and Longchamp could in this way guarantee to have been following up in the interest of different religious administrators in requesting Geoffrey's capture. In any case, the activities of Longchamp's specialists were viewed as over the top and there was soon a clamor against the Chancellor's capture of Geoffrey, despite the fact that Longchamp asserted that his requests had been surpassed by his operators. One reason for the shock was the undeniable parallel with the homicide of Thomas Becket, who had been hauled from a special stepped area and martyred. The ecclesiastical overseer was discharged and participated in a committee held at Loddon Bridge, among Reading and Windsor; Longchamp was suspended and dismissed from the chancellorship, and Hugh of Lincoln, the Bishop of Lincoln, banished the individuals who had hauled Geoffrey from asylum. Geoffrey was then enthroned at York on 1 November 1191. 

While still entangled in his contention with Longchamp, Geoffrey started fighting with Hugh du Puiset, presumably over Geoffrey's position in Puiset's see of Durham, one of those subject to York. The question delayed for quite a long time, with numerous interests to Rome and the ruler. York had been empty for quite a long while, and Puiset had become used to having unencumbered expert in the northern archdiocese. After Geoffrey's sanctification, he brought Puiset to a common synod in late September 1191, at which the religious administrator was accused of different inconsistencies. Puiset engaged Rome and would not go to the synod, and was banned in December by Geoffrey. An endeavor in March 1192 by Queen Eleanor and Hubert Walter to settle the issue came to nothing when Geoffrey demanded a promise of dutifulness from Puiset, who thus requested an affirmation from Geoffrey that the banning had been crooked. Further interests to Rome prompted a possible settlement in October 1192, when the cleric at last recognized Geoffrey's position over Durham. 

Geoffrey made offense by his endeavors have his episcopal cross conveyed before him in the bishopric of Canterbury, therefore inferring that his ward was better or possibly parallel than Canterbury in rank. In quest for this contention among York and Canterbury, Geoffrey was simply the primary ecclesiastical overseer of York to style himself "Primate of England", contrary to the Canterbury title of "Primate of all England". He additionally endeavored to subordinate Clementhorpe Priory to Godstow Abbey, which incited an intrigue from Prioress Alice of Clementhorpe to the papacy. Most likely attributable to Pope Celestine III's abhorrence of Geoffrey, Hubert Walter was given an ecclesiastical legateship that incorporated Geoffrey's region, something that had not been common in the previous years, and which gave Geoffrey a few troubles in his dealings with the ministerial progressive system. Be that as it may, Geoffrey was on benevolent terms with Prince John; the student of history G. V. Scammell has recommended that Geoffrey's sanctification enabled John to feel that Geoffrey was never again an adversary for the honored position, consequently preparing for good relations between the two relatives. 

Geoffrey since quite a while ago confronted restriction from certain individuals from his church section driven by Henry Marshal, Burchard du Puiset, and Roger of London. They questioned his having given an extensive piece of York's treasury toward Richard's payment, and to a portion of his arrangements in the congregation of York. Charges of simony, blackmail, and disregard of his obligations were held up against Geoffrey, who consequently expelled the instigators more than once, and kept the groups out of chapel. Geoffrey likewise confronted troubles with his deputies to the workplace of Dean of York; his first decision, his relative Peter, was contradicted by the house of prayer section. Geoffrey's second decision, Simon of Apulia, the chancellor of York, wouldn't surrender the workplace when Geoffrey chose to grant it to a third man, Philip of Poitou. Simon was upheld by the house of God part, who chose him to the workplace notwithstanding Geoffrey's restriction. An intrigue was made to the papacy by Geoffrey while Simon made a trip to King Richard in Germany. The lord would not enable the intrigue and endeavored to gather Geoffrey to Germany to determine the issue. Geoffrey was unfit to leave York in view of aggravations inside the house of prayer ministry, and Simon figured out how to verify ecclesiastical affirmation as Dean of York. 

At the point when Prince John revolted in 1193, Geoffrey and Hugh du Puiset set aside their fight to suppress the uprising. Geoffrey fortified Doncaster's safeguards and went to the guide of Puiset, who was assaulting Tickhill Castle. In 1194 Geoffrey strayed into the red to the crown for the total of 3000 imprints to purchase the workplace of Sheriff of Yorkshire for himself. Soon thereafter Geoffrey started to fight with Hubert Walter over the supremacy of England, which Canterbury guaranteed and York debated. Walter's choice to have his episcopal cross conveyed before him in the bishopric of York in March 1194 was representative of his case to power over York and all of England. Geoffrey reacted by having his very own cross conveyed before him in the bishopric of Canterbury the next month. Lord Richard did not decry Geoffrey for this demonstration of incitement, and even ventured to such an extreme as to reestablish a portion of his appropriated homes. Before Richard left England in May 1194 he named Walter as Justiciar; that late spring Walter started an examination concerning Geoffrey's activities, which prompted Geoffrey's bequests being seized by and by. Geoffrey engaged the ruler, who was then in Maine; Richard over-ruled Walter, reestablished Geoffrey's domains, and acquitted him as an end-result of an installment of 1000 imprints and the guarantee of 1000 more to pursue. 

In January 1195 Geoffrey was requested to show up in Rome to answer different charges, under the danger of suspension from office in the event that he didn't show up by 1 June. Further squabbles with his basilica ministry pursued, including an example of the house of prayer section tossing chrism on a dungheap in dissent. Geoffrey dissented to the lord after Richard prohibited Geoffrey's anticipated voyage to Rome and in striking back the ruler seized Geoffrey's bequests yet again. This left Geoffrey helpless when Walter held a legatine gathering at York in June 1195. Geoffrey had figured out how to verify a deferment of his case at Rome until 1 November, yet was as yet unfit to visit, which drove Pope Celestine to arrange that Geoffrey's suspension ought to be performed by Hugh of Lincoln. Hugh challenged, and subsequently Celestine himself suspended Geoffrey on 23 December 1195, at long last constraining Geoffrey to answer the charges against him. He went to Rome in 1196, where his informers were unfit to substantiate their cases and he was reestablished to office by the pope. 

Geoffrey squabbled with Richard in 1196 in Normandy while the diocese supervisor was endeavoring to come back to England. Richard precluded him from overseeing York, and Geoffrey came back to Rome until 1198. An endeavor at compromise with Richard came to nothing, after Geoffrey wouldn't support the lord's arrangements in the ward of York without certain ensures that they would be affirmed by the papacy. Eventually Pope Innocent III on 28 April 1199 arranged that Geoffrey was to be reestablished to his properties when he had paid his obligations to the lord. Guiltless further arranged that any illustrious arrangements in York would require ecclesiastical endorsement. 

After John succeeded Richard in 1199, he chose to reestablish Geoffrey to the archiepiscopal domains, however kept on accepting the pay until the ecclesiastical overseer came back from Rome. A portion of Geoffrey's adversaries who were authorities in his bishopric surrendered their workplaces, and for a brief span harmony reigned in York. In any case, the apparent haughtiness of Geoffrey's authorities annoyed the church building section at York, and this further clash was not settled until March 1200. For the greater part of the rest of 1199 Geoffrey was every now and again with the lord, and the two seem to have been on great terms, a situation that proceeded all through the primary portion of 1200. 

In October 1200 Geoffrey would not permit the accumulation of carucage, a duty ashore, on his property, and his properties were appropriated in countering. He at that point banished the new sheriff of Yorkshire, James of Poterne, who had attacked Geoffrey's territories in vengeance. In November 1200, Geoffrey and John were accommodated at Hugh of Lincoln's memorial service, which permitted Geoffrey to recover his appropriated bequests, however the diocese supervisor's proceeded with refusal to permit the gathering of carucage prompted the ceasefire going into disrepair. In January 1201, John made harmony with his relative, however it didn't last, as Geoffrey kept on declining to enable the expense to be gathered. John at that point reestablished the interest for the installment for the workplace of sheriff due from Richard's rule, which constrained Geoffrey to revoke his suspension and offer another installment as an end-result of harmony, which happened in May 1201. In any case, it was brief; disagreements about the arrangements in the ward of York broke out, however with the help of Pope Innocent Geoffrey had the capacity to verify the arrangement of his very own couple competitors. Geoffrey additionally squabbled with a portion of the religious communities in his bishopric, with the typical cases and counterclaims setting off to the papacy for judgment. Among the religious houses Geoffrey had conflicts with were Guisborough Priory, Meaux Abbey, and Fountains Abbey. The majority of these contentions emerged from questioned arrangements to workplaces, however the squabble with Meaux included cases of tithe exclusion by that house. 

Geoffrey submitted to John in 1206, and his territories were come back to him. Be that as it may, in 1207 Geoffrey drove the ministry of England in their refusal to pay regal tax assessment and was constrained into outcast. Geoffrey expelled any individual who endeavored to gather the duty in his archdiocese, yet the ruler reallocated Geoffrey's bequests in striking back. Geoffrey by and by verified the help of Pope Innocent, who requested John to reestablish Geoffrey's assets, however meanwhile the diocese supervisor had fled to France. A medieval writer, Geoffrey of Coldingham, expressed that the English church considered Geoffrey a saint on account of this remain against King John. 

Geoffrey kicked the bucket while still in a state of banishment at Grandmont in Normandy on 12 December 1212. He was covered at a Grandmontine cloister close Rouen, where he had been living for a couple of years. His tomb was as yet surviving in 1767, when the engraving on it was recorded by a collector. He may have turned into a priest before his passing. 

Despite the fact that his archiepiscopate was primarily set apart by the contentions in which he connected with, Geoffrey additionally figured out how to initiate some authoritative changes in his see, making the workplace of chancellor. He likewise propelled unwaveringness from a portion of his family unit individuals, a large number of whom saw his contracts, and in spite of the fact that he made foes of a few of the suffragan clerics, ministry and religious houses in his see, he additionally verified the companionship and backing of other church, including Pope Innocent III and Hugh of Lincoln. Despite the fact that Walter Map pronounced that Geoffrey was "brimming with shortcomings and without character", he stayed faithful to his dad until Henry's demise. A current antiquarian, Thomas Jones, summed up Geoffrey's character with the expression "combative and undiplomatic". Another history specialist, J. C. Holt, expressed that Geoffrey was through his vocation "a never-ending wellspring of risk, quarreling now with de Puiset, presently with the Yorkshire sheriffs, ever prepared to assault the legal and monetary prevalence of the Crown." 

Geoffrey's aspirations may have included getting to be King of England, which may represent a portion of the cruelty that his two genuine relatives showed towards him. His military capacities, showed in the resistance of 1173– 1174, too his care of mansions close Tours, would have additionally bolstered into Richard's anxiety over Geoffrey's conceivable goals. Geoffrey was known to be goal-oriented, which drove the history specialist D. L. Douie to consider him an "impressive knave". The student of history Ralph Turner said of Geoffrey that "he looked for influence and riches in spite of the debilitation of his introduction to the world" and that he had "acquired the awful temper of different Plantagenets". 

Geoffrey was a benefactor of grant, and utilized researchers for an incredible duration, one of whom, Honorius of Kent, Geoffrey selected Archdeacon of Richmond. Honorius was accordingly utilized by Hubert Walter and composed a legitimate work on ordinance law. The Leiden St Louis Psalter is a luxuriously lit up psalter made for the ecclesiastical overseer, likely in northern England during the 1190s, which go under the control of Blanche of Castile after Geoffrey's demise, and, as religious original copies frequently were, was utilized to show the future holy person King Louis IX of France how to peruse, as recorded by a fourteenth century engraving. After the lord's demise it went through a few imperial proprietors, viewed as a relic of the holy person, before achieving the University Library at Leiden in 1741.