Japanese plane carrying warship Kaga 

The ship figured noticeably in the improvement of the IJN's transporter striking power precept, which gathered bearers together to give more prominent mass and fixation to their air control. A progressive key idea at the time, the work of the regulation was essential in empowering Japan to accomplish its underlying key objectives amid the initial a half year of the Pacific War. 

"Kaga"s air ship previously bolstered Japanese troops in China amid the Shanghai Incident of 1932 and took an interest in the Second Sino-Japanese War in the late 1930s. With different bearers, she participated in the Pearl Harbor attack in December 1941 and the intrusion of Rabaul in the Southwest Pacific in January 1942. The next month her air ship took an interest in a joined bearer airstrike on Darwin, Australia, verifying the victory of the Dutch East Indies by Japanese powers. She missed the Indian Ocean strike in April as she needed to come back to Japan for fixes in the wake of hitting a reef in February. 

Following fixes, "Kaga" rejoined the first Air Fleet for the Battle of Midway in June 1942. In the wake of assaulting American powers on Midway Atoll, "Kaga" and three other IJN bearers were assaulted by American flying machine from Midway and the transporters , and . Plunge aircraft from "Big business" seriously harmed "Kaga"; when it wound up evident she couldn't be spared, she was abandoned by Japanese destroyers to keep her from falling into adversary hands. The loss of four substantial assault transporters, including "Kaga" at Midway, was a pivotal misfortune for Japan, and contributed fundamentally to Japan's definitive thrashing. In 1999, flotsam and jetsam from "Kaga" including an expansive segment of the body was situated on the sea floor at a profundity in overabundance of ; northwest of Midway Island. The principle part of the transporter's disaster area has not been found. 

"Kaga" was set down as a , and was propelled on 17 November 1921 at the Kawasaki Heavy Industries shipyard in Kobe. On 5 February 1922 both "Tosa"- class ships were dropped and planned to be rejected under the terms of the Washington Naval Treaty. 

The Treaty approved change of two war vessel or battlecruiser bodies into plane carrying warships of up to standard removal. The inadequate battlecruisers "Amagi" and were at first chosen, yet the Great Kantō quake of 1923 harmed "Amagi"s frame past financially practical fix, and "Kaga" was chosen as her substitution. The formal choice to change over "Kaga" to a plane carrying warship was issued 13 December 1923, yet no work occurred until 1925 as new plans were drafted and seismic tremor harm to the Yokosuka Naval Arsenal was fixed. She was authoritatively dispatched on 31 March 1928, yet this connoted just the start of ocean preliminaries. She joined the Combined Fleet ("Rengō Kantai") on 30 November 1929 as the IJN's third bearer to enter administration, after (1922) and "Akagi" (1927). 

"Kaga" was finished with a length of generally speaking. She had a light emission a draft at full heap of . She dislodged at standard burden, and at full burden, almost not as much as her planned removal as a war vessel. Her supplement totaled 1340 crewmembers. 

"Kaga", like "Akagi", was finished with three superimposed flight decks, the main transporters to be structured so. The British bearers changed over from "substantial light cruisers", , and , each had two flight decks, however there is no proof that the Japanese duplicated the British model. All things considered, it was an instance of merged advancement to improve dispatch and recuperation cycle adaptability by permitting concurrent dispatch and recuperation of flying machine. "Kaga"s principle flight deck was long and wide, her center flight deck was just about long and begun before the extension, and her lower flight deck was roughly long. The utility of her center flight deck was sketchy as it was short to the point that just a portion of the daintily stacked flying machine could utilize it, even in a period when the air ship were a lot lighter and littler than they were amid World War II. At any rate the regularly expanding development in air ship execution, size and weight amid the 1930s implied that even the base flight deck was never again ready to oblige the take-off roll required for the new ages of flying machine being handled and it was plated over when the ship was modernized in the mid-1930s. "Kaga"s primary flight deck was totally level until a conning tower was included amid the modernization. 

As finished, the ship had two fundamental shed decks and a third assistant storage with an absolute limit of 60 airplane. The shelters opened onto the center and lower flight decks to enable airplane to take off legitimately from the sheds while landing activities were in advancement on the principle flight deck above. No slings were fitted. Her forward air ship lift was balanced to starboard and in size. Her toward the back lift was on the centerline and . Her capturing gear was a French transverse framework as utilized on their plane carrying warship and known as the Model ("Fju shiki") in the Japanese administration. 

As initially finished, "Kaga" conveyed an air gathering of 28 Mitsubishi B1M3 torpedo planes, 16 Nakajima A1N contenders and 16 Mitsubishi 2MR observation air ship. 

"Kaga" was equipped with ten 20 cm/50 third Year Type firearms: one twin-weapon Model B turret on each side of the center flight deck and six in casemates toward the back. They terminated shots at a rate of three to six rounds for every moment with a gag speed of ; at 25°, they had a most extreme range between . The Model B turrets were ostensibly equipped for 70° height to give extra enemy of flying machine (AA) fire, however practically speaking the most extreme rise was just 55°. The moderate rate of flame and the fixed 5° stacking edge limited any genuine enemy of air ship ability. This substantial firearm combat hardware was given in the event that she was amazed by adversary cruisers and compelled to give fight, yet her vast and helpless flight deck, sheds, and different highlights made her to a greater extent an objective in any surface activity than a battling warship. Transporter teaching was all the while advancing as of now and the impracticability of bearers taking part in weapon duels had not yet been figured it out. 

She was given an enemy of airplane weapon of six twin 45-gauge tenth Year Type Model A2 firearm mounts fitted on sponsons beneath the dimension of the pipes, where they couldn't shoot over the flight deck, three mounts for every side. These weapons discharged shots at a gag speed of ; at 45° this gave a most extreme scope of , and they had a greatest roof of at 75° height. Their powerful rate of flame was 6 to 8 rounds for each moment. She had two Type 89 executives to control her 20 cm firearms and two Type 91 physically fueled enemy of air ship chiefs ("Kōshaki") to control her 12 cm weapons. 

"Kaga"s waterline heavily clad belt was diminished from amid her remaking and the upper piece of her torpedo swell was given of shield. Her deck reinforcement was likewise decreased from . 

Whenever "Kaga" was being structured, the issue of how to manage exhaust gases in bearer activities had not been settled. The swiveling pipes of had not demonstrated fruitful and wind-burrow testing had not given an answer. Accordingly, "Akagi" and "Kaga" were given distinctive fumes frameworks to assess in genuine conditions. "Kaga"s channel gases were gathered in a couple of long flat conduits which released at the back of each side of the flight deck, notwithstanding expectations by various noticeable maritime draftsmen that they would not repel the hot gases from the flight deck. The forecasts turned out to be right, not least in light of the fact that "Kaga" was slower than the "Akagi" which enabled the gases to rise and meddle with landing activities. Another downside was that the warmth of the gases made the team's quarters situated in favor of the ship by the channels practically dreadful. 

"Kaga" was finished with four Kawasaki Brown-Curtis equipped turbines with an aggregate of on four shafts. As a warship her normal speed had been , yet the decrease in uprooting from enabled this to increment to , as exhibited on her ocean preliminaries on 15 September 1928. She had twelve Kampon Type B (Ro) boilers with a working weight of , albeit just eight were oil-terminated. The other four utilized a blend of oil and coal. She conveyed of fuel oil and of coal to give her a scope of at . 

On 1 December 1931 "Kaga" was relegated as the leader of the First Carrier Division under the order of Rear Admiral Takayoshi Katō. The First Carrier Division, alongside "Hōshō", left for Chinese waters on 29 January 1932 to help Imperial Japanese Army troops amid the Shanghai Incident as a feature of the IJN's third Fleet. The B1M3s conveyed by "Kaga" and "Hōshō" were the primary planes utilized amid the concise battle over Shanghai. 

"Kaga"s air ship, working from both the transporter and an impermanent base at Kunda Airfield in Shanghai, flew missions in help of Japanese ground powers all through February 1932. Amid one of these missions three of "Kaga"s Nakajima A1N2 warriors, including one directed by future expert Toshio Kuroiwa, escorting three Mitsubishi B1M3 torpedo planes, scored the IJN's first aerial battle triumph on 22 February when they shot down a Boeing P-12 flown by an American volunteer pilot. "Kaga" came back to home waters upon the presentation of the truce on 3 March and continued armada preparing with the remainder of the Combined Fleet. 

As of now, the IJN's creating bearer tenet was still in its soonest arranges. "Kaga" and different transporters were at first given jobs as strategic power multipliers supporting the armada's war vessels in the IJN's "definitive fight" tenet. In this job, "Kaga"s airplane were to assault foe war vessels with bombs and torpedoes. Ethereal strikes against adversary transporters were later, start around 1932– 1933, regarded of equivalent significance so as to build up air predominance amid the underlying phases of fight. The basic part in this procedure was that the Japanese bearer flying machine must almost certainly hit first with a massed ethereal assault. Subsequently, in armada preparing practices the bearers started to work together before or with the principle fight line. This progressive procedure underlined most extreme speed from both the bearers and the flying machine they conveyed just as bigger airplane with more prominent range. Along these lines, longer flight decks on the transporters were required so as to deal with the more up to date, heavier flying machine which were entering administration. 

"Kaga" was before long made a decision about mediocre compared to "Akagi" as a result of her slower speed, littler flight deck ( shorter), and tricky pipe plan. On account of "Kaga"s saw restrictions, she was given need over "Akagi" for modernization. "Kaga" was consigned to hold status on 20 October 1933 to start a second significant reproduction, with an official begin date of 25 June 1934. 

Amid her second remaking "Kaga"s two lower flight decks were changed over into overhangs and, alongside the fundamental flight deck, were stretched out to the bow. This expanded the flight deck length to and raised air ship ability to 90 (72 operational and 18 away). A third lift forward, , adjusted the all-encompassing shelters. Bomb and torpedo lifts were changed to convey their weapons legitimately to the flight deck. Her arrester gear was supplanted by a Japanese-planned Type 1 framework. A little starboard island superstructure was likewise introduced. 

Her capacity plant was totally supplanted similar to her propellers. New Kampon multi-arrange outfitted turbines were fitted that expanded her capacity from amid preliminaries. Each had a high-weight, a low-weight, and a cruising turbine coupled to a solitary shaft. Her boilers were supplanted by eight improved oil-consuming models of the Kampon Type B (Ro) with a working weight of at a temperature of . The frame was protracted by at the stern to decrease drag and she was given another torpedo swell over the side reinforcement side by side the upper piece of the current lump to expand her pillar and lower her focal point of gravity because of exercises gained from the Tomozuru Incident in mid 1934. This raised her standard uprooting altogether, from . The additional power and the additional dislodging generally balanced one another and her speed expanded by not exactly a bunch, up to on preliminaries. Her fuel stockpiling was expanded to of fuel oil which expanded her continuance to at . The long pipe ducting was supplanted by a solitary downturned starboard channel demonstrated on that utilized by the "Akagi" with a water-cooling framework for the fumes gasses and a spread that could be raised to permit the fumes gasses to escape if the ship built up a serious rundown and the mouth of the pipe contacted the ocean. The space opened up by the expulsion of the pipe pipes was isolated into two decks and changed over into living quarters for the extended air gathering. The transporter's supplement expanded to 1708 crewmembers. 

The two twin turrets on the center flight deck were evacuated and four new 20 cm/50 third Year Type No. 1 weapons in casemates were included forward. Her 12 cm enemy of airplane weapons were supplanted by eight/40 Type 89 firearms in twin mounts. They terminated shots at a rate somewhere in the range of 8 and 14 rounds for every moment at a gag speed of ; at 45°, this gave a most extreme scope of , and a greatest roof of . Their sponsons were raised one deck to permit them some proportion of cross-deck fire. Eleven twin 25 mm Type 96 weapon mounts were included, additionally on sponsons. They terminated shots at a gag speed of ; at 50°, this gave a most extreme scope of , and a compelling roof of . The most extreme successful rate of flame was just somewhere in the range of 110 and 120 rounds for every moment because of the incessant need to change the fifteen-round magazines. Six Type 11 automatic rifles were additionally conveyed. Six Type 95 executives were fitted to control the new 25 mm firearms, yet "Kaga" held her obsolete Type 91 against airplane chiefs. 

A few noteworthy shortcomings in "Kaga"s configuration were not redressed. "Kaga"s aeronautics fuel tanks were consolidated legitimately into the structure of the transporter, implying that stuns to the ship, for example, those brought about by bomb or shell hits, would be transmitted straightforwardly to the tanks, bringing about breaks or holes. Likewise, the completely encased structure of the new shed decks made flame concealment troublesome, at any rate to some extent since fuel vapors could aggregate in the shelters. Adding to the risk was the prerequisite from the Japanese bearer principle that flying machine be overhauled, energized, and outfitted at whatever point conceivable on the shelter decks as opposed to on the flight deck. What's more, the bearer's shed and flight decks conveyed little covering assurance. Besides, there was no excess in the ship's flame quenching frameworks. These shortcomings would later be vital factors in the loss of the ship. 

"Kaga" came back to support in 1935 and was appointed to the Second Carrier Division. The transporter set out another arrangement of airplane, including 16 Nakajima A2N Type 90 contenders, 16 Aichi D1A Type 94 jump planes, and 28 Mitsubishi B2M Type 89 torpedo aircraft. 

The recharging of threats with China at the Marco Polo Bridge in July 1937 discovered "Kaga" in home waters. The ship's warrior squadron finished preparing at Ōmura, Nagasaki at that point helped escort ships taking armed force fortifications from Japan to China. On 15 August, alongside "Hōshō" and , the ship took station in the East China Sea as a component of the third Fleet and started supporting Japanese military tasks along the focal China coast around Shanghai and further inland. 

"Kaga" flying machine battled their first fight on 16 August 1937 when six Type 90 warriors drew in four Chinese air ship over Kiangwan, shooting down three without misfortune. Between 17 August and 7 September, "Kaga"s Type 90 and two Mitsubishi A5M Type 96 warriors, which joined the bearer on 22 August, drew in Chinese air ship on a few additional events. "Kaga"s military pilots professed to have shot down 10 Chinese air ship in these experiences without misfortune. On 17 August twelve of the transporter's planes assaulted Hangchow without warrior escort and 11 of them were shot somewhere near Chinese contenders. Starting on 15 September, six Type 90 and six Type 96 warriors, 18 jump aircraft, and 18 torpedo planes were incidentally sent to Kunda Airfield from the ship to help land tasks. 

On 26 September the transporter went to Sasebo for reprovisioning. At Sasebo, the transporter got new substitution airplane including 32 Yokosuka B4Y Type 96 bearer assault planes (torpedo aircraft), 16 Aichi D1A2 Type 96 transporter planes (plunge planes), and 16 more Type 96 warriors. A few Nakajima A4N Type 95 warrior airplane expanded the transporter's contender aggregate at an unspecified later date. 

"Kaga" came back to the front toward the beginning of October 1937, and with the exception of two brief excursions to Sasebo, stayed off China until December 1938. Utilizing Taiwan (at that point some portion of the Empire of Japan) as its base, the bearer steamed supporting military tasks from the South and East China Seas. Amid that time, "Kaga" planes upheld armed force tasks by assaulting foe railroad extensions, landing strips, and transportation vehicles. The transporter's military pilots professed to have wrecked no less than 17 Chinese air ship in flying battle while losing five air ship themselves. On 12 December 1937 "Kaga" air ship took an interest in the Panay episode. 

"Kaga" entered the shipyard on 15 December 1938, where her capturing gear was supplanted by a Type 3 framework and her extension was modernized. The flight deck and shed regions were broadened, expanding the bearer's air ship limit. The ship was totally updated from 15 November 1939 to 15 November 1940 preceding coming back to dynamic administration. Meanwhile, another age of airplane had entered administration and "Kaga" set out 12 Mitsubishi A5M contenders, 24 Aichi D1A jump planes and 36 Yokosuka B4Y torpedo aircraft. Another 18 airplane were conveyed in cases as extras. 

The Japanese bearers' encounters off China had facilitated build up the IJN's transporter regulation. One exercise learned in China was the significance of focus and mass in anticipating maritime air control aground. Along these lines, in April 1941 the IJN framed the First Air Fleet to consolidate the majority of its armada transporters under a solitary order. On 10 April 1941 "Kaga" was appointed to the First Carrier Division with "Akagi" as a component of the new bearer armada, which additionally incorporated the Second and Fifth transporter divisions. The IJN fixated its tenet on air strikes that joined the air bunches inside transporter divisions, instead of every individual bearer. At the point when more than one bearer division was working together, the divisions' air bunches were joined with one another. This tenet of consolidated, massed, transporter air assault bunches was the most progressive of its sort of all the world's naval forces. The IJN, in any case, stayed worried that focusing the majority of its bearers together would render them powerless against being cleared out at the same time by a monstrous foe air or surface strike. Along these lines, the IJN built up a trade off arrangement in which the armada bearers would work firmly together inside their transporter divisions however the divisions themselves would work in free rectangular developments, with around isolating the bearers from one another. 

Despite the fact that the centralization of such huge numbers of armada transporters into a solitary unit was another and progressive hostile key idea, the First Air Fleet experienced a few protective inadequacies which gave it, in Mark Peattie's words, a glass jaw': it could throw a right hook yet couldn't take one." Japanese bearer against flying machine firearms and related flame control frameworks had a few structure and design insufficiencies which restricted their adequacy. The IJN's armada battle air watch (CAP) comprised of too couple of warrior flying machine and was hampered by an insufficient early cautioning framework, including an absence of radar. Poor radio interchanges with the contender flying machine restrained compelling direction and control of the CAP. The transporters' escorting warships were conveyed as visual scouts in a ring at long range, not as close enemy of air ship escorts, as they needed preparing, precept, and adequate enemy of flying machine weapons. These inadequacies would in the end fate "Kaga" and other First Air Fleet transporters. 

In November 1941 the IJN's Combined Fleet, under Isoroku Yamamoto, arranged to take an interest in Japan's introduction of a formal war with the United States by leading a preemptive strike against the United States Navy's Pacific Fleet base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. On 17 November "Kaga", under the order of Captain Jisaku Okada, stacked 100 torpedoes at Saeki Bay, Hiroshima; these torpedoes were extraordinarily intended for use in the shallow waters of the Pearl Harbor safe haven. On 19 November, "Kaga" and the remainder of the Combined Fleet's versatile strike constrain ("Kido Butai"), under Chuichi Nagumo and including six armada transporters from the First, Second, and Fifth Carrier Divisions, gathered in Hitokappu Bay at Etorofu Island. The armada withdrew Etorofu on 26 November and pursued a course over the north-focal Pacific to evade business shipping paths. 

For the assault on Pearl Harbor, "Kaga" conveyed a sum of 18 Mitsubishi A6M Zero contenders, 27 Nakajima B5N torpedo planes and 27 Aichi D3A plunge aircraft, in addition to three crated flying machine of each sort for the task. Amid the morning of 7 December 1941 "Kaga" airplane took an interest in both First Air Fleet strikes propelled against Oahu from a position north of the island. In the primary strike of 183 all out air ship (six prematurely ended), 26 "Kaga" B5N bearer assault aircraft assaulted the American boats at stay with bombs and torpedoes, escorted by nine Zeros. In the second strike of 167 air ship (four prematurely ended), 26 "Kaga" D3A plunge planes focused on the runway at Ford Island amidst the harbor while nine Zeros gave escort and assaulted airplane on the ground. An aggregate of five B5Ns, four Zeros and six D3As from the ship were lost amid the two strikes, alongside their aircrews, a sum of 31 work force. "Kaga"s aircraft and torpedo teams asserted hits on the war vessels , and . The ship's military pilots professed to have shot down one US air ship and obliterated 20 on the ground. Endless supply of the assault, the First and Fifth Carrier divisions, including "Kaga", returned promptly to Japan. 

In January 1942, together with the remainder of the First and Fifth Carrier Division bearers and arranging out of Truk (presently Chuuk) in Micronesia, "Kaga" bolstered the intrusion of Rabaul in the Bismarck Islands. "Kaga" if 27 bomb-conveying B5N and 9 Zeros for the underlying airstrike on Rabaul on 20 January 1942, amid which one B5N was shot somewhere near enemy of flying machine shoot. The First Carrier Division assaulted Allied positions at close-by Kavieng the next day, of which "Kaga" contributed nine Zeros and sixteen D3As. On the 22nd "Kaga"s D3As and Zeros again assaulted Rabaul and two jump aircraft needed to make crisis arrivals, however the groups were safeguarded. "Kaga" came back to Truk on 25 January and Rabaul and Kavieng were effectively involved by Japanese powers by February. 

On 9 February "Kaga" hit a reef at Palau after she had fruitlessly sortied against American transporter powers assaulting the Marshall Islands on 1 February. The harm decreased the bearer's speed to 18 ties. After impermanent fixes, she proceeded to the Timor Sea, where on 19 February 1942 she, with different bearers of the First and Second Carrier Divisions, propelled air strikes against Darwin, Australia from a point southeast of the easternmost tip of Timor. "Kaga" contributed 27 B5Ns (conveying bombs), 18 D3A, and 9 Zeros to the assault, which got the protectors off guard. Eight boats were sunk, including the destroyer , and fourteen more were harmed, at an expense of just a single of "Kaga"s B5Ns. In March 1942, "Kaga", based out of Staring-baai, helped spread the attack of Java, in spite of the fact that her solitary commitment seems to have been air ship for the 5 March 1942 airstrike on Tjilatjap. In that assault "Kaga" contributed 27 bomb-conveying B5N escorted by nine Zeros. The assaulting air ship shelled shipper sends in the harbor, sinking eight of them, and assaulted against air ship batteries and a distribution center without misfortune. The vast majority of the Allied powers in the Dutch East Indies surrendered to the Japanese later in March. "Kaga" was unfit to take an interest in the Indian Ocean assault in April due to the harm she had gotten in February. Rather, she cruised for Sasebo on 15 March for fixes, entering drydock on 27 March. The fixes were finished on 4 May. 

Worried by the US bearer strikes, for example, the Doolittle Raid, on the Marshall Islands, and the Lae-Salamaua assaults, Yamamoto was resolved to compel the US Navy into a standoff to take out the American transporter risk. Yamamoto chose to attack and involve Midway Island, which he was certain would draw out the American bearer powers to fight. The Midway attack was codenamed by the Japanese as Operation "MI". 

In help of "MI", on 27 May 1942, "Kaga" left the Inland Sea with the Combined Fleet on her last mission, in the organization of bearers "Akagi", , and which established the First and Second Carrier Divisions. Her flying machine supplement was 27 Zeros, 20 D3As, and 27 B5Ns. With the armada situated northwest of Midway Island at first light on 4 June 1942, "Kaga" contributed eighteen D3As, instructed by Lieutenant Shōichi Ogawa, escorted by nine Zeros to the strike against the island. The transporter's B5Ns were equipped with torpedoes and kept prepared on the off chance that foe ships were found amid the Midway strike. One every one of the D3As and Zeros was shot somewhere around AA shoot over Midway, and another four D3As were harmed. "Kaga"s Zero pilots professed to have shot down 12 US airplane over Midway Island. One "Kaga" B5N was propelled to enlarge the armada's observation of the encompassing sea. The bearer likewise set up two Zeros on CAP. Another five Zeros fortified her CAP at 07:00 and the seven contenders guarded the Kido Butai from the primary US air aggressors from Midway Island at 07:10. Obscure to the Japanese, the US Navy had divined the Japanese "MI" plan from signs insight and had arranged a snare utilizing its three accessible transporters, situated upper east of Midway. 

At 07:15 Admiral Nagumo requested the B5Ns still on "Kaga" and "Akagi" rearmed with bombs for another assault on Midway itself. This procedure was restricted by the quantity of weapons trucks used to deal with the bombs and torpedoes and the predetermined number of arms lifts. Along these lines, the torpedoes couldn't be struck beneath until after every one of the bombs were climbed from their magazine, gathered and mounted on the airplane. This procedure typically took around 90 minutes; additional time would be required to convey the air ship up to the flight deck and warm up and dispatch the strike gathering. Around 07:40 Nagumo turned around his request when he got a message that American transporters had been spotted. At 07:30 "Kaga" recouped three of her CAP. 

"Kaga"s four residual CAP contenders were landing when 16 Marine SBD Dauntless jump planes from Midway, driven by Lofton R. Henderson, assaulted "Hiryu" around 07:55 without result. Five Zeros were propelled at 08:15 and three blocked twelve Midway-based United States Army B-17 Flying Fortresses endeavoring to bomb the three different transporters from , yet just constrained harm was exacted on the substantial planes, in spite of the fact that their assaults all missed. Five D3As likewise joined the CAP around this time. Another trio of Zeros were propelled at 08:30. "Kaga" started finding her returning Midway strike constrain on board around 08:35 and was done by 08:50; one Zero pilot kicked the bucket after accident getting his air ship. 

The five Zeros propelled at 08:15 were recuperated on board at 09:10 and supplanted by six additional Zeros propelled at 09:20. They caught the principal US transporter flying machine to assault, TBD Devastator torpedo-aircraft of VT-8 from the US bearer at 09:22, and shot down each of the 15, leaving just a solitary survivor, George H. Gay, Jr., stepping water. Presently, 14 Devastators from VT-6 from the US transporter , driven by Eugene E. Lindsey, were spotted. They attempted to sandwich "Kaga", however the CAP, strengthened by another six Zeros propelled by "Kaga" at 10:00, shot down everything except four of the Devastators, and the transporter evaded the torpedoes. 

Not long after the torpedo plane assaults, American transporter plunge aircraft touched base over the Japanese bearers practically undetected and started their jumps. At 10:22, 25 SBD Dauntless plunge planes from "Big business", driven by C. Swim McClusky, hit "Kaga" with one bomb and somewhere around three bombs. The principal arrived close to her back lift and set the berthing compartments ablaze, and the following bomb hit the forward lift and infiltrated the upper shelter, setting off blasts and flames among the equipped and energized planes on her overhang deck. Commander Okada and the vast majority of the ship's senior officers were murdered by the third bomb, which hit the extension. The 1000-pound bomb hit amidships and entered the flight deck to detonate on the upper shelter. The blasts burst the ship's avgas lines, harmed both her port and starboard flame mains and the crisis generator controlling her flame siphons, just as thumping out the carbon dioxide fire concealment framework. Energized by the avgas pouring onto the storage deck, the flames exploded the of bombs and torpedoes strewn over the shed deck in a progression of disastrous different fuel-air blasts that extinguished the shed sides. At almost a similar time, plunge aircraft hit and lethally harmed "Akagi" and "Sōryū". 

Unfit to contain her flames, "Kaga" survivors were taken off by the destroyers and somewhere in the range of 14:00 and 17:00. Around 19:25 she was left by two torpedoes from "Hagikaze" and sank stern-first at position . Ensign Takeshi Maeda, a harmed "Kaga" B5N aircrew part safeguarded by "Hagikaze", portrayed the scene: "My confidant conveyed me up to the deck so I could see the last snapshots of our cherished transporter, which was close-by. Despite the fact that I was in torment tears begun to rundown my cheeks, and everybody around me was crying; it was an extremely miserable sight." 

The transporter's team endured 811 fatalities, basically among the air ship mechanics and armorers positioned on the storage decks and the ship's specialists, huge numbers of whom were caught underneath in the kettle and motor rooms by uncontrolled flames seething on the decks above them. Twenty-one of the ship's pilots were executed. The loss of "Kaga" and the three other IJN bearers at Midway ("Hiryū" was likewise sunk amid the fight), with their airplane and veteran pilots, was a critical key annihilation for Japan and contributed altogether to Japan's definitive thrashing in the war. 

In May 1999, the Nauticos Corporation, in association with the US Navy, found some destruction from "Kaga". They utilized the examination vessel amid a study of an armada practice region with the US Navy's as of late adjusted SEAMAP acoustic imaging framework. A pursue on inquiry by in September 1999 found the destruction and took photographs of it. The destruction incorporated a long area of overhang bulkhead, two 25 mm enemy of flying machine firearm tubs, and an arrival light exhibit. The relics were at a profundity of .