Japanese plane carrying warship Hiryū 

After a concise refit, "Hiryū" and three other armada transporters of the First Air Fleet ("Kido Butai") took an interest in the Battle of Midway in June 1942. Subsequent to barraging American powers on the atoll, the bearers were assaulted via airplane from Midway and the transporters , and . Jump planes from "Yorktown" and "Undertaking" injured "Hiryū" and set her burning. She was left the next day after it turned out to be evident that she couldn't be rescued. The loss of "Hiryū" and three other IJN bearers at Midway was a vital annihilation for Japan and contributed altogether to the Allies' definitive triumph in the Pacific. 

"Hiryū" was one of two huge transporters endorsed for development under the 1931– 32 Supplementary Program. Initially planned as the sister ship of "Sōryū", her structure was augmented and adjusted in light of the "Tomozuru" and Fourth Fleet Incidents in 1934– 35 that uncovered numerous IJN ships were top-substantial, shaky and fundamentally powerless. Her forecastle was raised and her body reinforced. Different changes included expanding her shaft, uprooting, and defensive layer security. 

The ship had a length of in general, a light emission a draft of . She uprooted at standard burden and at typical burden. Her group comprised of 1,100 officers and enrolled men. 

"Hiryū" was fitted with four equipped steam turbine sets with a sum of , each driving one propeller shaft, utilizing steam given by eight Kampon water-tube boilers. The turbines and boilers were equivalent to those utilized in the s. The ship's capacity and thin, cruiser-type frame with a length-to-pillar proportion of 10:1 gave her a speed of and made her the quickest bearer on the planet at the season of her charging. "Hiryū" conveyed of fuel oil which gave her a scope of at . The evaporator takes-up were trunked to the ship's starboard side amidships and depleted just underneath flight deck level through two channels bended descending. 

The bearer's flight deck was wide and overhung her superstructure at the two closures, bolstered by sets of columns. "Hiryū" was one of just two bearers at any point manufactured whose island was on the port side of the ship ( was the other). It was additionally situated further to the back and infringed on the width of the flight deck, not at all like "Sōryū". Nine transverse arrestor wires were introduced on the flight deck that could stop a flying machine. One gathering of three wires was situated further forward to enable the ship to arrive flying machine over the bow, in spite of the fact that this was never done by and by. The flight deck was just over the waterline and the ship's fashioners kept this figure low by decreasing the tallness of the sheds. The upper overhang was and had an estimated stature of ; the lower was and had an inexact tallness of . Together they had a rough all out region of . This caused issues in dealing with flying machine on the grounds that the wings of a Nakajima B5N "Kate" torpedo aircraft could nor be spread nor collapsed in the upper overhang. 

Flying machine were transported between the overhangs and the flight deck by three lifts, the forward one side by side the island on the centerline and the other two counterbalance to starboard. The forward stage estimated , the center one , and the back . They were equipped for exchanging flying machine weighing up to . "Hiryū" had a planned airplane limit of 64, in addition to nine extras. 

"Hiryū"s essential enemy of airplane (AA) weapon comprised of six twin-firearm mounts outfitted with 40-gauge 12.7-centimeter Type 89 double reason firearms mounted on anticipating sponsons, three on either side of the bearer's body. When discharging at surface focuses on, the firearms had a scope of ; they had a most extreme roof of at their greatest height of +90 degrees. Their most extreme rate of flame was 14 adjusts a moment, yet their supported rate of flame was roughly eight rounds for each moment. The ship was outfitted with two Type 94 shoot control chiefs to control the weapons, one for each side of the ship; the starboard-side executive was over the island and the other executive was situated underneath flight deck level on the port side. 

The ship's light AA deadly implement comprised of seven triple and five twin-firearm mounts for permit assembled Hotchkiss 25 mm Type 96 AA weapons. Two of the triple mounts were sited on a stage just underneath the forward end of the flight deck. The firearm was the standard Japanese light AA weapon amid World War II, however it experienced extreme structure inadequacies that rendered it to a great extent insufficient. As per student of history Mark Stille, the weapon had numerous issues including a powerlessness to "handle rapid targets since it couldn't be prepared or raised quick enough by either hand or power, its sights were deficient for fast targets, it had unnecessary vibration and gag impact, and its magazines were too little to even think about maintaining high rates of discharge". These firearms had a viable scope of , and a compelling roof of at a rise of +85 degrees. The most extreme successful rate of flame was just somewhere in the range of 110 and 120 rounds for each moment as a result of the regular need to change the fifteen-round magazines. The Type 96 firearms were constrained by five Type 95 chiefs, two on each side and one in the bow. 

"Hiryū" had a waterline belt with a most extreme thickness of over the magazines that decreased to over the apparatus spaces and the avgas stockpiling tanks. It was supported by an interior enemy of fragment bulkhead. The ship's deck was thick over the apparatus spaces and thick over the magazines and avgas stockpiling tanks. 

Following the Japanese ship-naming traditions for plane carrying warships, "Hiryū" was named "Flying Dragon". The ship was set down at the Yokosuka Naval Arsenal on 8 July 1936, propelled on 16 November 1937 and dispatched on 5 July 1939. She was appointed to the Second Carrier Division on 15 November. In September 1940, the ship's air gather was exchanged to Hainan Island to help the Japanese intrusion of French Indochina. In February 1941, "Hiryū" upheld the barricade of Southern China. After two months, the second Carrier Division, directed by Rear Admiral Tamon Yamaguchi, was appointed to the First Air Fleet, or "Kido Butai", on 10 April. "Hiryū" came back to Japan on 7 August and started a short refit that was finished on 15 September. She progressed toward becoming lead of the Second Division from 22 September to 26 October while "Sōryū" was refitting. 

In November 1941, the IJN's Combined Fleet, instructed by Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto, arranged to take an interest in Japan's introduction of a formal war with the United States by leading a preemptive strike against the United States Navy's Pacific Fleet base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. On 22 November, "Hiryū", directed by Captain Tomeo Kaku, and the remainder of the "Kido Butai", under Vice Admiral Chuichi Nagumo and including six armada bearers from the First, Second, and Fifth Carrier Divisions, amassed in Hitokappu Bay at Etorofu Island. The armada left Etorofu on 26 November and pursued a course over the north-focal Pacific to evade business shipping paths. Presently the leader of the Second Carrier Division, the ship left 21 Mitsubishi A6M Zero warriors, 18 Aichi D3A "Val" jump planes, and 18 Nakajima B5N "Kate" torpedo aircraft. From a position north of Oahu, "Hiryū" and the other five transporters propelled two rushes of air ship on the morning of 7 December 1941 Hawaiian time. 

In the primary wave, 8 B5N torpedo planes should assault the plane carrying warships that ordinarily berthed on the northwest side of Ford Island, however none were in Pearl Harbor that day; 4 of the B5N pilots redirected to their auxiliary target, ships berthed nearby "1010 Pier" where the armada leader was normally moored. That send, the war vessel , was in drydock and its position was involved by the light cruiser and the minelayer ; each of the four torpedoes missed. The other four pilots assaulted the war vessels and . The rest of the 10 B5Ns were entrusted to drop shield puncturing bombs on the war vessels berthed on the southeast side of Ford Island ("Battleship Row") and may have scored a couple of hits on them, notwithstanding causing a magazine blast on board the warship that sank her with substantial death toll. The 6 A6M Zeros strafed stopped air ship at Marine Corps Air Station Ewa (MCAS Ewa), asserting 22 air ship decimated. 

The second wave comprised of 9 Zeros and 18 D3As, one of each prematurely ending with mechanical issues. The previous strafed Naval Air Station Kaneohe Bay before proceeding onward to assault Bellows Army Airfield. They strafed the runway, and shot down two Curtiss P-40 contenders endeavoring to take off when the Zeros arrived and a Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress substantial plane that had before redirected from Hickam Army Airfield, and furthermore demolished a Stinson O-49 perception flying machine on the ground for the loss of one of their own. The warriors with outstanding ammo used it strafing MCAS Ewa, the meeting point for the second-wave contenders. The D3As assaulted different ships in Pearl Harbor, yet it is beyond the realm of imagination to expect to recognize which air ship assaulted which send. Two D3As from "Hiryū" were lost amid the assault, one shot somewhere around Second Lieutenant George Welch. 

While coming back to Japan after the assault, Vice Admiral Chūichi Nagumo, administrator of the First Air Fleet, requested that "Sōryū" and "Hiryū" be withdrawn on 16 December to assault the protectors of Wake Island who had officially vanquished the main Japanese assault on the island. The two bearers achieved the region of the island on 21 December and propelled 29 D3As and 2 B5Ns, escorted by 18 Zeros, to assault ground targets. They experienced no ethereal restriction and propelled 35 B5Ns and 6 A6M Zeros the next day. They were caught by the 2 enduring Grumman F4F Wildcat warriors of Marine Fighter Squadron VMF-211. The Wildcats shot down 2 B5Ns before they were shot somewhere around PO3c Isao Towara. The battalion surrendered the following day after Japanese troops were landed. 

The transporters touched base at Kure on 29 December. They were doled out toward the Southern Force on 8 January 1942 and withdrew four days after the fact for the Dutch East Indies. The boats upheld the intrusion of the Palau Islands and the Battle of Ambon, assaulting Allied positions on the island on 23 January with 54 flying machine. After four days the transporters disconnected 18 Zeros and 9 D3As to work from land bases in help of Japanese tasks in the Battle of Borneo. "Hiryū" and "Sōryū" touched base at Palau on 28 January and sat tight for the landing of the transporters and "Akagi". Every one of the four bearers withdrew Palau on 15 February and propelled air strikes against Darwin, Australia, after four days. "Hiryū" contributed 18 B5Ns, 18 D3As, and 9 Zeros to the assault. Her airplane assaulted the boats in port and its offices, sinking or setting ablaze three ships and harming two others. The Zeros devastated 1 P-40E as it was taking off, 2 Consolidated PBY Catalina seaplanes on the water, and a Zero was compelled to crash land in the wake of being harmed by a P-40E of the United States Army Air Forces (USAAF) 33rd Pursuit Squadron. 

"Hiryū" and different transporters landed at Staring Bay on Celebes Island on 21 February to resupply and rest before leaving four days after the fact to help the attack of Java. On 1 March 1942, the ship's D3As harmed the destroyer gravely enough for her to be gotten and sunk by Japanese cruisers. Soon thereafter the jump aircraft sank the oil tanker . The four bearers propelled an airstrike of 180 flying machine against Tjilatjep on 5 March and set the town ablaze, sinking five little ships, and harming nine others that later must be left. After two days, they assaulted Christmas Island and "Hiryū"s air ship sank the Dutch vessel "Poelau Bras" before coming back to Staring Bay on 11 March to resupply and train for the looming Indian Ocean strike. This assault was planned to verify recently vanquished Burma, Malaya, and the Dutch East Indies against any Allied assault by pulverizing base offices and powers in the eastern Indian Ocean. 

On 26 March, the five bearers of the First Air Fleet withdrew from Staring Bay; they were spotted by a Catalina about southeast of Ceylon on the morning of 4 April. Six of "Hiryū"s Zeros were on Combat Air Patrol (CAP) and shot it down. Nagumo shut to inside of Colombo before propelling an airstrike the following morning. "Hiryū" contributed 18 B5Ns and 9 Zeros to the power; the last experienced a trip of 6 Fairey Swordfish torpedo aircraft from 788 Naval Air Squadron on the way and shot them all down without misfortune. The Japanese air ship experienced guarding Hawker Hurricane warriors from Nos. 30 and 258 Squadrons RAF over Ratmalana runway and "Hiryū"s warriors professed to have shot down 11 with 3 Zeros harmed, despite the fact that the contenders from different bearers additionally made cases. English misfortunes were 21 Hurricanes shot down and 2 progressively compelled to crash land. The D3As and B5Ns exacted some harm to the port offices, yet multi day's notice had permitted a great part of the transportation in the harbor to be cleared. The British were endeavoring to discover Nagumo's boats throughout the morning and "Hiryū"s Zeros on CAP over the armada shot down a RAF Catalina, shot down a Fairey Albacore torpedo aircraft and drove off another from the bearer . Later that morning the British substantial cruisers and were spotted and "Hiryū" propelled 18 D3As. They sank the two ships in mix with the jump aircraft from different bearers. 

On the morning of 9 April, "Hiryū"s CAP shot down another Catalina endeavoring to find the armada and, later that morning, contributed 18 B5Ns, escorted by 6 Zeros, to the assault on Trincomalee. The contenders drew in 261 Squadron RAF, professing to have shot down two with two increasingly imparted to warriors from different bearers. English misfortunes were just eight contenders, however the Japanese pilots asserted a sum of 49 flying machine shot down when the RAF just had 16 Hurricanes in the battle. The British pilots shot down one of "Hiryū"s B5Ns and constrained another to crash land while they were besieging the port. In the interim, a floatplane from the war vessel recognized the little plane carrying warship , escorted by the destroyer , and each accessible D3A was propelled to assault the boats, escorted by nine Zeros. "Hiryū" contributed 18 plunge aircraft and 3 warriors, yet they arrived past the point where it is possible to help with sinking them and discovered two different ships further north. They sank the vessel RFA "Athelstone" and her escorting corvette, . While this was going on, "Akagi" barely gotten away harm when 9 British Bristol Blenheim aircraft from Ceylon entered the CAP and dropped their bombs from . "Hiryū" had eight Zeros up high, alongside 12 more from different transporters, and all in all they represented 5 of the British aircraft for the loss of 1 of "Hiryū"s Zeros. The Blenheims kept running into the D3As from , escorted by "Hiryū"s Zeros, on their way back home and lost one more plane to the Japanese airplane. The jump aircraft professed to have shot down two Blenheims related to the Zeros, which guaranteed one all alone, for the loss of one Zero shot somewhere near the planes' heavy weapons specialists and one D3A harmed. In the wake of propelling the jump aircraft that sank "Hermes" and different boats, the First Air Fleet switched course and traveled southeast for the Malacca Strait and Japan. 

On 19 April, while traveling the Bashi Straits among Taiwan and Luzon in transit to Japan, "Hiryū", "Sōryū", and "Akagi" were sent in quest for the American transporters and , which had propelled the Doolittle Raid against Tokyo. They found just void sea, as the American bearers had quickly left the region to come back to Hawaii. The transporters immediately deserted the pursuit and tied up at Hashirajima safe haven on 22 April. Having been occupied with steady tasks for four and a half months, the ship, alongside the other three transporters of the First and Second Carrier Divisions, was briskly refitted and recharged in anticipation of the Combined Fleet's next significant activity, booked to start one month thus. While at Hashirajima, "Hiryū"s air amass was based shorewards at Tomitaka Airfield, close Saiki, Ōita, and led flight and weapons preparing with the other First Air Fleet bearer units. 

Worried by the US bearer strikes in the Marshall Islands, Lae-Salamaua, and the Doolittle assaults, Yamamoto was resolved to drive the US Navy into a standoff to kill the American transporter danger. He chose to attack and involve Midway Atoll, which he was certain would draw out the American bearers to protect it. The Japanese codenamed the Midway attack Operation "MI". Obscure to the Japanese, the US Navy had divined the Japanese arrangement by breaking its JN-25 code and had arranged a snare utilizing its three accessible transporters, situated upper east of Midway. 

On 25 May 1942, "Hiryū" set out with the Combined Fleet's transporter striking power in the organization of "Kaga", "Akagi", and "Sōryū", which established the First and Second Carrier Divisions, for the assault on Midway. Her air ship supplement comprised of 18 Zeros, 18 D3As, and 18 B5Ns. Additionally on board were 3 A6Ms of the sixth Kōkūtai proposed as the ethereal army for Midway. With the armada situated northwest of Midway at first light (04:45 neighborhood time) on 4 June 1942, "Hiryū"s part of the 108-plane airstrike was an assault on the offices on Sand Island with 18 torpedo aircraft, 1 of which prematurely ended with mechanical issues, escorted by nine Zeros. The air assemble endured intensely amid the assault: 2 B5Ns were shot down on the way to the island, another was shot somewhere around AA shoot, 1 was compelled to jettison on the excursion back, another vanished on the arrival trek and 5 were harmed destroyed. 

The transporter additionally contributed 3 Zeros to the aggregate of 11 alloted to the underlying CAP over the four bearers. By 07:05, the bearer had 6 contenders with the CAP which protected the "Kido Butai" from the main US aggressors from Midway Island at 07:10. As of now, Nagumo's bearers were assaulted by 6 US Navy Grumman TBF Avengers from Torpedo Squadron 8 (VT-8) and 4 USAAC Martin B-26 Marauders, all conveying torpedoes. The Avengers followed "Hiryū" while the Marauders assaulted "Akagi". The 30 CAP Zeros noticeable all around as of now, including the 6 from "Hiryū", quickly assaulted the American planes, shooting down 5 of the Avengers and 2 of the B-26s. The Avengers shot down 1 of "Hiryū"s Zeros. The enduring flying machine dropped their torpedoes, yet all missed. 

At 07:15, Nagumo requested the B5Ns on "Kaga" and "Akagi" rearmed with bombs for another assault on Midway itself. This procedure was moderated by the quantity of arms trucks used to deal with the bombs and torpedoes and the set number of weapons lifts. This implied the torpedoes couldn't be struck underneath until after every one of the bombs were climbed from their magazine, gathered and mounted on the flying machine. This procedure ordinarily took around 90 minutes; additional time would be required to convey the air ship up to the flight deck, and to heat up and dispatch the strike gathering. Around 07:40, he turned around his request when he got a message from one of his scout air ship that American warships had been spotted. Drained of ammo, two of "Hiryū"s CAP Zeros arrived on board the bearer at 07:40. 

At 07:55, the following American strike from Midway landed as 16 Marine Douglas SBD Dauntless plunge planes of Marine Scout Bomber Squadron (VMSB-241) under Major Lofton R. Henderson. "Hiryū"s 3 CAP contenders were among the 9 still high up that assaulted Henderson's planes, shooting down 6 of them as they executed an unbeneficial coast bombarding assault on "Hiryū". Consequently, the heavy weapons specialist of one the Dauntlesses shot down one of "Hiryū"s Zeros. At generally a similar time, the Japanese transporters were assaulted by 12 USAAC B-17s, shelling from . The high elevation of the B-17s gave the Japanese commanders enough time to envision where the bombs would land, and they effectively moved out of the effect zone. Four B-17s assaulted "Hiryū", however missed with every one of their bombs. 

"Hiryū" strengthened the CAP with dispatches of 3 additional Zeros at 08:25. These crisp Zeros helped rout the following American air strike from Midway, 11 Vought SB2U Vindicator plunge aircraft from VMSB-241, which assaulted the warship "Haruna" beginning around 08:30. "Haruna" got away harm and 3 of the Vindicators were shot down. Albeit all the American air strikes had so far caused insignificant harm, they kept the Japanese transporter powers shaky as Nagumo attempted to set up a reaction to news, got at 08:20, of the locating of American bearer powers to his upper east. 

"Hiryū" started recuperating her Midway strike constrain at around 09:00 and completed in a matter of seconds by 09:10. The landed air ship were rapidly struck underneath, while the bearers' teams started arrangements to spot flying machine for the strike against the American transporter powers. The arrangements were hindered at 09:18, when the main assaulting American transporter air ship were located. These comprised of 15 Douglas TBD Devastator torpedo planes of VT-8, driven by Lieutenant Commander John C. Waldron from the "Hornet". They endeavored a torpedo assault on "Soryū", yet the majority of the American planes were shot somewhere around the 18 CAP warriors, abandoning one enduring pilot stepping water. 

In the blink of an eye a short time later, 14 Devastators from Torpedo Squadron 6 (VT-6) from "Big business", driven by Lieutenant Commander Eugene E. Lindsey, assaulted. Lindsey's flying machine attempted to sandwich "Kaga", however the CAP, fortified by 4 extra Zeros propelled by "Hiryū" at 09:37, shot down everything except 4 of the Devastators, and "Kaga" avoided the torpedoes. "Hiryū" propelled another trio of CAP Zeros at 10:13 after Torpedo Squadron 3 (VT-3) from "Yorktown" was spotted. Two of her Zeros were shot somewhere near Wildcats escorting VT-3 and another was compelled to dump. 

While VT-3 was all the while assaulting "Hiryū", American jump aircraft touched base over the Japanese transporters practically undetected and started their plunges. It was as of now, around 10:20, that in the expressions of Jonathan Parshall and Anthony Tully, the "Japanese air protections would at long last and disastrously fall flat." Three American plunge plane squadrons presently assaulted the three different bearers and set every one of them ablaze. "Hiryū" was immaculate and continued to dispatch 18 D3As, escorted by 6 Zeros, at 10:54 and a second influx of 10 B5Ns, escorted by 6 Zeros, at 13:30 against the American bearer . "In transit", the Zeros drew in a gathering of "Enterprise"s Dauntlesses that they had spotted. They neglected to shoot down any of the plunge aircraft, yet two of the Zero were shot up by the planes' back heavy armament specialists, with one Zero compelled to dump almost a destroyer. American radar distinguished the approaching Japanese jump planes at 11:52 and vectored "Yorktown"s CAP of 20 Wildcats against them. The Wildcats shot down three of the staying Zeros for the loss of one of their own and connected with the D3As. Just seven of the jump planes endure sufficiently long to make their assault on "Yorktown" and two of those were shot somewhere around fire amid their plunge, yet they made three direct hits and two close misses that seriously harmed the transporter and set her ablaze. 

The Americans had figured out how to stifle her flames by 14:00 and "Yorktown" was making by 14:30 when the second gathering of Japanese airplane propelled from the "Hiryū" was drawing nearer, low dimension torpedo planes this time. They had been recognized by the ship's radar at 13:55, however the CAP was kept down until they drew nearer. Six Wildcats were on CAP obligation and four were vectored toward the assaulting air ship while the other two were held to cover the departure of the 10 Wildcats energizing on deck. The Japanese were seized 14:38 by two Wildcats which shot down one torpedo aircraft before they were both shot somewhere near the escorting Zeros. Two Zeros were shot down later for the loss of one Wildcat. Two more B5Ns were shot down before they could drop their torpedoes and three a short time later, yet none of these airplane hit the bearer. The last four torpedo aircraft scored two hits (one B5N had its torpedo-discharge gear flop) on "Yorktown" that harmed three boilers and thumped out all electrical power so she couldn't siphon fuel oil to starboard to check her six degree rundown to port. After seventeen minutes, after the rundown expanded to 23 degrees, the group was requested to surrender dispatch. Of the four Zeros and five B5Ns that came back to "Hiryū", just a single Zero and three jump aircraft were still flight-commendable. 

Yamaguchi radioed his aim to Nagumo at 16:30 to dispatch a third strike against the American transporters at nightfall (roughly 18:00), yet Nagumo requested the armada to pull back toward the west. Unbeknownst to the Japanese, "Endeavor" and "Hornet" had just propelled airstrikes a long time before at that point. "Venture" propelled an aggregate of 26 Dauntlesses at 15:25 utilizing her very own airplane in addition to those from "Yorktown" that had been compelled to recoup on board her after "Yorktown" was harmed, and "Hornet" propelled 16 her very own greater amount Dauntlesses at 16:00. Now in the fight, "Hiryū" had just 4 airworthy plunge aircraft and 5 torpedo-planes left. She additionally held 19 of her own warriors on board just as a further 13 Zeros on CAP (a composite power of survivors from different transporters). At 16:45, "Enterprise"s plunge aircraft detected the Japanese transporter and started to move for good assaulting position while lessening height. At 16:56, similarly as the first Dauntlesses were starting their plunges, Nagumo requested an adjustment in course to 120 degrees, conceivably to get ready to recuperate his surveillance floatplanes, that lost the point of the main SBDs. The Japanese did not detect the Americans until 17:01. The CAP shot down two of the American flying machine in their plunges and another after it was compelled to prematurely end its jump when some of "Yorktown"s SBDs go before it beginning their own plunges. "Hiryū" was struck by four bombs, three on the forward flight deck and one on the forward lift. The blasts began fires among the flying machine on the shelter deck. The forward portion of the flight deck fallen into the storage while part of the lift was flung against the ship's scaffold. The flames were sufficiently serious that the staying American air ship assaulted different boats escorting "Hiryū", though without impact, considering further assaults on the bearer as an exercise in futility since she was ablaze from stem to stern. Starting at 17:42, two gatherings of B-17s endeavored to assault the Japanese boats without progress, albeit one plane strafed "Hiryū"s flight deck, slaughtering a few enemy of air ship heavy armament specialists. 

In spite of the fact that "Hiryū"s drive was not influenced, the flames couldn't be brought leveled out. At 21:23, her motors ceased, and at 23:58 a noteworthy blast shook the ship. The request to forsake dispatch was given at 03:15, and the survivors were taken off by the destroyers and . Yamaguchi and Kaku chose to stay on board as "Hiryū" was torpedoed at 05:10 by "Makigumo" as the ship couldn't be rescued. One torpedo missed and the other struck close to the bow without the run of the mill crest of water, in spite of the fact that the explosion was very obvious. Around 07:00, one of 's Yokosuka B4Y flying machine found "Hiryū" still above water and in no unmistakable risk of sinking. The pilots could likewise observe crew members on board the transporter, men who had not gotten word to desert send. They at long last propelled a portion of the transporter's water crafts and relinquished ship themselves around 09:00. Thirty-nine men made it into the ship's shaper just minutes before "Hiryū" sank around 09:12, taking the assortments of 389 men with her. The shaper floated for 14 days before being found by a Catalina and protected by the seaplane delicate . Four men passed on of their injuries or introduction before being grabbed and a fifth kicked the bucket that night. 

The loss of "Hiryū" and the three other IJN bearers at Midway, including 66% of Japan's absolute number of armada transporters and the accomplished center of the First Air Fleet, was a key thrashing for Japan and contributed fundamentally to Japan's definitive annihilation in the war. With an end goal to hide the thrashing, the ship was not quickly expelled from the Navy's library of boats, rather being recorded as "unmanned" before at long last being struck from the vault on 25 September 1942. 

The IJN chose an altered rendition of the "Hiryū" plan for large scale manufacturing to supplant the transporters lost at the Battle of Midway. Of an arranged program of 16 boats of the "Unryū" class, just six were set down and three were dispatched before the finish of the war.