RAF Northolt 

RAF Northolt is a Royal Air Force station in South Ruislip, from Uxbridge in the London Borough of Hillingdon, west London, England, around north of London Heathrow Airport. The station handles numerous private common flights notwithstanding Air Force flights. Northolt has one runway in task, traversing , with a scored black-top surface. 

Northolt pre-dates the foundation of the Royal Air Force by just about three years, having opened in May 1915, making it the most seasoned RAF base. Initially settled for the Royal Flying Corps, it has the longest history of ceaseless utilization of any RAF landing strip. Prior to the flare-up of the Second World War, the station was the first to take conveyance of the Hawker Hurricane. The station assumed a key job amid the Battle of Britain, when contenders from a few of its units, including No. 303 Polish Fighter Squadron, drew in foe air ship as a component of the safeguard of London. It turned into the a respectable starting point to have squadrons working Supermarine Spitfire flying machine inside German airspace. 

Amid the development of Heathrow Airport, Northolt was utilized for business common flights, turning into the busiest air terminal in Europe for a period and a noteworthy base for British European Airways. All the more as of late the station has turned into the center of British military flying tasks in the London zone. Northolt has been widely redeveloped since 2006 to oblige these changes, getting to be home to the British Forces Post Office, which moved to a recently built central command and arranging office on the site. Units as of now based at RAF Northolt are No. 32 (The Royal) Squadron, the Queen's Color Squadron, 600 (City of London) Squadron, No 1 Aeronautical Information Documents Unit, the Air Historical Branch and the Central Band of the RAF. 

Following Louis Blériot's first trip over the English Channel in 1909, the British Army considered the need of safeguarding the United Kingdom from a future air assault. By May 1910, Claude Grahame-White and other avionics pioneers were flying from the level zones around Ruislip, despite the fact that they before long looked for an aerodrome for London, which was in the long run worked at Hendon. A proposition was made in 1912 for the region around where RAF Northolt now stands to be created as "Harrow Aerodrome". The organization set up to build up the site was recorded on the London Stock Exchange however the thought did not advance any further. 

The flare-up of the First World War required another aerodrome for the Royal Flying Corps. The Corps had gotten the Royal Warrant on 13 April 1912, whereupon Major Sefton Brancker of the War Office led airborne reviews in 1914 of Glebe Farm in Ickenham, and Hundred Acres Farm and Down Barnes Farm in Ruislip, searching for the best working base for new squadrons. He settled on a site close Northolt Junction railroad station; in January 1915 the administration demanded the land. It is supposed that the administration official entrusted with getting the land touched base at the site with his guide topsy turvy, prompting the administration demanding and creating arrive on the wrong side of the railroad line, including the old Hill Farm. 

Development of the new aerodrome, to be named "RFC Military School, Ruislip", started in January 1915. It opened on 3 May 1915, getting to be known as Northolt and home to No. 4 Reserve Airplane Squadron which moved from Farnborough. Most early RAF landing strips were named after the closest railroad station, for this situation Northolt Junction, later named Northolt Halt and now South Ruislip station; so the runway progressed toward becoming "Northolt" in spite of being in neighboring South Ruislip. Around the same time the runway was broadened westwards, and air ship started flying fights with regards to London against Zeppelin assaults. No. 18 Squadron was shaped in a similar month as Northolt and outfitted with Bleriot Experimental biplanes, whose moderate speed prompted overwhelming misfortunes in battle with the German Fliegertruppe. 

In 1916, No. 43 Squadron was framed under the direction of Major Sholto Douglas. Flying machine preparing the squadron incorporated the Sopwith 1½ Strutter, worked by the Fairey Aviation organization, at that point in Hayes. The Strutter made its first dry run from Northolt in 1916 with Harry Hawker at the controls. Fairey led dry runs at Northolt from 1917 until 1928 when the Air Ministry gave the organization notice to clear the aerodrome. Flights later continued from the Great West Aerodrome possessed by Fairey in Harmondsworth, which was in the end created as Heathrow Airport. No. 43 Squadron proceeded to fly forays over France from 17 January 1917, partaking in the Battle of Vimy Ridge somewhere in the range of 4 and 8 April 1917. 

No. 600 Squadron and No. 601 Squadron of the juvenile Royal Auxiliary Air Force were framed at Northolt in 1925 under the order of Squadron Leader Lord Edward Grosvenor. The two squadrons were conveyed to RAF Hendon in 1927, albeit 600 Squadron returned in 1939. The Prince of Wales, later King Edward VIII and in this manner the Duke of Windsor, made his first trip in a Bristol F.2 Fighter from Northolt on 27 April 1929. 

Northolt turned into a functioning base amid the Second World War for Royal Air Force and Polish Air Force squadrons with all due respect of the United Kingdom. It was the primary RAF station to work the Hawker Hurricane, with No. 111 Squadron getting the initial four flying machine in December 1937, and achieving its full supplement by February 1938. In the number one spot up to war, the RAF executed a strategy of adding concrete runways to vital landing strips; by 1939 Northolt had another solid runway. Later in 1939 RAF Hendon ended up one of its satellite landing strips. Clean pilots were shown English at RAF Uxbridge, where they additionally polished development flying utilizing tricycles with radios, compasses and speed pointers. 

On 15 September 1940 amid the Battle of Britain, No. 1 Squadron RCAF, No. 229 Squadron, No. 303 Polish Fighter Squadron, No. 504 Squadron, and part of No. 264 Squadron were based at the station, all under the control of No. 11 Group RAF, headquartered at RAF Uxbridge. All flew Hawker Hurricanes aside from No. 264 Squadron's unforeseen, which worked the Boulton Paul Defiant. Amid the Battle of Britain, the Polish Squadron shot down the best number of foe air ship, with its Czech pilot Sergeant Josef František scoring the most "murders". The Luftwaffe shelled the runway in August 1940 just as other division landing strips in the zone, including Biggin Hill, Hornchurch and North Weald, as a major aspect of a concentrated exertion against the landing strips and segment stations of No. 11 Group RAF. A sum of 4,000 bombs were recorded as falling inside two miles (3 km) of the runway over a fifteen-month time span, albeit just two were recorded as hitting the landing strip itself. Under the authority of the station administrator, Group Captain Stanley Vincent, the landing strip was disguised to look like common lodging. Vincent had been worried that disguising the runway as open land would look excessively suspicious from the air; Northolt was encompassed by lodging thus an extensive open zone would draw consideration. A phony stream was painted over the principle runway while the shelters were designed to look like houses and gardens. The outcome was effective to the point that pilots traveling to Northolt from different runways frequently attempted to discover it. 

Thirty Allied pilots including servicemen from Belgium, Canada, Czechoslovakia, New Zealand, Poland and the United Kingdom were executed flying from RAF Northolt amid the Battle of Britain, of whom ten were Polish. The Polish War Memorial devoted to all Polish pilots who lost their lives amid the Second World War, remains close to the southeastern corner of the landing strip. Its name is likewise celebrated at the nearby eponymous intersection on Western Avenue. 

Squadrons based at RAF Northolt amid the fight shot down a sum of 148 Luftwaffe flying machine and harmed 52. A further 25 were asserted by pilots and recorded as "probables". Gathering Captain Vincent wound up one of only a handful couple of RAF aviators to shoot down a foe airplane in both World Wars. He was a long-serving RAF man who had asserted an aeronautical triumph over the Western Front in the First World War. When of the Battle of Britain he was unreasonably old for operational flying. By and by, he took to the skies amid one strike and cut down a German airplane. 

After the Battle of Britain, the station remained a base for daytime warrior activities, with No. 302 Polish Fighter Squadron, No. 229 Squadron and No. 615 Squadron all landing before 3 November 1940. No. 308 Polish Fighter Squadron and No. 306 Polish Fighter Squadron later joined No. 303 amid 1941 to shape the No. 1 Polish Fighter Wing. Clean Fighter Squadrons based at Northolt in 1942 partook in Operation Jubilee (the strike on Dieppe) on 19 August close by Nos. 302 and 308 from close-by RAF Heston. Observation squadrons No. 16 Squadron and No. 140 Squadron working Supermarine Spitfires and de Havilland Mosquitos moved to Northolt in 1944. No. 69 Squadron with their Vickers Wellingtons altered for photographic surveillance arrived later. Every one of the three surveillance squadrons were consolidated to shape No. 34 (PR) Wing. 

In 1943, the station turned into the first to fly forays utilizing Supermarine Spitfires (Mk IXs) in German airspace in help of plane activities. On 25 March, RAF Ferry Command moved toward becoming RAF Transport Command and from that point utilized Northolt as a London base for the exchange of new air ship from processing plants to runways. Runway 26/08 was stretched out in February that year to oblige the bigger transport flying machine required by the Command. Northolt proceeded as a Sector Fighter Station until February 1944. Therefore and the new bigger runway, the littler 02/20 runway shut in April 1944. 

RAF Northolt ended up home to Prime Minister Winston Churchill's own flying machine, a changed Douglas C-54 Skymaster, in June 1944. The air ship was utilized to fly him to gatherings with other Allied pioneers. Somewhere in the range of 20 and 21 July 1944, a changed over Consolidated B-24 Liberator plane named "Marco Polo" made the first relentless intercontinental flight, flying from London to Washington, DC, at that point coming back to Northolt from La Guardia Airport inside 18 hours. In November of that year, an Avro York flew constant from Northolt to Cairo in 25 minutes. Another runway, 31/13, was overviewed the next month and implicit March 1946. 

Beginning in 1946 the runway was utilized by common flight amid the development of adjacent Heathrow Airport. Amid this period, Northolt turned into a noteworthy base for British European Airways, which utilized the adjacent Bourne School as its home office. Different aircrafts including Aer Lingus, Alitalia, Scandinavian Airlines System and Swissair utilized the landing strip for booked administrations crosswise over Europe. 

In December 1946, subsequent to taking off amid a substantial snowstorm, a Douglas Dakota 3 worked by Railway Air Services, flying from Northolt to Glasgow, smashed onto the top of a house in South Ruislip. All the team and travelers got away safe by moving through the space of the house and leaving by means of the front entryway. No inhabitants were harmed, despite the fact that the proprietor of the house nearby was remaining at her front door when the flying machine descended. The proprietors of the house had not moved in at the season of the accident as they were expected to be hitched a couple of days after the fact. The house was later named "Dakota Rest", and still stands today. 

Amid 1952 a sum of 50,000 air developments were recorded, making the landing strip the busiest in Europe. By then the main booked aircrafts were BEA and Aer Lingus. The RAF kept up a nearness all through its utilization by common carriers, making it the longest constantly utilized runway in the historical backdrop of the Royal Air Force. On the way from Northolt to Dublin, on 10 January 1952, a common Douglas C-47 Skytrain worked by Aer Lingus and named "St. Kevin" flew into a zone of extraordinary choppiness brought about by a mountain wave produced by Snowdon. Accordingly, the plane collided with a peat swamp close Llyn Gwynant in Snowdonia, executing every one of the 20 travelers and three team in the organization's first lethal mishap. 

Common flights stopped when the focal region at Heathrow opened in 1954 with Northolt returning to sole military use in May that year. Northolt's activities wound up compelled by its nearness to the new a lot bigger common air terminal at Heathrow. No. 1 Aeronautical Information Documents Unit (AIDU) moved to the station in 1956 from the neighboring RAF West Ruislip station. The unit had been set up in 1953 to give data on landing strips, interchanges and navigational guides to serve flying machine security. AIDU was initially under the order of RAF Transport Command however this was moved to Home Command in March 1957. 

On 1 June 1960, an Avro Anson air ship endured motor disappointment not long after take-off from Northolt and crash-arrived over the close-by Express Dairies plant in South Ruislip. There were no fatalities. Soon thereafter, on 25 October, a Pan Am Boeing 707, heading for Heathrow, erroneously arrived at Northolt with forty-one travelers ready. A Lufthansa Boeing 707 additionally endeavored to arrive at the station on 28 April 1964 yet was discouraged by a red flag flare terminated by faculty from Air Traffic Control. In the prior days navigational guides, for example, instrument landing frameworks (ILS) and the worldwide situating framework (GPS) were accessible, the letters "NO" (for Northolt) and "LH" (for Heathrow) were painted on two gasometers on the way to deal with every runway, one at Southall for the way to deal with Heathrow's corner to corner runway (coded 23L) and one at South Harrow for the way to deal with Northolt's runway (at that point coded 26), with an end goal to keep a repeat of such blunders. By the 1980s developments of exclusive air ship, principally corporate planes, dwarfed military flying machine. Common flights were restricted to 28 every day, with a limit of 7,000 per year. This breaking point stayed in power in 2008. 

Northolt got its first entryway watchman, a Spitfire F.Mk 22, in September 1963. Acquired from the RAF in 1969 for use in the film "Skirmish of Britain", it was supplanted by a Spitfire Mk XVI on 2 June 1970. This flying machine stayed at the station until its evacuation on 8 September 1989 for reclamation to full flying condition. The Kermit Weeks' Fantasy of Flight Museum in Polk City, Florida, bought the air ship whereupon the station got a fiberglass reproduction of a Spitfire Mk IX as a substitution. 

Overhauling of No. 32 Squadron go from the RAF to the privately owned business Fields Aviation Services in April 1985, at that point to Lovaux Aircraft Servicing in 1990. In 1991, the Station Flight was built up, taking conveyance of two Britten-Norman Islanders in December which entered administration in January 1992. No. 32 Squadron commended its Diamond Jubilee in 1991, when faculty ended up associated with tasks amid the Gulf War. No. 38 Group RAF expected control of RAF Northolt on 2 November 1992 after a more extensive rebuilding of the RAF. On 16 December 1994, the new southside Operations Building opened, supplanting the old Northolt Airport Terminal structure. With the redesign of RAF Strike Command on 1 April 2000, No. 38 Group was disbanded and Northolt went under the control of No. 2 Group RAF. 

In August 1996, a Spanish Learjet worked by Mar Aviation overshot runway 25 and crashed into a van traveling eastbound on the A40 Western Avenue; the flying machine was conveying a performing artist destined for Pinewood Studios in Buckinghamshire. The two pilots, the on-screen character and van driver all endured minor wounds. The following examination by the Civil Aviation Authority's Air Accidents Investigation Branch found that both the group's absence of getting English and military airport regulation strategies had contributed essentially to the accident. In this manner, after nearly thirty years of extended thought, an ILS was in the end fitted to Northolt's re-imagined Runway 25. Furthermore, total filled security pits were introduced at each finish of the runway by 21 January 1998 to ensure street clients in case of another business stream or military transport neglecting to stop or climb before the finish of the runway. The House of Commons Transport Select Committee considered the transformation of RAF Northolt to a conceivable branch of Heathrow Airport during the 1990s. While the current runways would make flying machine cross the flight ways of those utilizing Heathrow, new parallel runways were proposed. These recommendations were contradicted by then MP for Ruislip-Northwood, John Wilkinson, and in the long run advanced no further. 

Much media consideration concentrated on the landing strip when the group of Diana, Princess of Wales, touched base there from Villacoublay runway, in Paris, France, after her demise in an auto accident in the city on 31 August 1997. The Queen's Color Squadron, at that point based at neighboring RAF Uxbridge, went about as the conveyor party, while the flight was met by the Prime Minister, the Lord Chamberlain, Lord Lieutenant of Greater London, Secretary of State for Defense, the RAF Northolt station leader and the RAF Chaplain-in-Chief. 

Consideration was high again in 2001 when Ronnie Biggs, the genuinely sick, outlaw Great Train Robber, was flown from Brazil to the landing strip to be captured by holding up cops. Biggs had gotten away from care in 1965; upon his arrival he was taken to Belmarsh Prison to finish the rest of his sentence. 

Since 1 June 1998, station leaders have filled in as confidants to the Queen. The station got the Freedom of Entry to the London Borough of Hillingdon on 11 May 2000. This enabled military work force to walk through the precinct in full uniform, a respect conceded by the committee in light of 2000 being the 60th commemoration of the Battle of Britain and the 85th commemoration of the opening of RAF Northolt. The neighboring RAF Uxbridge station had gotten a similar respect in 1960. 

The remaining parts of a Hawker Hurricane flown by Flying Officer Ludwik Witold Paszkiewicz, the main pilot in No. 303 Squadron to shoot down an adversary air ship, were given to the station in June 2008. Amid the Battle of Britain, Paszkiewicz turned into a flying expert and got the Distinguished Flying Cross subsequent to shooting down six flying machine. He was executed in real life over Borough Green in Kent on 27 September 1940. No. 303 Squadron recorded its 100th kill not exactly a month in the wake of initiating activities. Clean pilot Squadron Leader Franciszek Kornicki, who saw wartime administration at RAF Northolt, was brought together with the Supermarine Spitfire he had flown at an uncommon function in September 2010. 

An extra dedication to British, Polish, Australian and New Zealand aircrew murdered amid the Battle of Britain was revealed in September 2010. In October that year, the overhang which had housed Churchill's own flying machine, the previous Squadron Watch office, and the Operations Block were given Grade II recorded structure status. The Operations Block was a model of the "Dowding System", which encouraged the levels of leadership issuance of requests for the interference of adversary airplane and a plan utilized out of the blue amid the Battle of Britain. Preceding the posting, the square was renamed the Sir Keith Park Building on 20 September to pay tribute to the previous No. 11 Group RAF leader who had likewise filled in as station officer at Northolt somewhere in the range of 1931 and 1932. RAF Northolt is the main landing strip utilized in the Battle of Britain still worked by the RAF. 

In January 2012 it was accounted for that the eventual fate of the station was under audit by the Ministry of Defense as a major aspect of endeavors to decrease protection spending. A proposed use has been as a satellite of Heathrow Airport, despite the fact that a Ministry of Defense representative portrayed that as impossible. 

Four Eurofighter Typhoon air ship touched base at the station from RAF Coningsby on 2 May 2012 to participate in a security practice as a component of arrangements for the 2012 Summer Olympics. Amid the Games, the flying machine were sent to the station to give air prevalence assurance over London, related to other safety efforts by the British Armed Forces. Westland Sea King helicopters of the Royal Navy were likewise sent to the station. The nearness of the airplane amid the Olympics turned into the first run through warrior air ship had been positioned at RAF Northolt since the Second World War. The Typhoons and Sea Kings left Northolt on 16 August after the finish of the Olympics. 

The medium-term base of the London Air Ambulance moved to RAF Northolt from Denham Aerodrome in February 2013. The flying time from the station to its daytime base at the Royal London Hospital in Whitechapel is three minutes shorter than from Denham, which likewise gives investment funds to the Air Ambulance philanthropy. 

In April 2013 the Ministry of Defense reported a proposition to build the quantity of private flights from 7,000 to 12,000 every year as a component of designs to expand the pay created by the landing strip. The quantity of flights would be restricted to 40 every day, and the expansion would be staged in more than three years to 2016. The landing strip was for the most part utilized for VIP planes, and around 3,800 military flights a year. 

The Ministry of Defense propelled Project MoDEL (Ministry of Defense Estates London) in 2006 to unite huge numbers of its London-based tasks at RAF Northolt. Under the undertaking, RAF Bentley Priory, RAF Uxbridge, RAF West Ruislip, RAF Eastcote and the Inglis Barracks in Mill Hill were altogether shut somewhere in the range of 2006 and 2010 with any outstanding units exchanging to Northolt. The Air Historical Branch, initially settled in 1919 to give a record of air action amid the First World War, was likewise migrated to RAF Northolt from RAF Bentley Priory in 2008 as a component of this undertaking. Subsequently, the station has been widely redeveloped with new offices to help these activities. 

The statue, Letter from Home, of a First World War fighter perusing a letter was moved from outside Inglis Barracks in Mill Hill to RAF Northolt in June 2007. It is a reproduction of the statue at Paddington Station and was first uncovered in 1982. Following the migration of the British Forces Post Office and Defense Courier Service from Mill Hill, another base camp and primary arranging office were worked for their utilization which opened in November 2007. New shelter offices for the utilization of No. 32 Squadron were likewise built, alongside new work force convenience. 

The first 1920s Officers' Mess was revamped as a feature of the work, which likewise observed the migration of the imitation Supermarine Spitfire entryway gatekeeper to the traveler terminal, and the divulging of another copy Hawker Hurricane door watchman close to the eastern station entrance in September 2010, remembering the aircrew based at Northolt who had battled in the Battle of Britain. 

Upon the conclusion of RAF Uxbridge, control of the Battle of Britain Bunker go to RAF Northolt to permit proceeded with open visits. In December 2010 it was concurred that the South Hillingdon part of the St. John Ambulance administration would move from its current base in RAF Uxbridge to new premises at Northolt. 

The station's new police hound area, including pet hotels and an isolate building, opened in February 2012, denoting the culmination of structure work. 

The accompanying flying and remarkable non-flying units based at RAF Northolt. 

No. 2 Group (Air Combat Support) RAF 

No. 38 Group (Air Combat Service Support) RAF 

Other 

Regal Logistics Corps (29 Explosive Ordnance Disposal and Search Group) 

Guard Intelligence 

The station is sorted out into two wings, with various guest units. Inside the Operations Wing, the station houses No. 32 (The Royal) Squadron RAF, and the Comms Fleet Force Headquarters. 32 Squadron flies two BAe 146 CC.2 four-motor VIP short range transport air ship and two BAe 146 QC variants, with one Leonardo GrandNew A109SP helicopter. 

The Support Wing of the station joins the Personnel Management Squadron, the Estates Management Squadron, the Station Management Squadron, the Force Development Squadron, Media and Communications, the Finance Department and Safety, Health and Environmental Protection. Its Operations Squadron, the Air Movements Squadron and the Airfield Support Squadron make up the station's Operations Wing. 

Guest Units at Northolt incorporate No. 600 Squadron Royal Auxiliary Air Force, 621 EOD Squadron Royal Logistics Corps (some portion of 11 Explosive Ordnance Disposal and Search Regiment RLC), No. 1 AIDU (Aeronautical Information Documents Unit), the Central Band of the Royal Air Force, the Service Prosecuting Authority, Naval Aeronautical Information Center, the British Forces Post Office (BFPO), the Air Historical Branch and the Polish Records Office. 

2Excel Aviation work two Piper PA-31 Navajos under a regular citizen contract for the RAF following the deal in 2017 of RAF Northolt's Station Flight's two Britten-Norman Islander CC.2s. The Islanders had worked in electronic insight gathering, portrayed by the RAF as performing "photographic mapping and light interchanges jobs". The PA-31s keep on satisfying this job. 

In October 2018, a £23 million contract to restore Northolt's runway was granted to Lagan Aviation and Infrastructure as the primary temporary worker, and Mott MacDonald in a help job. Preliminary work started in mid 2019 with the runway expected to close from 15 April 2019 until late October 2019. Amid that period, No. 32 (The Royal) Squadron fixed wing flight will migrate to RAF Benson in Oxfordshire, while regular citizen flying machine will utilize elective non military personnel airplane terminals. Helicopters will keep on working from Northolt amid the development work. 

Sources: "Clash of Britain Airfields (first Edition)" and "A History of Royal Air Force Northolt" 

All things considered close to a few film studios including those at Pinewood, the runway has been utilized to speak to outside areas in various element films. Scenes of the James Bond films "Goldfinger", "Thunderball" and "Octopussy" were altogether shot at Northolt, and station faculty filled in as additional items in the "Octopussy" shelter fly-through trick scene. The smaller than normal arrangement "The Winds of War" and "The Bill" and the BBC demonstrates "Bothering the whole neighborhood", "Specialist Who" and "Red Dwarf" have all utilized Northolt to speak to different anecdotal landing strips. In mid 2010 the station was utilized for activity scenes in the last scene of the BBC's last arrangement of "Fiery debris to Ashes". 

Notes 

References 

Book reference