Old Trafford 

Old Trafford () is a football arena in Old Trafford, Greater Manchester, England, and the home of Manchester United. With a limit of 74,994, it is the biggest club football arena (and second biggest football arena by and large after Wembley Stadium) in the United Kingdom, and the eleventh-biggest in Europe. It is about from Old Trafford Cricket Ground and the contiguous cable car stop. 

Nicknamed "The Theater of Dreams" by Bobby Charlton, Old Trafford has been United's home ground since 1910, in spite of the fact that from 1941 to 1949 the club imparted Maine Road to neighborhood rivals Manchester City because of Second World War bomb harm. Old Trafford experienced a few extensions during the 1990s, and 2000s, including the expansion of additional levels toward the North, West and East Stands, practically restoring the arena to its unique limit of 80,000. Future extension is probably going to include the expansion of a second level toward the South Stand, which would raise the ability to around 88,000. The arena's record participation was recorded in 1939, when 76,962 observers viewed the FA Cup semi-last between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Grimsby Town. 

Old Trafford has facilitated FA Cup semi-finals, England apparatuses, matches at the 1966 World Cup and Euro 96 and the 2003 Champions League Final, just as rugby group's yearly Super League Grand Final and the last of two Rugby League World Cups. It likewise facilitated football matches at the 2012 Summer Olympics, including ladies' universal football without precedent for its history. 

Prior to 1902, Manchester United were known as Newton Heath, amid which time they previously played their football matches at North Road and after that Bank Street in Clayton. Be that as it may, the two grounds were cursed by pathetic conditions, the pitches running from rock to bog, while Bank Street experienced billows of exhaust from its neighboring industrial facilities. Consequently, following the club's salvage from close chapter 11 and renaming, the new executive John Henry Davies chose in 1909 that the Bank Street ground was not fit for a group that had as of late won the First Division and FA Cup, so he gave assets for the development of another arena. Not one to burn through cash pointlessly, Davies explored around Manchester for a fitting site, before settling on a fix of land neighboring the Bridgewater Canal, simply off the north end of the Warwick Road in Old Trafford. 

Structured by Scottish modeler Archibald Leitch, who planned a few other stadia, the ground was initially planned with a limit of 100,000 observers and included seating in the south remain under spread, while the staying three stands were left as porches and revealed. Counting the buy of the land, the development of the arena was initially to have cost £60,000 by and large. In any case, as expenses started to ascend, to achieve the proposed limit would have cost an additional £30,000 over the first gauge and, at the recommendation of club secretary J. J. Bentley, the limit was diminished to roughly 80,000. All things considered, when exchange charges were still around the £1,000 mark, the expense of development just served to fortify the club's "Moneybags United" sobriquet, with which they had been tarred since Davies had taken over as executive. 

In May 1908, Archibald Leitch kept in touch with the Cheshire Lines Committee (CLC) – who had a rail stop adjoining the proposed site for the football ground – trying to influence them to sponsor development of the show off close by the railroad line. The appropriation would have gone to the whole of £10,000, to be paid back at the rate of £2,000 "per annum" for a long time or half of the entryway receipts for the show off every year until the advance was reimbursed. Notwithstanding, regardless of certifications for the credit originating from the club itself and two neighborhood distilleries, both led by club executive John Henry Davies, the Cheshire Lines Committee turned the proposition down. The CLC had wanted to construct another station neighboring the new arena, with the guarantee of a foreseen £2,750 "per annum" in charges counterbalancing the £9,800 cost of structure the station. The station – Trafford Park – was in the end assembled, however sometime later than initially arranged. The CLC later developed an unobtrusive station with one timber-fabricated stage promptly contiguous the arena and this opened on 21 August 1935. It was at first named United Football Ground, however was renamed Old Trafford Football Ground in mid 1936. It was served on match days just by a bus administration of steam trains from Manchester Central railroad station. It is as of now known as Manchester United Football Ground. 

Development was done by Messrs Brameld and Smith of Manchester and improvement was finished in late 1909. The arena facilitated its debut amusement on 19 February 1910, with United playing host to Liverpool. Be that as it may, the home side were unfit to furnish their fans with a success to check the event, as Liverpool won 4– 3. A columnist at the amusement detailed the arena as "the most handsomest [sic], the most open and the most wonderful field I have ever observed. As a football ground it is unrivaled on the planet, it is a respect to Manchester and the home of a group who can do ponders when they are so arranged". 

Before the development of Wembley Stadium in 1923, the FA Cup Final was facilitated by various distinctive grounds around England including Old Trafford. The first of these was the 1911 FA Cup Final replay between Bradford City and Newcastle United, after the first tie at Crystal Palace completed as a no-score draw after additional time. Bradford won 1– 0, the objective scored by Jimmy Speirs, in a match viewed by 58,000 individuals. The ground's second FA Cup Final was the 1915 last between Sheffield United and Chelsea. Sheffield United won the match 3– 0 before about 50,000 spectators, the greater part of whom were in the military, prompting the last being nicknamed "the Khaki Cup Final". On 27 December 1920, Old Trafford played host to its biggest pre-Second World War participation for a United class coordinate, as 70,504 observers viewed the Red Devils lose 3– 1 to Aston Villa. The ground facilitated its first worldwide football coordinate soon thereafter, when England lost 1– 0 to Scotland before 49,429 spectators on 17 April 1926. Strangely, the record participation at Old Trafford isn't for a Manchester United home diversion. Rather, on 25 March 1939, 76,962 people viewed a FA Cup semi-last between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Grimsby Town. 

In 1936, as a feature of a £35,000 restoration, a 80-yard-long rooftop was added to the United Road stand (presently the Sir Alex Ferguson Stand) out of the blue, while rooftops were added toward the south corners in 1938. Upon the episode of the Second World War, Old Trafford was demanded by the military to be utilized as a terminal. Football kept on being played at the arena, yet a German shelling attack on Trafford Park on 22 December 1940 harmed the arena to the degree that a Christmas day apparatus against Stockport County must be changed to Stockport's ground. Football continued at Old Trafford on 8 March 1941, however another German attack on 11 March 1941 crushed a great part of the arena, outstandingly the principle stand (presently the South Stand), compelling the club's tasks to move to Cornbrook Cold Storage, claimed by United administrator James W. Gibson. After weight from Gibson, the War Damage Commission conceded Manchester United £4,800 to evacuate the trash and £17,478 to reconstruct the stands. Amid the recreation of the arena, Manchester United played their "home" diversions at Maine Road, the home of their cross-town rivals, Manchester City, at an expense of £5,000 per year in addition to a level of the door receipts. The club was presently £15,000 in the red, not helped by the rental of Maine Road, and the Labor MP for Stoke, Ellis Smith, requested of the Government to expand the club's pay bundle, however it was futile. In spite of the fact that Old Trafford was revived, though without spread, in 1949, it implied that a class diversion had not been played at the arena for about 10 years. Joined's first diversion back at Old Trafford was played on 24 August 1949, as 41,748 spectators saw a 3– 0 triumph over Bolton Wanderers. 

A rooftop was reestablished to the Main Stand by 1951 and, before long, the three residual stands were secured, the activity coming full circle with the expansion of a rooftop to the Stretford End (presently the West Stand) in 1959. The club additionally put £40,000 in the establishment of appropriate floodlighting, with the goal that they would most likely utilize the arena for the European amusements that were played in the late night of weekdays, rather than playing at Maine Road. So as to keep away from prominent shadows being thrown on the pitch, two segments of the Main Stand rooftop were removed. The main match to be played under floodlights at Old Trafford was a First Division coordinate between Manchester United and Bolton Wanderers on 25 March 1957. 

Nonetheless, in spite of the fact that the observers would now have the capacity to see the players around evening time, despite everything they experienced the issue of impeded perspectives brought about by the columns that upheld the rooftops. With the 1966 FIFA World Cup quick drawing closer, this incited the United chiefs to totally upgrade the United Road (north) stand. The old rooftop columns were supplanted in 1965 with current style cantilevering over the rooftop, permitting each onlooker a totally unhampered view, while it was additionally extended to hold 20,000 observers (10,000 situated and 10,000 remaining in front) at an expense of £350,000. The draftsmen of the new stand, Mather and Nutter (presently Atherden Fuller), revised the association of the remain to have terracing at the front, a bigger situated region towards the back, and the primary private boxes at a British football ground. The east stand – the main staying revealed stand – was created in a similar style in 1973. With the initial two stands changed over to cantilevers, the club's proprietors formulated a long haul intend to do likewise to the next two stands and convert the arena into a bowl-like field. Such an endeavor would serve to build the air inside the ground by containing the group's commotion and centering it onto the pitch, where the players would feel the full impacts of a limit swarm. In the interim, the arena facilitated its third FA Cup Final, facilitating 62,078 observers for the replay of the 1970 last among Chelsea and Leeds United; Chelsea won the match 2– 1. The ground additionally facilitated the second leg of the 1968 Intercontinental Cup, which saw Estudiantes de La Plata win the glass after a 1– 1 draw. The 1970s saw the sensational ascent of football hooliganism in Britain, and a blade tossing occurrence in 1971 constrained the club to erect the nation's first edge fence, confining fans from the Old Trafford pitch. 

1973 saw the culmination of the rooftop around the outline of the arena, alongside the expansion of 5,500 seats to the Scoreboard End and the substitution of the old manual scoreboard with an electronic one in the north-east corner. At that point, in 1975, a £3 million development was started, beginning with the expansion of the Executive Suite to the Main Stand. The suite's eatery disregarded the pitch, however the view was as yet hindered by the rooftop columns. Along these lines, in kind with the tops of the United Road Stand and the Scoreboard End, the Main Stand rooftop was supplanted with a cantilever structure. The Executive Suite and cantilever rooftop were then reached out to the full length of the stand, taking into account the movement of the club workplaces from the south-east corner to the Main Stand. The south-east quadrant was then evacuated and supplanted in 1985 with a situated segment bringing the all out seating limit of the arena to 25,686 (56,385 generally speaking). The fulfillment of the cantilever rooftop around three sides of the arena took into account the substitution of the old floodlight arches, and the connection of a column of floodlights around the internal edge of the rooftop in 1987. 

With each consequent improvement made to the ground since the Second World War, the limit relentlessly declined. By the 1980s, the limit had dropped from the first 80,000 to roughly 60,000. The limit dropped still further in 1990, when the Taylor Report prescribed, and the legislature requested that all First and Second Division stadia be changed over to all-seaters. This implied £3– 5 million intends to supplant the Stretford End with a fresh out of the box new remain with an all-standing porch at the front and a cantilever rooftop to interface with the remainder of the ground must be radically modified. This constrained redevelopment, including the evacuation of the patios at the front of the other three stands, expanded the expense to around £10 million, yet in addition diminished the limit of Old Trafford to an untouched low of around 44,000. What's more, the club was told in 1992 that they would just get £1.4 million of a conceivable £2 million from the Football Trust to be put towards business related to the Taylor Report. 

The club's resurgence in progress and increment in notoriety in the mid 1990s guaranteed that further advancement would need to happen. In 1995, the 30-year-old North Stand was destroyed and work rapidly started on another remain, to be prepared in time for Old Trafford to have three gathering diversions, a quarter-last and a semi-last at Euro 96. The club acquired the Trafford Park exchanging domain, a site on the other site of United Road, for £9.2 million in March 1995. Development started in June 1995 and was finished by May 1996, with the initial two of the three periods of the stand opening amid the season. Planned by Atherden Fuller, with Hilstone Laurie as task and development chiefs and Campbell Reith Hill as basic architects, the new three-layered stand cost a sum of £18.65 million to assemble and had a limit of around 25,500, raising the limit of the whole ground to more than 55,000. The cantilever rooftop would likewise be the biggest in Europe, estimating from the back divider to the front edge. Further accomplishment throughout the following couple of years ensured yet greater advancement. Initial, a second level was added toward the East Stand. Opened in January 2000, the arena's ability was incidentally expanded to around 61,000 until the opening of the West Stand's second level, which included one more 7,000 seats, bringing the ability to 68,217. It was currently the greatest club arena in England as well as the greatest in the majority of the United Kingdom. Old Trafford facilitated its first significant European last three years after the fact, playing host to the 2003 UEFA Champions League Final among Milan and Juventus. 

From 2001 to 2007, after the destruction of the old Wembley Stadium, the England national football crew was compelled to play its amusements somewhere else. Amid that time, the group visited the nation, playing their matches at different grounds from Villa Park in Birmingham to St James' Park in Newcastle. From 2003 to 2007, Old Trafford facilitated 12 of England's 23 home matches, more than some other arena. The most recent universal to be held at Old Trafford was England's 1– 0 misfortune to Spain on 7 February 2007. The match was played before a horde of 58,207. 

Old Trafford's latest extension, which occurred between July 2005 and May 2006, saw an expansion of around 8,000 seats with the expansion of second levels to both the north-west and north-east quadrants of the ground. Some portion of the new seating was utilized out of the blue on 26 March 2006, when a participation of 69,070 turned into another Premier League record. The record kept on being pushed upwards before achieving its ebb and flow crest on 31 March 2007, when 76,098 onlookers saw United beat Blackburn Rovers 4– 1, implying that only 114 seats (0.15% of the complete limit of 76,212) were left abandoned. In 2009, a redesign of the seating in the arena brought about a decrease of the limit by 255 to 75,957, implying that the club's home participation record would remain in any event until the following extension. 

Old Trafford praised its 100th commemoration on 19 February 2010. In acknowledgment of the event, Manchester United's legitimate site ran an element in which an essential minute from the arena's history was featured on every one of the 100 days paving the way to the commemoration. From these 100 minutes, the best 10 were picked by a board including club analyst Cliff Butler, writer David Meek, and previous players Pat Crerand and Wilf McGuinness. At Old Trafford itself, a workmanship rivalry was kept running for understudies from three neighborhood schools to make their own delineations of the arena before, present and future. Winning canvases were put on changeless showcase on the concourse of the Old Trafford family stand, and the champs were given honors by craftsman Harold Riley on 22 February. A display about the arena at the club exhibition hall was opened by previous goalkeeper Jack Crompton and CEO David Gill on 19 February. The display featured the historical backdrop of the arena and highlights memorabilia from quite a while ago, including a program from the debut coordinate and a 1:220 scale demonstrate hand-worked by model craftsman Peter Oldfield-Edwards. At long last, at Manchester United's home match against Fulham on 14 March, fans at the amusement got a reproduction duplicate of the program from the main Old Trafford match, and half-time saw relatives of the players who participated in the principal diversion – just as those of the club administrator John Henry Davies and arena engineer Archibald Leitch – partaking in the entombment of a period container of Manchester United memorabilia close to the inside passage. Just relatives of winger Billy Meredith, wing-half Dick Duckworth and club secretary Ernest Mangnall couldn't be found. 

Old Trafford was utilized as a scene for a few matches in the football rivalry at the 2012 Summer Olympics. The arena facilitated five gathering amusements, a quarter-last and a semi-last in the men's competition, and one gathering diversion and a semi-last in the ladies' competition, the main ladies' universal matches to be played there. Since 2006, Old Trafford has additionally been utilized as the scene for Soccer Aid, a biennial philanthropy coordinate at first sorted out by vocalist Robbie Williams and on-screen character Jonathan Wilkes; be that as it may, in 2008, the match was played at Wembley Stadium. 

The Old Trafford pitch is encompassed by four secured all-seater stands, formally known as the Sir Alex Ferguson (North), East, Sir Bobby Charlton (South) and West Stands. Each stand has somewhere around two levels, except for the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand, which just has one level because of development limitations. The lower level of each stand is part into Lower and Upper segments, the Lower areas having been changed over from terracing in the mid 1990s. 

The Sir Alex Ferguson Stand, some time ago known as the United Road stand and the North Stand, keeps running over the highest point of United Road. The stand is three levels tall, and can hold around 26,000 onlookers, the a large portion of the four stands. It can likewise oblige a couple of fans in official boxes and accommodation suites. It opened in its present state in 1996, having recently been a solitary layered stand. As the ground's primary stand, it houses a considerable lot of the ground's increasingly mainstream offices, including the Red Café (a Manchester United subject eatery/bar) and the Manchester United historical center and trophy room. Initially opened in 1986 as the first of its sort on the planet, the Manchester United historical center was in the south-east corner of the ground until it moved to the redeveloped North Stand in 1998. The exhibition hall was opened by Pelé on 11 April 1998, since when quantities of guests have bounced from 192,000 out of 1998 to more than 300,000 visitors in 2009. 

The North Stand was renamed as the Sir Alex Ferguson Stand on 5 November 2011, out of appreciation for Alex Ferguson's 25 years as supervisor of the club. A statue of Ferguson, etched by Philip Jackson, was raised outside the remain on 23 November 2012 in acknowledgment of his status as Manchester United's longest-serving administrator. 

Inverse the Sir Alex Ferguson Stand is the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand, in the past Old Trafford's primary stand and recently known as the South Stand. Albeit just a solitary layered stand, the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand contains the majority of the ground's official suites, and furthermore plays host to any VIPs who may come to watch the match. Individuals from the media are situated amidst the Upper South Stand to give them the best perspective on the match. The TV gantry is additionally in the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand, so the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand is the one that gets appeared on TV least regularly. TV studios are situated at either end of the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand, with the club's in-house TV channel, MUTV, in the East studio and other TV slots, for example, the BBC and Sky, in the West studio. 

The hole is in the focal point of the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand, raised above pitch level to give the chief and his mentors a raised perspective on the amusement. Each group's burrow flanks the old players' passage, which was utilized until 1993. The old passage is the main outstanding piece of the first 1910 arena, having endure the bombarding that demolished a great part of the arena amid the Second World War. On 6 February 2008, the passage was renamed the Munich Tunnel, as a dedication for the 50th commemoration of the 1958 Munich air catastrophe. The present passage is in the South-West corner of the ground, and serves as a passageway for the crisis administrations. If extensive vehicles require get to, the seating over the passage can be raised by up to . The passage paves the way to the players' changing area, by means of the TV talk with region, and the players' parlor. Both the home and away changing areas were re-renovated for the 2018– 19 season, with the passageway prompting the two broadened and isolated to keep home and away groups separated. 

On 3 April 2016, the South Stand was renamed the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand before dismiss from the Premier League home match against Everton, out of appreciation for Manchester United legend Sir Bobby Charlton who made his Manchester United introduction 60 years back. 

Maybe the best-known remain at Old Trafford is the West Stand, otherwise called the Stretford End. Generally, the stand is the place the no-nonsense United fans are found, and furthermore the ones who make the most clamor. Initially intended to hold 20,000 fans, the Stretford End was the last remain to be secured and furthermore the final all-terraced remain at the ground before the constrained move up to seating in the mid 1990s. The recreation of the Stretford End, which occurred amid the 1992– 93 season, was completed by Alfred McAlpine. At the point when the second level was added to the Stretford End in 2000, numerous fans from the old "K Stand" moved there, and chose to hang pennants and banners from the obstruction at the front of the level. So instilled in Manchester United culture is the Stretford End, that Denis Law was given the moniker "Lord of the Stretford End", and there is presently a statue of Law on the concourse of the stand's upper level. 

The East Stand at Old Trafford was the second to be changed over to a cantilever rooftop, following the Sir Alex Ferguson Stand. It is additionally regularly alluded to as the Scoreboard End, as it was the area of the scoreboard. The East Stand can as of now hold about 12,000 fans, and is the area of both the incapacitated fans segment and the away segment; an investigation including the migration of away fans to the third level of the Sir Alex Ferguson Stand was directed amid the 2011– 12 season, however the consequences of the analyses couldn't be learned so as to make the move changeless for the 2012– 13 season. The debilitated area accommodates up to 170 fans, with free seats for carers. Old Trafford was in the past separated into areas, with each segment consecutively doled out a letter of the letter set. Albeit each area had a letter, it is the K Stand that is the most usually alluded to today. The K Stand fans were famous for their vocal help for the club, and an expansive exhibit of serenades and tunes, however a considerable lot of them have moved to the second level of the West Stand. 

The East Stand has a tinted glass façade, behind which the club's managerial focus is found. These workplaces are the home to the staff of Inside United, the official Manchester United magazine, the club's legitimate site, and its other authoritative divisions. Pictures and promotions are frequently decorated on the facade of the East Stand, regularly publicizing items and administrations given by the club's supporters, however a tribute to the Busby Babes was shown in February 2008 to celebrate the 50th commemoration of the Munich air calamity. Over the megastore is a statue of Sir Matt Busby, who was Manchester United's longest-serving chief until he was outperformed by Sir Alex Ferguson in 2010. There is additionally a plaque devoted to the casualties of the Munich air calamity on the south end of the East Stand, while the Munich Clock is at the intersection of the East and South Stands. On 29 May 2008, to commend the 40th commemoration of Manchester United's first European Cup title, a statue of the club's "sacred trinity" of George Best, Denis Law and Bobby Charlton, entitled "The United Trinity", was disclosed crosswise over Sir Matt Busby Way from the East Stand, legitimately inverse the statue of Busby. 

The Manchester United club shop has had six unique areas since it was first opened. Initially, the shop was a little cottage close to the railroad line that keeps running nearby the ground. The shop was then moved along the length of the South Stand, ceasing first inverse where away fans enter the ground, and after that dwelling in the structure that would later turn into the club's marketing office. A flood in the club's fame in the mid 1990s prompted another move, this opportunity to the forecourt of the West Stand. With this move came an incredible development and the change from a little shop to a "megastore". Alex Ferguson opened the new megastore on 3 December 1994. The latest moves came in the late 1990s, as the West Stand expected space to extend to a second level, and that implied the devastation of the megastore. The store was moved to an impermanent site inverse the East Stand, before relocating to the ground floor of the extended East Stand in 2000. The floor space of the megastore was possessed by United's pack supports, Nike, who worked the store until the expiry of their sponsorship bargain toward the finish of July 2015, when proprietorship returned to the club. 

The pitch at the ground measures around long by wide, with a couple of meters of run-off space on each side. The focal point of the pitch is around nine inches higher than the edges, enabling surface water to keep running off more effectively. As at numerous cutting edge grounds, under the pitch is an underground warming framework, made out of plastic channels. Previous club director Alex Ferguson frequently mentioned that the pitch be relaid, most strikingly partially through the 1998– 99 season, when the group won the Treble, at an expense of about £250,000 each time. The grass at Old Trafford is watered normally, however less on wet days, and cut three times each week among April and November, and once every week from November to March. 

In the mid-1980s, when Manchester United Football Club possessed the Manchester Giants, Manchester's ball establishment, there were plans to assemble a 9,000-seater indoor field on the site of what is currently Car Park E1. Be that as it may, the administrator at the time, Martin Edwards, did not have the assets to take on such an undertaking, and the b-ball establishment was inevitably sold. In August 2009, the vehicle leave wound up home to the Hublot clock tower, a - tall pinnacle in the state of the Hublot logo, which houses four - width clock faces, the biggest at any point made by the organization. 

The east side of the arena is additionally the site of Hotel Football, a football-themed lodging and fan clubhouse brought about by previous Manchester United commander Gary Neville. The structure is situated on the east side of Sir Matt Busby Way and on the contrary side of the Bridgewater Canal from the arena, and can suit up to 1,500 supporters. It opened in the mid year of 2015. The endeavor is directed independently from the club and was supported to a limited extent by continues from Neville's tribute coordinate. 

In 2009, it was accounted for that United kept on harboring plans to expand the limit of the arena further, with the following stage indicating a redevelopment of the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand, which, in contrast to the remainder of the arena, stays single level. A replication of the Sir Alex Ferguson Stand advancement and North-East and North-West Quadrants would see the arena's ability ascend to an expected 95,000, which would give it a more noteworthy limit than Wembley Stadium (90,000). Any such improvement is probably going to cost around £100 million, because of the vicinity of the railroad line that runs contiguous the arena, and the comparing need to work over it and subsequently buy up to 50 houses on the opposite side of the rail route. In any case, the Manchester United gathering property chief affirmed that development plans are in the pipeline – connected to benefits produced using the club's property possessions around Manchester – saying "There is a vital arrangement for the stadium ... It isn't our goal to stop". One analysis of the plans, in any case, is that expanding the stature of the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand would additionally lessen the measure of light going onto the pitch, which has caused issues in also substantial stadia –, for example, Wembley Stadium, the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium and the San Siro; as per Alex Ferguson, the improvements on different stands have just caused issues. It was additionally recommended that, should such a development happen, Old Trafford could be utilized rather than Wembley for enormous matches, for example, England internationals – so as to expand the capacity of fans in the north of the nation to watch England play; and FA Cup semi-finals – to keep up the eminence of the national arena for the last. 

In March 2016 (ten years after the past redevelopment), discussion of the redevelopment of the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand re-rose. The arena's arrangement for incapacitated fans is underneath gauges required by guidelines. Expanding limit with respect to handicapped supporters is assessed to diminish generally limit by 2,300. Five distinct arrangements have been considered for the mid year of 2017. One choice is to expand the limit up to 80,000 by adding a second level to the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand, conveying it to a comparable stature to the Sir Alex Ferguson Stand inverse yet without a third dimension. Replication of the corner remains on the opposite side of the arena would additionally expand the arena's ability to 88,000 and increment the quantity of official offices. Lodging on Railway Road and the railroad line itself have recently obstructed enhancements to this stand yet the annihilation of lodging and building propels imply that the extra level could now be worked at decreased expense. 

Old Trafford has likewise been utilized for purposes other than football. Before the Old Trafford football arena was constructed, the site was utilized for rounds of shinty, the customary round of the Scottish Highlands. Amid the First World War, the arena was utilized by American fighters for rounds of baseball. On 17 September 1981, the North Section of cricket's Lambert and Butler Floodlit Competition was played there; in the semi-finals, Nottinghamshire vanquished Derbyshire and Lancashire beat Yorkshire, before Lancashire beat Nottinghamshire by 8 keeps running in the last to achieve the national last, played between the other local victors at Stamford Bridge the following day. 

Old Trafford has played host to the two codes of rugby football, in spite of the fact that class is played there with more prominent consistency than association. The Super League great last has been played at Old Trafford consistently since the presentation of the playoff framework in 1998, and is set to keep on doing as such until 2020; the principal rugby class match to be played at Old Trafford was held amid the 1924– 25 season, when a Lancashire delegate side facilitated the New Zealand national group, with Manchester United getting 20 percent of the entryway receipts. The main alliance match to be held at Old Trafford came in November 1958, with Salford playing against Leeds under floodlights before 8,000 spectators. 

The primary rugby alliance Test coordinate played at Old Trafford came in 1986, when Australia beat Great Britain 38– 16 before 50,583 onlookers in the principal trial of the 1986 Kangaroo visit. The 1989 World Club Challenge was played at Old Trafford on 4 October 1989, with 30,768 onlookers watching Widnes beat the Canberra Raiders 30– 18. Old Trafford additionally facilitated the second Great Britain versus Australia Ashes tests on both the 1990 and 1994 Kangaroo Tours. The arena likewise facilitated the semi-last among England and Wales at the 1995 Rugby League World Cup; England won 25– 10 before 30,042 fans. The last rugby association worldwide played at Old Trafford during the 1990s saw Great Britain record their solitary win over Australia at the ground in 1997 in the second trial of the Super League Test arrangement before 40,324 fans. 

At the point when the Rugby League World Cup was facilitated by Great Britain, Ireland and France in 2000, Old Trafford was picked as the scene for the last; the match was challenged by Australia and New Zealand, and brought about a 40– 12 win for Australia, viewed by 44,329 onlookers. Old Trafford was likewise picked to have the 2013 Rugby League World Cup Final. The amusement, played on 30 November, was won by Australia 34– 2 over protecting bosses New Zealand, and pulled in a horde of 74,468, a world record for a rugby alliance global. Amid the diversion, Australia winger Brett Morris endured a substantial collide with the publicizing sheets at the Stretford End, underlining questions raised pre-coordinate over the security of Old Trafford as a rugby association scene, specifically the short in-objective territories and the slant around the border. 

Old Trafford facilitated its first rugby association universal in 1997, when New Zealand crushed England 25– 8. A second match was played at Old Trafford on 6 June 2009, when England beat Argentina 37– 15. The arena was one of 12 affirmed scenes set to have matches of the 2015 Rugby World Cup; be that as it may, in April 2013 United hauled out of the agreement over worries about pitch quality and not having any desire to bargain their association with the 13-man code. In October 1993, a WBC– WBO Super-Middleweight unification battle was held at the ground, with around 42,000 individuals paying to watch WBO champion Chris Eubank battle WBC champion Nigel Benn. 

Beside brandishing utilizes, a few shows have been played at Old Trafford, with such enormous names as Bon Jovi, Genesis, Bruce Springsteen, Status Quo, Rod Stewart and Simply Red playing. A release of "Melodies of Praise" was recorded there in September 1994. Old Trafford is likewise consistently utilized for private capacities, especially weddings, Christmas gatherings and business meetings. The main wedding at the ground was held in the Premier Suite in February 1996. 

The most astounding participation recorded at Old Trafford was 76,962 for a FA Cup semi-last between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Grimsby Town on 25 March 1939. In any case, this was before the ground was changed over to an all-seater arena, enabling a lot more individuals to fit into the arena. Old Trafford's record participation as an all-seater arena presently remains at 76,098, set at a Premier League diversion between Manchester United and Blackburn Rovers on 31 March 2007. This is additionally the Premier League's record participation. Old Trafford's record participation for a non-aggressive diversion is 74,731, set on 5 August 2011 for a pre-season tribute between Manchester United and New York Cosmos. The most minimal recorded participation at an aggressive diversion at Old Trafford in the post-War time was 11,968, as United beat Fulham 3– 0 on 29 April 1950. In any case, on 7 May 1921, the ground facilitated a Second Division coordinate between Stockport County and Leicester City for which the official participation was only 13. This figure is somewhat deceptive as the ground likewise contained a significant number of the 10,000 spectators who had remained behind in the wake of watching the match between Manchester United and Derby County before that day. 

The most noteworthy normal participation at Old Trafford over an alliance season was 75,826, set in the 2006– 07 season. The best absolute participation at Old Trafford came two seasons later, as 2,197,429 people watched Manchester United win the Premier League for the third year straight, the League Cup, and achieve the last of the UEFA Champions League and the semi-finals of the FA Cup. The most minimal normal participation at Old Trafford came in the 1930– 31 season, when a normal of 11,685 spectators observed each diversion. 

Contiguous the Sir Bobby Charlton Stand of the arena is Manchester United Football Ground railroad station. The station is between the Deansgate and Trafford Park stations on the Southern Route of Northern Rail's Liverpool to Manchester line, and is just open on matchdays. The ground is additionally adjusted by both the Altrincham, Eccles and East Didsbury lines of the Manchester Metrolink arrange, with the closest quits being Exchange Quay at adjacent Salford Quays, and Old Trafford, which it imparts to the Old Trafford Cricket Ground. The two stops are a five-minute stroll from the football ground. The Wharfside cable car stop, at present under development on Trafford Wharf Road, which is inside nearness of the arena, will connect the proposed Trafford Park Line to the current station, on the Eccles– Piccadilly Line. 

Transports 255 and 256, which are controlled by Stagecoach Manchester and 263, which is controlled by Arriva North West keep running from Piccadilly Gardens in Manchester to Chester Road, halting close Sir Matt Busby Way, while Stagecoach's 250 administration stop outside Old Trafford on Wharfside Way and X50 administration prevents opposite Old Trafford on Water's Reach. There are likewise extra match transports on the 255 administration, which keep running between Old Trafford and Manchester downtown area. Different administrations that serve Old Trafford are Arriva's 79 administration (Stretford – Swinton), which stops on Chester Road and 245 (Altrincham – Exchange Quay), which stops on Trafford Wharf Road, in addition to First Greater Manchester administration 53 (Cheetham – Pendleton) and Stagecoach's 84 administration (Withington Hospital – Manchester), which stop at close-by Trafford Bar cable car stop. The ground likewise has a few vehicle leaves, all inside strolling separation of the arena; these are allowed to leave in on non-matchdays. 

List of sources 

Notes