Carolina Panthers 

The Carolina Panthers are an expert American football crew situated in Charlotte, North Carolina. The Panthers contend in the National Football League (NFL), as a part club of the class' National Football Conference (NFC) South division. The group is headquartered in Bank of America Stadium in uptown Charlotte; additionally the group's home field. They are one of only a handful few NFL groups to possess the arena they play in, which is lawfully enlisted as Panthers Stadium, LLC. The Panthers are upheld all through the Carolinas; in spite of the fact that the group has played its home diversions in Charlotte since 1996, it played home recreations at Memorial Stadium in Clemson, South Carolina amid its first season. The group has its yearly preparing camp at Wofford College in Spartanburg, South Carolina. The head mentor is Ron Rivera. 

The Panthers were declared as the association's 29th establishment in 1993, and started play in 1995 under unique proprietor and originator Jerry Richardson. The Panthers played well in their initial two years, completing in 1995 (an unsurpassed best for a NFL extension group's first season) and 12– 4 the next year, winning the NFC West before at last losing to the possible Super Bowl champion Green Bay Packers in the NFC Championship Game. They didn't have another triumphant season until 2003, when they won the NFC Championship Game and achieved Super Bowl XXXVIII, losing 32– 29 to the New England Patriots. Subsequent to recording playoff appearances in 2005 and 2008, the group neglected to record another playoff appearance until 2013, the first of three back to back NFC South titles. In the wake of losing in the divisional round to the San Francisco 49ers in 2013 and the Seattle Seahawks in 2014, the Panthers came back to the Super Bowl in 2015, yet lost to the Denver Broncos. The Panthers have achieved the playoffs multiple times, progressing to four NFC Championship Games and two Super Bowls. They have won six division titles, one in the NFC West and five in the NFC South. 

The Carolina Panthers are legitimately enrolled as Panther Football, LLC. also, are constrained by David Tepper, whose buy of the group from author Jerry Richardson was consistently affirmed by association proprietors on May 22, 2018. The club is worth around US$2.3 billion, as indicated by "Forbes". 

On December 15, 1987, business visionary Jerry Richardson reported his offer for a NFL extension establishment in the Carolinas. A North Carolina local, Richardson was a previous wide collector on the Baltimore Colts who had utilized his 1959 class title reward to help establish the Hardee's eatery network, later getting to be president and CEO of TW Services. Richardson attracted his motivation to seek after a NFL establishment from George Shinn, who had made a fruitful offered for an extension National Basketball Association (NBA) group in Charlotte, the Charlotte Hornets. Richardson established Richardson Sports, an organization comprising of himself, his family, and various agents from North and South Carolina were likewise enrolled to be restricted accomplices. Richardson took a gander at four potential areas for an arena, eventually picking uptown Charlotte. 

To feature the interest for expert football in the Carolinas, Richardson Sports held preseason amusements around the territory from 1989 to 1991. The initial two diversions were held at Carter– Finley Stadium in Raleigh, North Carolina, and Kenan Memorial Stadium in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, while the third and last amusement was held at Williams-Brice Stadium in Columbia, South Carolina. The matchups were between existing NFL groups. In 1991, the gathering formally documented an application for the open development spot, and on October 26, 1993, the 28 NFL proprietors collectively named the Carolina Panthers as the 29th individual from the NFL. 

The Panthers originally contended in the 1995 NFL season; they were one of two development groups to start play that year, the other being the Jacksonville Jaguars. The Panthers were placed in the NFC West to expand the measure of that division to five groups; there were at that point two other southeastern groups in the division, the Atlanta Falcons and the New Orleans Saints. Previous Pittsburgh Steelers guarded facilitator Dom Capers was named the primary head mentor. The group completed its debut season , the best execution ever from a first-year development group. They performed far superior in their second season, completing with a record and winning the NFC West division, just as verifying a first-round bye. The Panthers beat the shielding Super Bowl champions Dallas Cowboys in the divisional round before losing the NFC Championship Game to the possible Super Bowl champions, the Green Bay Packers. The group oversaw just a completion in 1997 and slipped to in 1998, prompting Capers' expulsion as head mentor. 

The Panthers enlisted previous San Francisco 49ers head mentor George Seifert to supplant Capers, and he drove the group to a record in 1999. The group completed in 2000 and tumbled to in 2001, winning their first amusement yet losing their last 15. This execution tied the NFL record for most misfortunes in a solitary season and it broke the record held by the winless 1976 Buccaneers for most continuous misfortunes in a solitary season (the two records have since been broken by the 2008 Lions), driving the Panthers to flame Seifert. 

After the NFL's development to 32 groups in 2002, the Panthers were migrated from the NFC West to the recently made NFC South division. The Panthers' competitions with the Falcons and Saints were kept up, and they would be joined by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. New York Giants cautious facilitator John Fox was procured to supplant Seifert and drove the group to a completion in 2002. In spite of the fact that the group's protection surrendered not very many yards, positioning the second-best in the NFL in yards yielded, they were ruined by an offense that positioned as the second-most noticeably bad in the association in yards picked up. The Panthers improved to in the 2003 customary season, winning the NFC South and making it to Super Bowl XXXVIII before losing to the New England Patriots, 32– 29, in what was promptly hailed by sportswriter Peter King as the "Best Super Bowl ever". Ruler felt the diversion "was a great title fight, brimming with everything that makes football sensational, depleting, enervating, rankling, awesome, energizing" and adulated, in addition to other things, the unconventionality, training, and end. The diversion is still seen as a standout amongst the best Super Bowls ever, and in the sentiment of Charlotte-based NPR columnist Scott Jagow, the Panthers' Super Bowl appearance spoke to the landing of Charlotte onto the national scene. 

Following a begin in 2004, the Panthers bounced back to win six of their last seven recreations in spite of losing 14 players for the season because of damage. They lost their last amusement to New Orleans, completing the 2004 season at . Had they won, the Panthers would have made the playoffs. The group improved to in 2005, completing second in the division behind Tampa Bay and securing a playoff billet as a special case. In the first round of the playoffs, the Panthers went making progress toward face the New York Giants, beating them 23– 0 for the NFL's first playoff shutout against a home group since 1980. The next week, they beat Chicago 29– 21 out and about, however lost key players Julius Peppers, a guarded end, and DeShaun Foster, a running back, who were both harmed amid the diversion. The Panthers were then crushed 34– 14 by the Seattle Seahawks in the NFC Championship Game, finishing their season. In spite of the fact that the Panthers went into the 2006 season as top picks to win the NFC South, they completed with a frustrating record. The group completed the 2007 season with a record in the wake of losing quarterback Jake Delhomme right off the bat in the season because of elbow damage. In 2008, the Panthers bounced back with a standard season record, winning the NFC South and verifying a first-round bye. They were wiped out in the divisional round of the playoffs, losing 33– 13 to the possible NFC Champion Arizona Cardinals after Delhomme turned the ball more than multiple times. Delhomme's battles continued into the 2009 season, where he tossed 18 capture attempts in the initial 11 diversions before breaking a finger in his tossing hand. The Panthers were at a record before Delhomme's season-finishing damage, and his reinforcement, Matt Moore, drove the group to a completion to the season for a general record. 

In 2010, in the wake of discharging Delhomme in the offseason, the Panthers completed with an association most exceedingly terrible () record; their offense was the most exceedingly awful in the class. John Fox's agreement lapsed after the season finished, and the group did not hold him or his staff. 

The group enlisted Ron Rivera to supplant Fox as head mentor and drafted Auburn's Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback Cam Newton with the principal by and large pick in the 2011 NFL Draft. The Panthers opened the 2011 season , yet completed with a record, and Newton was granted the AP Offensive Rookie of the Year grant in the wake of setting the NFL record for most hurrying touchdowns from a quarterback (14) in a solitary season and turning into the primary youngster NFL quarterback to toss for over 4,000 yards in a solitary season. He additionally was the main new kid on the block quarterback to scramble for over 500 yards in a solitary season. In 2012, the Panthers again opened the season inadequately, losing five out of their initial six recreations, driving long-lasting general director Marty Hurney to be terminated accordingly. The group slid to a record before winning five of their last six diversions, bringing about a record. This solid completion helped spare Rivera's activity. The Panthers had a triumphant season the next year, completing with a record and winning their third NFC South title and another playoff bye, however they were beaten by the 49ers in the Divisional Round. In 2014, the Panthers opened the season with two successes, yet after 12 diversions sat at due to some degree to a seven-amusement winless streak. A four-amusement series of wins to end the season verified the group their second back to back NFC South title and playoff compartment, regardless of a losing record of . The Panthers vanquished the Arizona Cardinals, 27– 16, in the special case round to progress to the divisional playoffs, where they lost to inevitable NFC champion Seattle, 31– 17. The 2015 season saw the Panthers begin the season and completion the season , which tied for the best ordinary season record in NFC history. The Panthers additionally verified their third back to back NFC South title, just as their first by and large top-seeded playoff billet. In the 2015– 16 playoffs, the Panthers vanquished the Seattle Seahawks in the NFC Divisional playoffs, 31– 24, subsequent to closing them out in the primary half, 31– 0, and the Arizona Cardinals, 49– 15, in the NFC Championship Game to progress to Super Bowl 50, their first Super Bowl appearance since the 2003 season. The Panthers lost a guarded battle to the AFC champion Denver Broncos, 24– 10. 

In the 2016 season, the Panthers relapsed on their 15– 1 record from 2015, posting a 6– 10 record and a last-place complete in the NFC South, missing the playoffs out of the blue since 2012, and losing the division title to the second-seeded Falcons, who proceeded to speak to the NFC in Super Bowl LI. 

In the 2017 season, the Panthers completed with a 11– 5 record and a #5 seed and lost to the New Orleans Saints 31– 26 in the Wild Card Round, their first misfortune in that round in establishment history. 

On May 16, 2018, David Tepper, in the past a minority proprietor of the Pittsburgh Steelers, concluded a consent to buy the Panthers. The deal cost was almost $2.3 billion, a record. The understanding was endorsed by the group proprietors on May 22, 2018. The deal authoritatively shut on July 9, 2018. Subsequent to beginning 6-2, the Panthers completed the 2018 season 7-9. 

The state of the Panthers logo was intended to imitate the blueprint of both North Carolina and South Carolina. The Panthers changed their logo and logotype in 2012, the principal such change in group history. As indicated by the group, the progressions were intended to give their logo a "forceful, contemporary look" too to give it an increasingly three-dimensional feel. The essential changes were made in the eye and mouth, where the highlights, especially the solid forehead and teeth, are increasingly articulated, making an all the more threatening look. The reconsidered logo has a darker shade of blue over the dark logo, contrasted with the old plan, which had blue-green over dark. 

When they had been reported as the 29th NFL group in October 1993, the Panthers' logo and head protector configuration had just been concluded, however the uniform plan was still under creation. After exchange, the Panthers association chose shirts hued white, dark, and blue, and jeans shaded white and silver. The careful tone of blue, which they chose would be "process blue" (a shade lighter than Duke's and darker than North Carolina's), was the most troublesome shading to pick. 

The group's uniform has remained to a great extent the equivalent since its creation, with just minor adjustments, for example, changing the sock shade of the group's dark outfits from blue to dark and changing the group's shoes from white to dark. Richardson, a self-depicted conventionalist, said that no real uniform changes would be made in his lifetime. 

The Panthers have three fundamental pullover hues: dark, white, and blue. Their blue pullovers, assigned their substitute garbs, are the freshest and were presented in 2002. NFL guidelines enable the group to go through the blue shirt to multiple times in some random season. In every single other diversion, the group must wear either their white or dark shirts; in NFL amusements, the home group chooses whether to wear a dull or white pullover, while the away group wears the inverse. Generally the Panthers settle on white or blue when the climate is required to be sweltering and for dark when the climate is relied upon to be cold. 

The Panthers commonly pair their white shirts with white jeans, while the beat up pullovers are matched with silver jeans; there have just been a couple of special cases to these blends. 

The primary such example was in 1998, when the group combined their white pullovers with silver jeans in an amusement against the Indianapolis Colts. The second case was in 2012 amid an amusement against the Denver Broncos, when they combined their dark shirts with new dark jeans; this made an all-dark uniform, except for blue socks and silver caps. The choice to wear blue socks was made by group chief Steve Smith, who felt the blue socks gave the regalia an increasingly unmistakable appearance contrasted and different groups that have every single dark uniform. The every single dark uniform won the "Best Uniform in NFL History" challenge, a fan-casted a ballot challenge kept running by NFL.com in July 2013. In July 2013, the group's hardware chief, Jackie Miles, said the Panthers planned to utilize the all-dark uniform more later on. The Panthers wore the all-dark uniform multiple times the accompanying season, when each in the preseason and ordinary season, and the third time amid the home divisional round playoff diversion versus the 49ers. Amid the Panthers' 2015 Thanksgiving Day diversion against the Dallas Cowboys, they appeared an all-blue uniform as a major aspect of Nike's "Shading Rush" arrangement. 

In the 2018 show season, the Panthers wore the dark jeans with the blue shirts for a home diversion versus the New England Patriots, at that point combined the dark jeans with the white shirts in an away amusement versus the Pittsburgh Steelers. Amid the 2018 season, the group did not wear silver jeans. Rather they wore every single dark uniform and blue shirts with white jeans. 

The group's uniform did not change fundamentally after Nike turned into the NFL's pullover provider in 2012, however the neckline was modified to respect previous Panthers player and mentor Sam Mills by highlighting the expression "Continue Pounding". Nike had imagined the thought, and the group bolstered the idea as an approach to open more up to date fans to the inheritance of Mills, who kicked the bucket of malignancy in 2005. Factories had presented the expression, which has since turned into a group motto, in a discourse that he provided for the players and mentors preceding their 2003 playoff amusement against Dallas; in the discourse, Mills contrasted his battle against malignant growth and the group's on-field fight, saying "When I discovered I had disease, there were two things I could do – quit or continue beating. I'm a warrior. I continued beating. You're warriors, as well. Continue beating!" 

The Panthers played their first season at Memorial Stadium in Clemson, South Carolina, as their office in uptown Charlotte was still under development. Ericsson Stadium, called Bank of America Stadium since 2004, opened in the mid year of 1996. 

Bank of America Stadium is possessed completely by the Panthers, making them one of only a handful couple of groups in the NFL to claim the office they play in. The arena was uniquely planned by HOK Sports Facilities Group for football and furthermore fills in as the central command and authoritative workplaces of the Panthers. On some days the arena offers open visits for a charge. Private visits for gatherings are offered for a charge seven days seven days, however there are a few special cases, and such visits must be orchestrated ahead of time. 

Two bronze jaguar statues flank every one of the arena's three primary doors; they are the biggest models at any point authorized in the United States. The names of the group's unique PSL proprietors are engraved on the base of every statue. The two individuals in the Panthers Hall of Honor, group official Mike McCormack and linebacker Sam Mills, are regarded with life-sized bronze statues outside the arena. Plants, notwithstanding being the main player in the Hall of Honor, is the main player to have had his shirt number (#51) resigned by the Panthers . 

The Panthers have three outdoors fields beside Bank of America Stadium where they as of now hold their works on; amid the 1995 season, when the group played their home amusements in South Carolina, the group held their practices at Winthrop University in Rock Hill, South Carolina. Since the training fields, alongside the arena, are situated in uptown Charlotte, the fields are legitimately noticeable from high rises just as from a four-story townhouse situated over the road. As indicated by Mike Cranston, a running joke said that the Panthers' division rivals had pooled their assets to buy a room on the structure's top floor, and that a flame at the townhouse was brought about by the Panthers association. So as to keep individuals from seeing inside the field while the group is rehearsing, the group has included "deliberately planted trees and a covering over the ... fence encompassing the fields". Also, they utilize a security group to look for and pursue away any individuals who stop close by the fence encompassing the field. In case of awful climate, the group moves their practices to an indoor games office around 10 miles from the arena. The group does not possess this office. The Panthers have facilitated their yearly preparing camp at Wofford College in Spartanburg, South Carolina, since 1995. 

The Panthers are bolstered in both North Carolina and South Carolina; South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley proclaimed July 30, 2012, "Carolina Panthers Day" in her state, saying that "with regards to proficient groups, the Carolina Panthers are the group that South Carolina calls their own". Amid the 2016 NFC Championship and Super Bowl, the hashtag #OneCarolina was utilized by school and pro athletics groups from North Carolina and South Carolina to indicate brought together help for the Panthers. 

Pat Yasinskas of ESPN.com saw that while there is "somewhat of a wine-and-cheddar air at Panthers games ... there is a solid center of resolute fans who convey vitality to Bank of America Stadium. Charlotte lives and bites the dust with the Panthers in light of the fact that there aren't a great deal of different choices in the games world". "Sports Illustrated" evaluated the Panthers as having the tenth most astounding "NFL Fan Value Experience" in 2007, ascribing a significant part of the fan environment to the group's freshness when contrasted with the built up ball fanbase. They additionally seen that the arena has dissipated parking areas, every one of which has an alternate closely following style. Some have fricasseed chicken, pork, or Carolina-style grill, while others have live groups and TVs. Pickup football match-ups in the parking garages are normal, yet fans tend to "stay under control", to some extent because of blue laws that keep the clearance of liquor before early afternoon on Sundays. 

The Carolina Panthers have sold out every home diversion since December 2002, and their home participation has positioned in the NFL's best ten since 2006. 

Sir Purr, a human dark feline who wears a shirt numbered '00', has been the Panthers' mascot since their first season. Amid diversions, Sir Purr gives sideline excitement through plays and "senseless tricks". The mascot takes an interest in various network occasions all year, including a month to month visit to the patients at Levine Children's Hospital. Sir Purr likewise has the yearly Mascot Bowl, an occasion which pits expert and school mascots against one another amid halftime at a chose Panthers home diversion. 

The group's team promoters are the Carolina Topcats, a gathering of 24 ladies who lead cheers and engage fans at home recreations. The TopCats take part in both corporate and philanthropy occasions. The group's drumline is PurrCussion, an outfit of catch, tenor, and bass drummers just as cymbal players. PurrCussion performs for fans outside the arena and acquaints players earlier with home recreations; it comprises of drummers from over the Carolinas. 

Beginning with the 2012 season, the Panthers presented the Keep Pounding Drum, propelled by the previously mentioned inspirational discourse by Sam Mills before the group's 2004 playoff amusement against the Cowboys. Preceding each home amusement, a privileged drummer hits the six-foot tall drum multiple times to connote the four fourth of an American football match-up. As indicated by the group, the drummers "originate from an assortment of foundations and occupations, however all have conquered an extraordinary preliminary or difficulty that has made them solid as well as pushes them to make others around them more grounded". Drummers have included present and previous Panthers players, military veterans, Make-A-Wish youngsters, and competitors from different games, including NBA MVP and Charlotte local Stephen Curry, US ladies' national soccer crew players Whitney Engen and Heather O'Reilly, and 7 time NASCAR Cup Series champion Jimmie Johnson. 

Amid the debut period of the Panthers, the group had an official battle tune, which the group played before each home diversion. The tune, "Stand and Cheer", remains the group's authentic battle tune, however the group does not normally play it before home amusements. Because of negative fan response "Stand and Cheer" was pulled in 1999. Since 2006, the melody has returned. The group plays Neil Diamond's "Sweet Caroline" after home triumphs. 

A "continue beating" serenade was presented amid the 2015 season which begins before the opening kickoff of each home diversion. As incited by the video sheets, one side of the arena yells "keep" and the opposite side answers with "beating". The serenade is like ones that occur at school football match-ups. 

The Carolina Panthers bolster an assortment of non-benefits in North and South Carolina through the Carolina Panthers Charities. Four yearly grants are granted to understudy competitors through the Carolina Panthers Graduate Scholarship and the Carolina Panthers Players Sam Mills Memorial Scholarship programs. Carolina Panthers Charities additionally offers stipends to non-benefits that help training, games, and human administrations in the network. The Panthers and Fisher Athletic has given six gear awards to secondary school football crews in the Carolinas every year since 2010. Carolina Panthers Charities raises assets at three yearly advantages: the Countdown to Kickoff Luncheon, the group's first open occasion each season; Football 101, an instructive workshop for fans; and the Weekend Warrior Flag Football Tournament, a two-day non-contact banner football competition. Another yearly advantage is Taste of the Panthers, a gourmet sustenance tasting which raises assets for Second Harvest Food Bank of Metrolina. 

In 2003 the Panthers and Carolinas HealthCare Foundation built up the Keep Pounding Fund, a raising support activity to help disease research and patient help programs. The Panthers people group has raised more than $1.4 million for the reserve through direct gifts, philanthropy barters, blood drives, and a yearly 5k arena run. The Panthers and Levine Children's Hospital facilitate month to month medical clinic visits and VIP diversion day encounters for in critical condition or hospitalized kids. 

Notwithstanding these group explicit endeavors, the Panthers take an interest in various customary activities advanced by the NFL and USA Football, the class' childhood football improvement accomplice. These incorporate USA Football Month, held all through August to energize and advance youth football; A Crucial Catch, the group's Breast Cancer Awareness Month program; Salute to Service, held all through November to help military families and staff; and PLAY 60, which urges youthful NFL fans to be dynamic for somewhere around an hour every day. 

Radio inclusion is given by leader station WBT (1110 AM) and through the Carolina Panthers Radio Network, with subsidiaries all through the Carolinas, Georgia, and Virginia. The Panthers' radio telecom group is driven by play-by-play voice Mick Mixon, with Eugene Robinson as shading investigator, and WBT sports executive Jim Szoke as studio have. The radio system communicates pre-amusement inclusion, diversions with discourse, and post-diversion wrap-ups. It likewise live-communicates "Jaguar Talk", a week after week occasion at Bank of America Stadium which offers fans an opportunity to meet a player and make inquiries of the staff. 

National telecom and satellite broadcasting companies spread ordinary season recreations, just as some preseason diversions. Locally, Fox possessed and worked station WJZY affectation most normal season recreations, while any home diversions against an AFC group air on CBS member WBTV. Any appearances on Monday Night Football are simulcast on ABC offshoot WSOC-TV, while any late-season appearances on Thursday Night Football are simulcast on WBTV. Sunday night and some Thursday night diversions are publicized on NBC associate WCNC-TV. 

All preseason diversions and group specials are broadcast by the Carolina Panthers Television Network on lead station WCCB in Charlotte and fourteen offshoot stations all through the Carolinas, Georgia, Virginia, and Tennessee. The TV broadcasting group comprises of play-by-play observer Mike Morgan, shading examiner and previous Panthers player Mike Rucker, and sideline journalist Pete Yanity. The system additionally has "The Panthers Huddle", a week by week show concentrating on the Panthers' up and coming rival. "Pumas Gameday", the Panthers' postgame appear, is facilitated by games grapple Russ Owens and previous Panthers lineman Kevin Donnalley on WCNC-TV. 

The Panthers likewise offer diversion communicates in Spanish on an eight-station organize fronted by WGSP-FM in Pageland, South Carolina, just as extra radio offshoots in Mexico. Jaime Moreno gives the play-by-play while his nephew, Luis Moreno Jr., is the shading observer. They have turned out to be well known even among English-speaking Panther fans for their high-vitality, bright reporting style. 

The Panthers have created warmed contentions with the three individual individuals from the NFC South (the Atlanta Falcons, Tampa Bay Buccaneers, and New Orleans Saints). The group's fiercest adversaries are the Falcons and Buccaneers. 

The Falcons are a characteristic geographic adversary for the Panthers, as Atlanta is just 230 miles (370 kilometers) south on I-85. The two groups have played each other two times every year since the Panthers' beginning, and amusements between the two groups include extensive contingents of Panthers fans at Atlanta's Mercedes-Benz Stadium and huge contingents of Falcons fans at Bank of America Stadium. 

The Panthers' competition with Tampa Bay has been depicted as the most extraordinary in the NFC South. The competition started in 2002 with the arrangement of the NFC South, yet turned out to be especially warmed before the 2003 season with verbal sessions between players on the two groups. It raised further when the Panthers went to Tampa Bay and beat them in what ESPN.com essayist Pat Yasinskas portrayed as "a standout amongst the most physical challenges in late memory". The contention has brought about various extreme wounds for players on the two groups, some of which were brought about by injustice. One of these plays, an illicit hit on Tampa Bay punt returner Clifton Smith, started a short scuffle between the groups in 2009. 

Amid their time in the NFC West, the Panthers started building up a contention with the San Francisco 49ers. This contention blurred after the NFL moved the Panthers out of the NFC West. 

A moderately new contention, this one dates to the 2005 NFC Championship Game, in which the Seahawks won 31– 14. The competition began up again in 2012, when the Panthers lost a nearby customary season home diversion to a Seattle Seahawks group driven by tenderfoot quarterback Russell Wilson, 16– 12. In the 2013 season, the Panthers opened the season at home versus Seattle. They again lost a nearby amusement, with the last score 12– 7. The Seahawks would proceed to win Super Bowl XLVIII. In the 2014 season, afresh at Bank of America Stadium, the Seahawks vanquished the Panthers in week eight, 13– 9. In the divisional round of the playoffs, the Panthers confronted Seattle in Seattle, infamous for being an extreme contradicting field to play in, and lost 31– 17. The Seahawks would proceed to lose Super Bowl XLIX. In the 2015 season the following year, the groups went head to head in Seattle, where the Panthers won another nearby diversion, 27– 23. In the divisional round of the playoffs, the Panthers confronted Seattle at Bank of America arena, where they presently couldn't seem to beat a Russell Wilson-drove Seahawks group. By halftime they drove 31– 0, however the Seahawks bounced back and scored 24 unanswered focuses before the Panthers had the capacity to seal the triumph, 31– 24. The Panthers would proceed to lose Super Bowl 50. In the 2016 season, the groups met in Seattle, where the Panthers were beaten, 40– 7. The groups did not confront each other amid the 2017 season. In the 2018 season, the Panthers were crushed by the Seahawks at home by a score of 30– 27. Since the 2012 season, Carolina is in general against Seattle and in the playoffs. The competition viewpoint originates from how close most of the matches have been and the way that they have played each other multiple times somewhere in the range of 2012 and 2018—in any event once every year. 

The Carolina Panthers Hall of Honor was built up in 1997 to respect people for their commitments to the Carolina Panthers association. Every inductee is respected with a real existence estimated bronze statue outside of Bank of America Stadium's North Entrance, while the names of every unique PSL proprietor are composed on the dark stone base at every one of the six jaguar statues. A standard included the mid-2000s by the Panthers association requires every single potential inductee to be resigned for something like five years before they are qualified for enlistment. 

Candidates for the Pro Football Hall of Fame, which "honor[s] people who have made extraordinary commitments to proficient football", are controlled by a 46-part determination board. At any rate 80% of voters must affirm the chosen one for him to be drafted. 

Jerry Richardson was the organizer and unique proprietor of the Carolina Panthers. Richardson and his family possessed about 48% of the group, with the staying 52% claimed by a gathering of 14 restricted accomplices. Richardson and different financial specialists paid $206 million for the rights to begin the group in 1993. 

Mike McCormack, a Hall of Fame lineman for the Cleveland Browns and previous mentor and official for the Seattle Seahawks, was the Panthers' first group president, managing in that job from 1994 until his retirement in 1997; McCormack was enlisted as the primary individual in the Carolina Panthers Hall of Honor soon thereafter. Jerry Richardson's child, Mark, was selected as the group's second president in 1997 and served in that job until he ventured down in 2009. His sibling Jon, who had been leader of Bank of America Stadium, ventured down in the meantime. The renunciations of Mark and Jon Richardson were startling, as it was imagined that the two would in the end assume control over the group from their dad. Imprint Richardson was supplanted by Danny Morrison, who had recently filled in as the athletic chief of both Texas Christian University and Wofford College, Richardson's place of graduation. 

On May 16, 2018, David Tepper, once in the past a minority proprietor of the Pittsburgh Steelers, concluded a consent to buy the Carolina Panthers, for almost $2.3 billion, a record at the time. The understanding was affirmed by the class proprietors on May 22, 2018. As per "Forbes", the Panthers are worth roughly $2.3 billion . They positioned the Carolina Panthers as the 21st-most important NFL group and the 36th-most significant games group on the planet. 

The Carolina Panthers have had four head mentors. Dom Capers was the head mentor from 1995 to 1998 and drove the group to one playoff appearance. Tallying playoff diversions, he completed with a record of 31– 35 (.470). George Seifert trained the group from 1999 to 2001, recording 16 wins and 32 misfortunes (.333); he is the main head mentor in group history not to have driven the group to a playoff appearance. John Fox, the group's longest-tenured head mentor, drove the group from 2002 to 2010 and instructed the group to three playoff appearances including Super Bowl XXXVIII which the Panthers lost. Counting playoff amusements, Fox finished his residency with a 78– 74 (.513) record, making him the main Panthers mentor to complete his residency with the group with a triumphant record. Ron Rivera, the group's momentum head mentor, has held the situation since 2011 and has driven the group to three playoff appearances including Super Bowl 50 which the Panthers additionally lost. Checking playoff diversions, he has a lifelong record of 67– 51– 1 (.567). Factually, Rivera has the most elevated winning level of any Panthers head mentor. 

Since they started playing football in 1995, the Panthers have been to four NFC Championship Games; they lost two (1996 and 2005) and won two (2003 and 2015). The Panthers have won six division titles: the NFC West title in 1996 and the NFC South title in 2003, 2008, 2013, 2014, and 2015. They are the sole group to win the NFC South consecutive and have won the NFC South a larger number of times than some other group in the division. They have completed as sprinters up in their division multiple times, completing second-place in the NFC West in 1997 and 1999 and completing second-place in the NFC South in 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2012. They have met all requirements for the playoffs multiple times, most as of late in 2017. 

Kicker John Kasay is the group's vocation focuses pioneer. Kasay scored 1,482 amid his 16 seasons (1995– 2010) with the Panthers. Quarterback Cam Newton, who has played for the Panthers since 2011, is the vocation passing pioneer, having tossed for 20,257 yards over his six seasons with the group. Running back Jonathan Stewart is the profession hurrying pioneer for the Carolina Panthers. Stewart, amid his residency with the group (2008– 2018), scrambled for 6,868 yards with the Panthers. Wide beneficiary Steve Smith, the group's driving recipient, recorded 12,197 accepting yards amid his 13-year (2001– 2013) residency with the group. 

Notes 

References