December to Dismember (2006) 

December to Dismember (2006) was an expert wrestling pay-per-see (PPV) occasion created by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), which occurred on December 3, 2006, at the James Brown Arena in Augusta, Georgia. Proficient wrestling is a sort of games amusement in which showy occasions are joined with an aggressive game. The development to the matches and the situations that occurred previously, amid, and after the occasion, were arranged by WWE's content essayists. The occasion featured wrestlers from the ECW brand: storyline developments of the advancement where representatives are relegated to wrestling brands under the WWE standard. Notwithstanding it being an ECW brand pay-per-see, wrestlers from the Raw and SmackDown! marks likewise chipped away at the compensation per-see. Its name was gotten from the December to Dismember occasion held by the first Extreme Championship Wrestling in 1995. 

The primary fascination on the occasion card was an Extreme Elimination Chamber coordinate for the ECW World Championship. It highlighted wrestlers battling in a ring encompassed by a steel structure of chain and braces. The six members were safeguarding champion Big Show, Bobby Lashley, Rob Van Dam, Hardcore Holly, CM Punk and Test. Lashley won the match and the ECW World Championship in the wake of sticking Big Show following a lance. The included session on the undercard was a label group session between The Hardys (genuine siblings Matt and Jeff) and MNM (Joey Mercury and Johnny Nitro), in which The Hardys were triumphant. 

The occasion had a participation of 4,800 and got about 90,000 pay-per-see purchases, with 55,000 of them household purchases—the most minimal buyrate in WWE history until the presentation of the WWE Network in 2014. In spite of the fact that it was booked to be held again in 2007, the show was dropped after all compensation per-see occasions moved toward becoming tri-marked, which implied that there would be pay-per-see occasions with the whole program on two back to back weeks. 

Outside of the week after week "ECW on Sci Fi" communicate, one of WWE's essential TV programs, the compensation per-see got little development on both "Crude" and "SmackDown!" network shows, as WWE focused more on promoting the Survivor Series pay-per-see that publicized multi week before December to Dismember. Right now, the principle storyline on the Raw brand included label groups, D-Generation X and Rated-RKO, and the SmackDown! brand's fundamental storyline included Batista and World Heavyweight Champion King Booker. The development for December to Dismember started amidst October. (a month and a half before the occasion happened) This was the main ECW brand restrictive pay-per-see WWE delivered before the choice was made to have each of the three brands highlighted on future pay-per-sees . 

The headliner at December to Dismember highlighted an Extreme Elimination Chamber coordinate for the ECW Championship. On the October 24, 2006 scene of "ECW", Rob Van Dam vanquished the ECW World Champion, Big Show for the second back to back time. Per the stipulation, if Van Dam were to overcome the Big Show once more, in a stepping stool coordinate, he could then pick an opportunity to confront the Big Show for the ECW Championship. Van Dam had his title shot at the December to Dismember pay-per-see. Specialist figure, Paul Heyman, approved Van Dam's choice and added him to the Extreme Elimination Chamber challenge for the ECW Championship alongside Big Show and four other ECW geniuses. The staying four members for the Extreme Elimination Chamber coordinate were chosen through standard singles matches. The main individual to fit the bill for the match was Sabu, who crushed Kevin Thorn on the October 31, 2006 scene of "ECW". The next week, CM Punk and Test qualified by crushing Mike Knox and Tommy Dreamer, separately. The last spot was to be given to Hardcore Holly in an agreement marking fragment on the November 14, 2006 scene of "ECW". As Holly was advancing toward the ring, Bobby Lashley, a wrestler from the SmackDown! brand, assaulted Holly and marked his agreement himself to pick up the 6th and last spot in the Extreme Elimination Chamber. In spite of the fact that the six spots in the session were filled, Heyman declared an Extreme Rules coordinate, between Van Dam and Holly, on the November 21, 2006 scene of "ECW". If Holly somehow happened to overcome Van Dam he would have his spot in the Extreme Elimination Chamber; Van Dam in any case, won the match and established his place in the Extreme Elimination Chamber. Van Dam kept picking up energy going into December to Dismember pay-per-see, as he, alongside colleagues Sabu, Lashley, John Cena and Kane crushed the group of Big Show, Test, Umaga, Finlay and Montel Vontavious Porter in a 5-on-5, end label group coordinate, at the Survivor Series pay-per-see. On the last scene of "ECW", before December to Dismember, Van Dam vanquished Sabu. Later in the show, CM Punk confronted Test, yet the two men were included out in their session. In the headliner, Big Show was precluded in his match against Lashley as Test and Heyman's Security Force (Doug and Danny Basham) struck Lashley. 

The other primary competition heading into December to Dismember was between the Hardy Boyz and MNM (Joey Mercury, Johnny Nitro and Melina). Not at all like the Extreme Elimination Chamber competition, this one did exclude ECW hotshots and just included individuals from the Raw and SmackDown! brands, making the compensation per-see non-selective to ECW, spreading over each of the three WWE brands. The development to the match between them started when Nitro and Jeff Hardy began to quarrel once again the Intercontinental Championship on "Crude". The two contended in a few unique sorts of matches, including a stepping stool coordinate. The Hardy Boyz had quite recently collaborated out of the blue since 2002, when they vanquished Tony Mamaluke and Little Guido Maritato on a scene of "ECW". At Survivor Series, The Hardy Boyz, alongside D-Generation X and CM Punk crushed the group of Nitro, Rated-RKO (Edge and Randy Orton), Mike Knox and Gregory Helms in a conventional Survivor Series group end coordinate. The following day at the December to Dismember public interview, The Hardy Boyz reported an open test for the compensation per-see. Soon thereafter on "Crude", Nitro acknowledged the test, declaring the arrival of Mercury and the "one night just" reorganization of MNM. On the accompanying scene of "ECW", MNM assaulted The Hardy Boyz after they crushed Elijah Burke and Sylvester Terkay. Then, Voodoo Kin Mafia, a label group from the Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) advancement, issued an announcement by means of the TNA site expressing that they had acknowledged The Hardy Boyz open test for December to Dismember. Be that as it may, Voodoo Kin Mafia did not turn up at the occasion, and WWE never recognized their test. Just two matches were authoritatively reported for the compensation per-see before it disclosed. 

Before the occasion went live on pay-per-see, Stevie Richards vanquished René Duprée in a dull match, a non-broadcast coordinate used to create energy in the group. 

The main match that broadcast was the label group experience among MNM and The Hardy Boyz. After a forward and backward match, which endured over 20 minutes, MNM played out a hotcake DDT on Jeff. Amid a pinfall endeavor, Matt Hardy made the spare and played out a twofold neckbreaker on the two individuals from MNM. Jeff then Swanton bombarded Nitro and made the triumphant stick. 

Next was Matt Striker versus Balls Mahoney in a "Striker's Rules" coordinate, a match with "no gouging of the eyes, no pulling of the hair, no moves off the top rope and, above all, no foul language". Mahoney won the match after he played out a spinebuster and stuck Striker for the triumph. 

After the match between Balls Mahoney and Matt Striker, Sabu was portrayed as being harmed behind the stage and unfit to contend in the Extreme Elimination Chamber coordinate. In all actuality, in any case, it was reputed that Sabu had ill will encompassing him behind the stage and was said to be uninterested at TV recordings. Gossipy tidbits developed expressing that WWE saw Sabu as being "futile" in ordinary matches and that he could just perform in matches that included "tricks and tables and they [WWE] don't regard him thus". This was allegedly part of the reason he had been scripted to be effectively vanquished by Umaga on a scene of "Crude" half a month sooner. WWE director Vince McMahon needed to place Holly in Sabu's place, so Lashley would have more lowlifess to survive. Heyman was authentically discontent with the choice, saying that Sabu's high-flying wrestling would be "the perfect grandstand" inside the Extreme Elimination Chamber. The fans inside the James Brown Arena recited "horse crap" amid the fragment. 

In the second tag-group match of the night, Elijah Burke and Sylvester Terkay vanquished F.B.I. individuals Little Guido Maritato and Tony Mamaluke. Burke stuck Mamaluke in the wake of playing out a Forward Russian legsweep on him and picking up the pinfall. After the match, Terkay played out a Muscle Buster on Maritato. Amid this match, the fans inside the James Brown Arena recited "TNA, TNA" (a reference to WWE's opponent expert wrestling advancement, just as two of their entertainers using moves utilized by TNA wrestlers, Jeff Jarrett and Samoa Joe, individually). 

A standard match among Daivari and Tommy Dreamer pursued with The Great Khali going with Daivari to the ring however was shot out from ringside at an early stage for meddling. After Daivari won the match utilizing a move up, Khali returned out to the ring and gave Dreamer a chokebomb. EMTs turned out to enable Dreamer to get up, however he wound up getting up individually and headed behind the stage. 

The following match of the night was an intergender label group coordinate, with Kevin Thorn and Ariel against Mike Knox and Kelly. Before the match started, Kelly was demonstrated wishing CM Punk, her on-screen squash, karma for the headliner. The finish of the match came when Knox surrendered Kelly in the ring and Ariel played out a legsweep, a variety of a takedown, on Kelly before covering her for the success. Following the match, Ariel and Thorn endeavored to assault Kelly, before The Sandman hindered and hit Thorn more than once with a kendo stick. 

The headliner was the Extreme Elimination Chamber for the ECW World Championship. After a fragment prior in the occasion demonstrated a harmed Sabu was unfit to contend in the match, it was chosen that Hardcore Holly would take his spot in the ECW Championship coordinate. Before the match started, Paul Heyman declared the principles of the match and clarified that every genius had a weapon with them in every one of their cases. Prior to entering the ring, Heyman had a discussion behind the stage with Big Show, that was inconspicuous by audience members, with him uncovering that without precedent for his expert profession he was not persuaded to give the promotion. Burglarize Van Dam and Hardcore Holly were the principal whizzes to start the match and one of the other four contenders were then discharged from their case at regular intervals a short time later. The primary individual to be discharged from his case was CM Punk, who entered the match with a steel seat close by. Test at that point pursued, five minutes after him, with a crowbar. Punk was the first killed from the match, after Van Dam played out a Five Star Frog Splash from the top turnbuckle and secured him for the 3-tally. Minutes after the fact, Test charged and conveyed a major boot to Holly, disposing of him. Van Dam was the third individual dispensed with, after Test conveyed a jumping elbow drop from the highest point of a unit and stuck him. When it was Bobby Lashley's turn, his unit wouldn't open, he couldn't leave it in light of the fact that Heyman's Security Force had secured the entryway. Lashley then utilized the table that was with him to crush through the case, enabling him to get away. He at that point conveyed a lance to Test to kill him. Huge Show, was the last man to leave his case and had a slugging stick enveloped by security fencing close behind. Lashley had the capacity to square Big Show's swing of the spiked metal bat with a lawn seat and afterward tossed him into the unit, making him drain. Lashley figured out how to turn around a chokeslam into a DDT and afterward conveyed a lance to win the match and become the new ECW Champion. 

Not long after December to Dismember, Big Show was offered a long haul contract expansion by WWE, answered to associate with $1 million per year. He declined the offer, notwithstanding, thinking he was wore out and harming physically. On the primary scene of "ECW" to air after December to Dismember, Show and Lashley would contend in a rematch for the ECW Championship. The Big Show lost, hence finishing their storyline fight, and he declared his retirement from wrestling, in spite of the fact that he made his arrival in 2008 at No Way Out. 

After the storyline fight with Big Show finished, Lashley entered a short program with Rob Van Dam, which prompted Van Dam procuring a title coordinate on the January 2, 2007 scene of "ECW". The match between the two finished in a No Contest after Test meddled amid the session. Test's obstruction prompted a storyline with the victor, prompting a title coordinate at the Royal Rumble, which Lashley won. 

Under 24 hours after the compensation per-see, WWE declared on their official site that Vince McMahon had sent Heyman home, refering to "drooping TV appraisals and a displeased ability program as foundations for Mr. Heyman's rejection". Heyman and McMahon conflicted on the plane toward the North Charleston Coliseum and after a makers' gathering, Heyman was escorted from the Coliseum and sent home. He was additionally promptly pulled from ECW's imaginative group after the quarrel. McMahon was endeavoring to put the fault on Heyman for the ineffectively gotten pay-per-see, and after a gathering with Vince and Stephanie McMahon, Heyman honestly left World Wrestling Entertainment yet stayed under contract. Heyman was against the choice of Lashley being reserved to win the ECW Championship, and rather needed to have CM Punk win it, a choice McMahon disdained. This circumstance was refered to by Punk in his disputable shoot promotion in 2011, in which he alluded to the thought as one in which "Heyman saw something in Punk that no one else needed to concede." In a mid 2008 meeting with "The Sun", Heyman gave more subtleties on how he would have booked the Extreme Elimination Chamber headliner, which included having Punk enter first and rapidly taking out Big Show by means of accommodation. As indicated by the meeting, McMahon nixed the thought, however Big Show preferred the bearing Heyman was going, and was anxious for the chance to "make" a rising star like Punk. He additionally expressed that he propped up to McMahon the evening of the compensation per-view to state that "The general population are going to toss this back in our face". Annoyed with how the occasion turned out, Tommy Dreamer and Stevie Richards both asked after the occasion to be discharged from their agreements. The two solicitations were rejected by McMahon and WWE's Vice President of Talent Relations John Laurinaitis. 

Faultfinders had a negative response to the compensation per-see, with the main match that got commendation being the Hardy Boyz versus MNM label group coordinate. Hammer! Sports appraised the compensation per-see 4 out of 10 stars, expressing, "the two matches that were advanced spared this thing from being a disaster". In the 2006 Wrestling Observer Newsletter grants, the occasion was casted a ballot the "most exceedingly terrible significant wrestling show of the year".