Germany ladies' national football crew 

The Germany ladies' national football crew () is administered by the German Football Association (DFB). 

The German national group is a standout amongst the best in ladies' football. They are two-time title holders, having won the 2003 and 2007 competitions. They are likewise the main country to have won both the people's competition. The group has won eight of the twelve UEFA European Championships, guaranteeing six back to back titles somewhere in the range of 1995 and 2013. Germany is one of the two countries to win both the people's European competition, alongside the Netherlands. Germany has won Olympic gold in 2016, after three back to back bronze decorations at the Women's Olympic Football Tournament, completing third in 2000, 2004 and 2008. Birgit Prinz holds the record for most appearances and is the group's unsurpassed driving goalscorer. Prinz has likewise set global records; she has gotten the FIFA World Player of the Year grant multiple times and is the joint second generally top goalscorer at the Women's World Cup. 

Ladies' football was for some time met with incredulity in Germany, and authority matches were prohibited by the DFB until 1970. Nonetheless, the ladies' national group has developed in ubiquity since winning the World Cup in 2003, as it was picked as Germany's Sports Team of the Year. As of June 2018, Germany is positioned second in the FIFA Women's World Rankings. 

In 1955, the DFB chose to prohibit ladies' football in the entirety of its clubs in West Germany. In its clarification, the DFB refered to that "this confrontational game is on a very basic level unfamiliar to the idea of ladies" and that "body and soul would unavoidably endure harm". Further, the "show of the body damages manners and goodness". Regardless of this boycott, more than 150 unofficial global matches were played during the 1960s. On 30 October 1970, the restriction on ladies' football was lifted at the DFB yearly tradition. 

Other football affiliations had effectively framed authority ladies' national groups during the 1970s, the DFB since a long time ago stayed uninvolved in ladies' football. In 1981, DFB official Horst R. Schmidt was welcome to send a group to the informal ladies' football big showdown. Schmidt acknowledged the welcome yet shrouded the way that West Germany had no ladies' national group at the time. To keep away from mortification, the DFB sent the German club champions Bergisch Gladbach 09, who proceeded to win the competition. Seeing a need, the DFB built up the ladies' national group in 1982. DFB president Hermann Neuberger designated Gero Bisanz, an educator at the Cologne Sports College, to set up the group. 

In September 1982, Bisanz sorted out two exploring instructional classes from which he chose a squad of 16 players. The group's first worldwide match occurred on 10 November 1982 in Koblenz. Following the convention of the men's group, Switzerland was picked as West Germany's first rival. Doris Kresimon scored the main global objective in the 25th moment. In the second half, 18-year-old Silvia Neid contributed two objectives to the 5– 1 triumph; Neid later turned into the associate mentor in 1996 and the head mentor in 2005. 

With five draws and one annihilation, West Germany neglected to fit the bill for the debut 1984 European Championship, completing third in the passing gathering. To start with, Bisanz's essential goal was to close the hole to the Scandinavian nations and Italy – then the most grounded groups in Europe. He underscored preparing in essential abilities and the requirement for a compelling youth program. Beginning in 1985, Bisanz progressively called-up more youthful players, however at first had little accomplishment with this idea, as West Germany again neglected to fit the bill for the 1987 European Championship finals. 

Undefeated and without yielding an objective, the German group fit the bill for the European Championship without precedent for 1989; the competition was played on home soil in West Germany. The semi-last against Italy was the principal universal ladies' football coordinate appeared on German TV. The diversion was chosen by a punishment shootout, in which goalkeeper Marion Isbert spared three extra shots and scored the triumphant punishment herself. On 2 July 1989 in Osnabrück, West Germany played Norway in the last. Prior to a horde of 22,000, they beat top choices Norway and won 4– 1 with objectives from Ursula Lohn, Heidi Mohr and Angelika Fehrmann. This triumph denoted the group's first universal title. 

After the German reunification, the East German football affiliation joined the DFB. The East German ladies' national football crew had played just a single authority worldwide match, losing 0– 3 to Czechoslovakia in a well disposed match on 9 May 1990. The bound together German group protected their title effectively at the 1991 European Championship. In the wake of winning all diversions in the passing gathering, Germany again met Italy in the semi-last, this time winning 3– 0. On 14 July 1991, the German group yet again confronted Norway in the last. The diversion went to additional time, amid which Heidi Mohr and Silvia Neid scored for Germany and verified the 3– 1 triumph. 

In November 1991, Germany took part in the primary Women's World Cup in China. Following triumphs over Nigeria, Taiwan and Italy, the German group achieved the quarter-last without yielding a solitary objective. Silvia Neid scored the primary German World Cup objective on 17 November 1991 against Nigeria. Germany won the quarter-last against Denmark 2– 1 after additional time, yet lost 2– 5 in the semi-last to the United States, who proceeded to win the competition. Following a 0– 4 thrashing in the third-place coordinate against Sweden, Germany completed fourth in the competition. 

The German group neglected to protect their title at the 1993 European Championship, enduring a semi-last thrashing to Italy in a punishment shootout, and later losing 1– 3 against Denmark in the third-place playoff. Regardless of the baffling outcome, new gifts, for example, Steffi Jones, Maren Meinert and Silke Rottenberg made their competition debut and later ended up key players for the German group. 

Birgit Prinz scored in a noteworthy competition without precedent for 1995. 

In 1995, Germany won its third European Championship. In the wake of winning all capability matches, scoring 55 objectives, the German group vanquished England 6– 2 more than two legs in the semi-last. Germany met Sweden in the last, which was played at the Fritz Walter Stadion in Kaiserslautern, Germany, on 26 March 1995. The Swedish group figured out how to score early, however Germany returned to win 3– 2 with objectives from Maren Meinert, Birgit Prinz and Bettina Wiegmann. 

At the 1995 Women's World Cup in Sweden, the German group lost against the Scandinavian hosts, yet at the same time prevailing with regards to winning their gathering by beating Japan and Brazil. Germany won the quarter-last against England 3– 0, and vanquished China 1– 0 with a late objective by Bettina Wiegmann in the semi-last. On 18 June 1995 in Stockholm, the German group showed up in their first Women's World Cup last. Confronting Norway, they lost the match 0– 2, however as sprinters up accomplished their best World Cup result up to that point. 

Ladies' football was first played as an Olympic game at the 1996 Summer Olympics. Bettina Wiegmann scored the principal Olympic objective in the opening match against Japan, which Germany won 3– 2. In the wake of losing their second gathering amusement against Norway 2– 3, and drawing with Brazil 1– 1, Germany was wiped out, completing third in the gathering with four points from three matches. Head mentor Gero Bisanz surrendered after the competition and his right hand since 1983, Tina Theune, took over as the new national mentor. Silvia Neid finished her playing vocation and was selected the new collaborator mentor. 

The 1997 European Championship was the principal test for new mentor Theune. Following an annihilation against Norway, Germany completed second in the passing gathering and just verified capability by beating Iceland in an assignment play-off. In the wake of illustration with Italy and Norway, a triumph over Denmark in the last gathering amusement saw the German group experience to the knockout stage. They beat Sweden 1– 0 in the semi-last, and on 12 July 1997, guaranteed their fourth European title with a 2– 0 success over Italy, with objectives from Sandra Minnert and Birgit Prinz. 

At the 1999 Women's World Cup in the United States, the German group likewise neglected to qualify legitimately, however figured out how to beat the Ukraine in a passing play-off. Germany began their World Cup battle by illustration with Italy and prevailing upon 6– 0 Mexico. In the last gathering amusement, Germany drew 3– 3 against Brazil; by surrendering a very late equalizer, Germany neglected to win the gathering and therefore needed to confront the hosts in the quarter-last. With 54,642 individuals in participation, among them U.S. President Bill Clinton, the group at the Jack Kent Cooke Stadium was the greatest the German group had ever played before. Notwithstanding driving twice, they lost 2– 3 to the inevitable World Cup victors. 

Germany contended at the 2000 Summer Olympics, winning every one of the three gathering diversions against Australia, Brazil and Sweden. The German group ruled the semi-last against Norway, however lost the amusement 0– 1 after a claim objective by Tina Wunderlich in the 80th moment. They beat Brazil 2– 0 in the third spot coordinate with objectives from Birgit Prinz and Renate Lingor, and won the bronze award. It was the principal Olympic decoration for the German Football Associations since 1988 when the men's group additionally won bronze. 

In 2001, Germany facilitated the European Championship. Following triumphs over Sweden, Russia and England in the gathering stage, the German group beat Norway 1– 0 in the semi-last obligingness of a jumping header by Sandra Smisek. On 7 July 2001 in Ulm, they met Sweden in the last, which was played in overwhelming precipitation. The diversion was scoreless following an hour and a half and went to additional time, where Claudia Müller scored a brilliant objective and verified the fifth European title for Germany. 

At the 2003 Women's World Cup in the United States, Germany was attracted a gathering with Canada, Japan and Argentina. In the wake of winning every one of the three gathering amusements, the German group crushed Russia 7– 1 in the quarter-last, which set up another conflict with the United States. Germany's Kerstin Garefrekes scored following 15 minutes and goalkeeper Silke Rottenberg made a few key recoveries. In the diminishing minutes of the semi-last, Maren Meinert and Birgit Prinz fixed the 3– 0 success. On 12 October 2003, Germany met Sweden in the World Cup last in Los Angeles. The Scandinavians proceeded before half time, yet Maren Meinert balanced not long after the break. The amusement went to additional time, where Nia Künzer headed the triumphant brilliant objective in the 98th moment to guarantee Germany's first Women's World Cup title. Birgit Prinz was regarded as the competition's best player and top goalscorer. 

With wins over China and Mexico, the German group completed first in their gathering at the 2004 Summer Olympics. They beat Nigeria 2– 1 in the quarter-last, yet endured a 1– 2 semi-last misfortune to the United States after additional time. In the third spot coordinate, Germany crushed Sweden 1– 0 with an objective by Renate Lingor, winning the groups' second Olympic bronze decoration. 

The 2005 European Championship was held in England. With wins over Norway, Italy and France in Round 1, the German group progressed to the semi-last, where they crushed Finland 4– 1. On 19 June 2005, they met Norway for the third time in the European title last. Germany won 3– 1 with objectives from Inka Grings, Renate Lingor and Birgit Prinz and included a 6th European title. Head mentor Tina Theune ventured down after the competition and her associate Silvia Neid took over as national mentor. In 2006, Germany won the yearly Algarve Cup out of the blue. 

As prevailing best on the planet, Germany played the opening amusement at the 2007 Women's World Cup in China, dominating Argentina 11– 0. After a goalless draw against England and a 2– 0 success over Japan, the German group vanquished North Korea 3– 0 in the quarter-last. They beat Norway by a similar outcome in the semi-last, with objectives from Kerstin Stegemann, Martina Müller and a Norwegian possess objective. On 30 September 2007, Germany confronted Brazil in the World Cup last in Shanghai. Birgit Prinz place Germany in front after half time and goalkeeper Nadine Angerer spared a punishment by Brazilian Marta. Simone Laudehr scored a second objective following 86 minutes, which fixed the German 2– 0 triumph. Germany was the primary group (people's amusement) to win the World Cup without yielding an objective and the first to effectively protect the Women's World Cup title. With 14 objectives, Prinz turned into the competition's general top goalscorer. 

In a replay of the 2007 World Cup last, the German group drew 0– 0 with Brazil in the opening amusement at the 2008 Summer Olympics. They at that point beat both Nigeria and North Korea to progress to the quarter-last, where they crushed Sweden 2– 0 after additional time. In the semi-last, Germany again met Brazil. Birgit Prinz scored in the tenth moment, however the German group lost 1– 4 subsequent to surrendering three objectives to Brazilian counter-assaults in the second half. They beat Japan 2– 0 for the bronze decoration, with Fatmire Bajramaj scoring the two objectives. The third successive semi-last misfortune at the Olympics was viewed as a failure by both the players and the German press. The group's general execution and head mentor Silvia Neid were brutally scrutinized in the media. 

Germany met all requirements for the 2009 European Championship in Finland winning every one of the eight recreations and scoring 34 objectives. They beat Norway, France and Iceland in the gathering stage to progress to the quarter-last, where they won 2– 1 against Italy. Subsequent to trailing Norway at half-time in the semi-last, the German group battled back to a 3– 1 triumph. On 10 September 2009, they crushed England 6– 2 for their seventh European trophy. Birgit Prinz and Inka Grings scored twice, with Melanie Behringer and Kim Kulig likewise scoring. Grings held her honor as the competition's top scorer from 2005, while Germany expanded their series of wins at the European Championship finals to a 19-coordinate run going back to 1997. 

Germany facilitated the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup and won the three diversions on the gathering stage, over Canada, France and Nigeria. On the quarterfinals, the group endured an irritated with Japan, who won on additional time with an objective by Karina Maruyama. The thrashing broke the Germans' dash of sixteen undefeated recreations at the World Cup. By neglecting to complete among the main two UEFA groups, Germany was unfit to meet all requirements for the 2012 Summer Olympics. 

At the 2013 European Championship in Sweden, the Germans won their 6th straight mainland title, with the unequivocal amusement being a 1– 0 triumph over Norway. Goalkeeper Nadine Angerer, who halted two punishments amid the last, was picked as the competition's best player. The 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup had Germany again achieving the best four. In the elimination round against the United States, Célia Šašić, who ended up as the competition's top scorer, missed a punishment, and a short time later objectives via Carli Lloyd and Kelley O'Hara lead to an American triumph. The third spot coordinate saw the Germans lose their first since forever match to England after 21 challenges, because of an extra shot by Fara Williams amid additional time. 

Germany is a standout amongst the best countries at the FIFA Women's World Cup, having won the competition twice and wrapping sprinter up once. The German group won the World Cup in 2003 and 2007. At the primary World Cup in 1991, they completed in fourth spot. In 1995, Germany achieved the World Cup last, yet were vanquished by Norway. The group's most exceedingly bad outcomes were quarter-last misfortunes to the United States in 1999, and Japan in 2011. Generally, the German group has showed up in three Women's World Cup finals, and is a five-time semi-finalist. They have taken an interest in each lady's World Cup and have a 26– 5– 8 win– draw– misfortune record. 

Ladies' football appeared at the 1996 Summer Olympics and Bettina Wiegmann scored the principal Olympic objective in the opening round of the competition. Be that as it may, Germany neglected to advance to the knockout stage and was dispensed with after Round 1. After four years the German group won the bronze decoration at the 2000 Summer Olympics. They again completed third at both the 2004 and the 2008 Summer Olympics. 

The German group has fit the bill for all Women's Olympic Football Tournaments until 2008. In any case, they neglected to meet all requirements for the 2012 competition as UEFA utilized the 2011 World Cup for capability, and Germany finished beneath France and Sweden. The German group beat Sweden in the Olympics last in Rio in 2016 to acquire their first Olympic gold decoration. 

Germany neglected to fit the bill for the initial two UEFA European Championships in 1984 and 1987. Since 1989, the German group has partaken in each competition and is the record European boss with eight titles. Germany has won six successive titles from 1995 to 2013 and has an in general 31– 6– 3 win– draw– misfortune record. The most exceedingly awful German outcome at the European title finals was completing fifth in 2017. 

Previous German universal Horst Hrubesch is the present head mentor of the German ladies' national football crew. The mentor's authentic title is "DFB-Trainer" and the person in question is utilized by the German Football Association. 

The German national football crew has no national arena. Like the men, the ladies' group play their home matches in various arenas all through the nation. As of June 2011, they have played in 87 diverse German urban communities. Most home amusements have been held in Osnabrück with six matches, trailed by Ulm (five diversions), and Bochum, Kaiserslautern, Koblenz, Lüdenscheid, Rheine, Siegen and Weil am Rhein (three recreations each). The main home match in previous East Germany was played in Aue in May 1991. 

During the 1990s, home matches were generally played in littler towns with no expert football clubs. As the group turned out to be increasingly fruitful, particularly after the World Cup win in 2003, the quantity of onlookers climbed as needs be. Today, the group for the most part plays in arenas with 10,000 to 25,000 seats. The ten biggest German urban communities have just facilitated five universal matches. The group have played twice in Frankfurt and Berlin, and once Hamburg. Bremen, Dortmund, Düsseldorf, Essen, Cologne, Munich and Stuttgart have never facilitated a universal match of the ladies' group. 

Outside Germany, they have played the most diversions in Faro, Portugal (10 matches), and Guangzhou, China (six matches), the host urban communities of the yearly Algarve Cup and the Four Nations Tournament separately. They have likewise played five amusements in Albufeira, Portugal (additionally an Algarve Cup setting), and multiple times in Minneapolis in the United States. 

The record participation for Germany was 73,680 in the 2011 Women's World Cup opening diversion against Canada at the Olympic Stadium in Berlin. That amusement additionally set another European record in ladies' football. Far from home, the's group record was 54,642 in the 1999 Women's World Cup quarter-last against the United States at the Jack Kent Cooke Stadium in Landover. 

The German ladies' national football crew wears white shirts with dark shorts and white socks, following the convention of the German men's team – highly contrasting are the shades of Prussia. The present change unit is red and dark, with dark shorts and red socks. Previously, Germany likewise utilized green shirts with white shorts and green socks as the away pack. 

The ladies' national group initially played with the insignia of the German men's group, a variety of the DFB logo with the Federal Eagle of Germany ("Bundesadler") and three stars at the top for the men's 1954, 1974 and 1990 World Cup titles. Since their first Women's World Cup win in 2003, the group shows its own World Cup titles; at first with one star, and since 2007, with two stars at the highest point of the insignia. While being ruling title holders, Germany likewise showed the recently made "FIFA Women's World Champions Badge" on their shirts from 2009 until 2011 when they were prevailing by Japan. 

As per the principles of the International Olympic Committee, Germany does not wear its official uniform with the logo of the German Football Association while contending at the Summer Olympics. Rather, the DFB identification is supplanted by the crest of Germany. Like all DFB squads, the ladies' national group is provided by Adidas, which had given an explicitly planned female football pullover since 1999. The group's primary support is the German insurance agency Allianz. 

For the greater part of the twentieth century, ladies' football was a specialty sport in Germany and was disliked. At the point when the DFB named Gero Bisanz to mentor the recently established ladies' national group, he was at first hesitant about his task and dreaded it would hurt his notoriety. Winning the 1989 European Championship was the group's first global achievement, however it had small enduring impact on their fame. As a present for the main European trophy, each player got a tea set, which is frequently refered to for instance of male bullheadedness and general absence of enthusiasm for the ladies' national group around then. This disposition inside the German Football Association has changed significantly over the most recent two decades, specifically amid the term of Theo Zwanziger as DFB president, a straightforward supporter of ladies' football. 

Every individual from the 2003 Women's World Cup squad got a prearranged reward of 15,000 euros for winning the competition; after four years the players got 50,000 euros for their effective title barrier. In 2009, one million of the 6.7 million DFB individuals were female. 

The 2003 World Cup title denoted the leap forward for the ladies' national football crew in Germany. The last was viewed by 10.48 million watchers on German TV (a 33.2 percent piece of the overall industry) and the German group was invited home by practically 10,000 fans at Frankfurt's city corridor. Soon thereafter, they were regarded as the 2003 German Sports Team of the Year. Nia Künzer's World Cup winning brilliant objective was casted a ballot Germany's 2003 Goal of the Year, the first run through the honor was won by a female player. Since 2005, practically the majority of the ladies' national football crew's matches have been appeared on German TV. 

The last of the 2007 Women's World Cup was seen by 9.05 million watchers at home (a 50.5 percent piece of the overall industry). After the group came back to Germany, they were commended by a horde of 20,000 in Frankfurt. In December 2007, all players of the World Cup squad got the Silberne Lorbeerblatt (Silver Laurel Leaf), the most noteworthy state adornment for competitors in Germany. National mentor Silvia Neid was granted the Federal Cross of Merit on strip by German president Horst Köhler. 

In 2009, the group's six home matches had a normal participation of 22,753. In a study of German football fans, 65 percent of the male and 62 percent of the female respondents said they were keen on ladies' football. Be that as it may, this prevalence is for the most part restricted to universal matches. In spite of the fact that the quantity of onlookers in the ladies' Bundesliga has dramatically increased since 2003, the normal participation in the 2007– 08 season (887) was still under three percent of that of the men's Bundesliga (38,612). 

Today, ladies' football is socially acknowledged in Germany, albeit one of the central matters of analysis remains the supposed absence of value contrasted with the men's diversion. The German ladies' national group has played a few presentation matches against male groups, most eminently losing 0– 3 to the VfB Stuttgart Under-17 squad in anticipation of the 2003 World Cup. Most German players reject examinations between the nature of people's football; Renate Lingor has said they are "two totally unique games". Players, for example, Simone Laudehr, Ariane Hingst and Melanie Behringer have expressed that men's football is played at an a lot quicker pace, yet in addition has a larger number of intrusions and fierce handling than the ladies' diversion. Linda Bresonik has said she by and large wants to watch men's football. 

The accompanying players were named to the squad for the benevolent match against France on 28 February 2019. 

Head mentor: Martina Voss-Tecklenburg 

The accompanying players were named to a squad over the most recent a year. 

Notes: 

Birgit Prinz, a previous group chief who resigned after the 2011 World Cup, holds the record for Germany and European appearances, having played multiple times from 1994 to 2011. She is one of 21 German players to have achieved 100 tops. Kerstin Stegemann is second, having played multiple times. Bettina Wiegmann, Germany's group chief amid the 2003 World Cup win, comes fourth with 154 amusements. Prinz surpassed Wiegmann's record as the most topped player in November 2006. Wiegmann is the main privileged commander of the German ladies' national football crew. 

The title of Germany's most astounding goalscorer is likewise held by Prinz. She scored her first objective in July 1994 against Canada and completed her profession with 128 objectives (averaging 0.60 objectives per diversion). Heidi Mohr, just as being the second-most elevated scorer, is likewise the most productive with 83 objectives originating from 104 recreations (averaging 0.80 objectives per diversion). Two players share the record for objectives scored in one match: Conny Pohlers scored five objectives in October 2001 against Portugal, and Inka Grings scored multiple times in February 2004, again confronting Portugal. Silvia Neid, the previous German national mentor, is the 6th most noteworthy goalscorer with 48 objectives in 111 amusements. 

The biggest edge of triumph accomplished by Germany is 17– 0 against Kazakhstan amid an European Championship qualifying amusement in November 2011. The record rout, a 0– 6 shortfall against the United States, happened amid a benevolent match in March 1996. 

Previous goalkeeper Nadine Angerer has the most appearances for a goalkeeper, with 145 amusements as objective guardian (89 without surrendering an objective) and one diversion as a substitute as protector. 

Silke Rottenberg is second with 126 tops and 68 amusements without surrendering a goal.Bettina Wiegmann holds the record of 14 objectives from extra shots; Renate Lingor comes in second with 8 objectives. Tina Wunderlich scored the group's solitary possess objective in the semi-last of the 2000 Summer Olympics against Norway; it was the amusement's solitary objective. 

The German group additionally holds a few global records. In 2007, they were the first to win two sequential Women's World Cup titles and they accomplished the greatest success in competition history by beating Argentina 11– 0. Germany is additionally the main group to win either the men's or ladies' World Cup without yielding an objective and the main nation to win both World Cups. With 14 objectives, Prinz turned into the general top goalscorer at the Women's World Cup in 2007, and she and Brazilian Marta are the main ladies to have gotten the FIFA World Player of the Year grant no less than multiple times.