The Simpsons: Hit &amp; Run 

The Simpsons: Hit and Run is a "Terrific Theft Auto" clone activity experience computer game created by Radical Entertainment and distributed by Vivendi Universal Games, for GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox and Microsoft Windows. It depends on the American energized sitcom "The Simpsons", and is the twenty-second portion in the "Simpsons" arrangement. It was discharged on September 16, 2003. 

The amusement pursues the Simpson family and their companion Apu Nahasapeemapetilon, who witness numerous weird episodes that happen in Springfield; surveillance cameras, strange vans, flattened crops, and an "as good as ever" kind of the mainstream soda Buzz Cola, which causes craziness. Bringing matters into their own hands, they find various stunning mysteries, and before long understand these occurrences are a piece of a bigger outsider connivance, brought about by Kang and Kodos. Interactivity generally centers around investigation and missions; players frequently race adversaries and connect with supporting characters on planned journeys. The diversion likewise includes numerous components found in pretending amusements, for example, a fanning storyline and side errands. 

Declared in mid 2002, the improvement of "The Simpsons: Hit and Run" was broad. The group tried to separate the amusement from "", regarding their new passage into the establishment required an alternate course. The amusement was intensely propelled by "Excellent Theft Auto III", and the improvement group re-purposed the open-world structure and nuanced character advancement for the diversion. This energized coordinated effort with the show's scholars and cast, who helped make the story and exchange. 

Upon discharge, it got commonly good audits from computer game faultfinders, with recognition especially centered around the understanding of "The Simpsons" TV arrangement as a computer game, its parodical take on "Fabulous Theft Auto III", and designs, while analysis for the most part encompassed a few parts of ongoing interaction, for example, bugs and glitches. The amusement was likewise a business achievement, with recorded offers of more than 3 million around the world. It got the honor for Fave Video Game at the 2004 Nickelodeon Australian Kids' Choice Awards, and is generally viewed as the best diversion in the arrangement. 

"Hit and Run" has seven dimensions, each with missions and a sub-plot. The player can control one explicit character in each dimension. The amusement's playable characters are Homer, Bart, Lisa, Marge, and Apu, with Homer and Bart being playable twice each. When going by walking, the player character can walk, run, and perform three kinds of scuffle assaults: an ordinary kick, a hopping kick, and a crushing move. To drive, the player can either lay hold of one of the numerous non military personnel vehicles that drive perpetually around town, or utilize a telephone corner to choose a vehicle. A few shrouded vehicles are available in each dimension and can likewise be utilized by the player whenever found. The amusement's driving missions are additionally like those of "Fabulous Theft Auto III". In the two diversions, the player races against different characters, gathers things before a clock runs out, and wrecks different vehicles. 

The amusement has a sandbox-style design that underscores driving, and the player controls their character from a third-individual view. The character can play out specific demonstrations of brutality, for example, assaulting people on foot, exploding vehicles, and pulverizing the earth. "The Simpsons: Hit and Run" has a notice meter that demonstrates when the police will strike back for terrible conduct. Situated in the base right corner of the screen, the roundabout "attempt at manslaughter" meter tops off when the character runs individuals over or devastates items, and diminishes when they stop doing as such. Whenever full, a few squad cars pursue the character for the term of the attempt at manslaughter. In Level 7, rather than standard squad cars, zombie police hearses pursue the character. 

Each dimension contains things the player can gather, for example, coins, which can be accumulated by either crushing Buzz Cola candy machines, Buzz Cola boxes or wasp cameras, the last of which become increasingly subtle as the amusement advances. The coins can be utilized to purchase new autos and player equips, some of which are required to advance through the amusement. The player can likewise gather Itchy and Scratchy cards. By gathering every one of them 49, seven in each dimension, the player opens an uncommon "The Itchy and Scratchy Show" video. A few occasions cause the player to lose coins; on the grounds that the character can't pass on, wounds cause the player to lose coins. On the off chance that the player is secured amid an attempt at manslaughter, they will be fined 50 coins. 

Baffling happenings are happening in Springfield, including wasp-formed surveillance cameras, puzzling dark reconnaissance vans, flattened crops, and a "better than ever" kind of the prominent soda Buzz Cola. A crowd of these wasps plummet upon the city toward the start of the amusement. One enters the Simpsons' home and is crushed by Homer, transmitting coins. Homer grabs one of the coins, and watches a business for the new Buzz Cola on TV, facilitated by Krusty the Clown, seeing the logo on the coin looks like that of Buzz Cola. Homer chooses he should go out and attempt some Buzz Cola. 

Homer at first goes to the Kwik-E-Mart and buys Buzz Cola, at that point gets into progressively routine assignments, for example, giving Lisa her science undertaking or getting down to business. Toward the day's end, Homer is sent home from work and watches a news report on TV, which educates him that the puzzling cameras and dark vans are being recognized the whole way across town. He sees one of the vans keeping an eye on him outside the house, and chooses to seek after it, driving him to Mr. Consumes' house. Homer presumes that Mr. Consumes is in charge of the wasps, and goes to go up against him. Be that as it may, Burns uncovers that the dark vans are essentially pizza conveyance vans, and continues to flame and discharge his watchman hounds on Homer. 

The following day, Bart plays hooky looking for the new diversion, "Bonestorm II". In the wake of avoiding Principal Skinner, he does undertakings for specific individuals who give him a lead onto finding the amusement. The trail drives him to Professor Frink who, thusly for a couple of errands, gives Bart a chance to see the new Truckasaurus, a mammoth mechanical dinosaur. Bart is about assaulted by it, however escapes before vanishing in a tractor shaft. 

Lisa endeavors to discover her sibling by investigating the Squidport zone for hints. She gains from Grampa that dark cars that have been showing up around town are associated with Bart's vanishing, she likewise gains from Chief Wiggum that administration style operators have been showing up over the Squidport zone. Lisa annihilates the vehicles, yet observes them to be vacant. Subsequent to finishing an undertaking for the Sea Captain, she pulverizes a dark limo however finds Bart received in return and boarded a ship. She discovers Bart on the ship; he seems to have memory misfortune and is murmuring incomprehensibly, just as ruining his jeans, while at times referencing the cars and Buzz Cola. 

Marge embarks to realize what has influenced Bart. As she explores a yield circle that as of late showed up in Cletus Spuckler's harvest field, Grampa reveals to her that the yield circle looks like the Buzz Cola logo. Marge gives a container of the cola to Bart, which snaps him out of his nonsense perspective. Bart uncovers that the new Buzz Cola is an outsider personality control operator, which he was given while stole. Marge chooses to cleanse Springfield of cola trucks, yet regardless of her endeavors, the beverage still keeps up its ubiquity with purchasers. 

Roused by Marge's endeavors, Apu embarks to find the wellspring of Buzz Cola, repentant for offering it in any case. After some fruitless leads, he at long last goes over Snake Jailbird, who discloses to him that the cola trucks are enlisted to the Springfield Museum of Natural History. Apu and Bart get to the exhibition hall, where they discover a meteor as the wellspring of the cola. They listen in on a discussion between outsiders Kang and Kodos, who are the driving forces behind the new cola and the wasp cameras. Apu and Bart discover that the wasp cameras are shooting the tricks of Springfield for an intergalactic unscripted TV drama, "Silly Earthlings". With the show's evaluations hitting an unequaled low, the outsiders are utilizing the cola to make individuals crazy; the following phase of their plot is to convey laser weapons among the people to drive the town to a brutal slaughter beyond any doubt to draw numerous watchers. 

Scared by Kang and Kodos' arrangement, Apu will not enable any to further and fakes madness, so Bart willingly volunteers to thwart the outsiders' arrangement. He approaches Krusty for help, yet Krusty illuminates Bart that he has just helped the Duff Brewery set up free laser weapon remains around Springfield. Bart at that point goes to his dad, Homer, for help, and the pair rapidly seek after Kang and Kodos to the bottling works. Notwithstanding, the outsiders escape, and before leaving, they uncover that they have just discharged Buzz Cola all through Springfield's water supply. As the cola saturates the ground, it discharges the undead from the Springfield Cemetery, who attack Springfield. 

On Halloween, when Homer gathers supplies to shield his family and home from the pillaging zombies, he chooses to seek after a dark games vehicle—which is a test for the outsiders' ship—to the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant. There, he discovers Professor Frink, who has found the outsiders' shortcoming: atomic waste. He intends to utilize the outsider ship's tractor shaft to suck up autos that are stacked with barrels of atomic waste. After effectively stacking Frink's vehicle, alongside three more, into the outsiders' tractor bar, the ship detonates. The next day, Springfield is come back to typical, and Homer is viewed as a big name among the outsider watchers of "Silly Earthlings." Kang and Kodos, who were killed in the blast and are currently in Heaven, are seen addressing how they kicked the bucket on earth and went to "Earth Heaven." 

The engineer, Radical Entertainment, got the rights to make recreations for "The Simpsons" establishment when they exhibited a playable model. Radical discharged its first "The Simpsons" diversion in 2001, called "". After "Street Rage" was discharged, the improvement group for "Hit and Run" chose not to make an immediate continuation of "Street Rage" (in spite of the fact that there are documents in the diversion's center that alludes to it as "The Simpsons: Road Rage 2"); rather, Radical needed to guide the establishment's computer game arrangement in an alternate bearing by giving the amusement motor a total upgrade. The engineers felt that everything else required another methodology, while just the driving part of "Street Rage" merited keeping; in "Hit and Run", improved traffic man-made brainpower is presented, which makes PC controlled vehicles respond better to the player's driving. They additionally chose to add an investigation component to the diversion to influence players to escape the vehicle and explore the zone by walking, with the goal that the amusement offered a superior encounter of Springfield. The inside improvement name for "The Simpsons: Hit and Run" was essentially "Simpsons", as referenced by the executable record of the amusement. 

When building up the illustrations, the group chose to incorporate tourist spots from Springfield. The player can enter some of them, including the Kwik-E-Mart, Moe's Tavern, Springfield Elementary School, and The Android's Dungeon and Baseball Card Shop. Amid "Hit and Run"s improvement, twentieth Century Fox, Gracie Films and Matt Groening, the maker of "The Simpsons", assumed vital jobs in bringing "The Simpsons" universe into a 3D domain. All character voices were provided by the real cast, and the arrangement's scholars composed the whole story for the diversion, including exchange. Tim Ramage, the partner maker of the amusement's distributer, Vivendi Universal Games, thought of it as a gift to have the chance of working with "The Simpsons" cast, alongside the authors, whom Ramage called "the best there is ". 

"Hit and Run" got "for the most part great" surveys on all stages as per the audit collection site Metacritic, and many believe it to be the best "Simpsons" diversion to date. Commendation concentrated progressing from the "Simpsons" TV arrangement to the computer game organization, while analysis focused on certain parts of ongoing interaction. "Hit and Run" won the honor for Fave Video Game at the 2004 Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards. More than one million duplicates of the amusement were sold as of June 2004, and three million starting at July 2007. The diversion's PlayStation 2 form got a "Precious stone" deals grant from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), demonstrating offers of something like 1 million duplicates in the United Kingdom. 

Various audits complimented the transposition of the "Simpsons" TV arrangement to a computer game. "Diversion Informer" and GameSpot remarked on how well the amusement portrayed the anecdotal city of Springfield from the TV arrangement, and considered it the most precise portrayal of Springfield at any point put into an amusement. "Official Xbox Magazine" said that the amusement did the show equity, and "Play" felt that it was "basically the show continuously", summing up its survey by considering the diversion a "really extraordinary traverse item". GameSpot believed that the diversion that the amusement offered included numerous brilliant self-referential jokes, and TeamXbox closed its audit by anticipating that the amusement would be incredibly speaking to gamers, particularly bad-to-the-bone "Simpsons" fans. Excitement magazine "Assortment" deduced that "Hit and Run" was the primary "Simpsons" amusement to incorporate diversion similar to what was in the TV arrangement. 

"Hit and Run"s parodical take on the "Excellent Theft Auto III" computer game was lauded by a few commentators. It was considered to "deftly caricaturize "Stupendous Theft Auto" while being nearly as engaging" in a survey by GameSpy, which proposed that "Hit and Run" improved a few ongoing interaction viewpoints that it acquired from "Fabulous Theft Auto", including moment mission restarts, a prevalent direction framework, and an effectively open accumulation of vehicles. "Official Xbox Magazine" concurred that "Hit and Run" was an astounding amusement in its very own right, and observed the diversion to be a "splendid" clone of "Stupendous Theft Auto". The blend of the "Simpsons" universe with the ongoing interaction of the "Fabulous Theft Auto" arrangement was likewise lauded by IGN as "unadulterated brightness". 

Positive surveys of "Hit and Run" concentrated on its designs and ongoing interaction. "Play" valued the virtual world that the diversion offered, portraying it as "vainglorious in its field and masterful rendering". GameSpot observed the ongoing interaction to be extremely captivating. The amusement was observed to be "extremely fun and exceptionally entertaining" by Zach Meston of GameSpy, and "Diversion Informer" called it "out and out bewildering". In spite of positive responses, the diversion likewise had difficult issues that were raised in a few surveys, which concentrated on the amusement's bugs and glitches. Both TeamXbox and Game Revolution brought up that "Hit and Run" had a couple ongoing interaction issues and graphical weaknesses that included peculiar computerized reasoning conduct and a broken camera framework, which they felt upset the general involvement of the amusement. 

Non-computer game distributions gave positive gathering on the diversion also. "The Village Voice" gave the Xbox rendition a score of the vast majority of and expressed, "This superb, profound, and point by point (yet sadly not animation style cel-shaded) tear on the "Fantastic Theft Auto" arrangement evaluates itself superior to any untenured scholastic could." "The Cincinnati Enquirer" gave the diversion four stars out of five and said that "What it needs in inventiveness it more than compensates for with its fun and simple to-impromptu game play that will speak to fanatics of the long-running satire." "Stimulation Weekly" gave it a B and stated, "If a portion of the missions appear to be dreary, others emerge, similar to the one that makes them appropriate duplicates of an especially savage videogame (wink, wink) defiling Springfield's childhood." In Japan, "Famitsu" gave the Xbox form a score of two eights, one seven, and one eight, for an aggregate of 31 out of 40.. In 2018, Watchmojo.com positioned the diversion #1 "Best" on their "Best 10 Best and Worst Simpsons Video Games" list.