Bradley Joseph 

Bradley Joseph (brought into the world 1965) is an American author, arranger, and maker of contemporary instrumental music. His organizations incorporate works for ensemble, group of four, and solo piano, while his melodic style ranges from "discreetly meditative inclination music to a rich arrangement of traditional profundity and expansiveness". 

Dynamic since 1983, Joseph has performed before a large number of individuals around the globe. He played different instruments in musical gangs all through the Midwest until 1989 when Greek author Yanni contracted him for his center band subsequent to hearing a tape of his unique sytheses. He was a highlighted show keyboardist with Yanni through six noteworthy visits, most as of late in 2003 for the 60-city "Ethnicity" visit. He shows up in the multi-platinum collection and show film, "Live at the Acropolis". Joseph additionally gone through five years as melodic chief and lead keyboardist for Sheena Easton, including a 1995 exhibition on "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno". 

Joseph is the author of the Robbins Island Music name. His performance profession started when he autonomously discharged "Hear the Masses," including a large number of his Yanni bandmates. This introduction was trailed by "Euphoria", an instrumental collection recorded with a 50-piece ensemble in which Joseph composed and led the majority of the scores. It was discharged on the Narada mark and came to ZMR Airwaves Top 30. Various consequent accounts including "Christmas Around the World" and "One Deep Breath" likewise held positions on ZMR's Top 100 radio outline, with the latest being "Paint the Sky" which appeared at #15 in April 2013. "Paint the Sky" was selected for Best Neo-Classical Album in the tenth yearly ZMR Music Awards. He has created various CDs/DVDs and piano books. His music is incorporated into numerous different craftsman arrangement collections including the 2008 arrival of "". 

Bradley Joseph was conceived in Bird Island, Minnesota and brought up in Willmar, Minnesota, moving on from Willmar Senior High School in 1983. He figured out how to play piano from a how-to piano book he found in the piano seat. One morning his dad showed him how to play a boogie-woogie blues tune and by sunset he could play the whole piece. He began playing established piano at age eight, taking exercises for eighteen months however was self-educated from that point. While in middle school, he took a show field trip where he saw Buddy Rich perform. He reviews, "I sat in the primary column and when Buddy's sax player faced take his first solo something just clicked — the world surrounded me. I felt the intensity of music and realized that it was something exceptional, a blessing to be shared." Joseph played piano for the jazz band and choir in secondary school, and trombone through secondary school and school. When he got the horn, he got an entirely different viewpoint on music, picking up understanding into all the diverse timbres accessible, which was significant to him when he began working with ensembles. The main band he was in was a wedding move band which enabled him to pick up involvement in each unique style of music from polkas to shake and move to jazz works of art. Subsequent to going to Moorhead State University as a music real, he drove his very own portion groups around the territory that visited Midwest dance club. He played sax and guitar in a portion of these prior groups yet abandoned them to focus on simply the piano/consoles. Afterward, he began performing with guitarist Dugan McNeill, whose U2-like gathering was marked to Polygram. McNeill and Yanni had once played together in the technopop band Chameleon in the late 1970s and mid 1980s. 

In 1989, Joseph recorded his first demo tape and sent it off to Greek author Yanni, who was searching for somebody to supplant keyboardist John Tesh, as Tesh was propelling his very own performance vocation. At the point when Yanni heard Joseph's structures and plans, he was contracted via telephone to join his center band, while never meeting. 

Subsequent to moving to Los Angeles at age 23, he made, orchestrated, and performed close by Yanni for over six years, performing working together with various striking ensemble symphonies, visiting all through the U.S. what's more, abroad as Yanni increased overall acclaim. His first show was at the Starplex in Dallas with the Dallas Symphony Orchestra taping a video venture. "It was a genuine preliminary by flame for me", said Joseph. "First show + 10,000 individuals + TV cameras approaches NERVOUS." He told Jane Fredericksen of the "St. Croix Valley Press" that "It was a major hop, you don't generally acknowledge it at the time, however there's no in the middle of — going from playing clubs to fields." Some of these early visits incorporated the "Impressions of Passion", "Unrest in Sound", "Hope against hope", "Yanni Live, The Symphony Concerts" 1993 and 1994 show visits, just as an exhibition in Germany that was communicated all through Europe and seen by 30 to 40 million watchers. Joseph shows up on the 1994 multi-platinum collection and video, "Live at the Acropolis." He relates, "When I reflect back throughout the years, one of the high brings up emerge incorporate performing at the Acropolis with Yanni. Envision all these diverse societies meeting up with the difficulties of language, gear, travel, and climate issues. Despite everything I picture the police running their pooches through the changing areas to sniff out any bomb conceivable outcomes directly before the show. Individuals still come up to me and remark how that show has influenced their lives." 

In the band, Joseph secured a ton of the console parts that Yanni couldn't for absence of hands in the shows. He helped with the errand of dealing with the at least 30 synthesizers in front of an audience, and helped layer with the symphony to make a "full-bodied, live-impact sound". He had to alter a few sections that did not function admirably in a live circumstance and worked widely on programming sounds for all keyboardists. Joseph said that "Yanni gave us artists a lot of opportunity to grow the music too. In the event that you tune in to the first accounts he did and what we wound up with in our live chronicles, you can truly hear the artist's info." He promptly credits Yanni's job in his expert improvement, and for a long time of imperative encounters and recollections. 

Between visits, Joseph worked broadly in account studios on music going from shake and fly to cadence and blues and arrangement with various craftsmen from RCA, Epic, Warner Brothers, and Polygram Records, notwithstanding performing in an intricate national console show visit with different artists. In 2003, he returned for the 60-city "Ethnicity" visit. 

Joseph likewise performed with Sheena Easton for a long time as her co-melodic executive and lead keyboardist. He went from Yanni to Easton and back to Yanni in a couple of years. "It was an extraordinary progress from Yanni in light of the fact that it made me musically mindful once more", he said in reference to Easton's R&B style. "I returned to where I began yet it felt like another creation." 

In a 1995 meeting, he said that following five years of visiting with Yanni and chipping away at his own introduction collection, he required a break. Yanni was all the while building his vocation and kept up a furious show plan. Working with Easton, then again, was "the best of the two universes". "She simply embraced a child and is quite settled in", said Joseph. Visit settings with her included Japan, Indonesia, Puerto Rico, and the United States, just as normal appearances in Las Vegas and Atlantic City. In March 1995, he showed up with her on "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno" when she played out her new single at the time, "My Cherie". 

In 1994, between world visits, Joseph discharged his presentation collection, "Hear the Masses", a self-delivered, independently published discharge under the More Core Records mark comprising of 10 unique arrangements. He welcomed the greater part of the Yanni band to contribute. They incorporate Charlie Adams (drums, percussion); Ric Fierabracci (fretless bass); Jeanette Clinger (vocals); and Grammy-winning musician Charlie Bisharat. Other visitor craftsmen incorporate Larry Preston (guitar); and Terry Brau — highlighted on various Bradley Joseph accounts — playing trumpet, saxophone, and fluegelhorn. 

Joseph's style pulled in the consideration of Narada Productions, a Virgin Records auxiliary, through the World Wide Web. A delegate for Narada ran over his site and downloaded some music. This started their advantage and brought about marking Joseph to a multi-record bargain, as per Peter Spellman of the Berklee College of Music. The result was "Happiness", containing cozy piano pieces, groups of four, and full symphonic works. It achieved ZMR's "Wireless transmissions Top 30" at No. 15 in July 1997. This collection was recorded at various distinctive studios including Captain and Tennille's studio in Los Angeles, and Pachyderm Studio in Cannon Falls, Minnesota. Notwithstanding a center band including Charlie Adams on percussion, Charlie Bisharat on violin, and Steven Trochlil on clarinet, Joseph got a 50-piece ensemble, and directed and composed every one of the scores. Ken Moore of the "Naples Daily News" refers to, "Joseph's music is supported by 15 skilled artists, some playing at least three unique instruments, that make up an ensemble of sounds extending from discreetly contemplative temperament music to a rich coordination of established profundity and expansiveness." "Wind and Wire Magazine" benefactor, Michael Debbage, reviews, "It was the year 1997 and New Age music had effectively topped economically as the premium and presentation appeared to slack. The class primary marks – Narada, Windham Music, and Higher Octave – were starting to investigate common subjects versus the warm, natural, acoustic topics that earlier craftsmen had built up. It gave the idea that the bounty of new specialists was turning into a withering breed. A special case to the standard was Bradley Joseph, who discharged his first standard collection "Bliss" to wonderful surveys, and right up 'til the present time it remains his visit de constrain." One of Joseph's sytheses, "The Glen", was composed exclusively for the collection "Stories, a Narada Artist Collection", and is currently additionally included on "20 Years of Narada Piano". His works are incorporated into other Narada aggregation extends too. 

In spite of the fact that Joseph said that working with Narada was an incredible encounter music-wise, he didn't care for the absence of authority over the finished result, and requested to be discharged from his agreement. He began Robbins Island Music in 1998, forming, creating, and disseminating his own chronicles. "Solo Journey" was discharged and comprises of eleven delicate piano sytheses that depend on state of mind and not on tune. It is described by Debbage similar to a "downsized thoughtful, ... and keeping in mind that oversimplified was still stunning". 

Later discharges incorporate "Christmas Around the World" achieving ZMR's Top 100 Radio Playlist; and "One Deep Breath" additionally holding a situation on ZMR's Top 100 Radio Chart for more than a half year. Bill Binkelman composes that while he questions enthusiasts of Liquid Mind or other mostly electronic new age music craftsmen would completely grasp the plain sentimentalism of piano-drove tracks like 'Artists Waltz' or 'Visionary's Lullaby', there is positive intrigue on the collection for devotees of grown-up contemporary piano pieces, just as for admirers of the more negligible way to deal with new age music." Reviewing for "Allmusic", Jim Brenholts portrays "One Deep Breath" as a lot of smooth grown-up contemporary pieces in which Joseph includes "world music style and moving contacts". "The vocal articulations by Clystie Whang and Joseph have reverential characteristics that weave through the climates and soundscapes easily." 

Joseph returned as an included instrumentalist amid Yanni's 2003 "Ethnicity" world visit, and composed his 6th collection in front of an audience after sound checks. "The Journey Continues", a spin-off of "Solo Journey", highlights Joseph on solo piano. Debbage states, "The supernatural universe of films has a skill for investigating spin-offs. There is the excellence and monster impact when taking this pathway. The inventive excellence enables the watchers to see the proceeded with development of its characters. The savage part of this investigation is the Hollywood misuse of a nearly ensured profit for its speculation with no respect for its imaginative movement that typically observes consistent losses. Bradley Joseph has chosen to navigate this precarious situation by catching up with "Solo Journey" that was discharged in 2000. I am happy to report that "The Journey Continues" is settled in magnificence, holding up well to its antecedent." 

Resulting discharges incorporate "For its Love", "Piano Love Songs", and "Psalms and Spiritual Songs". On these collections, Joseph orchestrates piano, symphony, and delicate rhythms to cover songs, for example, "I'll Never Fall in Love Again" (Burt Bacharach), "Fields of Gold" (Sting), and "Ave Maria" (Schubert). He has delivered various CD and DVD ventures intended for pets in a "" arrangement. He has likewise created a four-CD set of Nature Sounds and has distributed a large number of his pieces in sheet music structure. His music is utilized all through the DVD, "Isle Royale Impressions Volume II", containing video film via Carl TerHaar of view and natural life from the Isle Royale National Park in Michigan. 

In April 2013, Joseph discharged his first collection of unique organizations in 10 years entitled "Paint the Sky" which appeared at #15 on ZMR's Top 100 Radio Chart. It is self-portrayed as "piano instrumentals with a realistic vibe". He got demands from audience members to do another CD with unique organizations that join rich coordination alongside the piano, like "Hear The Masses" and "Joy". Kathy Parsons of "MainlyPiano" states that "Joseph is clearly a flexible artist, and there are a great deal of impacts and melodic styles that merge together to make "Paint the Sky" an excellent melodic encounter." Michael Debbage of "MainlyPiano" composes that "Paint the Sky" speaks to Joseph's most finished chronicle since his milestone collection "Delight". He proceeds to state that "whether you have made the most of Joseph's progressively spatial accounts or his more profound adorned undertakings, "Paint the Sky" basic is a melodic rainbow of where Joseph has been and where he would potential be able to go." 

Joseph was named one of the ""Ten Outstanding Young Minnesotans"" (TOYM) of 2004 by the Minnesota Jaycees. In April 2008 he was exhibited the "WPS Foundation Arts and Academics Hallmarks of Pride" grant for remarkable accomplishments by a former student. His music has been on Billboard graphs, #1 on Amazon.com, #1 on ITunes, and top 40 for Sirius satellite radio. 

Joseph's music has been heard in normal pivot in the United States and Canada by in excess of 160 noteworthy radio systems including XM and Sirius satellite radio, DMX; in the United Kingdom including RTÉ verse fm; just as wireless transmissions in Japan, Spain, China, South-East Asia, Thailand, Germany, Switzerland, and Russia. Aircrafts, for example, Aeroméxico, AirTran, Frontier, JetBlue, and ExpressJet highlight his music in their in-flight music programs. The Weather Channel likewise uses his arrangements amid the "Neighborhood on the 8s" portions, and the tune "Friday's Child" is incorporated into their 2008 aggregation discharge, "". 

"Paint the Sky" (2013) was designated for Best Neo-Classical Album in the tenth yearly ZMR Music Awards. 

Having encountered the two roads of chronicle on a noteworthy name and later being a free craftsman, a mix of musicianship with business know-how has helped give Joseph fortitude in the famously aggressive universe of music. He invests a large portion of his energy composing tunes, forming courses of action, making chronicles, and distributing and circulating his works. "I'm my very own supervisor. I can do what I need. I can change headings", he disclosed to West Central Tribune's Anne Polta. As a free, business is a prime concern and can dominate if not controlled, Joseph said. "A ton of artists don't become familiar with the business. You simply must be balanced in the two zones. You need to get distributing. You need to see how you profit, what's popular, what causes you make the most out of your ability." "I couldn't permit my music in the event that it wasn't mine", he said. "It has enabled me to make CDs. It isolates you from the million other extraordinary players." 

In a meeting with creator Cicily Janus, Joseph remarked that his point of view has changed a lot from when he was more youthful. He stated, "All that I did was centered around making great music and being an extraordinary performer, not maintaining a business. However it takes an agent to convey music to the majority." But a few specialists simply need to be engaged with the music and don't care for the additional issues or have the identity to work with both. Joseph proposes more current specialists read and concentrate the two courses and pick one that best suits their necessities and needs. He exhorts, "...to keep your eyes and ears open constantly. All the data you need is accessible to you to have an effective profession in music, in case you're focusing, and not shut off to anything." He clarifies, "Time and ingenuity has demonstrated to me that I can prevail at imparting my specialty to others as an artist while maintaining my own music business. Also, that sort of accomplishment is tantamount to I could have ever wanted." 

At the point when asked by Wheeler what took him back to Minnesota in the wake of living in Los Angeles and going the world over, Joseph answered, "The main thing agents state is 'Above all else, in the event that you need to be effective, live where you need to live'." He grew up there and family were critical to him. When he chose to turn into a performance craftsman he needed to be agreeable in his condition and moved back. 

In a meeting with "Non mainstream Journal", Joseph said that when composing music he likes to focus on the tune first, expressing, "Essentially, I compose from a two-man outlook. To begin with, I let the tune grab hold and I put down the thought as a crude passionate articulation. At that point I let it inhale and return, drawing closer from a greater amount of a target perspective. This enables me to rediscover the genuine significance I proposed first and foremost, revealing new insight into how I can best speak to that to the audience." This equivalent idea is clarified again in a taped meeting with the "Administration Television Network" with Joseph clarifying that a great deal of times he may just think of part of a song. At that point he would give it a chance to rest and return to it and check whether it feels right. At that point he would begin "working around it", like assembling a vehicle - begin with a casing and after that begin building things around it. Musically, he attempts to interface a typical extension between such invigorating sentiments as performing at the Acropolis, to the feelings every single one feels each day. "At last, a great tune will dependably stand the trial of time", says Joseph. 

Debbage remarks, "One quality of Bradley Joseph as a craftsman has been his sharp capacity to compose rousing music with fittingly titled tunes that express that idea non-verbally". Joseph disclosed to Janus that, "Through instrumental music, I'm permitted to think of melodic thoughts that enable the audience to make their own impression of my tune. On the off chance that you include verses about a young lady in the melody, the audience doesn't have a decision of what the tune is about, it's advised to them. My melodic works enable me to express anything. It's simpler for me to recount to an account of something I've experienced along these lines than to verbalize it. Furthermore, my sentiments are investigated more in my structures contrasted with what I would ever say in a couple of sentences." He trusts that "music enables an individual to express their most profound contemplations, musings that can't be communicated with just words." He additionally trusts that the otherworldly part of making is to "discover something profound inside yourself that must be made by you"..."Your profound self can't be duplicated and that is the reason it's so noteworthy throughout everyday life and music", he says. Parsons proceeds to state, "The impact of long periods of visiting with Yanni is evident in the extravagance of Joseph's sound, however his melodic voice is his own." Yanni once stated, "Bradley, your extraordinary affectability is your most prominent blessing". Joseph later acknowledged what Yanni implied was that he required that as an author, that it was a vital part "to be delicate to what you see and to have the capacity to apply that to music". 

Polta reports that he regularly references the past when he names his melodies and his music is much of the time reminiscent of his provincial Minnesota roots. "Wind Farmer" was propelled by youth visits to a relative's homestead close Olivia, and his organization, Robbins Island Music, is named after a city park in Willmar. 

Joseph utilizes an assortment of instruments to form including the Korg Triton music workstation, Korg SG-1 piano, and sometimes Korg M1. Rack units have included Roland JD-800, and Roland JV-1080 which he says is "extraordinary for string layers". The Alesis D4, Yamaha SY22, and Yamaha TG77 which has "some decent ethereal surfaces" have been used; working additionally with E-mu Systems Proteus 1, Proteus 2, and the E-5000 sampler since it is "anything but difficult to utilize and has an incredible library". Acoustic pianos fluctuate, Yamaha and Bösendorfer were utilized for the 1997 collection, "Bliss". 

Joseph's melodic style and course have differed after some time, having discharged in excess of two hundred unique structures and plans since 1994. "When I compose it, it only sort of moves, since where I am in life is unique", Joseph said. "So as I get more established, it sort of changes." 

Joseph's chronicles can offer full arrangements, for example, in "Hear the Masses" and "Delight" that join smooth jazz with contemporary instrumental topics. A survey of "Satisfaction" from "New Age Voice" states Joseph "paints sentimental pictures in sound with voices and instruments that heighten from tranquil, personal sections to enormous, lively developments". "The game plans are organized so the trumpet can lead a line out on 'Stay composed' flagging a thoughtful kind of disposition; yet the strings swell on 'The Passage' inundating the audience in a sea of sound." "Even cuts that begin tranquil, for example, 'Recuperating the Hollow Man' or 'Blue Rock Road' recurring pattern between calm minutes and crescendos." 

Conversely, collections, for example, "Solo Journey" and "The Journey Continues" are viewed as "stripped back and essential" by Debbage, with the last highlighting "Joseph and his piano with no extra mess". "There is shading in the tunes by means of their downplayed tunes." As precedents, Debbage portrays Joseph as utilizing a harmony movement that converts into a walking musicality in the melody "The Road Ahead". "Solo Piano Publications" patron, Kathy Parsons, composes, "...'The Long, Last Mile' begins with an ambivalent song, and afterward works in force and unpredictability with cello, winds, and ethereal sounds interweaving around the piano. At that point it severs, and the opening tune returns." 

For the 2002 collection "One Deep Breath", Joseph consolidates "organized melodic pieces and freestyle encompassing creations", which "withdraws drastically from the past increasingly hazardous and dynamic music on his initial two accounts, "Hear the Masses" and "Delight"". Binkelman expresses, "It is a collection with two particular 'feels' to it: the more tranquil new age/encompassing soundscapes that bookend the inward tracks and the more radio-accommodating and standard music in the middle." For example, the melody "Move of Life" was enlivened by Antonín Dvořák's musical drama, "Rusalka". It is more clear in its piano introduction, and will likely intrigue the most to bad-to-the-bone fanatics of solo instrumental music, says "Instrumental Weekly". At that point the collection closes with its title track, "One Deep Breath", that "buoys and wanders for over ten minutes, acquiring sea sounds". It is "by a long shot the most encompassing of everything else to be found here", and is "shocking, both in its execution and how radical a change it is from what has preceded". 

Debbage portrays "A Minnesota Snowfall" from "Christmas Around the World" as taking "a progressively exposed, uncovered boned song approach". While talking about "Great Christmas", Gerry Grzyb, administrator of the University of Wisconsin– Oshkosh humanism division, expresses that Joseph's standard methodology is to play the hymn straight, and afterward include his very own turns. "... he's exceptionally successful at that—he doesn't stray similarly as a jazz or traditional organ improviser may, however he keeps the enthusiasm up." Grzyb says that the equivalent applies to Joseph's prior "Christmas Around the World" CD, which he found considerably all the more intriguing due to the utilization of other instrumental sounds. 

Joseph has likewise delivered various CDs that incorporate spread game plans for piano and symphony. The 2009 arrival of "Suites and Sweets" highlights arrangements by Beethoven, Mozart, Bach, and other established writers. Joseph revealed to Fredericksen that he, "took the best parts and developments out of those established melodies … and made it delicate and quiet completely through." 

After solicitations from audience members for Joseph to do another CD with unique pieces that fuse rich coordination alongside the piano, like "Hear The Masses" and "Bliss", Joseph discharged "Paint the Sky" in April 2013. It is self-depicted as "piano instrumentals with an artistic vibe". John P. Olsen of "New Age Music World" composes that ""Paint The Sky" ...is best communicated by the close much number of tunes with energetic songs and enthusiastic rhythms, with the equalization focused by a light, easygoing loose atmosphere...with significance given to melodic mood and expressing." In another survey of "Paint the Sky", Bill Binkelman of "Wind and Wire" says that "Joseph is one of the absolute best craftsmen with regards to creating piano instrumentals increased by the spot-on use of an arrangement of console embellishments, from standard symphonic backup to more textural/new age components". Kathy Parsons of "MainlyPiano" states "The thirteen pieces ...go from delicate to magnificent. A few pieces are solo piano and others are coordinated with consoles to give a lively, artistic impact." 

About this collection, Binkelman depicts the tune "Inside the Stars" as "an uptempo, blissful lead piano song emphasized by fun rhythms played on pack drums, pounding bass, and tambourine in addition to superlative instrumental strings". Michael Debagge of "MainlyPiano" states that "the good faith of this collection is felt quickly civility of the lightness of 'Inside The Stars', loaded up with Joseph's clever piano work more in the vein of Bruce Hornsby, at that point layered in strings and percussion work". 

In a top to bottom investigation of the structure "In Dreams Awake", Binkelman opines that this melody bears a solid contemporary traditional impact and that a few people may even hear strains of Philip Glass' music. He says there is an excited feel to the tune, but since Joseph keeps up total control of subtlety and shading the tune never plunges into exaggerated acting or grandiloquence. As the track advances, the state of mind and style shifts into an increasingly recognizable new age theme, with more textural synths, ringer tones and chime trees, and a progressively articulated clearing impression of stifled glory. The Glass-like theme returns for the melody's finale. Parsons describes this equivalent melody as "an idea piece that starts with an extraordinary and charming subject for cello or viola and strings. Working as it advances, it never calmly inhales until close to the finish of the topic. From that point, the piece winds up fantastic and encompassing, "drifting easily" on console sounds until the first strings reemerge, expanding to the power of the primary subject". In the meantime, Debbage notes "...the multi-developments found on the difficult 'In Dreams Awake'..." and says that it "...opens with an all-inclusive bit of strings that nearly give off an impression of being doing combating against one another, just to move into an excellent fantastic waist to by and by come back to the more tumultuous strings, much like our silly dreams". 

Binkleman proceeds to state that the tune "Into the Big Blue" ought to in a flash bring Aaron Copland to mind – it has the equivalent BIG symphonic/artistic sound to it, alongside Copland-esque western mood and melodic themes. So also, Debbage states that this tune infers the melodic opening subject of that old western network show "The Big Valley". 

In reference to the tune "Insider facts of the Sun", Binkelman portrays "lavish strings and lovely new age synths with the piano tune here overflowing with a mix of the ethereal and the sentimental with a dash of contemplation other than". The synth sounds help him a little to remember Ray Lynch. Parsons subtleties this as "a lot more quiet and increasingly agile with a piano song and console upgrades". Debbage composes that "the rest of the collection is loaded up with Joseph's uncanny capacity to form rich and emotive anthems. Back track to 'Privileged insights Of The Sun' that delicately influences in the piano and string game plans with comparable outcomes found on 'The Edge Of My Heart'. 

For the most part, Joseph's music gets airplay in the grown-up contemporary, smooth jazz, simple tuning in, and wonderful music radio organizations, and keeping in mind that some is characterized in the new age classification, he considers contemporary instrumental to accommodate his style of playing the best. In examining "Euphoria", John Blake of "The Atlanta Journal" takes note of that frequently new age music seems as though it ought to be played in a grocery store. The tunes can seem like melodic cotton treats — delicate, vaporous and at last uninteresting. "Generally, Bradley's music doesn't commit that error." "The music is true to life, loaded up with thoughtful piano performances, swelling violins, and a sleep inducing melody pacing that enables the audience to fantasize." Along a similar line, Michael Debbage of "Mostly Piano" says that "Happiness" practically without any assistance gave a feeling of expectation that there was substantially more that the New Age type could offer. Cicily Janus comments that, "In spite of the fact that Bradley has been, now and again, categorized into a branch of jazz, his message through his music is general in its allure and calming characteristics."