Banksia epica 

Banksia epica is a bush that develops on the south shore of Western Australia. A spreading hedge with wedge-molded serrated leaves and substantial smooth yellow bloom spikes, it grows up to 3½ metres (11½ ft) high. It is known just from two disengaged populaces in the remote south east of the state, close to the western edge of the Great Australian Bight. The two populaces happen among seaside heath on bluff top ridges of siliceous sand. 

A standout amongst the most as of late portrayed "Banksia" species, it was likely observed by Edward John Eyre in 1841, however was not gathered until 1973, and was just perceived as an unmistakable animal varieties in 1988. There has been next to no examination on the species from that point forward, so information of its biology and development potential is constrained. It is set in "Banksia" ser. "Cyrtostylis", nearby its nearby relative, the notable and generally developed "B. media" (southern fields banksia). 

"Banksia epica" develops as a spreading ragged bush with numerous branches, from 30 centimetres to 3½ metres (1– 11½ ft) tall. It has dim, fissured bark, and dim green, wedge-formed leaves, 1½ to 5 centimetres (½– 2 in) long and 6 to 15 millimetres (–  in) wide, with serrated edges. 

Blooms happen in "Banksia"s trademark "blossom spike", an inflorescence made up of many sets of blooms thickly stuffed in a winding cycle a woody hub. "B. epica"s blossom spike is yellow or cream-yellow in shading, round and hollow, 9 to 17 centimetres (3½– 6½ inches) tall and around 6 centimetres (2½ inches) in width. In bud, it might have green-dark or tanish dust moderators, much the same as "B. robur" (swamp banksia). Each blossom comprises of a cylindrical perianth made up of four combined tepals, and one long wiry style. Normal for its ordered segment, the styles of "B. epica" are straight as opposed to snared. The style closes are at first caught inside the upper perianth parts, yet break free at anthesis. The fruiting structure is a hefty woody "cone" installed with up to 50 follicles; old shriveled blossom parts endure on the "cones", giving them a bristly appearance. The follicles have an alluring purple tint. 

"Banksia epica" is comparative in appearance to its nearby relative "B. media", from which it contrasts in having somewhat shorter leaves and bigger blossoms. Likewise, the relentless blossom parts on "B. epica"s fruiting structures are twisted and point upwards, though they are straight and point downwards on "B. media". 

The main European to see "B. epica" was likely Edward John Eyre, the principal wayfarer of the region, who recorded "hindered examples" of "Banksia" as he was nearing the western edge of the Great Australian Bight on 1 May 1841: 

Eyre is thought to have been going through the Toolinna Cove sand fix at the season of composing. "B. epica" and "B. media" are the main "Banksia" species that happen at that area, and both have a structure and propensity that agrees with Eyre's portrayal. As he didn't gather examples, it is difficult to figure out what species he saw. 

The principal herbarium accumulation of "B. epica" was not made until October 1973, when Ernest Charles Nelson visited Toolinna Cove to gather examples for an ordered amendment of "Adenanthos". Nelson was invigorated to make that correction from an enthusiasm for the issue of disjunct plant dispersions in southern Australia, and in this way gathered examples of a scope of plant animal categories. On 22 October, he gathered an example of "B. epica" in old blossom, however mistakenly distinguished it as "B. media", and later held up it in the herbarium at Canberra under that name. 

In 1985, two volunteer field gatherers for "The Banksia Atlas" venture, John and Lalage Falconer of Esperance, ended up persuaded that there were three "Banksia" species as opposed to two at Point Culver. Coming back to the area on 9 January 1986, they gathered leaves and old blooms of what they thought was an undescribed species. The examples did in reality recommend that another species had been found, however they were not adequate for formal distribution. Right on time in May the next year, John Falconer drove more than 2000 kilometers on unlocked tracks from Warburton to Point Culver and back once more, so as to gather new blooms and product of the indicated new species. Alex George at that point started setting up a formal portrayal of the species. Amid his exploration, he found that Nelson's Toolinna Cove example was likewise referable to the undescribed species. Without any veritable "B. media" examples from Toolinna Cove, George derived that just "B. epica" happened there, and that Eyre more likely than not located "B. epica" in 1841. In 1988, he distributed a formal depiction of the species, naming it "Banksia epica" in reference to the two "epic" voyages of Eyre and Falconer. Accordingly the species' full name is "Banksia epica" A.S.George. It was later settled that both "B. epica" and "B. media" happen at Toolinna Cove. 

George set "B. epica" in "B." subg. "Banksia", since its inflorescences are run of the mill "Banksia" blossom spikes; "B." sect. "Banksia" in view of its straight styles; and "B." ser. "Cyrtostylis" in light of the fact that it has slim blossoms. He believed its nearest relatives to be "B. praemorsa" (cut-leaf banksia) and "B. media", the two of which have shorter roses and littler dust moderators than "B. epica". Furthermore, "B. praemorsa" contrasts in having a bare perianth, and "B. media" has bigger, increasingly undulate leaves. 

In 1996, Kevin Thiele and Pauline Ladiges distributed the aftereffects of a cladistic examination of morphological characters of "Banksia". They held George's subgenera and a significant number of his arrangement, however disposed of his segments. George's "B." ser. "Cyrtostylis" was observed to be "generally polyphyletic", as six of the fourteen taxa in that arrangement happened independently in areas all through Thiele and Ladiges' cladogram. The staying eight shaped a clade that further settled into two subclades, with "B. epica" showed up in one of them: 

Thiele and Ladiges liked to give arrangement rank to the subclades, as opposed to the whole clade, so they exchanged the taxa of the second clade into "B." ser. "Ochraceae", holding just the taxa of the primary clade in "B." ser. "Cyrtostylis". "B. epica"s situation under Thiele and Ladiges' course of action might be outlined as pursues: 

The course of action of Thiele and Ladiges was not acknowledged by George, and was disposed of in his 1999 amendment. 

Under George's 1999 course of action, "B. epica"s arrangement was as per the following: 

Since 1998, Austin Mast has been distributing aftereffects of progressing cladistic examinations of DNA grouping information for the subtribe Banksiinae. His examinations propose a phylogeny that is fairly not quite the same as past ordered game plans. Concerning "B. epica", be that as it may, Mast's outcomes accord intimately with the course of action of Thiele and Ladiges, putting it in a polytomous clade relating precisely with Thiele and Ladiges' "B." ser. "Cyrtostylis". 

Right off the bat in 2007 Mast and Thiele started a revamp by exchanging "Dryandra" to "Banksia", and distributing "B." subg. "Spathulatae" for the species having spoon-molded cotyledons; along these lines they likewise re-imagined the autonym "B." subg. "Banksia". They foreshadowed distributing a full course of action once DNA inspecting of "Dryandra" was finished; meanwhile, on the off chance that Mast and Thiele's nomenclatural changes are taken as a between time game plan, at that point "B. epica" is put in "B." subg. "Banksia". 

"Banksia epica" is known just from two populaces in eastern pieces of the Esperance Plains locale of the South West Botanical Province, close to the western edge of the Great Australian Bight. The primary populace happens around 30 kilometers (20 mi) west of Point Culver; there were more than 2000 plants there when studied in June 1989. A littler populace happens around 70 kilometers (45 mi) further east at Toolinna Cove; when studied in August 1991, this region had around 350 plants. This last populace speaks to the easternmost furthest reaches of the western "Banksia" species; east of Toolinna Cove no "Banksia" species happens for more than 900 kilometers (550 mi). 

In the two territories, "B. epica" happens among heath on precipice top rises of profound, white siliceous sand over limestone. It co-happens with "B. media" in the two regions, and "B. praemorsa" is additionally present at Point Culver. Toolinna Cove sand is to some degree basic, making "B. epica" and "B. media" the main "Banksia" species that develop in antacid soil. 

These two areas are strange in having precipice top rises of siliceous sand: bluff top ridges are an unordinary topographic development, and almost all dirt in the region is calcareous. As "Banksia" species are prejudiced of calcareous soils, and are not adjusted to long range seed dispersal, the two populaces of "B. epica" have all the earmarks of being reproductively disconnected. Nelson has proposed that there was at one time a consistent portion of siliceous sand along the coast, giving a broad and unfragmented natural surroundings for "B. epica"; ascends in the ocean level had submerged this strip, leaving just the bluff top rises as appropriate living space. The way that the resultant disconnected populaces have not discernibly speciated from that point forward proposes that the species has been divided for just a brief span, maybe just since the Last Glacial Maximum. 

Pollinators of "B. epica" incorporate "Phylidonyris novaehollandiae" (New Holland honeyeater) and "Acanthiza chrysorrhoa" (yellow-rumped thornbill). No different pollinators have been recorded, however the species is inadequately overviewed, and investigations of other "Banksia" species have reliably shown a wide scope of invertebrate and vertebrate pollinators. For instance, an overview of the firmly related and co-happening "B. media" found that "honeyeater winged creatures and marsupial nectarivores were plenteous in the examination territory and most conveyed the dust of "Banksia media" while it bloomed.… Self-fertilization and fertilization by creepy crawlies plainly likewise assume real jobs in seed generation." 

Like most other Proteaceae, "B. epica" has proteoid roots, roots with thick groups of short horizontal rootlets that structure a tangle in the dirt just beneath the leaf litter. These improve solubilisation of supplements, permitting supplement take-up in low-supplement soils, for example, the phosphorus-lacking local soils of Australia. The species does not have a lignotuber, so is believed to be murdered by flame. Like most "Banksia" species, nonetheless, it is adjusted to discharge its flying seed bank following a bushfire, so populaces recover quickly. It is exceptionally defenseless to "Phytophthora cinnamomi" dieback. 

Since so couple of populaces are known, "B. epica" has been recorded on the Department of Environment and Conservation's Declared Rare and Priority Flora List as "Need Two – Poorly Known Taxa""; and as 2RC under the ROTAP framework (uncommon yet not as of now imperiled or powerless, and having a range under 100 km). It isn't viewed as under risk, in any case, in light of the fact that both realized populaces happen inside the Nuytsland Nature Reserve, and are undisturbed and sound. Besides, the territory in which it happens is ineffectively studied, so it is conceivable that different populaces exist. 

"B. epica" is genuinely new to development. Kevin Collins of the Banksia Farm in Albany, Western Australia is said to have spearheaded its development, developing it in loamy dirt or sandy rock. It indicated great resistance for basic soils in those conditions, and has likewise prevailing in sandy, soluble soil close to the coast among Mandurah and Kwinana. The Australian National Botanic Gardens in Canberra has likewise had some accomplishment in developing the species. Seeds were sown in February 1996, and planted out in November 1997; seedlings planted into segments without great seepage passed on, however two seedlings that were planted into an area with brilliant waste were about a meter tall by 2002, and blossoming productively. 

Proliferation is by seed or cuttings. Seeds don't require any treatment, and take 14 to 49 days to develop. Without additional data explicit to "B. epica", George prescribes that developed plants be treated concerning "B. media" and "B. praemorsa", the two of which require a bright position in very much depleted soil, and endure just light pruning not underneath the green foliage.