Belgium national football crew 

The Belgian national football crew has formally spoken to Belgium in affiliation football since their lady coordinate in 1904. The squad is under the worldwide purview of FIFA and is represented in Europe by UEFA—the two of which were helped to establish by the Belgian group's administering body, the Royal Belgian Football Association (RBFA). Times of normal Belgian portrayal at the most astounding worldwide dimension, from 1920 to 1938, from 1982 to 2002 and again from 2014 onwards, have rotated with generally fruitless capability rounds. The greater part of Belgium's home matches are played at the King Baudouin Stadium in Brussels. 

Belgium's national group have taken an interest in three quadrennial real football rivalries. It showed up at last phases of thirteen FIFA World Cups and five UEFA European Championships, and highlighted at three Olympic football competitions, including the 1920 Olympic competition which they won. Other outstanding exhibitions are triumphs more than four ruling title holders—West Germany, Brazil, Argentina and France—somewhere in the range of 1954 and 2002. Belgium has long-standing football competitions with its Dutch and French partners, having played the two groups consistently from 1905 to 1967. The squad has been known as the Red Devils since 1906; its fan club is named "1895". 

Amid the national player vocation of forward Paul Van Himst, the most-adulated Belgian footballer of the twentieth century, Belgium took third spot at Euro 1972. From that point forward, they encountered two brilliant ages with many skilled players. In the primary time frame, which kept going from the 1980s to the mid 1990s, the group completed as sprinters up at Euro 1980 and fourth in the 1986 World Cup. In the second, under direction of Marc Wilmots and later Roberto Martínez during the 2010s, Belgium beat the FIFA World Rankings without precedent for November 2015 and completed third at the 2018 World Cup. Belgium right now takes an interest in League An of the first UEFA Nations League release. 

Belgium was one of the principal territory European nations to play affiliation football. Its training in Belgium started on 26 October 1863, after an Irish understudy strolled into the Josephites College of Melle with a cowhide ball. At first an elitist side interest, amid the next decades affiliation football displaced rugby as Belgium's most well known football sport. On 1 September 1895, ten clubs for football, games, cricket and cycling established the Belgian games board Union Belge des Sociétés de Sports Athlétiques (UBSSA); after a year UBSSA sorted out the principal yearly alliance in Belgian football. 

On 11 October 1900, Beerschot AC privileged president Jorge Díaz declared that Antwerp would have a progression of test coordinates between Europe's best football crews. After some hierarchical issues, on 28 April 1901, Beerschot's pitch facilitated its first competition, in which a Belgian A-squad and a Dutch B-group challenged the Coupe Vanden Abeele. Belgium won, and beat the Netherlands in every one of the three follow-up matches; FIFA does not perceive these outcomes since Belgium handled some English players. On 1 May 1904, the Belgians played their first official match, against France at the Stade du Vivier d'Oie in Uccle; their draw left the Évence Coppée Trophy unclaimed. After twenty days, the football sheets of the two nations were among the seven FIFA organizers. Around then, the Belgian squad was picked by a panel drawn from the nation's six or seven noteworthy clubs. In 1906, the national cooperative people got the epithet Red Devils due to their red shirts, and after four years, Scottish ex-footballer William Maxwell supplanted the UBSSA advisory group as their director. From 1912, UBSSA represented football just and was renamed UBSFA. Amid the Great War, the national group just played unrecognized friendlies, with matches in and against France. 

At the 1920 Summer Olympics, in their first official Olympic appearance, the "Red Devils" won the gold award on home soil after a dubious last in which their Czechoslovak adversaries left the pitch. In the three 1920s Summer Olympics, they accomplished reasonable outcomes (four successes in seven matches), and played their first intercontinental match, against Argentina. In any case, over the next decade, Belgium lost the majority of their matches at the initial three FIFA World Cup last competitions. As per history specialist Richard Henshaw, "[t]he development of [football] in Scandinavia, Central Europe, and South America deserted Belgium far". Albeit World War II prevented worldwide football occasions during the 1940s, the Belgian group stayed dynamic with informal matches against squads of other unified countries. 

Belgium met all requirements for just a single of eight noteworthy competitions amid the 1950s and the 1960s: the 1954 World Cup. The day preceding the competition started, the RBFA was among the three UEFA organizers. Dutch columnists thought about the draw of the 1954 Belgian group in their opener against England to be the most amazing consequence of that coordinate day, much more than Switzerland's triumph over the Italian "football stars". Notwithstanding, Belgium were wiped out after a misfortune to Italy in the second (and last) amass coordinate. Two brilliant spots in these decades were wins against World Cup holders: West Germany in 1954, and Brazil in 1963. Between these, Belgium crushed Hungary's Golden Team in 1956. The blend of disappointment in focused matches, and accomplishment in display matches, gave the Belgians the false title of "best on the planet of the friendlies". 

The group's execution improved amid the mid 1970s, under chief Raymond Goethals. Completely wearing white, as the White Devils, Belgium had their first triumphs at World and European Championships at the 1970 World Cup and Euro 1972. In transit to that Euro appearance, their first, they wiped out ruling European victors Italy by winning the two-legged quarter-last on total. Toward the end organize, they completed third by winning the encouragement coordinate against Hungary. In 1973, the refusal of a match-winning objective in their last 1974 FIFA World Cup capability coordinate for UEFA Group 3 cost Belgium their appearance at the finals, making Belgium become the main country to miss a World Cup last round in spite of not permitting an objective amid the qualifiers. The following two endeavors to achieve a noteworthy finals were likewise pointless. 

Starting with a second-place complete at Euro 1980, the 1980s and the mid 1990s are commonly considered as Belgium's first brilliant age. Instructed by Guy Thys, they accomplished their spot in the 1980 last with an unbeaten record in the gathering stage; in the last, they barely lost the title to West Germany with the score 1– 2. Beginning with the 1982 World Cup, and consummation with the 2002 World Cup, the national group met all requirements for six back to back World Cup end stages and for the most part advanced to the second round. Amid this period, administrators Guy Thys, Paul Van Himst and Robert Waseige each guided a Belgian determination past the first round. Notwithstanding getting individual FIFA acknowledgments, the group achieved the semi-finals of the 1986 World Cup. In the wake of achieving the Euro 1980 last, they were fruitless at consequent European Championships, with early exits from their appearances in 1984 and in 2000. Amid the late 1990s, they played three well disposed competitions in Morocco, Cyprus and Japan, sharing the 1999 Kirin Cup with Peru in the last mentioned. The best abilities of the Belgian group amid this brilliant age were resigned from worldwide football by 2000. Amid the World Cup in 2002, Belgium crushed Russia and tied with co-has Japan and Tunisia to come to the round of 16. 

After the 2002 World Cup, the group debilitated with the loss of more veterans and mentor Waseige. They passed up a major opportunity five progressive significant finals from Euro 2004 until Euro 2012, and experienced an equivalent number of head mentors. A 2005 success over ruling European bosses Greece amounted to only a little solace. In the middle of, a promising new age was developing at the 2007 European U-21 Championship; Belgium's squad fit the bill for the next year's Summer Olympics in Beijing, where the Young Red Devils squad completed fourth. Seventeen of them showed up in the senior national group, yet without having a quick effect. Belgium completed in second (and last) place at the Kirin Cup in May 2009, and lost against the 125th FIFA-positioned Armenian group in September 2009. After Georges Leekens' second stretch as national supervisor, his associate Marc Wilmots turned into the guardian in May 2012. 

After two matches as between time mentor, Wilmots consented to supplant Leekens as chief. Following his arrangement, the group's outcomes improved, to such an extent that some remote media viewed it as another Belgian brilliant age. The youthful Belgian squad qualified as unbeaten gathering champs for the 2014 World Cup finals, and earned Belgium's second-since forever place in a World Cup quarter-finals with a four-coordinate series of wins. Belgium met all requirements for Euro 2016 with a match to save in October 2015, and took the top spot in the FIFA World Rankings without precedent for November 2015, to remain first for five months. In the next year, Belgium couldn't affirm their job as pariah at the European Championship with a quarter-last disposal by the 26th FIFA-positioned Welsh group. This provoked the RBFA to expel Wilmots. In the 2018 World Cup qualifying distribution, they were seeded first in their gathering, and made the last competition under Spanish supervisor Roberto Martínez, turning into the principal European group other than hosts Russia to do as such. The group achieved an unsurpassed high third spot in the World Football Elo Ratings after their success in the round of 16. Belgium was wiped out in the semi-finals by possible victors France, yet won the third spot play-off against England. 

In home matches, the group's outfield players customarily wear the shades of the Belgian banner: dark, yellow and red. Red overwhelms the strip and is frequently the sole pullover shading. The away hues are typically white, dark or both; in 2014, the squad presented a third, yellow unit. Their shirts are regularly cut with "tricolores" at the edges. Since 1981, the RBFA symbol has been the national group's identification; the past identification was a yellow lion on a dark shield, like the crest of the national ensign. 

For their first informal match in 1901, the Belgian group wore white pullovers with tricoloured groups on the upper arms. Around their third informal match in 1902, the decision was made for a "shirt with national colours ... [that would indicate,] with a stripe, the occasions each player has partaken in an experience". Since 1904, Belgium's great all-red pullover configuration has been adjusted twice. In 1904– 05, the squad quickly wore glossy silk shirts with three flat groups in red, yellow and dark; as indicated by games writer Victor Boin, the shirts set "the grotesqueness record". Amid the 1970s, administrator Raymond Goethals picked an all-white mix to improve the group's perceivability amid night matches. 

In 1905, a Dutch columnist composed a post-coordinate report that depicted three Belgian footballers to "function as villains". After a year, motivated by Belgium's red-hued pullovers and three progressive triumphs, Léopold FC chief Pierre Walckiers nicknamed the Belgian players "Red Devils". As a result of the white home shirts Belgium wore during the 1970s, they were briefly known as the White Devils. 

Six garments makers have provided the official group strip. Since 2014, it has been delivered by Adidas, who was likewise the provider from 1974 to 1980, and from 1982 to 1991. Previous unit producers are Umbro (mid 1970s), Admiral (1981– 1982), Diadora (1992– 1999), Nike (1999– 2010) and Burrda (2010– 2014). 

Various previous and current settings in 11 urban territories have facilitated Belgium's home matches. The vast majority of these matches have been played in Brussels at the Heysel Plateau, on the site of the present-day King Baudouin Stadium—a multipurpose office with a seating limit of 50,122. Its field likewise has the group's last trainings before household matches. Since 2007, most physical arrangement happens at the National Football Center in Tubize, or at Anderlecht's preparation ground in the Neerpede quarter. Aside from Belgian home friendlies, at the universal dimension Belgium's national arena has likewise facilitated six European Championship matches. 

In 1930, for the nation's centennial, the setting was initiated as the Jubilee Stadium with an informal match among Belgium and the Netherlands. Around then, the arena had a limit of 75,000. In 1946, it was renamed Heysel Stadium after its city quarter. This new name moved toward becoming related with the catastrophe going before the 1985 European Cup last among Juventus and Liverpool; 39 observers passed on after uproars in the then out of date building. Three years after the debacle, plans were uncovered for a redesign; in 1995, following two years of work, the modernized arena was named after the late King Baudouin. In May 2013, the Brussels-Capital Region declared that the King Baudouin Stadium would be supplanted by Eurostadium, somewhere else on the Heysel Plateau; in 2018, notwithstanding, the designs for the new arena were dropped authoritatively. 

The main live inclusion of a Belgian game happened on 3 May 1931, when columnist Gust De Muynck commentated on the football coordinate among Belgium and the Netherlands on radio. Afterward, football communicates were additionally broadcast. As 60 percent of Belgians communicate in Dutch and 40 percent French, editorials for the national group matches are given in the two dialects. The matches are not communicate in German—Belgium's third official language. Amid Belgium's competition appearances during the 1980s and the mid 1990s, Rik De Saedeleer delegated himself the country's most popular football pundit with his passionate and silly reports. 

At first the matches were transmitted fundamentally on open TV slots: the previous BRTN in Dutch, and the RTBF in French. Since 1994, business channels, for example, vtm and its sister channel Kanaal 2, and VIER in Flanders, have obtained broadcasting rights. As of May 2018, the Euro 2016 round-of-16 coordinate against Hungary was the most-watched program in Belgian TV history, with a crowd of people of more than four million watchers out of 11.3 million Belgian residents. 

In April 2014, the VRT began transmitting a nine-piece, in the background narrative about the national group taped amid the 2014 World Cup qualifiers, titled "Iedereen Duivel" ("Everybody Devil"). Link broadband supplier Telenet communicate an eight-section narrative about individual players titled "Rode Helden" ("Red Heroes"). 

2 weeks before 2018 FIFA World Cup, every single worldwide installation highlighting Belgium are as of now communicated by VTM (in Dutch), RTBF and RTL Group (both in French) until 2022. 

Different occasions were composed for the fans amid the squad's pinnacle ubiquity during the 2010s. Amid the 2014 World Cup qualifiers, a string of intelligent occasions called the "Demon Challenges" were sorted out. The reason was that little gatherings of universal players would complete some help as a byproduct of every one of the five thorough errands their supporters finished ("shading Belgium red", "assemble 500,000 decibels", and so forth.), which were all cultivated. In June 2013, the Belgian national group's first historically speaking Fan Day pulled in more than 20,000 supporters; a second was held after the 2014 World Cup. On the times of Belgium's 2014 World Cup bunch matches, huge move occasions titled "Hit the dance floor with the Devils" occurred in three Belgian urban areas. This kind of happening was continued amid Belgium's Euro 2016 gathering matches. 

Once in a while, the Belgian group legitimately bolstered philanthropy. Somewhere in the range of 1914 and 1941 they played at least five informal matches of which the profits were for beneficent purposes: two against France, and three against the Netherlands. In mid-1986, when the Belgian designation achieved the Mexico World Cup semi-finals, the squad began an undertaking titled Casa Hogar, a thought of assignment pioneer Michel D'Hooghe. Casa Hogar is a home for road youngsters in the Mexican modern city of Toluca, to which the footballers gave some portion of their competition rewards. In August 2013, the national group upheld four social undertakings through the philanthropy subsidize Football+ Foundation, by playing an A-coordinate with an or more sign on the shoulders of their pullovers and selling the shirts. 

In the 21st century, a few national cooperative individuals misbehaved against segregation. In 2002, the national squad held its first enemy of bigotry battle in which they presented with trademarks. A home Euro 2012 qualifier was given the topic of regard for decent variety in 2010; this UEFA-bolstered activity was a piece of the European FARE Action Week. Ex-Red Devil Dimitri Mbuyu—the primary dark Belgium player (in 1987)— was locked in as adoptive parent, and other remote, current, and previous footballers who played in the Belgian top division partook. In 2018, four national cooperative individuals talked facing homophobic savagery, in a video cut made by association Kick It Out. 

Since 2012, the group logo is a red trident (or three-pronged pitchfork), a thing that is regularly connected with the demon. Aside from that, the national squad has additionally had four authority anthropomorphous mascots. The first was a lion in group pack named Diabolix, a reference to the focal image in the Belgian crest that showed up in the group shirts from 1905 to 1980. As per their sobriquet, the following mascots were a red super-fallen angel and two fan-made current fiends; the latest one, since 2018, was named "Red". 

Fanatics of the Belgian national group show the nation's tricolor national banner, typically with an accentuation on the red component. In 2012, nearby supporter clubs converged into one vast Belgian organization named "1895" after the establishment year of the RBFA. After one year, 1895 had 24,000 individuals. The across the country enthusiasm for the football squad has additionally been reflected by the infrequent nearness of Belgian rulers at their matches since 1914. One of the best minutes for the Belgian group and their twelfth man was in mid-1986 when the Belgian designation at the Mexico World Cup got a warm "welcome home". At the point when the World Cup semi-finalists showed up on the overhang of Brussels Town Hall, the connecting Grand Place square was loaded up with an overjoyed group that cheered just as their squad had won a noteworthy competition. 

The group's decay after the 2002 World Cup lead to their nonappearance from the end phases of the following five noteworthy competitions, and stressed their fame. Somewhere in the range of 2004 and 2010, nearby writers called the Belgian footballing country "mortally sick". Of the fans that continued supporting their squad in awful occasions, Ludo Rollenberg was a standout amongst the most faithful. He went to the group's matches worldwide since 1990, missing just the 1999 Japanese Kirin Cup and two different matches by 2006, and was the main supporter to go to their matches in Armenia in 2009. 

Just before the dismiss from a 2014 World Cup home qualifier, Belgium's footballers saw a first tifo flag, estimated portraying a fallen angel in the national hues. The nearness of numerous Belgian players in top groups abroad, for example, the Premier League, and promising outcomes under Marc Wilmots, expanded fans' eagerness and faith in a fruitful World Cup battle. Due to this prevalence top, two Belgian landmarks were improved in national hues for the 2014 FIFA World Cup occasion; the Manneken Pis statue got a youngster estimated adaptation of the new Belgian uniform, and aspects of the Atomium's upper circle were canvassed in dark, yellow and red vinyl. 

Belgium's primary football rivals are its neighbors the Netherlands and France, with which it shares close social and political relations. 

The matchup between the Belgian and Dutch group is known as the Low Countries derby, they have played each other in 126 authority matches. Belgium won the initial four—informal—matches against the Netherlands, however lost their first FIFA-perceived challenge. The two national groups played each other twice per year somewhere in the range of 1905 and 1964, with the exception of amid the World Wars. They have met multiple times in significant competition crusades, and have played something like 35 agreeable glass matches: in Belgium for the "Car Vanden Abeele", and in the Netherlands for the "Rotterdamsch Nieuwsblad-Beker". The general parity supports the Netherlands, with 55 wins against 41 Belgian triumphs. The Low Countries' squads co-worked in raising support activities somewhere in the range of 1925 and 1941; they played five informal counterparts for philanthropy, FIFA and the Belgian Olympic Committee. 

The conflict between the Belgian and French sides is nicknamed "le Match Sympathique" in French ("the Friendly Match"); they have challenged 73 official matches . The primary match among Belgium and France, the "Évence Coppée" Trophy played in 1904, was the main authority coordinate for the two groups and the principal official football coordinate between autonomous nations on the European landmass. Until 1967, the sides met yearly. As of May 2018, France has played regularly against Belgium in global football. Belgium have the better record, with 30 wins to France's 25. Notwithstanding, France has two World Cups and have vanquished the Belgians in every one of the three World Cup experiences. 

Since 1904, the RBFA, 24 perpetual administrators and two overseer directors have formally been accountable for the national group; this incorporates one national footballer selector. , a team of more than 20 RBFA representatives controls the player gathering, including their Spanish administrator Roberto Martínez, his associates Graeme Jones and Thierry Henry, and goalkeeping mentors Erwin Lemmens and Iñaki Bergara. Starting at 6 July 2018, Martínez is factually the best performing Belgium chief with a normal of 2.46 focuses per coordinate. Under Marc Wilmots, Belgium achieved the top FIFA positioning spot in 2015, which earned him the title of Best Coach of the Year at the 2015 Globe Soccer Awards. Under Guy Thys, the squad accomplished record results at World and European titles; "World Soccer" magazine in like manner declared him Manager of the Year in 1986. 

Instead of creating inventive group developments or styles of play, Belgium's chiefs connected traditional strategies. At the three 1930s World Cups, the Red Devils were adjusted in a contemporary 2– 3– 5 "pyramid". In 1954, Doug Livingstone's squad played in a 3– 2– 5 "WM" game plan amid World Cup matches. All through the vast majority of their competition coordinates during the 1970s, the 1980s and the 1990s, the group played in a 4– 2 arrangement. Since Raymond Goethals' stretch during the 1970s, a key quality of the Belgian squad has been their deliberate utilization of the offside snare, a guarded strategy that was at that point seriously connected during the 1960s by Anderlecht mentor Pierre Sinibaldi. As per football columnist Wim De Bock, "ace strategist" Goethals spoke to the "moderate, protective football of the Belgian national group"; he included that during the 1970s, the differentiation between the Belgian playing style and the Total Football of their Dutch adversaries "couldn't be greater". 

While trying to win a match at the 1998 World Cup, Georges Leekens picked a 4– 3– 3 course of action for Belgium's second and third gathering matches. Robert Waseige, Belgium mentor around 2000, said that "most importantly, [his] 4– 2 framework [was] blessed", as in he left great aggressors on the seat to keep his most loved development. Wilmots decided on the 4– 3– 3 line-up once more, with the aim of demonstrating prevailing football against any nation. 

The accompanying 28 players were called up for the UEFA Euro 2020 qualifying matches against Russia and Cyprus on 21 and 24 March 2019, separately. On 18 March both Thomas Meunier and Mousa Dembélé dropped out because of damage. 

<br> 

The accompanying footballers were a piece of a national choice in the previous a year, yet are not part of the present squad. 

Somewhere in the range of 1904 and 1980, chiefly assaulting Belgium players were perceived as skilled footballers. In the group's first decade, striker Robert De Veen was extremely gainful with 26 objectives in 23 universal appearances. Richard Henshaw portrayed Alphonse Six as "Belgium's most noteworthy player in the prewar period ... [who] was regularly called the most capable forward outside Great Britain". The key player of the triumphant 1920 Olympic squad was Robert Coppée, who scored a cap trap against Spain's Ricardo Zamora, and the punishment in the last. Other exceptional Belgian strikers in the interwar period were previous top scorer Bernard Voorhoof and "Belgium's football grandmaster" Raymond Braine, considered "one of the best players of the time". 

Skilled players during the 1940s and the 1950s included focus back Louis Carré and assailants Jef Mermans, Pol Anoul and Rik Coppens; at the 1954 World Cup, Anoul shone with three objectives, and paper "L'équipe" named Coppens the occasion's best focus forward. The 1960s and the mid 1970s were the greatness long periods of forward and four-time Belgian Golden Shoe Paul Van Himst, later chosen Belgian UEFA Golden Player of 1954– 2003 and Belgium's Player of the Century by IFFHS. At the 1965 Ballon d'Or, Van Himst positioned fourth, accomplishing Belgium's most elevated ever position at the European football race. Decades after Coppens and Van Himst had resigned from playing football, a writer on a Flemish TV program solicited them "Who [from both of you] was the best, really?". Coppens answered: "I will ask Paul that ... In the event that Paul says it was me, at that point he's correct". In 1966, striker Raoul Lambert and safeguarding midfielder Wilfried Van Moer joined the national group; while the UEFA adulated Lambert for his abilities at Euro 1972, Van Moer won three Golden Shoes and equalled Van Himst's fourth position at the 1980 Ballon d'Or. 

Belgium has seen two skilled waves since 1980, from which a few players in guarded positions increased universal notoriety. During the 1980s and the mid 1990s, goalkeepers Jean-Marie Pfaff and Michel Preud'homme were chosen best caretakers at FIFA World Cups, while FIFA perceived midfielders Jan Ceulemans and Enzo Scifo as the impelling powers of Belgium's 1986 FIFA World Cup squad. In 2002, after all players of this age had resigned, Marc Wilmots turned into Belgium's top scorer at the World Cup with five objectives. 

Amid the 12 years in which Belgium neglected to meet all requirements for real competitions, another brilliant age developed, the vast majority of whom later included in outside top football associations; starting at July 2013, 12 Belgian national cooperative people would play the following season in the English Premier League. Five players of this age increased both prime individual and group grants in remote top rivalries or European club rivalries: safeguards Vincent Kompany and Jan Vertonghen, wingers Eden Hazard and Kevin De Bruyne, and forward Kevin Mirallas. 

Belgium neglected to advance past the first round of their soonest five World Cup cooperations. After two scoreless thrashings at the debut World Cup in 1930, the group scored in their first-round knockout matches in the 1934 and 1938 versions—yet sufficiently just to spare their respect. In 1954, they tied with England (4– 4 after additional time), and in 1970, they won their first World Cup coordinate, against El Salvador (3– 0). 

From 1982 until 2002, Belgium met all requirements for six progressive World Cups, and in the competition finals they progressed past the first cycle multiple times. In the 1982 FIFA World Cup opener, Belgium beat shielding champions Argentina 1– 0. Their competition finished in the second gathering stage, after a Polish cap trap by Zbigniew Boniek and a 0– 1 misfortune against the Soviet Union. 

At Mexico 1986, the Belgian group accomplished their then best-ever World Cup keep running at the time. In the knockout stage as longshots they beat the Soviets after additional time (3– 4); the unnoticed offside position of Jan Ceulemans, amid the underlying an hour and a half, enabled him to level (2– 2) and power the match into additional time. They additionally beat Spain, in a punishment shoot-out after a 1– 1 draw, however lost to inevitable bosses Argentina in the semi-last 2– 0, and France in the third-place coordinate (4– 2). 

In the 1990 FIFA World Cup, Belgium ruled times of their second-round match against England; Enzo Scifo and Jan Ceulemans hit the woodwork. David Platt's volley in the last moment of additional time, depicted as "about visually impaired" by Richard Witzig, kept away from an obviously goalless attract and prompted the unexpected end of the Belgians. 

In 1994, a 3– 2 annihilation to guarding champions Germany saw Belgium go out in the second round once more. A while later, the whole Belgian assignment condemned arbitrator Kurt Röthlisberger for not granting a punishment for a foul on Belgian Josip Weber. Three attracts the gathering phase of the 1998 World Cup were lacking for Belgium to achieve the knockout stage. With two draws, the 2002 FIFA World Cup began inadequately for Belgium, however they won the conclusive gathering match against Russia 3– 2. In the second round, they confronted possible World Cup champs Brazil; Belgium lost 2– 0 after Marc Wilmots' going opening objective was refused due to a "ghost foul" on Roque Júnior, as Witzig named it. 

In 2014, Belgium beat all their gathering adversaries with a solitary objective distinction. From that point, they played an engaging round of 16 coordinate against the United States, in which American goalkeeper Tim Howard made 15 spares. Notwithstanding, they vanquished the United States 2– 1 in additional time. In a reasonable quarter-last, Argentina wiped out Belgium, after a 1– 0 triumph. 

At the 2018 World Cup, Belgium began with five sequential triumphs (counting bunch prevails upon Panama, Tunisia and England). In the fourth, in the round of 16 coordinate against Japan, they endured a noteworthy difficulty in the second half by being driven 0– 2, yet objectives from Jan Vertonghen and late substitutes Marouane Fellaini and Nacer Chadli prompted an improbable and recorded rebound to 3– 2. Belgium at that point crushed World Cup top choices Brazil 2– 1 on the back of an early Fernandinho possess objective and an objective by Kevin De Bruyne, so Belgium achieved the elimination rounds. Belgium ruled the diversion yet lost to France 0-1, on one of France's uncommon possibilities, in the Semi-Final along these lines losing the opportunity to play in the last of the FIFA 2018 World Cup. They bounced back to win 2-0 in their second triumph over England in the competition to verify third spot and the best ever World Cup result for the Belgian national group. 

With four fruitful capability crusades out of thirteen, Belgium's execution in the European Championship does not come close to their World Cup record. Belgium has facilitated or co-facilitated the occasion twice; they were picked to oblige the UEFA Euro 1972 from three applicants, and facilitated UEFA Euro 2000 with the Netherlands. 

At Euro 1972, Belgium completed third in the wake of losing 1– 2 against West Germany and beating Hungary 2– 1. The group's best mainland result is their second spot at Euro 1980 in Italy. By completing as gathering champs, Belgium achieved the last, to confront West Germany. The West German Horst Hrubesch scored first, yet René Vandereycken evened out affability of a punishment. Two minutes before the normal playing time finished, Hrubesch scored again denying Belgium a first European title. 

At Euro 1984, in their last and definitive gathering match against Denmark, the Belgian group took a 0– 2 lead, however the Danes won the match 3– 2. After sixteen years, Belgium naturally returned at UEFA's national group competition as co-has. In the wake of winning the Euro 2000 opener against Sweden 2– 1, two 2– 0 misfortunes against inevitable sprinters up Italy and Turkey wiped out the Belgians from the competition before the finish of the gathering stage. 

Disregarding winning with wide edges against the Republic of Ireland (3– 0) and Hungary (0– 4) at Euro 2016, Belgium's second exceptionally gifted age baffled with a quarter-last exit. As amid the competition's qualifiers, Wales improved of Belgium, with a 3– 1 success. 

Football competitions for senior men's national groups occurred in six Summer Olympics somewhere in the range of 1908 and 1936. The Belgian squad took an interest in every one of the three Olympic football competitions during the 1920s and kept the gold award at home at the 1920 release. Aside from the correct national group, two other Belgian assignments showed up at the Olympics. At the 1900 Summer Olympics, a Belgian portrayal with essentially understudies won bronze, and at the 2008 version, Belgium's U-23 determination put fourth. 

Belgium's 1920 Olympic squad was given a bye into the quarter-finals, where they won 3– 1 against Spain, and achieved the semi-finals, where they beat the Netherlands 3– 0. In the principal half of their last against Czechoslovakia, the Belgians drove 2– 0. Forward Robert Coppée changed over a questioned early punishment, and the activity in which assailant Henri Larnoe multiplied the score was likewise a matter of discussion. After the rejection of the Czechoslovak left-back Karel Steiner, the disappointed guests left the contribute the 40th moment. A while later, the away group detailed their explanations behind dissent to the Olympic association; these objections were rejected and the Czechoslovaks were excluded. The 2– 0 score was permitted to stand and Belgium were delegated the heroes. 

, the total authority coordinate record of the Belgian national group contains 768 matches: 324 successes, 164 draws and 280 misfortunes. Amid these matches, the group scored multiple times and yielded 1,246 objectives. Belgium's most elevated winning edge is nine objectives, which has been accomplished on three events: against Zambia in 1994 (9– 0), against San Marino in 2001 (10– 1) and against Gibraltar in 2017 (9– 0). Their longest series of wins is seven successes in two periods, and their unbeaten record is 23 back to back authority matches. 

The whole match record can be analyzed on the accompanying articles: 

Up and coming apparatuses are recorded on the 2010s outcomes page. 

The best 10 most topped players - players with an equivalent number of tops are positioned in sequential request of achieving the achievement. 

". The records are gathered dependent on information from FIFA and RSSSF." "Featured names indicate a player as yet playing or accessible for choice." 

, the RBFA records 684 players who showed up on the men's senior national group. With 110 tops as indicated by the RBFA, Jan Vertonghen has the most appearances for Belgium. Jan Ceulemans began the most matches as skipper (48). Hector Goetinck had the longest vocation as a universal footballer: 17 years, a half year and 10 days. 

". The records are gathered dependent on information from FIFA and RSSSF." "Featured names indicate a player as yet playing or accessible for determination." 

Romelu Lukaku is the most astounding scoring Belgium player with 45 objectives. The individuals who scored the most objectives in a single match are Robert De Veen, Bert De Cleyn and Josip Weber (5); De Veen additionally holds the record for the most cap traps with three. Belgium's quickest objective after the underlying commencement was scored by Christian Benteke, 8.1 seconds into the match against Gibraltar on 10 October 2016.