Slate industry in Wales 

The presence of a slate industry in Wales is authenticated since the Roman time frame, when slate was utilized to rooftop the fortress at Segontium, presently Caernarfon. The slate business developed gradually until the mid eighteenth century, at that point extended quickly until the late nineteenth century, at which time the most vital slate creating regions were in northwest Wales, including the Penrhyn Quarry close Bethesda, the Dinorwic Quarry close Llanberis, the Nantlle Valley quarries, and Blaenau Ffestiniog, where the slate was mined instead of quarried. Penrhyn and Dinorwig were the two biggest slate quarries on the planet, and the Oakeley mine at Blaenau Ffestiniog was the biggest slate mine on the planet. Slate is basically utilized for material, but at the same time is delivered as thicker chunk for an assortment of employments including flooring, worktops and tombstones. 

Up to the finish of the eighteenth century, slate was separated on a little scale by gatherings of quarrymen who paid a sovereignty to the landowner, trucked slate to the ports, and afterward delivered it to England, Ireland and some of the time France. Towards the end of the century, the landowners started to work the quarries themselves, on a bigger scale. After the legislature canceled slate obligation in 1831, quick development was impelled by the structure of limited measure railroads to transport the slates to the ports. 

The slate business ruled the economy of north-west Wales amid the second 50% of the nineteenth century, however was on an a lot littler scale somewhere else. In 1898, a work power of 17,000 men delivered a large portion of a million tons of slate. An unpleasant mechanical question at the Penrhyn Quarry somewhere in the range of 1900 and 1903 denoted the start of its decay, and the First World War saw an incredible decrease in the quantity of men utilized in the business. The Great Depression and Second World War prompted the conclusion of numerous littler quarries, and rivalry from other roofing materials, especially tiles, brought about the conclusion of the greater part of the bigger quarries during the 1970s. Slate generation proceeds on a much decreased scale. 

The slate business in North Wales is on the provisional World Heritage Site list while Welsh slate has been assigned by the International Union of Geological Sciences as a Global Heritage Stone Resource. 

The slate stores of Wales have a place with three land arrangement: Cambrian, Ordovician and Silurian. The Cambrian stores run south-west from Conwy to close Criccieth; these stores were quarried in the Penrhyn and Dinorwig quarries and in the Nantlle Valley. There are littler outcrops somewhere else, for instance on Anglesey. The Ordovician stores run south-west from Betws-y-Coed to Porthmadog; these were the stores mined at Blaenau Ffestiniog. There is another band of Ordovician slate further south, running from Llangynnog to Aberdyfi, quarried essentially in the Corris region, with a couple of outcrops in south-west Wales, quite Pembrokeshire. The Silurian stores are primarily further east in the Dee valley and around Machynlleth. 

The excellencies of slate as a structure and roofing material have been perceived since the Roman time frame. The Roman fortification at Segontium, Caernarfon, was initially roofed with tiles, yet the later dimensions contain various slates, utilized for both material and ground surface. The closest stores are around five miles (8 km) away in the Cilgwyn territory, demonstrating that the slates were not utilized just in light of the fact that they were accessible on location. Amid the medieval period, there was little scale quarrying of slate in a few zones. The Cilgwyn quarry in the Nantlle Valley dates from the twelfth century, and is believed to be the most seasoned in Wales. The principal record of slate quarrying in the area of the later Penrhyn Quarry was in 1413, when a lease move of Gwilym ap Griffith records that few of his occupants were paid 10 pence each to work 5,000 slates. Aberllefenni Slate Quarry may have begun working as a slate mine as right on time as the fourteenth century. The most punctual affirmed date of working dates from the mid sixteenth century when the nearby house Plas Aberllefenni was roofed in slates from this quarry. 

Transport issues implied that the slate was typically utilized genuinely near the quarries. There was some vehicle via ocean. A sonnet by the fifteenth century writer Guto'r Glyn solicits the Dean from Bangor to send him a shipload of slates from Aberogwen, close Bangor, to Rhuddlan to rooftop a house at Henllan, close Denbigh. The disaster area of a wooden ship conveying completed slates was found in the Menai Strait and is thought to date from the sixteenth century. Constantly 50% of the sixteenth century, there was a little fare exchange of slates to Ireland from ports, for example, Beaumaris and Caernarfon. Slate trades from the Penrhyn domain are recorded from 1713 when 14 shipments totalling 415,000 slates were sent to Dublin. The slates were conveyed to the ports by pack-steeds, and later via trucks. This was in some cases done by ladies, the main female inclusion in what was generally an only male industry. 

Until the late eighteenth century, slate was separated from numerous little pits by little organizations of nearby men, who did not possess the cash-flow to extend further. The quarrymen for the most part needed to pay a lease or sovereignty to the landowner, however the quarrymen at Cilgwyn did not. A letter from the operator of the Penrhyn bequest, John Paynter, in 1738 gripes that challenge from Cilgwyn was influencing the offers of Penrhyn slates. The Cilgwyn slates could be removed all the more economically and sold at a more expensive rate. Penrhyn presented bigger sizes of slate somewhere in the range of 1730 and 1740, and gave these sizes the names which ended up standard. These ran from "Duchesses", the biggest at by , through "Noblewomen", "Women" and "Copies" to the littlest "Singles". 

Methusalem Jones, already a quarryman at Cilgwyn, started to work the Diffwys quarry at Blaenau Ffestiniog during the 1760s, which turned into the primary extensive quarry in the region. The expansive landowners were at first substance to issue "take notes", enabling people to quarry slates on their territories for a yearly lease of a couple of shillings and a sovereignty on the slates created. The main landowner to assume control over the working of slates on his property was the proprietor of the Penrhyn bequest, Richard Pennant, later Baron Penrhyn. In 1782, the men working quarries on the home were purchased out or shot out, and Pennant designated James Greenfield as specialist. That year, Lord Penrhyn opened another quarry at Caebraichycafn close Bethesda, which as Penrhyn Quarry would turn into the biggest slate quarry on the planet. By 1792, this quarry was utilizing 500 men and creating 15,000 tons of slate every year. At Dinorwig, a solitary vast association took over in 1787, and in 1809 the landowner, Thomas Assheton Smith of Vaynol, took the administration of the quarry into his very own hands. The Cilgwyn quarries were taken over by an organization in 1800, and the dissipated operations at all three areas were amalgamated into a solitary quarry. The main steam motor to be utilized in the slate business was a siphon introduced at the Hafodlas quarry in the Nantlle Valley in 1807, yet most quarries depended on hydropower to drive hardware. 

Ridges was at this point creating the greater part the United Kingdom's yield of slate, 26,000 tons out of an all out UK generation of 45,000 tons in 1793. In July 1794, the legislature forced a 20% duty on all slate conveyed coastwise, which put the Welsh makers off guard contrasted with inland makers who could utilize the channel system to circulate their item. There was no expense on slates sent abroad, and fares to the United States step by step expanded. The Penrhyn Quarry kept on developing, and in 1799 Greenfield presented the arrangement of "exhibitions", immense porches from 9 metres to 21 metres top to bottom. In 1798, Lord Penrhyn developed the pony attracted Llandegai Tramway to transport slates from Penrhyn Quarry, and in 1801 this was supplanted by the tight check Penrhyn Quarry Railway, one of the soonest railroad lines. The slates were transported to the ocean at Port Penrhyn which had been built during the 1790s. The Padarn Railway was opened in 1824 as a tramway for the Dinorwig Quarry, and changed over to a railroad in 1843. It kept running from Gilfach Ddu close Llanberis to Port Dinorwic at Y Felinheli. The Nantlle Railway was worked in 1828 and was worked utilizing pull to convey slate from a few slate quarries in the Nantlle Valley to the harbor at Caernarfon. 

In 1831 slate obligation was abrogated, and this delivered a quick extension in the business, especially since the obligation on tiles was not nullified until 1833. The Ffestiniog Railway line was developed somewhere in the range of 1833 and 1836 to transport slate from Blaenau Ffestiniog to the seaside town of Porthmadog, where it was stacked onto ships. The railroad was evaluated with the goal that stacked slate wagons could be controlled by gravity downhill right from Blaenau Ffestiniog to the port. The vacant wagons were pulled back up by steeds, which went down in 'dandy' wagons. This helped development at the Blaenau Ffestiniog quarries, which had recently needed to truck the slate to Maentwrog to be stacked onto little water crafts and brought down the River Dwyryd to the estuary, where it was exchanged to bigger vessels. There was further development at Blaenau when John Whitehead Greaves, who had been running the Votty quarry since 1833, took a rent on the land between this quarry and the principle Ffestiniog to Betws-y-Coed street. Following quite a while of burrowing he struck the well known Old Vein in 1846 in what turned into the Llechwedd quarry. A flame which demolished an expansive piece of Hamburg in 1842 prompted an interest for slate for modifying, and Germany turned into a vital market, especially for Ffestiniog slate. 

In 1843, the Padarn Railway turned into the principal quarry railroad to utilize steam trains, and the vehicle of slate via train instead of by ship was made simpler when the London and North Western Railway manufactured branches to interface Port Penrhyn and Port Dinorwic to the principle line in 1852. The Corris Railway opened as the steed worked Corris, Machynlleth and River Dovey Tramroad in 1859, interfacing the slate quarries around Corris and Aberllefenni with wharves on the estuary of the River Dyfi. The Ffestiniog Railway changed over to steam in 1863, and the Talyllyn Railway was opened in 1866 to serve the Bryn Eglwys quarry over the town of Abergynolwyn. Bryn Eglwys developed to be one of the biggest quarries in mid Wales, utilizing 300 men and delivering 30% of the complete yield of the Corris area. The Cardigan Railway was opened in 1873, mostly to convey slate traffic, and empowered the Glogue quarry in Pembrokeshire to develop to utilize 80 men. 

Motorization was bit by bit acquainted with make most parts of the business progressively effective, especially at Blaenau Ffestiniog where the Ordovician slate was less fragile than the Cambrian slate further north, and in this way simpler to work by machine. The slate factory developed somewhere in the range of 1840 and 1860, fueled by a solitary line shaft running along the structure and uniting tasks, for example, sawing, planing and dressing. In 1859, John Whitehead Greaves concocted the Greaves sawing table to deliver obstructs for the splitter, at that point in 1856 acquainted a turning machine with dress the split slate. The part of the squares to create material slates demonstrated impervious to automation, and kept on being finished with a hammer and etch. An additional wellspring of pay from the 1860s was the generation of "chunk", thicker bits of slate which were planed and utilized for some reasons, for instance ground surface, gravestones and billiard tables. 

The bigger quarries could be profoundly beneficial. The "Mining Journal" evaluated in 1859 that the Penrhyn quarries delivered a yearly net benefit of GB£100,000, and the Dinorwig Quarry £70,000 every year. From 1860 onwards slate costs climbed consistently. Quarries extended and the number of inhabitants in the quarrying locale expanded, for instance the number of inhabitants in Ffestiniog ward expanded from 732 out of 1801 to 11,274 of every 1881. All out Welsh generation achieved 350,000 tons per year before the finish of the 1860s. Of this aggregate, over 100,000 tons originated from the Bethesda zone, for the most part from the Penrhyn Quarry. Blaenau Ffestiniog delivered nearly to such an extent, and the Dinorwig Quarry alone created 80,000 tons every year. The Nantlle Valley quarries created 40,000 tons, while the rest of Wales outside these territories delivered just about 20,000 tons every year. By the late 1870s, Wales was creating 450,000 tons of slate every year, contrasted and simply over 50,000 tons for the remainder of the United Kingdom, which at that point included Ireland. In 1882, 92% of the United Kingdom's generation was from Wales with the quarries at Penrhyn and Dinorwig creating half of this between them. Alun Richards remarks on the significance of the slate business: 

The success of the slate business prompted the development of various other related enterprises. Shipbuilding expanded at various waterfront areas, especially at Porthmadog, where 201 boats were worked somewhere in the range of 1836 and 1880. Building organizations were set up to supply the quarries, quite De Winton at Caernarfon. In 1870, De Winton fabricated and prepared a whole workshop for the Dinorwig Quarry, with apparatus controlled by overhead shafting that in its turn was driven by the biggest water-wheel in the United Kingdom, over 50 feet in distance across. 

There were a few unique classes of specialist in the quarries. The quarrymen appropriate, who made up simply over half of the workforce, worked the slate in associations of three, four, six or eight, known as "deal packs". A pack of four regularly comprised of two "rockmen" who might shoot the stone to deliver obstructs, a splitter, who might part the squares with mallet and etch, and a dresser. A "rybelwr" would more often than not be a kid learning his exchange, who might meander around the displays offering help to the posses. At times a posse would give him a square of slate to part. Different gatherings were the "awful rockmen" who for the most part worked in groups of three, expelling unworkable shake from the face, and the "junk men" who cleared the waste shake from the exhibitions and fabricated the tips of waste which encompassed the quarry. One ton of saleable slate could create up to 30 tons of waste. 

The awful rockmen and refuse men were generally paid by the ton of material evacuated, yet the quarrymen were paid by an increasingly confounded framework. Some portion of the installment was controlled by the quantity of slates the posse created, yet this could change extraordinarily as indicated by the idea of the stone in the area distributed to them. The men would subsequently be paid an additional aggregate of "poundage" per pound of slate delivered. "Deals" were let by the setting steward, who might concur a cost for a specific region of shake. In the event that the stone in the deal allotted to a posse was poor, they would be paid a higher poundage, while great shake implied a lower poundage. The primary Monday of consistently was "deal letting day" when these understandings were made among men and the board. The men needed to pay for their ropes and chains, for apparatuses and for administrations, for example, honing and fixing. Subs (propels) were paid each week, everything being settled up "upon the arrival of the enormous pay". In the event that conditions had not been great, the men could finish up owing the administration cash. This framework was not at last canceled until after the Second World War. 

As a result of this game plan, the men would in general consider themselves to be self employed entities instead of representatives on a pay, and worker's organizations were moderate to create. There were complaints be that as it may, incorporating injustice in setting deals and disagreements about days off. The North Wales Quarrymen's Union (NWQMU) was shaped in 1874, and that year there were question at Dinorwig and afterward at Penrhyn. Both these debate finished in triumph for the specialists, and by May 1878, the association had 8,368 individuals. One of the organizers of the association, Morgan Richards, portrayed in 1876 the conditions when he began work in the quarries forty years prior: 

In 1879, a time of twenty years of practically continuous development arrived at an end, and the slate business was hit by a retreat which kept going until the 1890s. The executives reacted by fixing standards and making it progressively troublesome for the men to get some much needed rest. Work relations were compounded by contrasts in language, religion and legislative issues between the opposite sides. The proprietors and top supervisors at a large portion of the quarries were English-speaking, Anglican and Tory, while the quarrymen were Welsh-talking and for the most part Nonconformist and Liberal. Exchanges between the opposite sides normally included the utilization of translators. In October 1885, there was a question at Dinorwig over the reducing of occasions which prompted a lock-out enduring until February 1886. At the Penrhyn Quarry, George Sholto Gordon Douglas-Pennant took over from his dad Edward Gordon Douglas-Pennant in 1885, and in 1886 named E. A. Youthful as boss administrator. An increasingly stringent administration routine was presented, and relations with the workforce crumbled. This finished in the suspension of 57 individuals from the association council and 17 other men in September 1896, prompting a strike which kept going eleven months. The men were in the long run obliged to return to work, basically on the administration's terms, in August 1897. This strike wound up known as "The Penrhyn Lockout". 

There was an upturn in exchange 1892, proclaiming another time of development in the business. This development was principally at Blaenau Ffestiniog and in the Nantlle Valley, where the workforce at Penyrorsedd achieved 450. Slate creation in Wales crested at over a large portion of a million tons in 1898, with 17,000 men utilized in the business. A second lock-out or strike at the Penrhyn Quarry started on 22 November 1900 and went on for a long time. The reasons for the question were unpredictable, however incorporated the expansion of an arrangement of contracting out pieces of the quarry. The quarrymen, rather than orchestrating their own deals, would wind up working for a contractual worker. The association's assets for strike pay were lacking, and there was a lot of hardship among the 2,800 laborers. Ruler Penrhyn revived the quarry in June 1901, and around 500 men came back to work, to be blasted as "swindlers" by the rest of. In the long run the laborers were compelled to come back to work in November 1903 on terms set somewhere near Lord Penrhyn. Huge numbers of the men considered to have been conspicuous in the association were not re-utilized, and a considerable lot of the individuals who had left the zone to look for work somewhere else did not return. The question left an enduring inheritance of sharpness in the Bethesda zone. 

The loss of creation at Penrhyn prompted a brief lack of slates and kept costs high, yet part of the deficiency was made up by imports. French fares of slate to the UK expanded from 40,000 tons in 1898 to 105,000 tons in 1902. After 1903 there was a sorrow in the slate business which prompted decreases in pay and occupation misfortunes. New systems in tile produce had decreased costs, making tiles increasingly aggressive. Eight Ffestiniog quarries shut somewhere in the range of 1908 and 1913, and the Oakley rejected 350 men in 1909. R. Merfyn Jones remarks: 

The First World War hit the slate business seriously, especially in Blaenau Ffestiniog where fares to Germany had been an essential wellspring of salary. Cilgwyn, the most established quarry in Wales, shut in 1914, however it later revived. In 1917, slate quarrying was pronounced a superfluous industry and various quarries were shut for the rest of the war. The interest for new houses after the finish of the war brought back a proportion of success; in the slate mines of Blaenau Ffestiniog creation was practically back to 1913 dimensions by 1927, however in the quarries the yield was still well underneath the pre-war level. The Great Depression during the 1930s prompted cuts underway, with fares especially hard hit. 

The quarries and mines utilized motorization from the beginning of the twentieth century, with power supplanting steam and water as a power source. The Llechwedd Quarry presented its first electrical plant in 1891, and in 1906, a hydro-electric plant was opened in Cwm Dyli, on the lower inclines of Snowdon, which provided power to the biggest quarries in the territory. The utilization of electric saws and other hardware decreased the hard difficult work associated with removing the slate, yet delivered substantially more slate dust than the old manual strategies, prompting an expanded frequency of silicosis. The work was additionally perilous in different ways, with the impacting activities in charge of numerous passings. An administration enquiry in 1893 found that the demise rate for underground laborers in the slate mines was 3.23 per thousand, higher than the rate for coal excavators. 

The flare-up of World War II in 1939 prompted a serious drop in exchange. Some portion of the Manod (Cwt-y-Bugail) mine at Blaenau Ffestiniog was utilized to store workmanship treasures from the National Gallery and the Tate Gallery. The quantity of men utilized in the slate business in North Wales dropped from 7,589 of every 1939 to 3,520 before the finish of the war. In 1945, complete generation was just 70,000 tons per year, and less than 20 quarries were as yet open contrasted and 40 preceding the war. The Nantlle Valley had been especially hard hit, with just 350 laborers utilized in the whole area, contrasted and 1,000 out of 1937. Interest for slate was dropping as tiles were progressively utilized for material, and imports from nations, for example, Portugal, France and Italy were expanding. There was some expanded interest for slates to fix besieged structures after the finish of the war, however the utilization of slate for new structures was restricted, aside from the littlest sizes. This boycott was lifted in 1949. 

Complete creation of slate in Wales declined from 54,000 tons in 1958 to 22,000 tons in 1970. The Diffwys quarry at Blaenau Ffestiniog shut in 1955 after very nearly two centuries of activity. The adjacent Votty and Bowydd quarries shut in 1963. In 1969, the Dinorwig Quarry was shut, and more than 300 quarrymen lost their positions. The next year the Dorothea Quarry in the Nantlle Valley and the Braichgoch Slate Mine close Corris declared their conclusion. The Oakeley mine at Blaenau Ffestiniog shut in 1971, yet was later revived by another organization. By 1972, the quantity of men utilized in the North Wales slate industry was down to under 1,000. There was minimal elective work in the slate-creating regions, and the terminations brought about high joblessness and a drop in populace as more youthful individuals moved away to look for some kind of employment. In 1979, after a long battle, the legislature perceived silicosis as a mechanical malady justifying remuneration. There was an expansion popular for slate during the 1980s, and in spite of the fact that this came past the point of no return for some quarries there was still some creation in the Blaenau Ffestiniog region at the Oakeley, Llechwedd and Cwt-y-Bugail quarries, however the greater part of material slate generation was at the Penrhyn Quarry. Further motorization was presented, with a mechanized laser pillar being utilized to help the sawing of the slate squares. 

The Penrhyn Quarry is as yet delivering slate, however at a much diminished limit from its prime toward the finish of the nineteenth century. In 1995, it represented practically half of UK creation. It is right now claimed and worked by Welsh Slate Ltd (some portion of the Breedon Group ). It was recently possessed by the Lagan Group, which additionally claimed and did a few activities at the Oakeley quarry at Blaenau Ffestiniog, the Pen yr Orsedd quarry in the Nantlle Vale, and the Cwt-y-Bugail quarry. In March 2010 the organization declared its choice to mothball the Oakeley quarry due to subsidence at the site. 

The Greaves Welsh Slate Company produces material slates and other slate items from Llechwedd, and work likewise proceeds at the Berwyn Quarry close Llangollen. The last expansive scale underground attempting to close was Maenofferen, related with the Llechwedd visitor mine, in 1999: some portion of this site, presently adequately amalgamated with Votty/Bowydd, is still worked by untopping. The Wales Millennium Center in Cardiff utilizes squander slate in a wide range of hues in its structure: purple slate from Penrhyn, blue from Cwt-y-Bugail, green from Nantlle, dim from Llechwedd, and dark from Corris. 

Some portion of the Dinorwig Slate Quarry is currently inside the Padarn Country Park, and the other part houses the Dinorwig control station in natural hollows under the old quarry activities. The National Slate Museum is situated in a portion of the quarry workshops. The exhibition hall has shows including Victorian slate-laborers' houses that once remained at Tanygrisiau close Blaenau Ffestiniog. Just as numerous shows, it has the multi-media show "To Steal a Mountain", demonstrating the lives and work of the men who quarried slate here. The historical center has the biggest working water wheel in the United Kingdom, which is accessible for survey through a few walkways, and a reestablished grade once in the past used to convey slate wagons tough and downhill. 

In Blaenau Ffestiniog, the Llechwedd Slate Caverns have been changed over into a guest fascination. Guests can go on the Miners' Tramway or plummet into the Deep Mine, by means of a funicular railroad which utilizes an old grade, to investigate this previous slate mine and figure out how slate was separated and prepared and about the lives of the diggers. The Deep Mine, opened in 1979, is gotten to by Britain's steepest traveler railroad, with a slope of 1:1.8 or 30°. In the chambers, framed by slate extraction, sound and light is utilized to recount to the narrative of the mine and mining. The Braichgoch slate mines at Corris have been changed over into a vacation spot named "Ruler Arthur's Labyrinth" where guests are taken underground by watercraft along an underground waterway. They at that point stroll through the sinkholes to see varying media introductions of the Arthurian legends and stories from the Mabinogion and the stories of Taliesin. The Llwyngwern slate quarry close Machynlleth is currently the site of the Center for Alternative Technology. Some of the railroads which conveyed the slates to the ports have been reestablished as vacation destinations, for instance the Ffestiniog Railway and the Talyllyn Railway. 

The Welsh slate industry was basically a Welsh-talking industry. The majority of the workforce in the primary slate-creating territories of North Wales were drawn from the neighborhood, little movement from outside Wales. The business affected the way of life of the zone and on that of Wales overall. The "caban", the lodge where the quarrymen accumulated for their mid-day break, was frequently the scene of wide-running exchanges, which were regularly formally minuted. An enduring arrangement of minutes from a "caban" at the Llechwedd dig at Blaenau Ffestiniog for 1908– 10 records discourses on Church Disestablishment, tax change and other political points. Eisteddfodau were held, verse created and talked about and a large portion of the bigger quarries had their very own band, with the Oakley band especially celebrated. Consume computes that there are around fifty men made a decision about deserving of a passage in the "Lexicon of Welsh Biography" who began their working lives as slate quarrymen, contrasted with just four proprietors, however clearly there was additionally a particular difference in the quantities of the two gatherings. 

Various Welsh authors have drawn on the lives of the quarrymen for their material, for instance the books of T. Rowland Hughes. "Chwalfa", converted into English as "Out of their night" (1954), has the Penrhyn Quarry debate as a foundation, while "Y cychwyn", deciphered as "The starting" (1969), pursues the apprenticeship of a youthful quarryman. A few books by Kate Roberts, the little girl of a quarryman, give an image of the territory around Rhosgadfan, where the slate business was on a littler scale and a significant number of the quarrymen were likewise smallholders. Her epic "Traed mewn cyffion" (1936), deciphered as "Feet in chains" (2002), gives a striking image of the battles of a quarrying family in the period somewhere in the range of 1880 and 1914. "Y Chwarelwr" ("The Quarryman") created in 1935 was the principal Welsh-language film. It demonstrated different parts of a slate quarryman's life at Blaenau Ffestiniog.