Sheshi 

Maaibre Sheshi (likewise Sheshy) was a leader of zones of Egypt amid the Second Intermediate Period. The administration, sequential position, span and degree of his rule are unsure and subject to progressing banter. The trouble of recognizable proof is reflected by issues in deciding occasions from the finish of the Middle Kingdom to the entry of the Hyksos in Egypt. Regardless, Sheshi is, as far as the quantity of antiques credited to him, the best-authenticated lord of the period traversing the finish of the Middle Kingdom and the Second Intermediate time frame; generally from c. 1800 BC until 1550 BC. Several scaraboid seals bearing his name have been found all through Canaan, Egypt, Nubia, and as far away as Carthage, where some were still being used 1500 years after his passing. 

Three contending speculations have been advanced for the tradition to which Sheshi had a place. Egyptologists, for example, Nicolas Grimal, William C. Hayes, and Donald B. Redford trust he ought to be related to Salitis, author of the fifteenth Dynasty as indicated by recorded sources and ruler of the Hyksos amid their attack of Egypt. Salitis is credited with 19 years of rule and would have lived at some point between c. 1720 BC and 1650 BC. The Egyptologist William Ayres Ward and the paleologist Daphna Ben-Tor suggest that Sheshi was a Hyksos lord and has a place with the second 50% of the fifteenth Dynasty, ruling among Khyan and Apophis. On the other hand, Manfred Bietak has recommended that Sheshi was a vassal of the Hyksos, managing over some piece of Egypt or Canaan. The very presence of such vassals is discussed. At long last, Sheshi could be a leader of the mid fourteenth Dynasty, a line of rulers of Canaanite drop managing over of the Eastern Nile Delta preceding the landing of the Hyksos. Defenders of this hypothesis, for example, Kim Ryholt and Darrell Baker, acknowledge Sheshi for a long time of rule beginning "c". 1745 BC. 

Ryholt suggested that Sheshi unified his kingdom with the Kushites in Nubia by means of a dynastic marriage with the Nubian princess Tati. Ryholt further sets that the child of Sheshi and Tati was Nehesy, whose name signifies "The Nubian", whom he accepts succeeded Sheshi to the position of royalty as the pharaoh Nehesy Aasehre. 

The nomen of Sheshi is recorded on more than two hundred scarab seals, which comprise the sole verifications of his rule. The quantity of scarabs credited to Sheshi is paralleled in number just by those bearing the prenomen "Maaibre", which means ""The honorable one is the core of Ra"". In view of the nearby complex similitudes between the two gatherings of scarabs just as their generally unmatched numbers, the accord among Egyptologists is that Maaibre was the prenomen of Sheshi. 

Thus, Maaibre Sheshi is the best confirmed leader of the Second Intermediate Period regarding the quantity of relics credited to him, with 396 seals and two seal impressions demonstrating his nomen or prenomen. This figure is multiple times higher than the 123 seals ascribed to the following best validated lord of the period, Yakbim Sekhaenre. 

Notwithstanding these seals, Manfred Bietak has recommended that a scarab found in Avaris and engraved with the name of a ruler ""Shenshek"" ought to most likely be credited to Sheshi. This end is dismissed by Kim Ryholt and Darrell Baker, who trust that Shenshek was a different ruler. 

More than 80 percent of the seals credited to Maaibre Sheshi are of obscure provenance, however the rest of the 20 percent have been found all through Egypt, Nubia and Canaan, demonstrating broad exchange and strategic contacts amid Sheshi's rule. 

Imperative finds incorporate seals from Lachish, Gezer, Jericho, Tel Michal, Amman and Tell el-Ajjul in Canaan. In Lower Egypt, three seals have been uncovered in Tell el-Yahudiya and Tell el-Mashkuta and a further eight are from the more extensive Delta locale. Four seals begin from Saqqara and a further five from the Middle Egyptian locales of Abusir el-Melek, Kom Medinet Ghurab, Kom el-Ahmar and Deir Rifa. Toward the south, in Upper Egypt, a sum of twenty seals are known from Abydos, Hu, Thebes, Elephantine, Esna and Edfu, 

In Nubia, seals of Sheshi have been found in the Egyptian posts of Uronarti and Mirgissa and generally in Dakka, Kerma, , Aniba, Masmas, Faras, Ukma, Akasha and Sai. 

At last, two seal impressions of Sheshi have been found in Carthage, in a setting dated archeologically to the second century BC. 

The seals of Sheshi are presently dissipated in a wide range of historical centers, including the Israel Museum, Petrie Museum, Ashmolean, British Museum, Louver, Walters Art Museum, Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Egyptian Museum of Cairo. 

No chronicled authentication of Sheshi is known beyond a shadow of a doubt. Sheshi is missing from the Turin ordinance, a rundown of lords composed on papyrus amid the Ramesside time frame and which fills in as the essential authentic hotspot for the second middle of the road time frame. This is on the grounds that the segment of the papyrus covering the thirteenth to seventeenth Dynasties is intensely harmed and the issue of Sheshi's sequential position can't be settled from the record. 

It is vague whether Sheshi is referenced in the "Aegyptiaca", a past filled with Egypt written in the third century BC amid the rule of Ptolemy II (283– 246 BC) by the Egyptian cleric Manetho. Without a doubt, the "Aegyptiaca" just reports Hellenized names for Egyptian pharaohs and the ID of Sheshi with a specific name stays disputable. 

At long last, Aharon Kempinski and Donald B. Redford have recommended that Sheshi is the verifiable assume that offered ascend to the Biblical Sheshai, one of the Anakim living in Hebron at the season of the victory of Canaan by the Hebrews as indicated by . David Rohl goes considerably further and unequivocally likens Sheshi with Sheshai. 

Three contending theories have been proposed in regards to the line to which Sheshi had a place. 

William C. Hayes, Nicolas Grimal, Redford, and Peter Clayton distinguish Sheshi with Salitis (otherwise called Saites). As indicated by the "Aegyptiaca", Salitis was the organizer of the Hyksos fifteenth Dynasty. On the other hand, Bietak and Janine Bourriau have suggested that Salitis ought to be related to Sakir-Har, an ineffectively known leader of the second transitional period who, as opposed to Sheshi, is known to have borne the title of "Hyksos". 

On the off chance that Sheshi is to be likened with Salitis, at that point the seals of Sheshi found in Nubia recommend that the Hyksos aligned themselves with the Nubians against the local Egyptian thirteenth Dynasty when they landed in the Nile Delta, an occasion which Grimal places c. 1720 BC. Grimal imagines Sheshi's kingdom as containing the whole Nile Delta and the Nile valley north of Gebelein. As indicated by Manetho as detailed by Josephus in "Against Apion", Salitis ruled from Memphis, and sustained the current town of Avaris, which was to turn into the Hyksos' seat of intensity. 

Grimal and Hayes further liken Sheshi with Sharek, a ruler whose sole verification is found on a stone section itemizing the family history of Ankhefensekhmet, a minister who inhabited the finish of the 22nd Dynasty c. 750 BC, nearly 900 years after Sheshi's evaluated lifetime. 

William Ayres Ward and the prehistorian Daphna Ben-Tor depend on seriations of the seals of Sheshi and different lords of the second halfway period to date Sheshi to the second 50% of the fifteenth Dynasty, between the incomparable Hyksos pharaohs Khyan and Apophis. 

Jürgen von Beckerath is less decisive about Sheshi's personality and appoints him to his joined fifteenth/sixteenth Dynasty, where he regroups Hyksos rulers whose ordered position is dubious together with rulers whom he sees as vassals of the Hyksos. Von Beckerath's examination depends on the speculation that Manetho's sixteenth Dynasty involved minor leaders of the Nile Delta locale, called lesser Hyksos, who served the incomparable Hyksos rulers of the fifteenth Dynasty, for example, Khyan and Apophis. 

For Manfred Bietak, the huge number of validations of Sheshi recommends that he was an imperative Hyksos ruler, yet his consideration in the fifteenth Dynasty might be suspicious given the all out nonappearance of landmarks owing to him. Subsequently, Bietak infers that Sheshi ought to be set in a gathering of West Semitic rulers who existed together with the fifteenth Dynasty, potentially as vassals or somewhat autonomously from it, and some of whom even bore the title of "Hyksos". 

The presence of lesser Hyksos lords in Egypt is as of now discussed. Ryholt has demonstrated that an announcement in Eusebius' encapsulation of the "Aegyptiaca" showing that the Hyksos had vassals contains a debasement of Manetho's unique content. Along these lines, he rejects the theory that the sixteenth Dynasty involved vassals of the Hyksos and keeps up rather that it was a local Egyptian administration autonomously ruling over the Theban district between the fall of the thirteenth Dynasty and the appearance of the seventeenth Dynasty. 

These ends on the sixteenth Dynasty have been acknowledged by numerous researchers, including Ben-Tor, James Peter Allen, Susan Allen, Baker and Redford. However, for both Redford and Bietak "without uncertainty, there were, under the umbrella of the fifteenth line rulers, a progression of vassals in southern and beach front Palestine, in Middle Egypt, and in Thebes. ... Such was the political arrangement of the Hyksos, and run of the mill of the Amorite kingdoms in Syria and the city-states in Palestine". 

Ryholt and Baker dismiss the distinguishing proof of Sheshi as a fifteenth Dynasty ruler. 

Ryholt sees that early Hyksos rulers, for example, Sakir-Har and Khyan, are known to have received the title "Heqa khasewet" signifying "leader of the outside nations", a title which Sheshi did not shoulder. Moreover, the later of these two lords, Khyan, just received an Egyptian prenomen amid the second 50% of his rule—a training that was trailed by ensuing Hyksos rulers. Interestingly, on the off chance that Sheshi is to be related to Maaibre, at that point Sheshi bore a prenomen. This infers either that he was a Hyksos lord ruling after Khyan, in logical inconsistency with Khyan's known successors Apophis and Khamudi and the way that Sheshi did not shoulder the title of "Heqa khasewet"; or that he had a place with another line. 

Subsequently, Ryholt recommends that Sheshi was really a fourteenth Dynasty ruler, the fourteenth Dynasty being a line of rulers of Canaanite plunge potentially managing over the Eastern Nile Delta preceding the entry of the Hyksos fifteenth Dynasty. Numerous Egyptologists acknowledge the presence of the fourteenth Dynasty dependent on archeological proof and on the way that around 50 rulers are recorded in the Turin ordinance between the thirteenth Dynasty and the later Hyksos rulers. At the inverse, Redford recommended that these 50 rulers comprise the family history of the Hyksos rulers and that the fourteenth Dynasty is illusory. 

In light of a seriation of the scarab seals of the Second Intermediate Period accessible in 1900, George Willoughby Fraser had the capacity to date Sheshi's rule to "a short tradition before the Hyksos attack". All the more as of late, Ryholt got a comparable outcome utilizing his very own seriation and spots Sheshi before Yaqub-Har and the incomparable Hyksos rulers Khyan and Apophis and after Yakbim Sekhaenre, Ya'ammu Nubwoserre, Qareh Khawoserre and 'Ammu Ahotepre. Rolf Krauss freely achieved a similar end. Given that the most punctual fourteenth Dynasty ruler referenced on the Turin standard is Nehesy, a lord who left a few verifications of his reign in the Delta district, and that there is space for one ancestor for Nehesy on the ordinance, Ryholt presumes that the prior record from which the group was duplicated had a lacuna going before Nehesy. Such lacunae are noted as "wsf" on the group and could cover any number of rulers. Along these lines, Ryholt sees no hindrance with having Sheshi succeed 'Ammu Ahotepre and quickly go before Nehesy. 

Ryholt dates Sheshi's rule to the mid eighteenth century BC. His principle contention is the nearness of seals of Sheshi and of two lords of the mid thirteenth Dynasty Sekhemrekhutawy Khabaw and Djedkheperew in the Egyptian stronghold of Uronarti in Nubia. The stronghold of Uronarti was deserted eventually in the thirteenth Dynasty, an occasion which Ryholt dates to the rule of Djedkheperew given the absence of seals inferable from ensuing lords. Ryholt in this manner suggests that Sheshi ruled from c. 1745 BC until 1705 BC and was a contemporary of Khabaw and Djedkheperew. 

Ryholt's speculation in regards to Sheshi accompanies his dating the beginning of the fourteenth Dynasty around 1805 BC, more than 90 years sooner than acknowledged by generally Egyptologists. They propose rather that the fourteenth Dynasty rose amid the two many years of Merneferre Ay's rule, which is dated to between 1700 BC and 1660 BC, contingent upon the researcher. Ay is the last thirteenth Dynasty pharaoh to be bore witness to in Lower Egypt, and most researchers, along these lines, fight that he relinquished Itjtawy, the capital of Egypt since the rule of Amenemhat I (c. 1980 BC), for Thebes as he lost control of the Delta area to the fourteenth Dynasty. 

In the event that Sheshi is to be related to Salitis, the originator of the fifteenth Dynasty after Manetho, at that point he would have lived around 1650 BC, the date settled upon by most Egyptologists, including Ryholt, for the entry of the Hyksos in Egypt. In the event that Sheshi lived amid the second 50% of the fifteenth Dynasty between the rules of Khyan and Apophis as Ben-Tor and Ward support then Sheshi would have ruled c. 1600 BC. 

The Egyptologists distinguishing Sheshi with Salitis pursue Josephus, Sextus Julius Africanus and Eusebius who report that Manetho acknowledged Salitis for a long time of reign in his "Aegyptiaca". Ryholt depends rather on a measurable technique and evaluations the term of Sheshi's rule to have been somewhere in the range of 20 and 53 years. The technique comprises in counting the seals of Yakbim Sekhaenre, Ya'ammu Nubwoserre, Qareh Khawoserre and 'Ammu Ahotepre with those of Sheshi. At that point, realizing that the initial four of these rulers ruled for in any event c. 30 years, suggests that they have left somewhere in the range of 7.5 and 20 seals for each year on position of authority. Thusly, Sheshi's about 400 scarabs would compare to 20 to 53 years, which Ryholt gives as c. 40 years. 

Ryholt recommends that Sheshi had no less than two consorts; Tati with whom he fathered his successor pharaoh Nehesy, and an obscure ruler with whom he fathered a sovereign Ipqu. Ryholt achieved this end on taking note of that scarabs of ruler Tati and Princes Ipqu and Nehesy bear expressive markers which are found on those of Sheshi and in this way that they more likely than not been counterparts. Likewise, "Tati" is bore witness to as a female Nubian name in prior repulsion writings, which would clarify the impossible to miss name of Nehesy signifying "the Nubian". For Ryholt, Sheshi's inspiration driving a dynastic marriage with a Kushite princess was to partner his kingdom with the Nubians. Ryholt's speculation concerning Nehesy might be vindicated by various scarabs giving Nehesy the titles of "ruler's child" and of "oldest lord child", showing that Nehesy's dad was a lord also. Furthermore, both Nehesy and Ipqu bore the titles of "lord's child of Ra", a conflation of the titles "child of Ra" and "ruler's child", which could show that they were named junior coregents by Sheshi. 

These ends are shared by Baker however dismissed by Ben-Tor, who contends that Nehesy ruled before Sheshi as well as that the Nehesy alluded to as "ruler's child" was a later Hyksos sovereign. In 2005 a stele of Nehesy was found in the post city of Tjaru, the beginning stage of the "Method for Horus", the significant street driving out of Egypt into Canaan. The stele demonstrates a "ruler's child Nehesy" offering oil to the god Banebdjedet and furthermore bears an engraving referencing the "lord's sister Tany". A lady with this name and title is known from different sources around the season of the Hyksos pharaoh Apophis c. 1570 BC. This recommends the "lord's child Nehesy" of the stela lived c. 1570 BC also, more than 100 years subsequent to King Nehesy's assessed lifetime. This could be affirmed by Ben-Tor's perception that the scarabs alluding to the "ruler's child Nehesy" are distinctive in style from those alluding to lord Nehesy. In this circumstance, the "ruler's child Nehesy" would be a Hyksos sovereign not the same as the better-known lord Nehesy.