Acra (post) 

The Acra (likewise spelled or Akra, from , or חקרה) was a strengthened compound in Jerusalem worked by Antiochus Epiphanes, leader of the Seleucid Empire, following his sack of the city in 168 BCE. The fortification assumed a huge job in the occasions encompassing the Maccabean Revolt and the development of the Hasmonean Kingdom. It was devastated by Simon Thassi amid this battle. 

The accurate area of the Acra, basic to understanding Hellenistic Jerusalem, had involved protracted dialogs. Students of history and archeologists had proposed different locales around Jerusalem, depending mostly on ends drawn from artistic proof. This methodology started to change in the light of unearthings which initiated in the late 1960s. New revelations had incited reassessments of the antiquated scholarly sources, Jerusalem's topography and recently found ancient rarities. Yoram Tsafrir had translated a brick work joint in the southeastern corner of the Temple Mount stage as a hint to the Acra's conceivable position. Amid Benjamin Mazar's 1968 and 1978 unearthings adjoining the south mass of the Mount, highlights were revealed which may have been associated with the Acra, including encampment like rooms and a colossal reservoir. In November 2015 the Israel Antiquities Authority reported the possible disclosure of the Acra in an alternate area, south-west of the Temple Mount and north-west of the City of David. 

The Ancient Greek term "acra" was utilized to depict other braced structures amid the Hellenistic time frame. The Acra is regularly called the Seleucid Acra to recognize it from references to the Ptolemaic Baris as an "acra" and from the later quarter in Jerusalem which acquired the name Acra. 

Following Alexander the Great's demise in 323 BCE, Judea was challenged between the Ptolemaic Kingdom in Egypt, and the Seleucid Empire situated in Syria and Mesopotamia. Seleucid ruler Antiochus III's triumph over Egypt in the Battle of Panium brought Judea under Seleucid control. The Jewish populace of Jerusalem had helped Antiochus amid his attack of the Baris, the strengthened base of Jerusalem's Egyptian battalion. Their help was compensated with a sanction confirming Jewish religious independence, including banning outsiders and unclean creatures from the Temple's areas, and an assignment of authority assets for the support of certain religious customs in the Temple. Regardless of being permitted religious opportunity, numerous Jews were tempted by and received components of the esteemed and compelling Greek way of life. The royal culture offered a course to political and material headway, and this prompted the arrangement of Hellenistic elites among the Jewish populace. Hellenization created pressures between attentive Jews and their brethren who had absorbed Greek culture. 

Antiochus IV Epiphanes rose the Seleucid position of royalty in 175 BCE. In the blink of an eye a while later, Epiphanes was requested of by Jason for arrangement to the situation of High Priest of Israel—an office involved by his sibling Onias III. Jason, himself altogether Hellenized, moreover guaranteed to build the tribute paid by the city and to set up inside it the foundation of a Greek Polis, including a recreation center and an ephebion. Jason's appeal was in all actuality, yet following a 42-month rule he was expelled by Antiochus and compelled to escape to Ammon. Meanwhile, Antiochus IV had propelled two attacks of Egypt, in 170 BCE and again in 169 BCE, and directed the Ptolemaic armed forces. Antiochus' triumphs were fleeting. His expectation to bring together the Seleucid and Ptolemaic kingdoms frightened the quickly growing Roman state, which requested that he pull back his powers from Egypt. With Antiochus occupied with Egypt, a bogus talk spread in Jerusalem that he had been murdered. In the resulting vulnerability, Jason accumulated a power of 1,000 devotees and endeavored to surprise Jerusalem. In spite of the fact that the assault was spurned, when expression of the battling came to Antiochus in Egypt, he associated his Judean subjects with misusing his mishap as a chance to revolt. In 168 BCE, Antiochus IV Epiphanes walked on and sacked Jerusalem, plundering the sanctuary treasury and murdering a huge number of its inhabitants. Turning around his dad's strategy, Antiochus IV issued orders prohibiting customary Jewish rituals and aggrieving attentive Jews. Sanctuary customs were ended, Jewish recognition of Sabbath disallowed, and circumcision banned. 

To unite his hang on the city, screen occasions on the Temple Mount and shield the Hellenized group in Jerusalem, Antiochus positioned a Seleucid army in the city: 

The name Acra got from the Greek acropolis and connoted a grandiose strengthened spot disregarding a town. In Jerusalem, the word came to symbolize hostile to Jewish agnosticism: a stronghold of the "offensive and mischievous". Ruling both the city and the encompassing farmland, it was involved by a Greek battalion as well as by their Jewish confederates too. 

The Seleucid concealment of Jewish religious life met with significant opposition among the local populace. While Antiochus was involved in the east amid 167 BCE, a provincial cleric, Mattathias of Modiin, raised a defiance to the domain. Both the Seleucid organization and the nearby Hellenized group neglected to get a handle on the greatness of the revolt. In 164 BCE Judas Maccabaeus freed Jerusalem and reconsecrated the Temple. Despite the fact that the encompassing city had fallen, the Acra and its occupants waited. Maccabaeus attacked the post, whose occupants sent an intrigue to the Seleucid lord (presently Antiochus V) for help. A Seleucid armed force was dispatched to put down the revolt. When it laid attack to Beth-Zur, Maccabaeus was compelled to surrender his attack of the Acra and face Antiochus in fight. In the ensuing Battle of Beth-Zechariah, the Seleucids prevailed upon their first triumph the Maccabees, and Maccabaeus was compelled to pull back. Saved from capitulation, the Acra persevered as a Seleucid fortress for 20 additional years amid which it endured a few Hasmonean endeavors to remove the Greek army. 

Judas was slaughtered in 160 BCE and prevailing by his sibling Jonathan, who endeavored to construct a boundary to remove the Acra's supply line. Jonathan had just amassed the labor required for the errand when he was compelled to stand up to the attacking armed force of Seleucid general Diodotus Tryphon at Beth Shan (Scythopolis). Having welcomed Jonathan to a benevolent meeting, Tryphon had him seized and killed. Jonathan was prevailing by another sibling, Simon, who blockaded lastly caught the Acra in 141 BCE. 

Two sources give data about a definitive destiny of the Acra, despite the fact that their records are opposing in spots. As per Josephus, Simon leveled the Acra subsequent to removing its occupants, and after that quarried the slope on which it had remained to render it lower than the sanctuary, cleanse the city of its malicious memory and deny it to any future occupier of Jerusalem. The record showing up in 1 Maccabees paints an alternate picture: 

Along these lines in this rendition, Simon did not promptly annihilate the Acra, however rather had it involved and may even have dwelled inside it himself. 1 Maccabees does not specify its definitive destiny. The fortification had been worked as an inner checkpoint to screen and control Jerusalem and its populace. Whenever arranged in the City of David as most researchers concur, its area would have added almost no to Jerusalem's protections against outside dangers. It might have dropped out of utilization and been destroyed around the finish of the second century BCE following the development of the Hasmonean Baris and Hasmonean Palace in Jerusalem's upper city. 

The area of the Acra is critical for seeing how occasions unfurled in Jerusalem amid the battle among Maccabean and Seleucid powers. This has been the subject of discussion among current researchers. The most nitty gritty antiquated portrayal of the nature and area of the Acra is found in Josephus' "Artifacts of the Jews", where it is depicted as dwelling in the Lower City, upon a slope sitting above the Temple walled in area: 

The area of the "lower some portion of the city", somewhere else alluded to as the "Lower City", at the season of Josephus (first century CE) is acknowledged to be Jerusalem's south-eastern slope, the first urban focus customarily known as the City of David. Deceiving the south of the Temple Mount, notwithstanding, the region uncovered today is essentially lower than the Mount itself. The highest point of the Mount is around over the ground level at the southern holding mass of the later Herodian-time development of the Temple fenced in area. The rise diminishes toward the south of this point. Josephus, a local of Jerusalem, would have been very much aware of this disparity, yet is in any case ready to clarify it away by portraying how Simon had annihilated both the Acra and the slope on which it had stood. Archeological research south of the Temple Mount, notwithstanding, has neglected to find any proof for such huge scale quarrying. Despite what might be expected, unearthings in the district have revealed considerable proof of home from the earliest starting point of the principal thousand years BCE down to Roman occasions, providing reason to feel ambiguous about the proposal that amid Hellenistic occasions the region was fundamentally higher than it was at the season of Josephus or that an expansive slope had been cleaned up. This had driven numerous analysts to slight Josephus' record and his setting of the Acra, and propose a few exchange areas. Since 1841, when Edward Robinson proposed the region close to the Church of the Holy Sepulcher as the site of the Acra, no less than nine unique areas in and around the Old City of Jerusalem have been advanced. 

A few analysts have endeavored to put the Acra in the Upper City on Jerusalem's western slope, inside the zone at present involved by the Old City's Jewish Quarter. These suggestions try to find the Acra inside "Antiochia", the Hellenistic polis set up in Jerusalem as indicated by 2 Maccabees. This speculative new city would have been hippodamic in plan and accordingly would have required a level field of land which just the western slope could have given. Besides, the eastern edge of the slope is adjoining the Temple Mount and higher in height—two qualities ascribed to the Seleucid fortification. 

Adversaries of this proposed area bring up that there is almost no archeological or verifiable proof supporting the foundation of a Hellenistic polis inside Jerusalem, not to mention sited on the western slope which seems to have been just meagerly populated amid the Hellenistic time frame. Unearthings in the present Jewish Quarter show proof of home from the First Temple Period, just as reestablished Hasmonean and Herodian settlement, however meager proof of Hellenistic occupation. Investigation into the dispersal of stepped Rhodian amphorae handles has uncovered that over 95% of these handles found in Jerusalem were exhumed from the City of David, showing the city had not yet extended toward the western slope amid Seleucid rule. Besides, the western slope is isolated from the Temple Mount and the City of David by the precarious Tyropoeon Valley—an unmistakable strategic hindrance for any power that may have been required to mediate in occasions inside the sanctuary areas or vigorously populated eastern divisions of Jerusalem. 

The Acra was not the main Hellenistic fortification in Jerusalem. Sources demonstrate that a prior bastion, the Ptolemaic Baris, had likewise involved an area sitting above the Temple's areas. In spite of the fact that the definite area of the Baris is still discussed, it is commonly acknowledged to have stood north of the Temple Mount on the site later involved by the Antonia Fortress. The Baris tumbled to Antiochus III at the turn of the second century BCE and is missing from all records of the Maccabean Revolt. In spite of the stories which have the Acra built inside an extremely brief time-range, it was in any case sufficiently imposing to climate extensive stretches of attack. These components, combined with references in which the Baris was itself called an "acra", have driven some to recommend that the Baris and the Acra were in certainty a similar structure. Albeit both 1 Maccabees and Josephus appear to depict the Acra as another development, this might not have been the situation. "Artifacts of the Jews" 12:253 might be meant give the feeling that the "reprobate or fiendish" had "remained" as opposed to "stayed" in the stronghold, which could be interpreted as meaning that the Acra had been remaining before the revolt and that just the Macedonian battalion was new. 

Koen Decoster recommends that Josephus composed of "a stronghold in the lower some portion of the city" to a group of people that would have been acquainted with the Jerusalem of the first century CE—a city that featured two bastions: the Antonia Fortress and the Herodian royal residence. As Josephus' Roman Jerusalem had effectively extended to the higher western slope, "a bastion in the lower city" could have alluded to anything found east of the Tyropoeon Valley, including the Antonia which stood north of the Temple and did undoubtedly transcend and command it. In his view, this is the spot Josephus more likely than not had at the top of the priority list when he composed of the Acra. 

Rivals of a northern area counter that this site isn't upheld by the authentic sources, and this would put the Acra far from Jerusalem's populace focus. In contrast to its antecedent and successor bastions, it was not implied as a safeguard against outer danger, but instead to manage the occupied Jewish pieces of the city, a job incongruent with a proposed northern area. 

The accessible sources do show the Acra stood south of the sanctuary, and on the grounds that 1 Maccabees is a contemporaneous record of the Maccabean revolt, its record of the Acra (1:35– 38) is considered the most solid. Josephus gives an impossible record of the flattening of a slope on which the Acra had stood, yet his portrayal of the finish of the Great Revolt (70 CE) gives extra proof to it being found south of the Temple Mount: 

As different structures referenced in the record all remained toward the south in the Lower City, this additionally puts the Acra there. This record validates the steadiness of the name "Acra" in this piece of Jerusalem numerous years after Hellenistic standard finished and its bastions had been ousted, and it can likewise be viewed as alluding not to an unmistakable structure but instead to a whole district of the city. Without a doubt, a few provisos in 1 Maccabees might be perused as making a comparative point: 

These propose that, after the sacking of Jerusalem by Antiochus IV in 168 BCE, in any event part of the City of David toward the south of the Temple Mount was reconstructed as an invigorated Hellenistic quarter of Jerusalem. In excess of a fortress, it was a Macedonian settlement where Jewish rebels and supporters of the new routine lived. This is likewise bolstered by archeological proof, including Rhodian amphorae handles and 18 box graves found on the eastern slant of the City of David. The last are dated to the mid second century CE, and are unique of Second Temple period Jewish internment rehearses, yet like other referred to Hellenistic burial grounds, for example, the one in Acre (Ptolemais). 

Regardless of whether the name "Acra" were connected to a whole Hellenistic quarter as opposed to only a fortification, all things considered, a bastion would have remained inside that compound to billet the Macedonian army which involved it. It was typical for a Hellenistic city to have an invigorated fortification at or close to the most elevated purpose of its walled territory. In this way, regardless of whether a piece of a bigger enclave or autonomous of its environment, a bastion most likely stood at the northern tip of the City of David only south of the Temple Mount. Archeologists have attempted to utilize finds from unearthings led in the territory to pinpoint this present stronghold's exact area. 

Yoram Tsafrir has endeavored to put the Acra underneath the southeastern corner of the Temple Mount fenced in area. Tsafrir focuses to a straight vertical crease in the fenced in area's eastern stone work divider as proof of various times of development. North of the crease is an early area of the divider worked of huge ashlar squares. These squares have faces with drafted edges around an unmistakable supervisor and are laid in homogeneous header and stretcher courses, one over the other. This style of development is Hellenistic and particular from the Herodian development evident south of the crease. In spite of the fact that the careful dating of this development in questionable, Tsafrir trusts it is a remainder of the Acra's establishments which were later fused into Herod the Great's augmentation of the Temple stage. As additional verification, Tzafrir likewise indicates critical similitude between development strategies apparent north of the crease, including the utilization of trapezoid-formed stones, with the techniques utilized in the Seleucid city of Perga in Asia Minor. 1 Macabees 1:30 traits development of the Acra to Apollonius, Antiochus III's "boss gatherer" (, "Sar Hamissim"), which seems, by all accounts, to be an antiquated mistranslation or his unique title as boss (, "Sar") of the Mysians, a people of Asia Minor. 

Meir Ben-Dov trusted that the Acra stood only south of the Huldah Gates of the southern mass of the Herodian Temple Mount stage. Benjamin Mazar's unearthings of the Ophel, the zone connecting the southern bit of the stage, have uncovered the establishments of a gigantic structure and an extensive reservoir, both perhaps dating to the Hellenistic time frame. These have been likely distinguished as leftovers of the Acra, with the structure, highlighting lines of little interconnected rooms, accepted to be the remaining parts of a garisson huts. These had been obliterated and worked over amid the Hasmonean time frame, coordinating the portrayals in Josephus. The Hasmonean developments were, thusly, smoothed to make an open square fronting the primary entryways to the Temple stage amid the Herodian remodels. 

A few storages under the Temple Mount itself have likewise been proposed as conceivable remainders of the Seleucid bastion. These incorporate a reservoir formed like an E, the northern edge of which is adjoining the proposed southern line of the Temple Mount area before its Herodian development. This has been recognized as the "be'er haqar" or "bor heqer" referenced in the Mishnah, Erubin Tract 10.14, and normally deciphered, maybe mistakenly, as the "chilly well". 

Extra proof for the presence of the Acra may originate from the opportunity revelation, distributed by , of a fragmentary Greek engraving in the Old City of Jerusalem. The engraving is a piece from the highest point of a sandstone stele and contains what might be a promise taken by fighters positioned in the Acra, in spite of the fact that the perusing of the name "Acra" in the content has been challenged. 

In November 2015 the Israel Antiquities Authority declared the likely disclosure of the Acra. As indicated by archeologists Doron Ben-Ami, Yana Tchekhanovets and Salome Cohen, uncovering the Givati parking area contiguous the City of David, they had uncovered a complex of rooms and invigorated dividers they recognized as the Acra. This spots it marginally south of past proposed areas on the Ophel. Finds incorporate fortress dividers, a watchtower estimating 4 by 20 meters, and a glacis. Bronze sharpened stones, lead sling-stones and ballista stones were uncovered at the site, stepped with a trident, the insignia of Antiochus IV Epiphanes. These are characteristic of the military idea of the site and the endeavors to take it. The uncovering additionally yielded coins from the rules of Antiochus IV through Antiochus VII, just as a huge number of stepped Rhodian amphora handles. 

The Givati area has been addressed because of its being excessively low on the slope to neglect the Temple Mount, as portrayed in scholarly sources.