Three-dollar piece 

The three-dollar piece was a gold coin delivered by the United States Bureau of the Mint from 1854 to 1889. Approved by the Act of February 21, 1853, the coin was structured by Mint Chief Engraver James B. Longacre. The front-side bears a portrayal of Lady Liberty wearing a hat of a Native American princess and the switch a wreath of corn, wheat, cotton, and tobacco. 

In 1851, Congress had approved a silver three-penny piece so postage stamps of that esteem could be obtained without utilizing the generally loathed copper pennies. After two years, a bill was passed which approved a three-dollar coin. By certain records, the coin was made so bigger amounts of stamps could be obtained. Longacre, in planning the piece, tried to make it as various as conceivable from the quarter bird or $2.50 piece, striking it on a more slender planchet and utilizing a particular structure. 

Albeit over 100,000 were struck in the main year, the coin saw little use. It coursed to some degree on the West Coast, where gold and silver were utilized to the rejection of paper cash, however what little spot it had in business in the East was lost in the monetary disturbance of the Civil War, and was never recovered. The piece was last struck in 1889, and Congress finished the arrangement the next year. Albeit numerous dates were struck in little numbers, the rarest was delivered at the San Francisco Mint in (1870-S); just a single is known with assurance to exist. 

In 1832, New York Congressman Campbell P. White looked for a methods for returning American gold coins to dissemination—as gold was exaggerated as for silver by the administration, gold coins had been routinely traded since the beginning of the 19th century. White's answer was to have the silver dollar and gold bird struck at full esteem, however to have littler gold and silver coins, including a $3 piece, which contained not exactly their assumed worth in metal. In spite of the fact that Congress, in passing the Coinage Act of 1834, made changes in accordance with the proportion among gold and silver, it didn't approve a $3 coin around then. 

The Act of March 3, 1845 approved the primary United States postage stamps and set the rate for nearby prepaid letters at five pennies. In the years following, this rate was viewed as excessively high and a hindrance to trade. In like manner, Congress on March 3, 1851 approved both a three-penny stamp and a three-penny silver coin. Kentucky Representative Richard Henry Stanton trusted that the need to make change from a silver half dime with vast copper pennies may overcome the new plan, writing to Mint Director Robert M. Patterson that "diminished postage [rates] relied upon a three-penny coin for use in those states where copper does not course." According to numismatic antiquarian Walter Breen, "the fundamental motivation behind the new 3¢ piece is purchase postage stamps without utilizing the disliked, substantial, and frequently smudged copper pennies. 

By 1853, silver was exaggerated concerning gold. This was because of expansive disclosures of gold, particularly in California, and silver was vigorously traded. To address this circumstance, Secretary of the Treasury Thomas Corwin pushed diminishing the valuable metal substance of most silver coins to keep their fare. The resistance to the bill was driven by Tennessee Representative Andrew Johnson, who trusted that Congress had no specialist to adjust the gold/silver value proportion and, on the off chance that it did, it ought not practice it. In any case, Congress passed the bill, which progressed toward becoming law on February 21, 1853. That bill likewise approved a three-dollar gold coin; as per numismatic essayist Don Taxay, arrangement for it had been embedded at the command of gold premiums. 

As per Breen, Congress trusted the new coin "would be advantageous for trade for rolls or little packs of silver 3¢ pieces, and for purchasing sheets of 3¢ stamps—continually bypassing utilization of copper pennies". In 1889, at that point Mint Director James P. Kimball composed that "it is assumed that the three-dollar piece was intended to be a different of the three-penny piece, for the accommodation of postal exchanges". Numismatist Walter Hagans in his 2003 article on the three-dollar coin notes and expels the postal clarification, expressing "the genuine purpose behind the gold $3 coin was the bottomless supply of gold found in California." Coin vendor and writer Q. David Bowers takes note of that "whether the $3 denomination was really important or advantageous has involved discussion among numismatists for well over a century." 

Quite a bit of what is known about the structure procedure for the three-dollar piece is from an August 21, 1858, letter from the Mint's main etcher, James B. Longacre, the coin's planner, to the then-Mint executive, James Ross Snowden. This letter is evidently because of some analysis, and in it, Longacre talked about his perspectives on coin configuration, particularly in regards to the three-dollar piece. He noticed that he was at first bewildered with respect to what to put on the coin; the three-dollar piece was the first occasion when he had been permitted to pick a plan. In spite of the fact that he had structured the three-penny piece and different issues before Snowden's directorship, he had been advised what to put on those pieces. The coin weighed 64.5 grams, and had a fineness of 900. 

Longacre noticed that despite the fact that those responsible for coinage configuration had generally managed adjustments of Roman or Greek craftsmanship, for the three-dollar coin, he was disapproved to make something genuinely American: 

Portrayals of America as a female Native American, or Indian princess, dated back to the 16th century; cartographers would put a local lady, frequently wearing a feathered crown, upon their rendition of the North American mainland. This developed into a picture of an Indian ruler, at that point an Indian princess, and despite the fact that Columbia in the long run came to be the favored female encapsulation of the United States, the picture of the Indian princess gets by in the prevalent perspective on such figures as Pocahontas and Sacagawea. 

A few sources recommend that Longacre may have put together the highlights of Liberty with respect to those of his little girl, Sarah. This story would be all the more frequently connected with Longacre's Indian Head penny, yet the highlights of Liberty on the two coins (and furthermore the Type I gold dollar, the twofold hawk, and the three-penny nickel piece) are about indistinguishable. To help recognize the new coin from the quarter bird or $2.50 piece, Longacre utilized a more slender planchet, or clear, to make the piece more noteworthy in distance across. He additionally smoothed the planchet of the gold dollar to broaden it, and gave it a similar Indian princess structure. The turn around starts Longacre's "rural wreath" of corn, tobacco, cotton, and wheat which would likewise show up on the gold dollar, Flying Eagle penny, and his modified invert for the Seated Liberty dime and half dime. This mixed the produce of the South and North during a period of intersectional strain. Numismatist Walter Hagans regards the wreathed invert "as remarkably American similar to the Indian lady on the front-side." 

Craftsmanship antiquarian Cornelius Vermeule expressed that "the one region in which Longacre gave free rein to his creative ability was in the matter of extravagant hood for his renderings of Liberty. His tops of quills, his caps of opportunity, and his starry diadems are a delight to observe." Nevertheless, Vermeule loathed the figure on the front-side, "the princess of the gold coins is a banknote etcher's exquisite rendition of people craft of the 1850s. The tufts or plumes are progressively similar to the peak of the Prince of Wales than anything that saw the Western boondocks, spare maybe on a music lobby excellence." 

At the season of the approval of the three-dollar piece, the Whig organization of Millard Fillmore was still in office, however after two weeks, Fillmore was prevailing by Democrat Franklin Pierce, and Mint Director George N. Eckert yielded his place to Thomas M. Pettit. Longacre submitted two structures to Pettit, and before the last kicked the bucket on May 31, 1853, he chose one of the two; help models immediately pursued the endorsement. Longacre's models, both for the front-side and invert, did not have lettering on them, as the legends and numbers were to be punched once a decrease was made. This enabled them to be utilized on numerous occasions for various sections. As Longacre was occupied with the diminished weight silver coins requested by Congress in a similar demonstration that had approved the three-dollar piece, chip away at kicks the bucket did not start until 1854. 

The initial three-dollar pieces were 15 proof coins, conveyed to the Secretary of the Treasury, James Guthrie, by Mint Director Snowden on April 28, 1854, probably for dissemination to lawmakers. The Philadelphia Mint at that point started the biggest generation of three-dollar pieces the group could ever observe. Boss Coiner Franklin Peale conveyed 23,140 pieces on May 8 and 29,181 pieces four days after the fact. Be that as it may, after June 8, there was just a single further conveyance by Peale, on November 10, when the last 22,740 of the mintage of 138,618 were conveyed. Notwithstanding the strikings at Philadelphia, there was branch mint creation, with 24,000 pieces struck at the New Orleans Mint (1854-O) and 1,120 at Dahlonega (1854-D). A couple of kicks the bucket was sent from Philadelphia to the Charlotte Mint on June 1, however they were not utilized. A couple was sent to Dahlonega that day, landing on June 10, with checks and other important hardware following on July 15. The coinage of the 1854-D occurred in August; the piece is today an irregularity as few were set aside and it was not until decades later that mintmarked coins were spared as unmistakable assortments. Bites the dust were sent to New Orleans in 1855, 1856, 1859, and 1861, just to stay unused; no further strikings occurred at any of the three southern branch mints. 

Starting in 1855, the letters of "Dollars" were broadened, following objections from the general population. That year, coinage started at the San Francisco Mint, where 6,600 were struck instead of 50,555 at Philadelphia. Mintages at Philadelphia declined for the rest of the decade, to 7,036 by 1860; pieces were likewise struck at San Francisco in 1856, 1857, and 1860. In 1859, early numismatic essayist Montroville W. Dickeson composed of the three-dollar piece, "it is extremely disagreeable, being much of the time confused with a quarter falcon, and regularly considered a five-dollar piece. It is exceedingly irritating to that bit of the human family whose vision is reliant on counterfeit guide, and we figure its retirement would meet with open support." Perhaps twelve contemporary numismatists gathered three-dollar pieces; the individuals who were not kidding requested verification coins from the Mint. Mint pieces in this condition wound up simpler to get from Philadelphia as authorities reacted to the ascent in enthusiasm for currency gathering which pursued the presentation of the Flying Eagle penny in 1857. 

The coins saw some course in the East and Midwest, in any event until 1861, when the financial strife brought about by the American Civil War made gold and silver disappear from business there. With gold being accumulated, in December 1861, banks, and hence the Treasury, stopped to pay out gold without needing any proof. The three-dollar piece could stay away for the indefinite future to dissemination in the eastern piece of the nation. On the West Coast, where gold and silver stayed being used, the coin proceeded in trade, and may be incidentally experienced. The San Francisco Mint issues were most usually observed there. Regardless of the inability to circle, three-dollar pieces kept on being struck at Philadelphia as it was the strategy of Mint Director James Pollock that every section ought to be struck each year, whether it flowed or not. Some Philadelphia Mint pieces relocated west in installment for exchanges, as just gold and silver was adequate cash on the West Coast. Until the resumption of specie installments toward the finish of 1878, gold pieces were just accessible from the Philadelphia Mint by paying a premium in banknotes. Pieces not sold were put away there. 

In 1870, a lot of passes on for the three-dollar piece was sent from the Bureau of the Mint's Engraving Department at the Philadelphia Mint to San Francisco. On May 14, 1870, Oscar Hugh La Grange, administrator of the San Francisco Mint, sent a message to Mint Director Pollock, illuminating him that bites the dust for the one-and three-dollar pieces had been gotten, however came up short on the standard "S" mint imprint, and requesting direction. The kicks the bucket were, per Pollock's guidelines, came back to Philadelphia, yet LaGrange educated Pollock that to verify a three-dollar piece to put in the foundation of the new San Francisco Mint structure, Coiner J.B. Harmistead had engraved a "S" on the turn around bite the dust. It isn't sure what was the fate of the piece to be set in the foundation, yet Harmistead likewise struck a piece for himself, which was mounted as adornments at one time, and the presence of which was not known until 1907. The main special customary issue U.S. gold piece by date and mint imprint, it keep going went ahead the market in 1982, when it sold for $687,500. Today it frames some portion of the Harry W. Bass, Jr. Accumulation in the Money Museum of the American Numismatic Association in Colorado Springs. No other three-dollar pieces were struck at San Francisco in 1870; kicks the bucket were sent there most years somewhere in the range of 1861 and 1873, however, except for 1870, were not utilized. 

On January 18, 1873, Philadelphia Mint Chief Coiner Archibald Loudon Snowden whined that the "3" in the date, as struck by the Mint, too intently took after a "8", particularly on the littler measured divisions. Accordingly, Pollock requested Chief Engraver William Barber to re-imprint the date, opening the arms of the "3" more extensive on most divisions, including the three-dollar piece. Both the Closed 3 and Open 3 assortments are amazingly uncommon, however the official mintage of 25 pieces for 1873 is downplayed, since a greater number of examples than that are known to exist. In 1875 and 1876, no pieces were struck for flow, with just pieces in verification condition being made accessible to gatherers. The official mintage is 20 for 1875 and 45 for 1876, however an obscure number of pieces may have been later unlawfully restruck for each date. Numismatic essayist R.W. Julian trusts that there were no later restrikes, yet as confirmation pieces were not checked until sold, workers substituted normal date pieces when unsold coins were to be softened. These pieces had been made accessible to the open just as a feature of a proof arrangement of every gold category, at a cost of $43 (a premium of $1.50 over assumed worth). Julian proposes that the moderately huge mintages of right around 42,000 out of 1874 and somewhere in the range of 82,000 of every 1878 were struck fully expecting the resumption of specie installments, yet when this at long last happened toward the finish of 1878, "there was a boisterous yawn from general society and the Mint kept a large portion of the pieces available, paying them out gradually as stocking stuffers. 

During the 1880s, in spite of the arrival of gold to trade across the country with the resumption of specie installments toward the finish of 1878, couple of three-dollar pieces were authored. There was a little theoretical blast by general society in setting aside three-dollar pieces; by and by, thousands stayed at the Philadelphia Mint. Maybe a couple were sent to banks; the coins sold for a little premium when banks had a few or when they were acquired from trade representatives. The coins' principle use was as blessings, or in adornments. The pieces were struck just at Philadelphia after the 1870-S irregularity, and early numismatist S.H. Chapman noted of the 1879 through 1889 issues, "of the later long stretches of the $3, huge numbers were remelted at the Philadelphia Mint." The Mint evidently supported certain Philadelphia sellers in the circulation of the gold dollar, yet the three-dollar piece could be gotten without a premium at the clerk's window of the Philadelphia Mint. Expansive quantities of the 1879 three-dollar piece (mintage 3,000 for flow), 1880 (1,000), and 1881 (500) were stored by early currency gatherer and vendor Thomas L. Elder, who approached bank employees to pay special mind to them. Senior couldn't have gotten them straightforwardly from the Mint at the season of issue as he was as yet a kid in 1880, and did not start gathering coins until 1887. 

With the ascent of gathering enthusiasm for the three-dollar piece during the 1880s, deceitful workers at the Philadelphia Mint advanced themselves by illegal striking of prior date pieces, including the 1873, 1875, and 1876. Thickets, in his sylloge of the Bass Collection, especially accuses these inconsistencies for Oliver Bosbyshell, boss coiner at Philadelphia from 1876 to 1885. Amid that period, amounts of example currencies, restrikes, and pieces struck in various metals streamed to very much associated gatherers and sellers, and Bosbyshell sold an extensive individual accumulation of such pieces not long after leaving office as boss coiner. Despite the fact that Bosbyshell returned as Philadelphia Mint director from 1889 to 1894, he doesn't seem to have continued his illegal exercises. 

The generally expansive mintage of around 6,000 of every 1887 was because of a prevailing fashion clearing the nation whereby men would give their woman companions a coin with one side ground off and supplanted by the lady's initials. Numerous well off suitors wanted to utilize a gold coin for this introduction. A bigger than-common number of evidence pieces were struck in 1888 and held by the Mint fully expecting future exchanges with gatherers for things which the Mint wanted for its currency accumulation. The 1888 piece is the most well-known verification coin in the arrangement, with an official mintage of 200 pieces. 

In 1889, Mint Director James P. Kimball sent a letter to the House of Representatives Committee on Coinage, Weights, and Measures encouraging the annulment of the three-dollar piece. Kimball stated, "this is a group which fills no helpful need, its present coinage being in actuality restricted to its generation for bureau [coin collecting] purposes. The estimation of over $153,000 in three-dollar pieces still close by at the Mint at Philadelphia can not be discarded, inferable from the disagreeability of this coin as a coursing medium." The gold dollar and three-dollar piece were not authored after 1889, and were nullified by Congress on September 26, 1890. 

During the 1890s, 49,087 three-dollar pieces were dissolved as out of date at the Philadelphia Mint. Albeit no rundown was kept by years, Bowers proposes that a considerable lot of the pieces were dated 1874 or 1878 (the two years with generally high mintages), or were from the last long periods of the arrangement. During the 1890s, they normally told a premium of 25 or 50 cents at trade specialists. During the 1920s, three-dollar pieces sold at a superior when different divisions of gold coinage stayed without needing any proof. The 2014 version of R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins" records the 1854 as the least expensive three-dollar piece in the most reduced recorded condition (Very Fine or MS-20) at $825. A 1855-S in verification is the record holder in deals cost for the category, selling at closeout in 2011 for $1,322,500. 

In 1934, Mint Director Nellie Tayloe Ross wrote in her yearly report that an aggregate of 539,792 three-dollar pieces had been begat, of which 452,572 were struck at Philadelphia, 62,350 at San Francisco (excluding the 1870-S), 24,000 at New Orleans, and 1,120 at Dahlonega. As per Breen, three-dollar pieces "speak to relics of a fascinating yet fruitless trial; today they are among the most exceptionally desired of American gold coins". New York coin vendor Norman Stack expressed during the 1950s, "All are uncommon. There is no such thing as a "typical" three-dollar gold piece."