Richie Farmer 

Richard Dwight "Richie" Farmer (brought into the world August 25, 1969) is an American previous university ball player and Republican Party government official from the U.S. territory of Kentucky. He filled in as the Kentucky Agriculture Commissioner from 2004 to 2012 and was the running mate of David L. Williams in the 2011 gubernatorial decision. In the wake of leaving office, Farmer was examined for damaging state battle fund laws and abusing state assets and was condemned to 27 months in government jail alongside a simultaneous a year in state jail. 

A point watch, Farmer drove Clay County High School to the 1987 Kentucky High School Athletic Association (KHSAA) State Basketball Championship and, in 1988, was named Kentucky Mr. Ball and Kentucky Associated Press Male High School Athlete of the Year in the wake of setting a title amusement record with 51 out of a losing exertion. In spite of the fact that he was well known state-wide and openly expressed his craving to play university ball for the Kentucky Wildcats, Coach Eddie Sutton was hesitant to offer Farmer a grant. After Farmer declared that he would visit different schools and issued a due date past which he would never again consider Kentucky without a grant offer, Sutton yielded and Farmer joined the University of Kentucky. 

Kentucky battled amid Farmer's first year, completing with a 13– 19 record, and by mid-season, fans were blaming Sutton for unreasonably supporting his child, Sean, over Farmer at the point monitor position. Sutton surrendered in the offseason because of a compensation for-play embarrassment for which the NCAA restricted Kentucky from postseason play for a long time. Sutton's substitution, Rick Pitino, established a thorough molding project and quick paced style of play that improved Farmer's execution. Subsequent to spending his lesser season as a reinforcement to Sean Woods, Farmer changed to shooting protect and turned into a starter amidst his senior year. Again qualified for postseason rivalry, the Wildcats won the Southeastern Conference competition and achieved the Regional Finals of the 1992 NCAA Tournament, losing in extra time on a very late shot by Duke's Christian Laettner in an amusement viewed by numerous individuals as the best school ball game at any point played. The group's seniors – Farmer, Woods, John Pelphrey, and Deron Feldhaus – were named "The Unforgettables", and their shirts were dangled from the rafters of Rupp Arena following the 1991– 92 season. 

Rancher parlayed his status as a ball symbol into two terms as Kentucky Agriculture Commissioner from 2004 to 2012, winning the two races by expansive edges. In 2011, Kentucky Senate President David L. Williams tapped Farmer – thought about a rising star in the state Republican Party – as his running mate in the gubernatorial decision. They were crushed by Democratic Governor Steve Beshear and his running mate Jerry Abramson. Amid the battle, media reports affirmed that Farmer had abused state assets and property as agribusiness chief and Farmer's successor worked together with the state examiner to explore the claims. Accordingly, the Executive Branch Ethics Commission accused Farmer of 42 morals infringement – the most against a person in state history. Lawyer General Jack Conway likewise accused Farmer of disregarding state crusade fund laws, and a government stupendous jury pursued with five prosecutions for maltreatment of intensity. Rancher at first challenged the charges, yet later consented to a supplication deal. On January 14, 2014, Farmer was condemned to 27 months in government jail and requested to pay $120,500 in compensation and $65,000 in fines. He served right around 20 months in a satellite camp of the United States Penitentiary, Hazelton close Bruceton Mills, West Virginia, before changing to a shelter in Lexington, Kentucky, on December 18, 2015. He was discharged from the shelter on January 21, 2016 and is at present living in Clay County. 

Richard Dwight ("Richie") Farmer, Jr. was conceived on August 25, 1969, in Corbin, Kentucky, yet experienced childhood in the eastern Kentucky town of Manchester. He was the second of three youngsters destined to Richard and Virginia Farmer. As a result of his physical development – he supposedly started shaving at age 12 and had started wearing his trademark mustache by his lesser year in secondary school – Farmer was regularly examined regarding his age. The left-hander's vertical jump estimated in secondary school. He credited his dad, a transportation supervisor at a nearby coal mineshaft and a champion point protect at Clay County High School in 1963, with building up his ball keenness. 

As an eighth grader, Farmer played b-ball for his evaluation school b-ball crew, just as the first year recruit, JV, and varsity groups at Clay County High School. He played sparingly amid the varsity group's normal season yet got 68 seconds of playing time – scoring 2 – amid the Tigers' triumph over Owensboro High School in the 1984 Kentucky High School Athletic Association (KHSAA) State Basketball Championship. He additionally played football in a group that won the district title that year. He inevitably quit playing football, however kept on playing baseball – as a pitcher and first baseman – notwithstanding b-ball until his senior year of secondary school. 

As a rookie, Farmer drove his group in scoring amid the normal season, averaging 16.4 focuses per amusement from the shooting protect position. He additionally drove the Tigers in scoring in every one of their three amusements "on the way" to the thirteenth Region Kentucky High School Athletic Association ball title. In the opening round of the 1985 KHSAA state competition, Farmer scored 14 points on 6 of 16 shooting in a success over Boone County High School. At that point, in consecutive triumphs against Metcalfe County High School and Doss High School, he drove his group with 21 and 20 points, separately, to help Clay County achieve the competition finals. Rancher scored 10 in Clay County's 65– 64 misfortune to Hopkinsville High School in the title amusement. He was the competition's second-most astounding scorer with 69, one behind Hopkinsville's Lamont Ware, and completed second in the voting in favor of the competition's Most Valuable Player, which went to Hopkinsville's Wendell Quarles. Just Apollo High School's Rex Chapman got more votes in favor of the all-competition group. 

Dirt County positioned just behind Owensboro and Scott County High School in the "Lexington Herald-Leader's" 1985– 86 preseason mentors survey. Amid Clay County's 22– 6 customary season, Farmer, who moved to the point watch position, found the middle value of 18.6 focuses, 10 helps, and 8 bounce back per diversion. The Tigers won the thirteenth District Title, setting up a matchup with Pulaski County High School in the first round of the KSHAA state competition. Rancher had scored 30 points in Clay County's normal season matchup with Pulaski County, however his group lost by one point in extra time. In the competition rematch, Pulaski County held Farmer to 20 points and won 83– 78; Coach Dave Fraley credited a guard focused on halting Farmer for his group's triumph. 

In the "Lexington Herald-Leader's" 1986– 87 preseason mentors' survey, Clay County was positioned fourteenth in the state, and Farmer was named one of the state's best 25 players. Rancher drove his group in scoring at 23.9 focuses per amusement, and Clay County completed the customary season with a record of 28– 2 and again won the thirteenth Region competition. Rancher scored 19 points and got 5 bounce back in his group's 90– 80 triumph over Highlands High School in the KHSAA express competition's opening round, yet his execution was eclipsed by partner Russell Chadwell's 43 points. In the quarterfinals, Farmer drove the Tigers with 19, overcoming LaRue County High School 62– 56 before 24,041 observers at Lexington's Rupp Arena, a record swarm for a secondary school b-ball game. In the principal half of Clay County's elimination round matchup with Madison Central High School, Farmer scored 18 and his more youthful sibling, Russ, added 12 to record for 30 of their group's 39 first-half focuses. The Tigers' 17-point halftime lead developed to upwards of 25 in the second half, and the senior Farmer again driven his group with 24 all out focuses in Clay County's 78– 58 triumph. 

The success over Madison Central set up a title diversion between Clay County and Louisville's Ballard High School. Mud County had just a single starter taller than , while Ballard began four players taller than , including star shooting monitor Allan Houston. The diversion included 24 ties and 15 lead changes; neither one of the teams driven by multiple focuses amid guideline. Rancher scored Clay County's last 9 in guideline, including sequential proceed bins at 3:19, 2:46, and 0:30. Ballard's Leonard Taylor scored on a set back bin at the bell to tie the score at 65 and power extra time. Mud County never trailed in the extra time, and Farmer's bounce shot with 1:44 left put the Tigers in the number one spot for good. The 76– 73 win was Clay County's first-ever KHSAA state title. Rancher played every one of the 35 minutes of the diversion and drove all scorers with 27 points to run with 6 bounce back and 4 helps. He was named to the all-competition group, chose the competition's Most Valuable Player, and given the Ted Sanford Award for citizenship, ball capacity, scholarly accomplishment, and sportsmanship. He was likewise the main underclassman named to the "Lexington Herald-Leader's" 1987 All-State First Team. 

In the late spring following his lesser year, Farmer was named to the Kentucky Junior All-Star Team, which played presentation amusements all through Europe, incorporating stops in Iceland, the Netherlands, and West Germany. After the European excursion, he helped lead Clay County to a 15– 0 record in Amateur Athletic Union play. It was the first AAU season which perceived the three-point field objective, and Farmer made 53 of his 73 three-point endeavors. In July 1987, the Kentucky Junior All-Stars completed second to a group from South Carolina in the Kentucky Prep All-Star Festival at Memorial Coliseum in Lexington; Farmer sat out the title amusement with hand damage he endured in the past diversion. 

Mud County was positioned as the top group in the state in the 1987– 88 preseason mentors' survey, and Farmer was casted a ballot the state's best prep prospect, accumulating twice the same number of votes as second-place prospect Allan Houston. The Tigers began the year 8– 0 preceding enduring their solitary customary season misfortune in the principal round of the 1987 Beach Ball Classic against Eau Claire High School. In Clay County's next amusement in the Classic, Farmer broke the school's vocation scoring record, scoring his 2,193rd point in a 76– 57 prevail upon Tulsa, Oklahoma's Nathan Hale High School. Gary Gregory, who had held the record since 1974, was in participation at the diversion. In the competition's fifth spot diversion, Farmer scored 33 and broke the single-amusement record for helps with 16, besting Kenny Anderson's year-old record of 13. Dirt County crushed Simi Valley High School 95– 91, and Farmer was chosen as the competition's Outstanding Player and named to the all-competition group. 

In the opening round of the January 1988 Louisville Invitational Tournament (LIT), Farmer scored 40 points on 15 of 30 shooting in a 86– 82 prevail upon Pleasure Ridge Park High School, driving Clay County's record to 16– 1 and setting up another gathering with Allan Houston's Ballard crew. Rancher scored 39 points – including 14 of his 15 free tosses – and snatched 12 bounce back in Clay County's 92– 88 twofold extra time triumph. In the title diversion against Bardstown High School, Farmer struggled through weariness and thigh damage to lead his group in scoring with 24 of every an additional time win. In the three-diversion competition, Farmer scored 103 and played the majority of his group's 105 minutes, while submitting just 4 turnovers. He was chosen to the all-competition group and named competition MVP. Previously being selected by Western Kentucky, Alabama, and Notre Dame, Farmer's exhibitions in the Beach Ball Classic and LIT brought see from Eastern Kentucky, Wake Forest, Auburn, Louisville, and Kentucky. 

In the 49th District Championship amusement, Farmer broke Clay County's single-diversion scoring record with 51 out of a 101– 59 prevail upon Jackson County High School. In the thirteenth Region competition opener, Farmer scored 40 points as Clay County vanquished Corbin High School 75– 56. Dirt County proceeded to crush Bell County High School 53– 36 in the elimination rounds and Knox Central High School 73– 69 in the finals to indeed progress to the KHSAA state competition. Rancher scored 38 points on 14 of 24 shooting in a triumph over Rowan County High School in the competition's opening round. Four minutes into the Tigers' quarterfinal matchup against LaRue County High School, Farmer scored a three-point container that tied Wallace "Wah" Jones' record for most focuses scored by a solitary player in the KHSAA state competition (223). Rancher proceeded to break the record, scoring 30 points in a 91– 54 win. 

Rancher's 18 in the elimination rounds against Pleasure Ridge Park pushed Clay County to a 92– 90 win and a rematch in the title diversion against Ballard High School. Rancher set a title diversion record against Ballard, scoring 51 on 20 of 32 shooting (counting 9 of 14 from three-point extend), yet Clay County lost 88– 79. Ron King set the past title amusement record in 1969 with 44; just Kelly Coleman's 69-point execution in 1956 bested Farmer's 51 points in a competition diversion. He was chosen to the all-competition group, got a Dawahares' Sweet Sixteen Academic Scholarship Award, and was casted a ballot the competition's MVP. Following the state competition, Farmer said he was reached by LSU, Vanderbilt, Virginia, and Indiana notwithstanding schools who had recently enrolled him. 

For the season, Farmer arrived at the midpoint of 27.1 focuses, 6.4 bounce back and 8.7 helps per diversion, all vocation highs. The main player to play in the KHSAA state competition multiple times, he completed his profession with records for most focuses scored (317) and most field objectives made (127) for a vocation in the competition. He posted an aggregate of 2,793 in his secondary school profession. He was named Kentucky Mr. B-ball, Kentucky Associated Press Male High School Athlete of the Year, and was the main vote-getter for the Kentucky All-State Team, showing up on 160 of 167 polls. The Clay County Judge/Executive renamed a street outside Farmer's main residence of Machester "Richie Boulevard". In a 1989 "Lexington Herald-Leader" survey of sportswriters and previous secondary school mentors, Farmer was the close consistent decision as the best secondary school player in Kentucky amid the 1980s. 

In May 1988, Farmer was chosen to an AAU elite player group that played a display amusement in Memorial Coliseum against a top pick group from the Soviet Union. He scored 17 points in a 107– 93 win. In the first of two matchups with Indiana's All-Star group, the Kentucky All-Stars lost 102– 82; Farmer had a terrible shooting exhibition, going 5 of 18 from the field, including 2 of 9 from three-point run, for 15 points. In the rematch the next week, Farmer scored 19 points in a 112– 100 misfortune. 

In spite of Farmer's productive scoring, scouts communicated worry about his little stature and absence of snappiness. Indeed, even while commending his aptitudes, "Lexington Herald-Leader" sportswriter Mike Fields composed that Farmer had "overwhelming legs and moderate going style". With respect to's size, Fields noticed that, in spite of playing point watch, Farmer reliably bounced place for Clay County and could hop sufficiently high to execute a two-gave hammer dunk. The "Envoy Leader's" Billy Reed contrasted Farmer with Indiana's Steve Alford, who defeated questions about his size, speed, and safeguard to turn into the Hoosiers' unsurpassed driving scorer and lead them to a NCAA Championship in 1987. 

Kentucky was accepted to be Farmer's school of decision, however mentors remained hesitant about his enrollment. The Wildcats had seven returning watchmen and little advances – Rex Chapman, Eric Manuel, Deron Feldhaus, Derrick Miller, John Pelphrey, Johnathon Davis, and Sean Sutton – and two marked enlisted people at those positions – Sean Woods and Chris Mills. Then again, four of their five frontcourt players – Winston Bennett, Rob Lock, Cedric Jenkins and Richard Madison – were graduating, and solitary frontcourt underwriter Shawn Kemp had not yet qualified scholastically. On March 21, 1988, Farmer told a Lexington TV slot that he would never again consider Kentucky on the off chance that they didn't offer him a grant continuously. After seven days, the "Lexington Herald-Leader" detailed that mentor Eddie Sutton broadened the offer yet that Farmer intended to take official visits to Western Kentucky and Vanderbilt, and would have an in-home visit with LSU mentor Dale Brown before choosing whether to acknowledge Sutton's offer. 

In April, Farmer played shooting protect for the North group in the Kentucky Derby Festival Classic. He scored 14 on 5 of 12 shooting and got 3 bounce back, yet his group lost toward the South group 134– 125. Among his partners in the Classic was Kentucky underwriter Sean Woods, who told the "Lexington Herald-Leader" that he and Farmer had turned out to be great companions and that he sought Farmer would play after the Wildcats. The paper additionally detailed that Farmer had limited his rundown of potential school decisions to three: Western Kentucky, LSU, and Kentucky. Rancher took an official visit to Western Kentucky the few days of April 9, 1988, however on April 14, the second day of the April marking period, he held a public interview at his secondary school recreation center to report that he had marked a National Letter of Intent with Kentucky. He told the gathered group, "[Playing for Kentucky has] been a fantasy of mine for as far back as I can recollect. Indeed, even before kindergarten, I constantly needed to play for Kentucky." 

When Farmer touched base at Kentucky, the program had been obliterated. Champion shooting watch Rex Chapman entered the 1988 NBA Draft, finishing his university qualification. Sophomore Eric Manuel was held out of b-ball exercises pending the result of an examination concerning his ACT scores. Underwriters Shawn Kemp and Sean Woods neglected to qualify scholastically, and Chris Mills was under scrutiny by the NCAA for money supposedly sent to his dad by right hand mentor Dwane Casey infringing upon the Association's crudeness rules. A viral sickness constrained Farmer to miss about 33% of the group's preseason rehearses. When he had the capacity to rehearse, Coach Eddie Sutton related that he did not have the molding to complete generally rehearses. The "Lexington Herald-Leader's" Jerry Tipton later announced that Farmer needed to leave practice thirty minutes mid two days seven days to go to his American History class. Sutton likewise opined that Farmer's secondary school rivalry was substandard compared to that of Los Angeles local Mills, yet Farmer's secondary school mentor brought up that, amid Farmer's senior season, 20 of his group's diversions were against groups positioned in the best 20 in their particular states. 

In his first university diversion, against Duke, Farmer played 7 minutes and air balled his solitary shot. After an early season misfortune to Notre Dame in the Big Four Classic dropped the Wildcats' record to 2– 3, Sutton noticed that Farmer, Sean Sutton, and LaRon Ellis had all missed practice time with this season's flu virus. In the wake of overseeing only 17 in the Wildcats' initial five recreations, Farmer scored 10 of every 20 minutes in the group's 6th amusement against Northwestern State. With 12 seconds to go in the amusement and Kentucky trailing 84– 82, Farmer was whistled for a purposeful foul on Northwestern State's Roman Banks while attempting to draw a charge on an inbounds play. Banks kept up that Farmer had pulled Banks toward him and tumbled down, endeavoring to draw the call, however Farmer and Sutton both denied the supposed deception. Banks hit one of two free tosses, and Farmer missed a possibly amusement tying three-point shot at the ringer, dropping the Wildcats to 2– 4 on the season. Rancher caught up with a 15-point act in a success against Western Carolina. In the Kentucky Invitational Tournament, where Kentucky lost its opening round amusement to Bowling Green before winning the third-place diversion against Marshall, Farmer scored 12 in each diversion. 

Rancher's unexpected increment in scoring incited grievances from the fan base that Sutton despised Farmer and was constraining his minutes out of partiality for his child, Sean. A few fans started to boo when Sutton, the group's beginning stage monitor, came back to the diversion to supplant Farmer. Rancher kept up that Sutton had treated him decently, and Sutton refered to absence of training time as the purpose behind Farmer's restricted playing time; toward the beginning of January 1989, nearby media revealed that Farmer had been constrained practically speaking because of right knee torment. Inquiries concerning Farmer's playing time proceeded into Southeastern Conference play, even as Farmer's scoring additionally dropped off. By late January, Sutton openly grumbled about the requirement for additionally scoring from the seat, which had created just 29 points in the group's past seven recreations. "Lexington Herald-Leader" writer Billy Reed expressed: "Richie just isn't prepared to play at this dimension yet". 

Before a January diversion against Georgia, two-time previous senator A. B. "Cheerful" Chandler gave Farmer the 1988 Kentucky Sportsman of the Year Award. The most youthful individual and first secondary school competitor ever to win the honor, Farmer completed in front of previous Kentucky gatekeeper Pat Riley, who had quite recently instructed the NBA's Los Angeles Lakers to a second successive title. 

With the Wildcats' record sitting at 11– 13 in general and 6– 6 in meeting play headed into a February street amusement against gathering pioneer LSU, Farmer stayed in Lexington with a blend of a stomach infection and seasonal influenza. Partners LaRon Ellis, Chris Mills, and Derrick Miller had likewise been sick, yet all recouped so as to make the outing. Rancher shot only 2 of 14 in constrained minutes in the long stretch of February. In Kentucky's last home round of the period, Farmer hit a three-pointer – his solitary purposes of the amusement – with two seconds left to lift the Wildcats to a 70– 69 prevail upon Ole Miss. The accompanying amusement, Farmer missed a possibly diversion winning bounce shot at the bell in a 68– 67 misfortune at Mississippi State to end the Wildcats' customary season. In its first round of the Southeastern Conference Tournament the following week, Kentucky lost to Vanderbilt 77– 63 of every an amusement where Farmer missed each of the four of his field objective endeavors. Completing with a 13– 19 record – the group's most exceedingly bad record since the 1926-27 season – the Wildcats were not welcome to any postseason competition. At the group's yearly postseason grants meal, Farmer got the free toss grant. 

Between Farmer's rookie and sophomore years, the NCAA prohibited Eric Manuel from playing in any further NCAA recreations as a result of inquiries regarding the authenticity of his ACT scores and collected a two-year postseason boycott, a one-year restriction on broadcast diversions, and grant decreases against Kentucky as discipline for installments supposedly made to the dad of Chris Mills. Factories was ruled ineligible to play at Kentucky and exchanged to Arizona; Sean Sutton and LaRon Ellis likewise exchanged to different schools in the wake of the assents. Eddie Sutton surrendered and was supplanted by New York Knicks head mentor Rick Pitino. After select Henry Thomas endured off-season damage to his front cruciate tendon, Kentucky was left with only 8 grant players, none of whom were taller than . 

Pitino and recently procured quality and molding mentor Rock Oliver founded a concentrated molding program. The "Lexington Herald-Leader" noticed that Farmer lost in the off-season, lessening his weight to , and Pitino applauded his improved speed and continuance. Pitino additionally brought Billy Donovan – who played point watch on Pitino's groups at Providence – to Kentucky as an alumni collaborator to coach the group's two point gatekeepers, Farmer and Sean Woods (presently scholastically qualified). 

The group's first intra-squad scrimmage displayed Pitino's quick paced, three-point-overwhelming style; the two groups joined to shoot 98-of-175 from the field, including 23-of-57 from three, as the Blue group crushed the White group 145– 85. Rancher drove the White group (the anticipated stores) in scoring with 26 points, including 5-of-13 shooting from three-point extend. In the following scrimmage, played at Farmer's institute of matriculation, Clay County High School, Farmer scored 32 points, however the White group lost to the Blue group once more, 125– 117. The groups again consolidated for 175 shots, and Pitino said before the diversion that he needed the two groups to surpass 120 points. Rancher sat out a significant part of the second 50% of the last scrimmage because of ailment however scored 17 points on 5-of-16 shooting in a 124– 120 triumph for the White group. 

After Kentucky's second round of the year – a 71– 69 misfortune at Indiana – Pitino noticed that Farmer, who had 4 points and 4 aids the amusement, was profiting by additional one-on-one training sessions with Donovan. In a December 19, 1989, triumph against Furman, Farmer endeavored 7 three-pointers – tied for second-most in the amusement – as the Wildcats set a NCAA record for most three-pointers endeavored in a diversion with 47, besting their very own record of 41 set before in the month against Tennessee Tech. After seven days, Farmer set a vocation high in focuses with 21 – including three made three-pointers – as the Wildcats set records for the most three-pointers made in a solitary amusement (21) and most focuses ever scored against North Carolina, yet lost the diversion 121– 110. After the diversion, Pitino opined that Farmer "keeps down a tad" and noticed that he would anticipate that Farmer should buckle down in the off-season to achieve his potential. The Wildcats finished off 1989 with a closer-than-anticipated 86– 79 misfortune against eighth-positioned Louisville, yet neighborhood sportswriter John McGill said Farmer had his best diversion to date with 10 points, 9 helps and 3 takes off the seat. 

In a January 20, 1990, challenge against gathering enemy Tennessee, Pitino sidelined senior shooting watch Derrick Miller to begin the second half, giving his spot to Farmer. Rancher, who had no helps and 4 turnovers in nine minutes amid the main half, reacted with 7 helps and just a single turnover in the second half. Mill operator, who entered the amusement with 17:38 left, scored 17 in the second half as the Wildcats transformed a 44– 39 halftime shortage into a 95– 83 win. Mill operator attributed Pitino's choice to acquire him off the seat the second half with easing the heat off him and helping him get progressively agreeable in the amusement. Following a mid-week misfortune to Auburn, Pitino declared that he would move Farmer into the beginning lineup, supplanting Sean Woods, for the Wildcats' January 27 challenge against Ole Miss. "We will change the lineup to attempt to get more focus. We'll attempt Richie Farmer at the point and see what we escape that. At this moment we're not getting a lot out of that position," Pitino told correspondents amid a SEC video chat. In a 98– 79 triumph, Farmer counted 11 points, 2 helps and no turnovers in 24 minutes; Woods enrolled 8, 4 helps, and 2 turnovers in 23 minutes off the seat. Pitino said practice execution would decide if Woods or Farmer would begin the Wildcats' next amusement against Mississippi State, and he eventually chose to return Woods to the beginning revolution. 

On February 15, 1990, before a record 24,301 fans at Rupp Arena, Farmer hit six sequential free tosses to enable Kentucky to beat a vocation high 41 points by LSU's Chris Jackson and draw inside a half-round of the lead position in the SEC with a 100– 95 win. Rancher entered the diversion after Sean Woods fouled out with 1:54 left, and with Kentucky driving by two with a little more than a moment left, LSU mentor Dale Brown educated his group to foul Farmer on every Kentucky belonging to preserve the amusement clock and recover ownership of the ball. "We felt Farmer did not have much understanding, and he was playing somewhat tight," Brown said after the diversion. Recounted Brown's directions to foul Farmer – the group's without best toss shooter at 86% – amid a post-amusement talk with, Pitino communicated shock. "[Brown] said he deliberately needed to foul Richie Farmer? What was his reason? ... In the event that I needed to pick a person to shoot it before 50,000 individuals with your life in question, it will be Richie Farmer shooting that free toss." 

Under two minutes into a resulting diversion at Alabama, Farmer and stroll on Tony Cooper both left the seat when Kentucky's Reggie Hanson and Alabama's Robert Horry occupied with a clench hand battle. Hansen, Horry and Cooper were altogether catapulted, yet Farmer was definitely not. Approached about the distinction in punishments for Cooper and Farmer, official Don Ferguson conceded he would not like to hurt Kentucky's shallow turn any further by shooting another customary benefactor. As a token of thankfulness to the fans, after the Wildcats' February 24 "Senior Day" prevail upon Auburn, Pitino got back to his players onto the floor and exhibited the individual honors generally held for the group's yearly honors dinner. Rancher got the "Best Free Throw Shooter" grant. For the season, he arrived at the midpoint of 7.0 focuses per amusement. Fans and the media nicknamed the group "Pitino's Bombinos" for their quick paced offense that depended vigorously on the three-point shot, which stood out strongly from the more intentional hostile plans kept running by Pitino's prompt ancestors, Joe B. Lobby and Eddie Sutton. 

In September 1990, Farmer had a conflict with quality mentor Rock Oliver, returned home to Manchester, and considered leaving the Kentucky ball crew. Pitino, who was from grounds on an enrolling visit, considered Farmer and planned a gathering with him for the next end of the week, after which Farmer chose to come back to the group. Pitino described the episode as "an instance of somebody getting down and requiring several embraces to get their spirits lifted a smidgen". Pitino later included that he thought the exchange of point protect Travis Ford from Missouri – acquiring extra challenge the backcourt for the 1991– 92 season – may have played into Farmer's concise flight. 

Pitino communicated vulnerability entering the season about who might supplant Derrick Miller as the group's beginning shooting protect. Rancher was the main competitor until enduring a wounded kidney amid an open intra-squad scrimmage toward the beginning of November and reaggravating the damage amid another open scrimmage days after the fact. Sophomore Jeff Brassow got the begin for the Wildcats in their season opening win against Penn. Rancher scored 12 off the seat – one of six Wildcats with twofold digit focuses – yet left the amusement with 3:17 staying in the wake of taking an accidental elbow in the back. In the following amusement against Cincinnati, Farmer quickly supplanted starter Sean Woods at point monitor after Woods submitted eight turnovers in the main half, yet Farmer fared minimal better, submitting two turnovers and uniquely missing two back to back free tosses. In the second half, after Woods grabbed his fourth foul, Farmer entered the diversion and gave relentless initiative to protect a 75– 71 win. In the Wildcats' third round of the year – a success over Notre Dame in the Big Four Classic – Farmer drove the group in scoring with 19 on 7-of-11 shooting; he included 4 helps and 2 takes against no turnovers in 23 minutes of play. 

Before Kentucky's December 15 matchup against Chattanooga, Pitino openly thought about beginning Farmer instead of Sean Woods at point and either Carlos Toomer or Jody Thompson at shooting protect rather than Brassow. The day of the diversion, he declared Farmer would make the second beginning of his vocation at shooting watch close by Woods at point. Despite the fact that he tied with Pelphrey for a group high 17 points, Farmer came back to the seat for the accompanying diversion against Indiana on the grounds that Pitino felt he didn't have the size to shield the Hoosiers' greater watchmen. 

In a December 22, 1990, win against in-state rival Western Kentucky, Farmer posted another profession high with 22 points, in spite of missing his initial five three-point endeavors of the amusement. He would not approach such scoring numbers again until a February 3, 1991, challenge against Georgia, when he scored 16 subsequent to seeing stretched out minutes because of Woods being in a bad position. Rancher endured a bruised eye amid the amusement, which was eminent for its physicality. "Ambassador Inquirer" sportswriter Jake Jennings additionally noticed that Farmer depended on drives to the container to score, instead of his standard propensity for shooting three-point shots. 

Before Kentucky's February 13 amusement against Tennessee, Woods was hospitalized with an "intense viral ailment". Rancher began in his place, counting 14 and 7 bounce back in a 85– 74 win. In spite of the fact that Farmer likewise began the following amusement against Ole Miss, only 48 seconds into the diversion his knee reached an adversary's knee, sending him to the storage space and Woods into the diversion. Rancher came back to score a group high 21, yet in addition endured a scratched eye, in a success that gave Kentucky the best record in the SEC; Woods logged 9 points and 7 aids right around 24 minutes of activity off the seat. Woods came back to the beginning lineup in Kentucky's next diversion at Vanderbilt, however Farmer remained a starter also, supplanting Jeff Brassow at shooting watch. He scored 13 of his group high 19 in the main half, yet Kentucky lost the diversion 98– 87. Pitino portrayed Farmer as "depleted" in the second half, playing substantial minutes in alleviation of Woods, who oversaw just 15 minutes before fouling out. Two amusements later, Farmer hit four of his initial five shots – including three 3-pointers – and completed with a group high 16 out of a success against Alabama. Rancher indented 20 points – one behind group pioneer Jamal Mashburn – in Kentucky's last round of the period, a 114– 93 prevail upon Auburn. The success pushed Kentucky to a meeting best 14– 4 record, yet a SEC standard denied proclaiming a group the normal season champion in the event that they were ineligible for postseason play, as Kentucky seemed to be. 

Rancher was one of five players to average twofold digit focuses per diversion (10.1); it was the first run through since Kentucky's 1977– 78 title group that such a significant number of players had arrived at the midpoint of twofold digit scoring. At the group's postseason grants dinner, Farmer got the Free Throw Award for the third straight year and was likewise named the group's Most Improved Player. Pitino named the four rising seniors – Farmer, Pelphrey, Woods, and Feldhaus – co-skippers for the up and coming season. 

Not long after the group's first practice in October 1991, Pitino again remarked on Farmer's improved molding, calling it his "greatest amazement" of the early practices. He likewise reported that seniors Sean Woods and John Pelphrey would join Jamal Mashburn in the beginning lineup – as the group's point protect, little forward, and control forward, separately – while senior Deron Feldhaus would repeat his "6th man" job from the past season. Rancher was anticipated to contend with junior school exchange Dale Brown for the beginning shooting watch spot. At the group's yearly Midnight Madness scrimmage, Farmer joined the reported starters and sophomore Gimel Martinez on the Blue group, which vanquished the White group 67– 54. Rancher had 18 points, including 4 of 6 made three-point bushels. Taboo from holding off-grounds scrimmages by new NCAA guidelines, Kentucky played its solitary open preseason scrimmage in Memorial Coliseum; Farmer joined the White group, scoring 21 points on 6-of-12 shooting in a losing exertion. 

Experiencing this season's flu virus, Farmer did not play in the Wildcats' season-opening win against West Virginia in the Preseason NIT. He played in the accompanying amusement, however missed each of the seven of his shots as Kentucky was dispensed with from the competition by Pitt 85– 67, the group's most exceedingly bad home misfortune since 1988. Rancher fell off the seat in the Wildcats' next diversion – a 90– 69 prevail upon UMass – yet coordinated his vocation high with 22 points, including an ideal 10-of-10 from the free toss line; he saw expanded minutes in the amusement because of a season-finishing knee damage to Jeff Brassow. UMass mentor John Calipari called Farmer "the distinction in the amusement". 

Amid the non-gathering season, Farmer made prominent plays late in vital amusements, including a diversion securing bounce back against Indiana and a key three-pointer in the fading minutes of an amusement against Ohio. In a January 2, 1992, amusement against Notre Dame, Farmer entered the diversion after only three minutes when starter Dale Brown sprained his lower leg. In the principal half, he rose to his profession high of 22 points – including five three-point bins – on the way to another vocation high of 28 out of a 91– 70 triumph. This execution regardless, protests from the fan base about Farmer's absence of playing time – he found the middle value of 17.7 minutes per amusement through early February – became more intense and in the long run turned into the subject of media intrigue. In January, two of Kentucky's littler papers printed articles regarding the matter – one theorizing that Pitino was purposefully keeping Farmer down so Farmer's notoriety wouldn't obscure his own. Kentucky beat essayist Jerry Tipton tended to the theme finally in a "Lexington Herald-Leader" segment on February 8, drawing a reproach from Pitino, who considered the issue a "non-story". 

In late January, in the blink of an eye before the Tipton article showed up, Pitino chose to begin Farmer against Ole Miss. He thought beginning Woods and bringing Brown off the seat would enable him to have one of his two best protectors on the floor all the more frequently; he likewise trusted Farmer's stature would not be an obligation against Ole Miss' littler beginning gatekeepers. Rancher scored 10 points on 4-of-10 shooting and drove the group with 6 bounce back in a 96– 78 triumph. Pitino then chose to begin Farmer and individual save Deron Feldhaus in Kentucky's next diversion against LSU, planning to draw Tigers focus Shaquille O'Neal more distant from the crate by beginning better shooters. The methodology was not effective – Farmer shot 2-of-9 and Feldhaus 1-of-10 of every a 74– 53 misfortune – however Pitino declared that Farmer would keep on beginning since he was displaying more shooting certainty than Kentucky's different watchmen. Rancher reacted with 16, including four 3-pointers, in a 85– 67 triumph over Auburn. He kept on beginning for the Wildcats for the remainder of the normal season, coming full circle in a Senior day win against Tennessee, when he scored 11 of Kentucky's initial 16 and saw broadened minutes after individual senior Sean Woods was catapulted for battling with the Volunteers' Jay Price. 

With the group's probation over, Farmer and the other three seniors played in their first – and just – postseason recreations in the 1991– 92 season. After an opening round success against Vanderbilt in the SEC Tournament in Birmingham, Alabama, Kentucky won its third gathering of the period with LSU 80– 74 in the second round; the Tigers were without star focus Shaquille O'Neal, who was suspended for battling with Tennessee's Carlus Groves in his group's opening round triumph. In the finals, Kentucky confronted three-time protecting competition champion Alabama, which was without forward Andre Perry, who endured a broken foot in the elimination rounds against Arkansas. Star sophomore Jamal Mashburn drove all scorers with 28 on 12-of-14 shooting, on the way to a 80– 54 triumph and competition Most Valuable Player praises. Mashburn, who shot 26-for-31 in the Wildcats' three competition amusements, said of his execution, "Toward the start of the period, I told the four seniors 'this is the main thing I can give you. I can't give you any presents, however I can give you a SEC title. We gave them a present they truly merited." 

Kentucky was seeded second in the East Region of the 1992 NCAA Tourment. The Wildcats held a tight 62– 59 lead with 8:25 to play in their first round matchup against Colonial Athletic Association champion Old Dominion when Farmer hit a layup that keyed an unequivocal four-and-a-half-minute, 15– 2 run, helping Kentucky to a 88– 69 triumph. Kentucky's next amusement, against Iowa State, was chosen at the free toss line. Kentucky was called for 29 fouls in the amusement, and Iowa State hit 34-of-38 free tosses, however in the last 1:27 of the diversion, Kentucky shot 14 free tosses – making 11 – to win 106– 98. Rancher, who completed with 14 points, hit four back to back free tosses in the last moment of the amusement. After the diversion, Pitino remarked, "Notwithstanding Richie Farmer, we don't win." In the territorial elimination rounds, the Wildcats confronted a rematch with third-seeded UMass. After the Minutemen cut a 20-point Kentucky lead to 2 with right around six minutes staying in the amusement, UMass mentor John Calipari was whistled for a specialized foul for leaving the mentor's case while contending that one of his players had been fouled on a free ball bounce back; Farmer, who completed with 7, made the subsequent free tosses, beginning a 11– 2 run that helped Kentucky to a 87– 77 win. 

In the territorial finals, Kentucky trailed top-seeded Duke by 12 in the second half, however combat back to drive additional time. With 2.1 seconds left in extra time, Sean Woods hit a running bank shot to put Kentucky up one. At that point, Duke's Christian Laettner got a long inbounds pass, faked right, and hit a shot at the signal to give Duke the 104– 103 triumph. The amusement, which finished Farmer's playing vocation, is generally viewed as one of the best school b-ball rounds ever. Duke mentor Mike Krzyzewski later reviewed, "The thing I'll generally recall about that diversion is Richie Farmer's face as the ball went in. That, to me, helped me to have a superior comprehension of that amusement. ... To me, that was the most profound feeling that was on the court, the feeling that was on Richie Farmer's face." Describing the effect of the amusement, Jerry Tipton expressed, "On one game changing night, the Cats devastated any waiting relationship with $1,000 bundles and scholastic extortion. Charming pictures of bravery, legitimate exertion and heartracing energy progressed toward becoming images of UK ball." Local media gave the seniors the epithet "The Unforgettables". All in all, they were casted a ballot as the "Lexington Herald-Leader's" 1992 Sportsmen of the Year. 

At the group's yearly honors night, Farmer won the honor for least turnovers every moment played (32 out of 705 minutes), yet the free toss grant – won by Farmer the past three years – went to Gimel Martinez. Games executive C. M. Newton astonished the four seniors by hanging their shirts in the rafters at Rupp Arena. In this manner, he abused the principles for the respect set by previous games chief Cliff Hagan. Those rules held that honorees probably finished a degree from the college and be something like 10 years expelled from the finish of their athletic qualification. Newton refered to the seniors' "abnormal and remarkable commitments" to the program as motivations to make an exemption to the norms, including, "I won't state there never will be another special case, however the probability of another isn't extraordinary." Sportscaster Cris Collinsworth challenged Newton's activity since it regarded the seniors before other program champions like Kyle Macy and Rick Robey. 

After the season, the four seniors took an interest in a 21-city traveling voyage through the state, playing against a gathering of nearby players in every city. At the amusement in Farmer's main residence of Manchester, Farmer scored 107 for the seniors' group before changing to the Clay County group for the rest of the diversion, hitting an extra three-pointer for a sum of 30. Pelphrey hit a three to give the seniors – without Farmer – a 179– 176 lead with 25 seconds left in the amusement, and the three seniors triple-joined Farmer to keep him from getting a shot off to tie the diversion. 20% of the returns from each diversion profited neighborhood foundations, and another 20% of the complete continues from the visit was partitioned between the University of Kentucky Library Fund, Big Brothers Big Sisters, and AIDS Volunteers of Lexington. 

In August 1992, Antex Publishing of Lexington discharged Farmer's life account entitled "Richie". Notwithstanding the standard printing, the distributer offered an extraordinary release of the book in which direct statements from Farmer were rendered in blue sort, like the expressions of Jesus in red letter versions of the Bible. Long-lasting Wildcats radio supporter Cawood Ledford composed the book's foreword. Before the finish of October, the book had sold 30,000 duplicates, and a second printing from the distributer was requested. Rancher took an interest in a few book signings over the state, just as recording TV commercials for nearby items and directing talking commitment for dental protection supplier Delta Dental to advance great oral wellbeing in his local eastern Kentucky. 

Rancher kept taking classes at Kentucky with help from the Cawood Ledford Scholarship finance – assigned to help University of Kentucky competitors who have depleted their athletic qualification complete their degrees – and in 1995, earned a four year certification in scientific studies qualification with a twofold major in agrarian financial aspects and agribusiness the executives. After graduation, he quickly worked in games advertising in Lexington before coming back to Manchester to join his dad in the protection business. Notwithstanding selling protection, Farmer likewise got his securities permit to sell annuities, and in the end rose to progress toward becoming VP of Kentucky Financial Group. 

On April 15, 1998, Farmer wedded Rebecca Ann Morgan. The couple had three children – Richard III ("Trey") and Ryan, conceived on November 30 of every 1996 and 1998, individually, and Tate, conceived in 2001. 

Rancher was drafted into the KHSAA Hall of Fame in 1998 and the Kentucky Athletic Hall of Fame in 2002. He was one of 88 debut individuals from the University of Kentucky Athletics Hall of Fame in 2005 and one of 16 debut individuals from the Kentucky High School Basketball Hall of Fame in 2012. "The Unforgettables" were regarded on a constrained version authority's jug of Maker's Mark whiskey in 2007. 

On January 28, 2003, Farmer reported he would look for the Republican selection for Kentucky Agriculture Commissioner. In his declaration, he recognized that he had never worked a ranch, however noticed that he knew numerous ranchers and held a degree in a farming related field. Ellen Williams, seat of the state's Republican Party, said Farmer's application would bring "star quality" to a down-poll race (for example state workplaces other than senator and lieutenant representative). No Republican had been chosen to any of those workplaces since 1967. 

Rancher held up until three weeks before the essential decision to start truly battling and concentrated on populace focuses, for example, Lexington, Louisville, Bowling Green, and the Northern Kentucky territory, where Republican voters were increasingly thought. Around then, battle fund reports demonstrated that Farmer had spent about portion of the $36,055 raised for his crusade, while his adversary, Leonard "Buck" Beasley, had raised just $450 and spent nothing. While he proposed no significant changes to the task of the agribusiness division, Farmer accentuated collaboration as a way to improve the state's horticultural segment, refered to the need to discover new markets for Kentucky rural items, and communicated a longing to improve the open impression of the agribusiness business, saying "Ranchers have an extraordinary story to tell, and I will utilize any name acknowledgment I have increased through my involvement with UK ball to enable them to tell it." He likewise raised the likelihood of connecting with other previous b-ball players to advance crafted by the horticulture office and showed that he would hall to have half of Kentucky's portion of the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement coordinated to the state's Agriculture Development Board. 

With 109,742 votes – 79 percent of the all out cast – Farmer collected a greater number of votes than some other Republican contender for any office on the ticket "on the way" to winning the assignment. The triumph set up a general race challenge against Democratic candidate Alice Woods Baesler, a state agribusiness office helper and spouse of previous Congressman and Kentucky ball player Scotty Baesler. Reinforced by his essentially higher name acknowledgment, Farmer drove an early July SurveyUSA survey 61% to 33% over Baesler. Baesler charged that Farmer was unfit for the activity of agribusiness official and that his high survey numbers and persuading essential triumph were driven by his ubiquity as a ball player, censuring him for highlighting his status as an individual from "The Unforgettables" in his battle writing. Rancher reacted that his higher education qualified him to be horticulture magistrate and said his need to proceed with his normal everyday employment to help his family frequently repelled him from the battle field where he could clarify more on his thoughts for running the Department of Agriculture. 

At an August discussion in Owensboro, Farmer proposed the cross-advancement of Kentucky agrarian items and the state park framework, granting focuses for purchasing Kentucky delivered staple goods that could be reclaimed for gifts and livens amid remains at state parks. On October 21, "The Kentucky Post" gave Baesler its underwriting, differentiating her experience running a homestead and her contribution with the agribusiness office to Farmer's absence of horticulture experience and continuous nonattendance at crusade occasions. Soon thereafter, the "Lexington Herald-Leader" additionally supported Baesler, and lined up the following day with an article taking note of that, as of October 3, about 33% of the $87,825.20 Farmer had spent amid the crusade went to relatives – including his folks, sibling, sister, and in-laws – for pay rates and battle related repayments. Met by telephone, Farmer reacted, "[My family has] most likely worked 60, 70, 80 hours seven days crusading for me endeavoring to get me chose. I don't think we have done anything incorrectly." Richard Beliles, director of battle money guard dog Common Cause of Kentucky, said Farmer's activities were not illicit but rather were "fairly odd". Rancher defeated the terrible press, in any case, to take the race by a vote of 575,049 to 466,321. 

In April 2004, Farmer reported the development of a board of trustees to think about the adequacy of state possessed and worked rancher's business sectors. In June 2005, he was chosen secretary of the Southern Association of State Departments of Agriculture; in 2007, he was chosen leader of the association. Rancher additionally looked to keep a flare-up of vesicular stomatitis infection in the state's steeds and cows by prohibiting the import of creatures from 20 western provinces where the infection was known to have tainted creatures. On Farmer's recommendation, Governor Ernie Fletcher mentioned that the United States Department of Agriculture assign Kentucky as an agrarian hazardous situation after an April 2007 chilly spell crushed the state's products of the soil crops; the assignment made Kentucky ranchers qualified for low-intrigue government credits to help make up for their lost harvest income. 

In December 2004, Kentucky's Registry of Election Finance, the organization that implements the state's battle account laws, enlisted Farmer's sister, Rhonda F. Dim, who had recently filled in as seat of her sibling's effort for agribusiness magistrate. Vault seat John Rogers kept up that Gray was contracted without anyone else merits, and Gray guaranteed to recuse herself from any work that may include her sibling's future battles. The next May, "The Kentucky Post" distributed passages from an email from Dick Murgatroyd, Fletcher's vice president of staff, to Transportation Cabinet authorities approaching them to get a new line of work for Farmer's brother by marriage, Jamie Gray; the email demonstrated that Murgatroyd was in charge of securing positions for both James and Rhonda Gray. Dim was later employed as a regulatory authority in the Transportation Cabinet. Rancher denied any association in the procuring choices past submitting proposals for the two applicants. In July, Murgatroyd was prosecuted on 19 checks of abusing the state's legitimacy framework by making politically propelled contracts, including that of Jamie Gray. A transportation official affirmed in September that Farmer had declined one occupation for Gray in light of the fact that the compensation was excessively low and had arranged a higher pay hands on Gray in the end got. Rancher called the cases "ridiculous" and "just false". 

Following the abdication of Lieutenant Governor Steve Pence in June 2006, Farmer was referenced as a conceivable running mate for Fletcher in his up and coming re-appointment crusade, yet Fletcher picked Robbie Rudolph rather, and Farmer reported his goal to look for re-appointment as agribusiness chief. In the Republican essential, Farmer confronted Don Stosberg, a previous spending investigator for Kentucky's Legislative Research Commission. Once more, Farmer was reprimanded for neglecting to show up at a few battle occasions; Stosberg told the "Lexington Herald-Leader", "[Farmer is] renowned for three things: shooting three-point shots, not returning telephone calls and not appearing." Farmer reacted that he was doing the obligations of his office amid his nonappearances from the occasions. Rancher countered his nonappearances by outspending his adversary 35-to-1, putting a revealed $102,000 in his battle. Rancher caught 85% of the vote, crushing Stosberg by a vote of 155,576 to 26,897. Name acknowledgment assumed a job in the two gatherings' primaries: Farmer delighted in high name acknowledgment from his days as a ball player, while the Democratic chosen one, David Lynn Williams, had a name like that of Kentucky Senate President David L. Williams. 

Soon after the essential race, Williams made a progression of politically unsavvy comments in a meeting distributed by a week after week online magazine committed to Kentucky farming issues; among the blunders were calling the state rural improvement load up and long-lasting Kentucky Democratic Senator Wendell H. Portage "a pack of damn liars". State Democratic administrator Jonathan Miller called Williams' announcements "hostile" and said that few of the gathering's official advisory group individuals wanted to have Williams expelled as the gathering's applicant. 

In June, Williams was captured on offense accusations of threatening, confused lead, and badgering for purportedly undermining his niece, who was the city representative of Glasgow, Kentucky, since she didn't deliver records he had mentioned under Kentucky's open records law. His preliminary was not planned until after the decision. 

By October, a Research 2000 survey demonstrated Farmer driving the race 54%– 35%, with 11% uncertain, and crusade money archives demonstrated that Farmer had burned through $57,075 of the $168,650 he raised for his general decision battle, while Williams had raised and spent under $1,000. The "Lexington Herald-Leader" made no support in the race, expressing that Farmer's absence of learning was clear amid his first term, yet that he "resembles a homestead arrangement virtuoso" contrasted with Williams. On race day, Farmer set a record for the most votes got in a race for a protected office in Kentucky, accumulating 641,789 (64%) to Williams' 363,188 (36%). Amid his triumph discourse, Farmer denied gossipy tidbits that he was thinking about changing his association to the Democratic Party. 

Rancher asked U.S. Agribusiness Secretary Tom Vilsack for presentations of farming calamities in the wake of an ice storm in January 2009 that jeopardized the state's domesticated animals and flooding that influenced Kentucky Lake in 2010, harming extensive segments of the state's corn, soybean, and wheat crops. In December 2010, he propelled a joint examination with Democratic Attorney General Jack Conway into cases that the Eastern Livestock organization had not paid Kentucky cattlemen for $130 million in animals. 

Rancher was restricted to two terms by the Kentucky Constitution, and in October 2009, the "Lexington Herald-Leader" revealed that he was "in discourses" about running for senator in the 2011 race. In August 2010, Farmer declared that he would be "running for something" in the up and coming decision and would report his arrangements inside weeks after the Kentucky State Fair. The "Lexington Herald-Leader" guessed that Farmer could keep running for senator, secretary of state, or lieutenant representative on a ticket with Senate President David Williams. On September 1, 2010, Williams and Farmer declared that they would keep running as a ticket for representative and lieutenant senator, separately. 

Not long after the declaration, Farmer started to confront analysis for his utilization of state assets amid troublesome monetary occasions that brought about starkness measures in most state government organizations. One such analysis included the participation of Farmer and three helpers at the Southern Association of State Departments of Agriculture's 2010 yearly gathering in St. Croix at an expense of $10,000. Another included the endorsement of legitimacy raises for eleven horticulture office representatives in 2010 when specialists in all other state government organizations got no average cost for basic items compensation increments and were required to take six unpaid leave of absence days. A division representative said the workers had taken on duties regarding numerous employments left unfilled by steady loss. "The point of view was this was more practical than enlisting new individuals," the representative said. Each protected officer in the state likewise gave multi day's pay to the state treasury or to a philanthropy on every one of the required vacation days, yet Farmer can't, saying he contradicted the whole idea of leave of absence days for government laborers. After huge open analysis, Farmer apologized and chose to give six days of his pay to philanthropy. 

Rancher was additionally scrutinized for his administration of the farming division's vehicle armada. Late in his first term, Farmer had expelled the vehicles utilized by the Agriculture Department from the state armada, selecting to have office authorities oversee them independently. In 2010, the Bluegrass Institute for Public Policy Solutions, a free market think tank, censured the office's administration of the vehicles under its control, refering to the recurrence with which the division's vehicles were being supplanted. The "Lexington Herald-Leader" noted in 2010 that the office's armada had developed from 178 to 206 vehicles since 2007 while the state's armada had contracted by 5%, and that everything except three of the office's vehicles were less than four years of age. A division representative safeguarded the moves, refering to diminished support costs and higher resale estimations of vehicles being supplanted. The "Lexington Herald-Leader" noticed that such episodes could undermine Williams and Farmer's conventional Republican message of the requirement for less government spending. 

Rancher's significant other Rebecca petitioned for legal separation on April 5, 2011, asserting in court reports that she had no entrance to the family's accounts aside from the compensation she earned as a guest instructor. On April 12, Farmer appealed to the court to expel his better half's separation request, challenging that their marriage was hopelessly broken. The separation procedures were put on hold by shared assent on May 26, 2011, however in a July 12 hearing, Farmer's better half asked that the judge plan a preliminary date; the judge requested intervention inside 30 days. The intervention fizzled, and a preliminary date was set for November 22, not long after the gubernatorial race. A second round of intercession in a matter of seconds before the booked hearing brought about a settlement between the gatherings; terms of the settlement were kept private. 

In the Republican gubernatorial essential, the Williams-Farmer ticket vanquished specialist Phil Moffett and previous Jefferson County Judge/Executive Bobbie Holsclaw. Williams and Farmer had driven in supposition surveying all through the whole crusade, and neither restricting slate had the capacity to collect enough cash to take part in statewide TV publicizing; regardless of this, Williams and Farmer got just 68,502 votes, 48.2% of those cast. Holsclaw won the casting a ballot in her home region of Jefferson, which contains the city of Louisville and is the state's generally crowded. Moffett, a Tea Party top choice, conveyed the second most crowded region, Fayette (which contains Lexington), just as vigorously populated Daviess, McCracken, and Warren provinces, and a few districts in Northern and Central Kentucky. 

Inquiries regarding Farmer's utilization of citizen subsidizes kept on hounding him all through the general race battle. Democrats requested that Farmer repay the state for inn costs charged to the state while Farmer was directing effort exercises at the KHSAA state b-ball competition and the Kentucky State Fair, both found less than from his home. In May, the workplace of Democratic State Auditor Crit Luallen informed the Internal Revenue Service that Farmer had neglected to report individual utilization of his state vehicle as salary. A representative for Farmer's office said that the individual mileage had been followed, yet a division worker had neglected to advance it to the state Personnel Cabinet for announcing; he included that Farmer would record changed duty archives and have derivations taken from his wages to settle the expense risk. The state Democratic Party recorded a morals protest against Farmer in September dependent on an unknown email sent to the Personnel Cabinet asserting that, after work hours, Farmer guided an agribusiness division worker to buy a little cooler with state reserves and convey it to Farmer's home. A division representative said Farmer invested a generous measure of energy working from a home office in 2010 because of back damage and that the icebox had been moved to office workplaces in 2011. 

Beshear and Abramson effectively crushed Farmer and Williams, conveying 90 of Kentucky's 120 regions. Days after the fact, the "Lexington Herald-Leader" detailed that Farmer had put his better half in a non-merit horticulture division work on October 31, 2011. Williams affirmed that the lady was Farmer's better half, however denied learning that she had been put on the state finance. Rancher guarded the enlisting, saying his better half was met all requirements for the activity, which included authoritative and administrative assignments, and that his lawful group had guaranteed him that he had pursued all suitable contracting guidelines. Rancher's successor, Republican James Comer, terminated Farmer's sweetheart daily subsequent to being sworn into office. 

Five days after Farmer left office, Comer declared that he had mentioned a full review of the office by recently chosen Democratic State Auditor Adam Edelen. Among the things Comer asked Edelen to explore were 171 things of missing farming division property esteemed at about $334,000 and another 103 things worth about $146,000 that should be come back to the state as surplus yet couldn't be represented. After seven days, Farmer restored a portion of the missing things. 

Comer and Edelen discharged the report on their joint test on April 30, 2012. It point by point a "dangerous culture of qualification" in the horticulture division under Farmer, charging that he had required state representatives to lead individual errands while on the clock, neglected to report endowments in abundance of $200 as required by state morals laws, and marked timesheets approving installment to companions in the office – including his better half – who had performed almost no if any work. Edelen affirmed that his examination demonstrated that laws had been broken, and the report was swung over to the state lawyer general for examination. Minutes after the report was discharged, Farmer's legal advisor owned an open expression in which he opined, "I don't see anything in this review report that any law-requirement office will be amped up for." He surrendered that Farmer had declined to be met amid the examination yet felt it was unreasonable that Farmer was not allowed to audit or remark on the last report before its discharge. 

Seven days after the review results were discharged, Kentucky's Executive Branch Ethics Commission revealed that Farmer was the main sacred officer who had neglected to document a required revelation of his 2011 funds by the required April 16 due date. Rancher's lawyer said the exclusion was "just a question of oversight on Richie's part given with [sic] what all has been going on." Days after the fact, First National Bank of Manchester recorded an abandonment suit against Farmer, charging that no installments had been made on his $300,000 home loan since January 2012. Under terms of his pending separation, Farmer was exclusively in charge of the home loan on the house. The separation was finished in July, and on September 24, 2012, the house was sold at sale after Farmer was not fruitful in offering it himself. Prior that week, a judge denied Farmer's solicitation to lessen his kid bolster installments, which depended on his compensation as horticulture official. Rancher, who had not been utilized since leaving office in January 2012, told the court that the examination concerning his residency as farming chief had made it hard to discover business. The judge found that Farmer was "intentionally underemployed", despite the fact that he suspended the kid bolster installments for the long periods of September and October 2012 in light of Farmer's recuperation from an August 30 hip substitution medical procedure. On November 9, 2012, the "Lexington Herald-Leader" announced that Farmer had discovered work at a vehicle vendor in Manchester. 

On March 18, 2013, the Kentucky Executive Branch Ethics Commission accused Farmer of 42 state morals infringement, the most at any point enrolled against a solitary individual; the past high was 16. The majority of the charges against him originated from the earlier year's evaluator's report, however beforehand unreported accuses included contriving of his sister Rhonda, who was likewise charged, to misrepresent records submitted to Rhonda's boss, the Registry of Election Finance. Rancher's better half was likewise charged for distorting timesheets. These charges were trailed by five prosecutions by a government great jury on April 19, 2013, claiming four checks of changing over state assets and property to individual use and one include of requesting a fix in return for a state concede. U.S. Lawyer Kerry B. Harvey said a government examination uncovered that Farmer had made employments in the office for his companions and sweetheart, who directed individual errands for Farmer – including "building a b-ball court for Farmer, setting flooring in Farmer's upper room and getting sorted out Farmer's belongings" – while on the clock. He additionally said that Farmer had kept a portion of the blessings requested related to the 2008 Southern Association of State Departments of Agriculture gathering for his very own utilization and enabled his family to remain in lodgings saved for horticulture office workers at the Kentucky State Fair. The arraignment did not indicate what reward was looked for in return for a give to direct an off-road vehicle security class, yet the charges from the state Ethics Commission referenced that Farmer had gotten three off-road vehicles in return for granting unspecified state gifts. A "Lexington Herald-Leader" report noticed that the arraignment just included occasions from 2008 forward in light of the fact that the legal time limit had terminated for any activities preceding 2008. 

Rancher argued not blameworthy to each of the five government charges on April 25, 2013. He was discharged without anyone else recognizance, and his preliminary date was set for July 2. U.S. Justice Robert Wier denied Farmer's solicitation to leave the nation in May to praise his better half's 40th birthday celebration in Cancún, Mexico. Wier likewise requested the as of late jobless Farmer to look for work, surrender his international ID, and stay inside the state until the preliminary. In light of Farmer's attorney's solicitation to postpone the preliminary until February 2014 – a solicitation the arraignment called "exorbitant" – Judge Gregory Van Tatenhove rescheduled the preliminary for October 22. 

On September 5, 2013, Farmer's lawyer recorded a movement to enable Farmer to change his supplication to blameworthy and reported that Farmer had achieved a request deal to settle all government and state charges against him. Rancher would have confronted greatest punishments of $250,000 and 10 years in jail for every government charge against him. Rather, in return for his liable supplication, investigators consented to seek after a sentence of 21 to 27 months in government jail and $120,500 in compensation of the $450,000 Farmer was blamed for misusing. Furthermore, Farmer confessed to one state charge of abusing effort fund laws in return for a sentence of close to one year, served simultaneously with his government sentence. At last, Farmer recognized to the Executive Branch Ethics Commission 35 of the 42 infringement he had been accused of, bringing about $65,000 in fines, the most at any point exacted by the commission. Rancher's lawyer demonstrated that U.S. Lawyer Kerry Harvey and Kentucky Attorney General Jack Conway had been seeking after extra prosecutions against Farmer when the supplication deal was come to. Albeit still limited from leaving the state, Farmer was permitted to stay free pending condemning. 

Van Tatenhove condemned Farmer to 27 months in government jail on January 14, 2014. He prescribed that the sentence be served at the Federal Correctional Institution in Manchester, Farmer's main residence, yet the Federal Bureau of Prisons picked to dole out him to the United States Penitentiary, Hazelton close Bruceton Mills, West Virginia. The "Lexington Herald-Leader" noticed that Farmer's detainee number, 16226-032, was reminiscent of his school shirt number, 32. 

Initially planned to answer to jail on March 18, Farmer was conceded a one-week delay by Van Tatenhove to watch his child, Trey, play for Clay County High School in the KHSAA b-ball competition. Earth County lost that diversion to Covington Catholic High School 80-78 in the first round of the competition. Van Tatenhove demanded that he allowed the deferral in regard to the Farmer family, not as an extraordinary support for Farmer himself. On March 25, 2014, Farmer answered to the satellite camp of the Hazelton jail to start serving his sentence. He was detained for just about 20 months, changed to a shelter in Lexington on December 18, 2015, and was discharged on January 21, 2016. 

In May 2016, Farmer petitioned for Chapter 7 liquidation. His request expressed that he was jobless and owed $385,745 in obligations – incorporating $120,000 in compensation to the state and $15,000 in kid bolster that are ineligible for chapter 11 pardoning – against $24,259 in resources. He was apparently leasing a home in Clay County from his folks and driving a vehicle they claimed. On March 22, 2018, Farmer was captured in Laurel County, Kentucky, for driving impaired.