Gold dollar 

The gold dollar or gold one-dollar piece is a gold coin that was struck as a customary issue by the United States Bureau of the Mint from 1849 to 1889. The coin had three sorts over its lifetime, all structured by Mint Chief Engraver James B. Longacre. The Type 1 issue has the littlest distance across of any United States coin printed to date. 

A gold dollar coin had been proposed a few times during the 1840s, yet was not at first embraced. Congress was at long last aroused vigorously by the expanded supply of bullion brought about by the California dash for unheard of wealth, and in 1849 approved a gold dollar. In its initial years, silver coins were being stored or sent out, and the gold dollar found a prepared spot in business. Silver again circled after Congress in 1853 necessitated that new coins of that metal be made lighter, and the gold dollar turned into an irregularity in trade even before government coins evaporated from flow as a result of the monetary disturbance brought about by the American Civil War. 

Gold did not again circle in the majority of the country until 1879; when it did, the gold dollar did not recover its place. In its last years, it was struck in little numbers, causing hypothesis by hoarders. It was likewise sought after to be mounted in gems. The customary issue gold dollar was last struck in 1889; the next year, Congress finished the arrangement. 

Harmed regular date gold dollars will in general be worth anyplace from soften an incentive to about $110 USD (starting at 2017); basic dates of higher coursed grades sell for about $200 USD while rarer coins in high evaluations can be worth up to a huge number. 

In proposing his arrangement for a mint and a coinage framework, Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton in 1791 suggested that the one-dollar division be struck both as a gold coin, and as one of silver, delegate of the two metals which he proposed be made lawful delicate. Congress pursued Hamilton's suggestion just to some degree, approving a silver dollar, yet no coin of that group in gold. 

In 1831, the main gold dollar was stamped, at the private mint of Christopher Bechtler in North Carolina. A great part of the gold at that point being created in the United States originated from the mountains of North Carolina and Georgia, and the dollars and other little gold coins issued by Bechtler circled through that area, and were once in a while observed further away. Extra one-dollar pieces were struck by August Bechtler, Christopher's child. 

Not long after the Bechtlers started to strike their private issues, Secretary of the Treasury Levi Woodbury turned into a supporter of having the Mint of the United States ("Mint", when depicted as an establishment) strike the one-dollar category in gold. He was restricted by the Mint Director, Robert M. Patterson. Woodbury convinced President Andrew Jackson to have design coins struck. Accordingly, Patterson had Mint Second Engraver Christian Gobrecht sever deal with the new structure for the silver one-dollar coin and work on an example for the gold dollar. Gobrecht's plan highlighted a Liberty top encompassed by beams on one side, and a palm branch masterminded around with the group, date, and name of the nation on the other. 

Thought was given to including the gold dollar as an approved category in the revisionary enactment that turned into the Mint Act of 1837. The Philadelphia paper "Open Ledger", in December 1836, upheld a gold dollar, expressing that "the dollar is the littlest gold coin that would be helpful, and as it would be prominently in this way, neither silver nor paper ought to be permitted to have its spot." Nevertheless, after Mint Director Patterson showed up before a congressional board of trustees, the arrangement approving the gold dollar was erased from the bill. 

In January 1844, North Carolina Representative James Iver McKay, the executive of the Committee on Ways and Means, requested the perspectives on Director Patterson on the gold dollar. Patterson had a greater amount of Gobrecht's example dollar struck to show to advisory group individuals, again prompting against a coin that if issued would be just about a half inch (13 mm) in measurement. He disclosed to Treasury Secretary John C. Spencer that the main gold coins of that estimate in business, the Spanish and Colombian half-escudos, were disliked and had not been struck for over twenty years. This appeared to fulfill the board of trustees as nothing more was accomplished for the time, and when a gold dollar was proposed again in 1846, McKay's advisory group suggested against it. 

Indeed, even before 1848, record measures of gold were streaming to American mints to be struck into coin, however the California Gold Rush incomprehensibly expanded these amounts. This reestablished requires a gold dollar, just as for a higher section than the hawk ($10 piece), at that point the biggest gold coin. In January 1849, McKay presented a bill for a gold dollar, which was alluded to his board. There was much exchange in the press about the proposed coin; one paper distributed a proposition for an annular gold dollar; that is, with an opening in the center to expand its little measurement. McKay revised his enactment to accommodate a twofold bird ($20 gold coin) and wrote to Patterson, who answered expressing that the annular gold dollar would not work, and neither would another proposition to have dollar piece comprising of a gold module a silver coin. All things considered, Gobrecht's successor as boss etcher, James B. Longacre, arranged examples, incorporating some with a square opening in the center. 

McKay got his kindred Democrat, New Hampshire Senator Charles Atherton, to acquaint the bill with approve the gold dollar and the twofold falcon in the Senate on February 1, 1849—Atherton was executive of the Senate Finance Committee. McKay brought a variant into the House on February 20; banter started that day. The dollar was assaulted by congressmen from the Whig Party, at that point in the minority, because it would be excessively little, would be duplicated and in terrible light may be erroneously spent as a half dime, the coins being comparable in size. McKay did not react substantively, yet expressed that if nobody needed these sections, they would not be called for at the Mint, and would not be begat. Pennsylvania Representative Joseph Ingersoll, a Whig, criticized the bill, noticing that Patterson restricted the new sections, and that the thought had been more than once turned down, at whatever point considered. Another Whig, Massachusetts' Charles Hudson, related that Patterson had sent a genuine and a fake gold dollar to his board of trustees and most of individuals had been unfit to differentiate. McKay made no response to these cases, yet others did, including New York Congressman Henry Nicoll, who guaranteed the House that the falsifying claims were significantly overstated. The fact of the matter was, he demonstrated, that the twofold bird and gold dollar were needed by people in general, and, on account of the gold dollar could enable cash to flow in little networks where banknotes were not acknowledged. Connecticut Representative John A. Rockwell, a Whig, attempted to table the bill, yet his movement was crushed. The bill passed effectively, and met just insignificant resistance in the Senate, getting to be law on March 3, 1849. 

The officers at the Philadelphia Mint, including Chief Coiner Franklin Peale, were generally the companions and relations of Director Patterson. The untouchable in their middle was Chief Engraver James B. Longacre, successor to Gobrecht (who had passed on in 1844). A previous copper-plate etcher, Longacre had been selected through the political impact of South Carolina Senator John C. Calhoun. 

At the point when Longacre started take a shot at the two new coins in mid 1849, he had nobody to help him. Longacre composed the next year that he had been cautioned by a Mint worker that one of the officers (without a doubt Peale) wanted to undermine the central etcher's situation by having crafted by getting ready structures and passes on done outside Mint premises. In like manner, when the gold coin bill progressed toward becoming law, Longacre informed Patterson that he was prepared to start chip away at the gold dollar. The Mint Director concurred, and in the wake of survey a model of the head on the front, approved Longacre to continue with planning of kicks the bucket. As per Longacre, 

The Type 1 gold dollar portrays a head of Liberty, confronting left, with a coronet or tiara on her head bearing her name. Her hair is assembled in a bun; she is encompassed by 13 stars speaking to the first states. The turn around highlights the date and category inside a wreath, with the name of the country close to the edge. 

Contemporary surveys of the Type 1 configuration were commonly positive. The "New York Weekly Tribune" on May 19, 1849 portrayed the new dollar as "without a doubt the neatest, littlest, lightest, coin in this country ... it is excessively fragile and delightful to pay out for potatoes, and sauerkraut, and salt pork. Oberon may have paid Puck with it for bringing the bloom which entranced Titania." "Willis' Bank Note List" expressed that "there is no likelihood of them regularly getting into general flow; they are by and large excessively little." The "North Carolina Standard" trusted that they would be struck at the Charlotte Mint and coursed locally to wipe out the issue of little category certified receipts from out of state. Coin seller and numismatic creator Q. David Bowers takes note of that the head of Liberty on the Type 1 dollar is a downsized rendition of that as soon as possible falcon, and "a pleasantly saved gold dollar is wonderful to see". 

Mint records demonstrate the primary gold dollars were created on May 7, 1849; Longacre's journal notes state rather that the first were struck on May 8. A couple of coins in verification condition were struck on the principal day, alongside around 1,000 for flow. There are five noteworthy assortments of the 1849 gold dollar from Philadelphia, made as Longacre kept on fining tune the plan. Mintmarked bites the dust were sent by Longacre's Engraving Department at the Philadelphia Mint to the branch mints at Charlotte, Dahlonega (in Georgia), and New Orleans; coins struck at the branches take after a portion of the sorts issued from Philadelphia, contingent upon when the passes on were created. Of the coins struck at the branch mints in 1849, just pieces struck at Charlotte (1849-C) exist in numerous assortments; most are of what is named the "Shut Wreath" assortment. Roughly five of the 1849-C Open Wreath are known; one, trusted the best enduring example, sold at closeout for $690,000 in 2004, residual a record for the gold dollar arrangement starting at 2013. One of the progressions made amid creation was the consideration of Longacre's underlying "L" on the truncation of Liberty's neck, the first run through a U.S. coin expected for full-scale generation had borne the underlying of its creator. All issues starting in 1850 bear the Closed Wreath. Starting in 1854, the gold dollar was additionally struck at the new San Francisco Mint. 

The proceeded with stream of gold from California made silver costly regarding gold, and U.S. silver coins started to stream out of the nation for liquefying in 1849, a stream that quickened throughout the following quite a long while as the cost of the metal kept on rising. By 1853, a thousand dollars in silver coin contained $1,042 worth of bullion. As silver coins disappeared, the gold dollar turned into the main government coin available for use between the penny and the quarter bird ($2.50 piece). In that capacity, it was struck in extensive numbers and broadly flowed. As indicated by Bowers in his book on the division, "the years 1850 to 1853 were the high-water characteristic of the gold dollar, the greatness long stretches of the section when the little gold coins replaced half dollars and silver dollars in regular exchanges." This time arrived at an end in 1853 when Congress passed a demonstration lessening the heaviness of most silver coins, enabling new issues of them to course. 

As right on time as 1851, New York Congressman William Duer claimed that Patterson had made the gold dollar excessively little in distance across deliberately to incite analysis. Patterson resigned that year following 16 years in his position, and under his successor, George N. Eckert, annular gold dollar and half dollar designs were struck. "Open Ledger" detailed that albeit gold dollars would not be struck in annular structure, gold half dollars would be, to help fill the requirement for change. With the new Pierce organization, Thomas M. Pettit got down to business as Mint Director on March 31, 1853. In April, Treasury Secretary James Guthrie wrote to Pettit that there were grumblings that the gold dollar was excessively little, regularly lost or confused with a little silver coin, and enquired about reports that the Mint had explored different avenues regarding annular dollars. Pettit answered, expressing that none had been saved, however encased a silver bit of identical size. He noticed that while there would be specialized troubles in the creation of the annular dollar, these could be survived. In a letter dated May 10, Pettit proposed an oval-formed holed piece, or a rakish molded coin, which would diminish the creation issues. Pettit kicked the bucket all of a sudden on May 31; Guthrie did not give the issue a chance to fall, yet questioned Pettit's substitution, James Ross Snowden, concerning the issue on June 7. As U.S. coins were required to endure some gadget symbolic of freedom, the secretary trusted that specialists could be discovered who could locate some such plan for an annular coin. 

The Act of February 21, 1853, that had helped the silver coins likewise approved a gold three-dollar piece, which started to be delivered in 1854. To guarantee that the three-dollar piece was not confused with other gold coins, it had been made more slender and more extensive than it would typically be, and Longacre put a particular structure with an Indian princess on it. Longacre adjusted both the method and the structure for the gold dollar, which was made more slender, and in this way more extensive. An adjustment of Longacre's princess for the bigger gold coin was put on the dollar, and a comparable farming wreath on the turn around. Making the gold dollar bigger thusly had been recommended in Congress as right on time as 1852, and had been supported by Pettit, yet Guthrie's craving for an annular coin slowed down the issue. In May 1854, Snowden sent Guthrie a letter expressing that the troubles with an annular coin, particularly in getting the coins to discharge appropriately from the press, were more than unimportant. 

By and by, the Type 2 gold dollar (as it came to be referred to) demonstrated unsuitable as the mints experienced issues in striking the new coin with the goal that all subtleties were brought out. This was because of the high alleviation of the plan—the three Southern branch mints particularly experienced difficulty with the piece. Huge numbers of the Type 2 pieces rapidly ended up unintelligible, and were sent back to Philadelphia for dissolving and recoinage. On most enduring examples, the "85" in the date isn't completely nitty gritty. The Type 2 gold dollar was struck just at Philadelphia in 1854 and 1855, at the three Southern branch mints in the last year, and at San Francisco in 1856, after the structure was assigned for substitution. To address the issues, Longacre broadened the head of Liberty, making it a downsized rendition of the three-dollar piece, and moved the lettering on the front nearer to the edge. This improved the metal stream and structure sharpness so much that early numismatic researchers expected the turn around was likewise adjusted, however in actuality no change was made and the Type 2 and Type 3 switches are indistinguishable. 

The Type 2 and 3 gold dollars portray Liberty as a Native American princess, with a whimsical feathered hood not taking after any well used by any Indian clan. This picture is an inaccurate duplicate of the structure Longacre had made for the three-dollar piece, and is one of various variants of Liberty that Longacre made dependent on the "Venus Accroupie" or "Squatting Venus", a model at that point in plain view in a Philadelphia exhibition hall. For the switch, Longacre adjusted the "farming wreath" he had made for the turn around of the three-dollar piece, made out of cotton, corn, tobacco, and wheat, mixing the produce of North and South. This wreath would show up, later during the 1850s, on the Flying Eagle penny. 

Workmanship student of history Cornelius Vermeule expostulated the Indian princess configuration utilized by Longacre for the front-sides of the Types 2 and 3 gold dollar, and for the three-dollar piece, "the 'princess' of the gold coins is a banknote etcher's rich adaptation of society specialty of the 1850s. The tufts or plumes are progressively similar to the peak of the Prince of Wales than anything that saw the Western wildernesses, spare maybe on a music corridor excellence." 

The gold dollar kept on being created in the late 1850s, however mintages declined from the figures of two million or more every year somewhere in the range of 1850 and 1854. Just around 51,000 gold dollars were delivered in 1860, with more than 66% of that figure at Philadelphia, simply under a third at San Francisco, and 1,566 at Dahlonega. Approximately a hundred are known about the last, making one of the incredible rarities from Dahlonega in the arrangement. 

The other contender for the rarest from that mint is the 1861-D, with an expected mintage of 1,000 and maybe 45 to 60 known. Two sets of bites the dust were delivered from Philadelphia to Dahlonega on December 10, 1860; they touched base on January 7, 1861, two weeks before Georgia casted a ballot to withdraw from the Union, as the American Civil War started. Compelled from Governor Joseph E. Dark colored, state local army verified the mint, and sooner or later, little amounts of dollars and half falcons were delivered. Records of what number of coins were struck and when have not endure. Since passes on break in time, and every one of the mints were provided with them from Philadelphia, instituting couldn't last, and in May 1861, coins and supplies staying at Dahlonega were swung over to the treasury of the Confederate States of America, which Georgia had by then joined. Gold coins with a complete assumed worth of $6 were set aside for test. Typically, they would have been sent to Philadelphia to anticipate the next year's gathering of the United States Assay Commission, when they would be accessible for testing. Rather, these were sent to the underlying Confederate capital of Montgomery, Alabama, however what was finished with them there, and their definitive destiny, are obscure. The uncommonness of the 1861-D dollar, and the relationship with the Confederacy, make it particularly prized. 

Dahlonega, similar to the next two branch mints in the South, shut its entryways after the 1861 strikings. It and the Charlotte office never revived; the New Orleans Mint again struck coins from 1879 to 1909, yet did not strike gold dollars again. After 1861, the main issuance of gold dollars outside Philadelphia was at San Francisco, in 1870. 

The episode of the Civil War shook open trust in the Union, and natives started accumulating specie, gold and silver coins. In late December 1861, banks and after that the government Treasury quit paying out gold without needing any proof. By mid-1862, every single government coin, even the base metal penny, had evaporated from trade in a great part of the nation. The exemption was the Far West, where generally, just gold and silver were adequate monetary forms, and paper cash exchanged at a rebate. In the remainder of the country, gold and silver coins could be bought from banks, trade specialists, and from the Treasury for a premium in the new greenbacks the administration started to issue to fill the hole in business and money the war. 

Since gold did not circle in the United States (aside from on the West Coast) in the after war time frame, a significant part of the creation of coins of that metal in the United States was twofold birds for fare. As needs be, albeit 1,361,355 gold dollars were struck in 1862—the last time generation would surpass a million—the mintage tumbled to 6,200 of every 1863 and stayed low for the remainder of the coin's presence, with the exception of 1873 and 1874. The Mint felt it ill-advised to suspend coinage of a coin approved by Congress, and issued verification coins (for the most part a couple of dozen to the minor numismatic network) from uniquely cleaned bites the dust, likewise delivering enough dissemination strikes with the goal that the confirmation coins would not be unduly uncommon. In 1873 and 1874, old and worn gold dollars held by the administration were liquefied and recoined, creating substantial mintages of that group. This was done fully expecting the resumption of specie installments, which did not happen until the finish of 1878. When specie again coursed without needing any proof, the gold dollar found no spot in business in the midst of extensive amounts of silver coinage, either discharged from accumulating or recently struck by the Mint. The administration expected that the resumption of specie installments would cause the dollar and other little gold coins to flow once more, however the general population, permitted to reclaim paper cash, kept on utilizing it as more helpful than coins. 

During the 1880s, open premium developed in the low-mintage gold dollar. Gathering coins was ending up progressively famous, and various numismatists set aside some gold dollars and sought after increments in esteem. The Mint in all likelihood directed its creation through some favored Philadelphia sellers, however confirmation coins could be obtained for $1.25 at the clerk's window at the Philadelphia office. Banks charged a premium for dissemination strikes. They were well known in the gems exchange, mounted into different things. The coins were frequently sent out to China or Japan, where such adornments was made. The dollars were frequently harmed all the while; the Mint would not sell into this exchange and did its best to ruin it. By and by, Mint authorities reasoned that diamond setters were effective at getting most of each issue. Verification mintages surpassed 1,000 by 1884, and stayed over that mark for the rest of the arrangement, numbers likely expanded by operators of gem specialists, willing to pay the Mint's premium of $.25 per coin. Another utilization for the gold dollar was as a vacation blessing; after its annulment the quarter falcon turned into a prominent present. 

James Pollock, in his last report as Mint Director in 1873, upheld restricting striking of gold dollars to contributors who explicitly mentioned it. "The gold dollar is certainly not a helpful coin, because of its little size, and it experiences more proportionately scraped spot than bigger coins." His successors required its abrogation, with James P. Kimball, before he left office in 1889, keeping in touch with Congress that aside from as adornments, "minimal down to earth use has been found for this coin". Soon thereafter, the new executive, Edward O. Bloodsucker, issued a report expressing that the gold dollar "is unreasonably little for dissemination, and ... [is] utilized only for the motivations behind adornment. The most recent year in which the gold dollar was struck was 1889. Congress nullified the gold dollar, alongside the three-penny nickel and three-dollar piece, by the Act of September 26, 1890. 

An aggregate of 19,499,337 gold dollars were begat, of which 18,223,438 were struck at Philadelphia, 1,004,000 at New Orleans, 109,138 at Charlotte, 90,232 at San Francisco and 72,529 at Dahlonega. As indicated by an ad in the February 1899 issue of "The Numismatist", gold dollars brought $1.80 each, still popular as a birthday present and for adornments. That diary in 1905 conveyed updates on a client storing 100 gold dollars into a bank; the teller, mindful of the esteem, acknowledged the record for $1.60 per coin. In 1908, a vendor offered $2 each for any amount. As mint piece gathering turned into an across the board interest in the mid twentieth century, gold dollars turned into a mainstream claim to fame, a status they hold. The 2014 release of R.S. Yeoman's "A Guide Book of United States Coins" rates the most economical gold dollar in fine condition (VF-20) at $300, an esteem given for every one of the Type 1 Philadelphia issues from 1849 to 1853. Those looking for one of each sort will observe the most costly to be an example of the Type 2, with the 1854 and 1855 evaluated at $350 in that condition; the other two sorts have dates esteemed at $300 in that grade. 

The gold dollar had a short restoration amid the time of Early United States memorial coins. Somewhere in the range of 1903 and 1922 nine distinct issues were delivered, with an absolute mintage of 99,799. These were stamped for different open occasions, did not course, and none utilized Longacre's plan. 

Informative notes 

References 

Book index 

Books: