Euryoryzomys emmonsae 

Euryoryzomys emmonsae, otherwise called Emmons' rice rodent or Emmons' oryzomys, is a rat from the Amazon rainforest of Brazil in the sort "Euryoryzomys" of the family Cricetidae. At first misidentified as "E. macconnelli" or "E. nitidus", it was formally depicted in 1998. A rainforest animal varieties, it might be scansorial, climbing yet in addition investing energy in the ground. It lives just in a restricted territory south of the Amazon River in the province of Pará, a dissemination that is clearly one of a kind among the muroid rodents of the locale. 

"Euryoryzomys emmonsae" is a generally vast rice rodent, gauging , with an unmistakably long tail and moderately long, brownish dark colored hide. The skull is thin and the sharp foramina (openings in the bone of the sense of taste) are expansive. The creature has 80 chromosomes and its karyotype is like that of other "Euryoryzomys". Its preservation status is surveyed as "Information Deficient", however deforestation may represent a risk to this animal groups. 

In 1998, Guy Musser, Michael Carleton, Eric Brothers, and Alfred Gardner evaluated the scientific categorization of species recently lumped under ""Oryzomys capito"" (presently ordered in the genera "Hylaeamys", "Euryoryzomys", and "Transandinomys"). They depicted the new species "Oryzomys emmonsae" based on 17 examples from three areas in the province of Pará in northern Brazil; these creatures had been recently distinguished as "Oryzomys macconnelli" (presently "Euryoryzomys macconnelli") and afterward as "Oryzomys nitidus" (presently "Euryoryzomys nitidus"). The particular name praises Louise H. Emmons, who, among different commitments to Neotropical mammalogy, gathered three of the known instances of the species in 1986, including the holotype. The new species was put in what they named the ""Oryzomys nitidus" gathering", which likewise included "O. macconelli", "O. nitidus", and "O. russatus". 

In 2000, James Patton, Maria da Silva, and Jay Malcolm provided details regarding vertebrates gathered at the Rio Juruá in western Brazil. In this report, they gave additional data on the "Oryzomys" species assessed by Musser and partners, including arrangement information from the mitochondrial cytochrome "b" quality. Their investigation reaffirmed that "O. emmonsae" was an unmistakable species and discovered that it was nearest to "O. macconnelli" and "O. russatus", varying from both by about 12% in the cytochrome "b" succession; "O. nitidus" was all the more remotely related, contrasting by 14.7%. The normal arrangement distinction between the three "O. emmonsae" people contemplated was 0.8%. 

In 2006, a broad morphological and sub-atomic phylogenetic examination by Marcelo Weksler demonstrated that species at that point set in the variety "Oryzomys" did not frame a solitary, durable (monophyletic) gathering; for instance, "O. macconnelli", "O. lamia" (set under "O. russatus" by Musser and associates) and "O. russatus" bunched together in a solitary regular gathering (clade), yet were not firmly identified with the sort types of "Oryzomys", the bog rice rodent ("O. palustris"). Later in 2006, Weksler and partners portrayed a few new genera to oblige species recently set in "Oryzomys", among which was "Euryoryzomys" for the ""O. nitidus" complex", including "O. emmonsae". 

In this way, the species is presently known as "Euryoryzomys emmonsae". As a types of "Euryoryzomys", it is ordered inside the clan Oryzomyini ("rice rodents"), which incorporates over a hundred animal groups, chiefly from South and Central America. Oryzomyini thus is a piece of the subfamily Sigmodontinae of family Cricetidae, alongside several different types of mostly little rodents. 

"Euryoryzomys emmonsae" is a genuinely substantial, since quite a while ago followed rice rodent with long, delicate hide. The hairs on the back are long. It by and large looks like "E. nitidus" in these and different characters, yet has a more drawn out tail. "E. macconnelli" is marginally bigger and has longer and more blunt hide. In "E. emmonsae", the upperparts are brownish dark colored, however somewhat darker on the head in light of the fact that numerous hairs have dark tips. The hairs of the underparts are dark at the bases and white at the tips; generally speaking, the hide shows up for the most part white. In many examples, there is a fix on the chest where the dark bases are missing. The longest of the vibrissae (hairs) of the face expand marginally past the ears. The eyelids are dark. The ears are secured with little, yellowish darker hairs and seem dim darker by and large. The feet are secured with white hairs above and dark colored beneath. There are six cushions on the plantar surface, yet the hypothenar is decreased. The ungual tufts, tufts of hair which encompass the bases of the paws, are very much created. The tail resembles the body in shading above, and for the most part white beneath, however in the closest the tail tip it is dark colored underneath. 

Contrasted with "E. nitidus" and "E. macconnelli", the skull is moderately little and thin. It has expansive and short sharp foramina (punctures of the sense of taste between the incisors and the molars) and needs sphenopalatine vacuities which puncture the mesopterygoid fossa, the hole behind the finish of the sense of taste. The creature is like different individuals from the family in the example of the supply routes of the head. The alisphenoid swagger, an augmentation of the alisphenoid bone which isolates two foramina (openings) in the skull (the masticatory-buccinator foramen and the foramen ovale accessorium) is once in a while present; its quality is increasingly visit in "E. nitidus". The capsular procedure, a raising of the bone of the mandible (lower jaw) behind the third molar, houses the back end of the lower incisor in many "Euryoryzomys", yet is missing in "E. emmonsae" and "E. macconnelli". Characteristics of the teeth are like those of "E. nitidus" and other "Euryoryzomys". 

The karyotype incorporates 80 chromosomes with a sum of 86 noteworthy arms (2n = 80; FN = 86). The X chromosome is subtelocentric (with one sets of long arms and one sets of short arms) and the Y chromosome is acrocentric (with just a single pair of arms, or with a moment second pair). Among the autosomes (non-sex chromosomes), the four metacentric or submetacentric (with two sets of arms as long as or very little shorter than different) sets of chromosomes are little, and the 35 sets of acrocentrics extend from substantial to little. A portion of those have a moment second pair of arms and could likewise be delegated subtelocentric, which would raise FN to 90. This karyotype is like other known karyotypes of individuals from "Euryoryzomys". 

In thirteen examples estimated by Musser, head and body length ranges from , tail length (12 examples just) from , hindfoot length from , ear length (three examples just) from , and weight from . 

The known dispersion of "Euryoryzomys emmonsae" is constrained to a part of the Amazon rainforest south of the Amazon River in the province of Pará, between the Xingu and Tocantins streams, however the cutoff points of its range remain insufficiently known. No other South American rainforest muroid rat is known to have a comparable dissemination. Musser and associates detailed it from three areas and Patton and others included a fourth; in a portion of those it happens together with "E. macconnelli" or "Hylaeamys megacephalus". 

Examples of "E. emmonsae" for which definite territory information are accessible were gotten in "viny backwoods", a microhabitat that frequently included much bamboo. All were caught on the ground, some in bamboo bushes and another under a log. Musser and associates conjectured that "E. emmonsae" might be scansorial, investing energy both on the ground and moving in vegetation, similar to the comparatively since quite a while ago followed rice rodent "Cerradomys subflavus". 

The IUCN right now records "Euryoryzomys emmonsae" as "Information Deficient" on the grounds that it is so ineffectively known. It might be compromised by deforestation and logging, yet happens in no less than one ensured territory, the Tapirapé-Aquiri National Forest.