Lundomys 

Lundomys molitor, otherwise called Lund's land and/or water capable rodent or the more prominent bog rodent, is a semiaquatic rodent animal types from southeastern South America. 

Its conveyance is currently limited to Uruguay and adjacent Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, yet it recently extended northward into Minas Gerais, Brazil, and southward into eastern Argentina. The Argentine structure may have been unmistakable from the living structure from Brazil and Uruguay. "L. molitor" is an expansive rat, with the head and body length averaging , portrayed by a long tail, extensive hindfeet, and long and thick hide. It constructs settles over the water, upheld by reeds, and it isn't at present undermined. 

Its outside morphology is like that of "Holochilus brasiliensis", and through the span of its complex ordered history it has been mistaken for that species, yet different highlights bolster its position in a particular class, Lundomys. Inside the family Cricetidae and subfamily Sigmodontinae, it is an individual from a gathering of particular oryzomyine rodents that likewise incorporates "Holochilus", "Noronhomys", "Carletonomys", and "Pseudoryzomys". 

"Lundomys molitor" was first portrayed in 1888 by Danish zoologist Herluf Winge, who checked on the materials Peter Wilhelm Lund had gathered in the caverns of Lagoa Santa, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Winge utilized four examples for his depiction, including two skull sections and a confined maxilla (upper jaw) from the cavern chamber Lapa da Escrivania Nr. 5 and a mandible (lower jaw) from Lapa da Serra das Abelhas, however the last later ended up being from an alternate animal types, most likely "Gyldenstolpia fronto". Lund named the creature "Hesperomys molitor" and put it in similar variety ("Hesperomys") as what is currently "Pseudoryzomys simplex" and two types of "Calomys". In this manner, it was once in a while referenced in the writing on South American rodents; those writers who mentioned it set it in either "Oryzomys" or "Calomys". 

In 1926, American zoologist Colin Campbell Sanborn gathered a few rodents in Uruguay, which he recognized as "Holochilus vulpinus" (as of now "Holochilus brasiliensis") in his 1929 report on the accumulation. At the point when his successor at the Field Museum of Natural History, Philip Hershkovitz, evaluated "Holochilus" in 1955, he perceived that the arrangement from Uruguay contained two species, one near the types of "Holochilus" found crosswise over quite a bit of South America, and another one of a kind to Uruguay and southern Brazil; he named the last as another species, "Holochilus magnus". Hershkovitz recognized "Holochilus" as one of the individuals from a "sigmodont" gathering of American rodents, likewise including "Sigmodon", "Reithrodon", and "Neotomys", based on its level delegated molars, which are lophodont (the crown comprises of transverse edges). In 1981, "H. magnus" was likewise perceived in the Late Pleistocene of Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, and in 1982 it was recorded from Rio Grande do Sul in southern Brazil. 

In a 1980 article, Argentine zoologist Elio Massoia perceived the similarity between Winge's "Hesperomys molitor" and Hershkovitz's "Holochilus magnus", and suggested that the previous be renamed as a types of "Holochilus", "Holochilus molitor". At the point when American zoologists Voss and Carleton restudied Winge's material in a 1993 paper, they were unfit to locate any reliable contrasts between the two and as needs be viewed as them to relate to similar species. Likewise, they evaluated the contrasts between this species and other "Holochilus" and presumed that these were sufficiently critical to put the previous in an unmistakable sort, which they named "Lundomys" after Lund, who had gathered the first material. From that point forward, the species has been known as "Lundomys molitor". 

In a similar paper in which they depicted "Lundomys", Voss and Carleton likewise, out of the blue, analyzed the clan Oryzomyini in a phylogenetically substantial manner. Already, Oryzomyini had been a fairly approximately characterized gathering characterized among others by a long sense of taste and the nearness of a peak known as the mesoloph on the upper molars and mesolophid on the lower molars; this peak is missing or decreased in "Holochilus" and "Lundomys". Voss and Carleton perceived five synapomorphies for the gathering, which are all common by "Lundomys"; the situation in Oryzomyini of "Lundomys" and of three other genera—"Holochilus", "Pseudoryzomys", and "Zygodontomys"— which likewise need total mesoloph(id)s has been all around upheld since. 

Voss and Carleton had discovered some help for a cozy connection between "Holochilus", "Lundomys", and "Pseudoryzomys" inside Oryzomyini. In ensuing years, the related species "Holochilus primigenus" and "Noronhomys vespuccii" were found, giving extra proof to this gathering. The designation of the previous, which is like "Lundomys" in highlights of the dentition, to "Holochilus" is disputable, and arrangement as a second types of "Lundomys" has been recommended as an option. A complete phylogenetic examination of oryzomyines by Marcelo Weksler, distributed in 2006, upheld a cozy relationship among "Lundomys", "Holochilus", and "Pseudoryzomys"; different types of the gathering were excluded. Information from the grouping of the IRBP quality upheld a closer connection among "Holochilus" and "Pseudoryzomys", with "Lundomys" all the more indirectly related, however morphological information put "Holochilus" and "Lundomys" closer together, as did the joined investigation of both morphological and IRPB information. In this way, "Carletonomys cailoi" was depicted as an extra relative of "Holochilus" and "Lundomys". 

"Lundomys molitor" is among the biggest living oryzomyines, equaled just by some extensive types of "Holochilus" and "Nectomys", yet it is considerably littler than a portion of the as of late terminated Antillean species, for example, ""Ekbletomys hypenemus"" and "Megalomys desmarestii". Not at all like in "Holochilus brasiliensis", which happens in a similar territory, the tail is longer than the head and body. It is meagerly haired and dim, and there is no distinction in shading between the upper and lower side. The coat, which is long, thick, and delicate, is yellow– darker along the edges, however winds up darker on the upperparts and lighter on the underparts. The extensive hindfeet are portrayed by obvious interdigital webbing, yet they need tufts of hair on the digits and a few of the cushions are decreased. As in some other semiaquatic oryzomyines, edges of hair are available along the plantar edges and between a portion of the digits. The forefeet additionally need tufts on the digits and show long hooks, a character one of a kind among oryzomyines. The female has four sets of nipples, and the nerve bladder is missing, both imperative characters of oryzomyines. The head and body length is , averaging , the tail length is 195 to 255 mm (7.68 to 10.04 mm), averaging , and the length of the hindfoot is , averaging . 

The front piece of the skull is eminently wide. As in "Holochilus", the zygomatic plate, the leveled front segment of the cheek bone, is far reaching and created into a spinous procedure at the foremost edge. The jugal bone is little, however less decreased than in "Holochilus". The interorbital area of the skull is tight and flanked by high dots. The sharp foramina, which puncture the sense of taste between the incisors and the upper molars, are long, reaching out between the molars. The sense of taste itself is additionally long, stretching out past the back edge of the maxillary bones, and it is punctured close to the third molars by obvious posterolateral palatal pits. As in all oryzomyines, the squamosal bone comes up short on a suspensory procedure that contacts the tegmen tympani, the top of the tympanic hole, yet "Lundomys" is unordinary in that the squamosal and the tegmen tympani for the most part cover when seen from the side. In the mandible, the rakish and coronoid forms are less very much created than in "Holochilus". The capsular procedure of the lower incisor, a slight raising of the mandibular bone at the back end of the incisor, close to the coronoid procedure, is little. The two masseteric edges, to which a portion of the biting muscles are appended, are completely discrete, joining just at their foremost edges, which are situated underneath the principal molar. 

The molars are marginally increasingly high-delegated (hypsodont) than in many oryzomyines, and a considerable lot of the extra peaks are decreased, yet they are strongly unmistakable from the exceedingly determined, hypsodont molars of "Holochilus". The primary cusps are situated inverse one another and have adjusted edges. The lacquer folds don't stretch out past the midlines of the molars. The mesoloph, an extra peak on the upper molars that is typically very much created in oryzomyines, is available yet short on the first and second upper molar; it is substantially more decreased in "Holochilus" and "Pseudoryzomys". The relating structure on the lower molars, the mesolophid, is available on the first and second molars in "Lundomys", however missing in both "Holochilus" and "Pseudoryzomys". Another embellishment peak, the anteroloph, is available, however little, on the main upper molar in "Lundomys", yet completely missing in both other genera. As in "Holochilus" and "Pseudoryzomys", the foremost cusp on the primary lower molar, the anteroconid, contains a profound pit. Every one of the three upper molars has three roots; not at all like in both "Holochilus" and "Pseudoryzomys", the primary upper molar comes up short on an adornment fourth root. The primary lower molar has four roots, including two little frill roots situated between bigger front and back roots. The second molar has either a few roots, with the foremost root split into two littler roots in certain examples. 

The karyotype contains 52 chromosomes with a sum of 58 major arms (2n = 52, FN = 58). The non-sex chromosomes (autosomes) are for the most part acrocentric, having a long and a short arm, or telocentric, having just a single arm, however there are likewise three substantial metacentric sets, which have two noteworthy arms, and a little metacentric pair. The Y chromosome is metacentric and the X chromosome is variable, going from almost metacentric to acrocentric in five examples considered. 

"Lundomys molitor" has been found as a living creature just in Uruguay and close-by Rio Grande do Sul; records of live examples from eastern Argentina and Lagoa Santa, Minas Gerais, have not been affirmed. It is seldom experienced, and has been gathered in just a single area in Rio Grande do Sul, however this might be because of inadequate endeavors to find it, instead of veritable irregularity. Its conveyance is commonly restricted to regions with mean winter temperatures over , mean yearly temperatures over , yearly precipitation over , and a long stormy season averaging more than 200 days. It is generally found in bogs or close streams. 

Pleistocene fossils have been found all through its present range and past it. In Uruguay and Rio Grande do Sul, the Lujanian (Late Pleistocene to Early Holocene) Sopas Formation has yielded stays of "L. molitor", notwithstanding such different warm blooded creatures as the wiped out saber-toothed feline "Smilodon populator" and types of "Glyptodon", "Macrauchenia", and "Toxodon". The sort region, Lagoa Santa, lies far upper east of the closest record of live "L. molitor"; there, it is known just from three skull pieces from a cavern known as Laga da Escrivania Nr. 5. This cavern likewise contains various survives from individuals from the wiped out South American megafauna, for example, ground sloths, litopternans, gomphotheres, and glyptodonts, notwithstanding 16 species of cricetid rodents, however it isn't sure that all remaining parts from this cavern are from a similar age. 

Stays of "Lundomys" have been found at six Pleistocene territories in Buenos Aires Province, Argentina, which recommends a warm and sticky paleoclimate there. The most seasoned stores, at Bajo San José, date to Marine Isotopic Stage 11, around 420,000 to 360,000 years back, while more youthful examples from different territories are as meager as 30,000 years old. The more youthful Argentine "Lundomys" examples are unobtrusively unmistakable from living "Lundomys" in certain highlights of the primary lower molar and may speak to a particular animal groups. One lower first molar of this structure has length 3.28 mm. Since the Bajo San José material does not contain lower first molars, it is difficult to decide if this material likewise relates to the later Argentine "Lundomys" structure. The morphology of the upper and lower jaw blocks a recognizable proof as "Holochilus primigenus", a fossil species with molar attributes practically indistinguishable to those of "Lundomys". The length of the upper toothrow of one example from this territory is and the length of the upper first molar is , marginally littler than in living "Lundomys", which ranges from in four examples 

"Lundomys molitor" is semiaquatic in propensities, investing quite a bit of its energy in the water, and is dynamic amid the night. A brilliant swimmer, it is significantly more specific for swimming than is "Holochilus". It assembles a circular home among reeds in up to profound water, for the most part about over the water. The material for the home, which is in distance across and 9 to 11 cm (about 4 in) in tallness, originates from the encompassing reeds. Its divider comprises of three layers, encompassing a focal chamber, which is associated with the water by an incline, additionally made out of reeds. Homes worked by individuals from the related sort "Holochilus" are comparative in numerous subtleties. A few analyzed stomachs contained green plant material, proposing that it is herbivorous, as "Holochilus". A female got in April was pregnant with three developing lives, which were about long. The vermin "Gigantolaelaps wolffsohni" and "Amblyomma dubitatum" have been found on examples of "L. molitor" in Uruguay. Different rodents found in relationship with it incorporate "Scapteromys tumidus", "Oligoryzomys nigripes", "Reithrodon auritus", "Akodon azarae", "Oxymycterus nasutus", and "Holochilus brasiliensis". 

The species' preservation status is right now surveyed as "least worry" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, mirroring a generally wide dissemination and the nonappearance of proof for a decrease in populaces. A few of the zones where it happens are secured, yet the pulverization of its natural surroundings may represent a danger to its proceeded with presence.