Try not to Say You Love Me (M2M tune) 

"Try not to Say You Love Me" is the introduction single by M2M, a Norwegian pop pair comprising of vocalists Marion Raven and Marit Larsen. The melody initially showed up on Radio Disney before its official US radio and single discharge in October 1999. It was discharged on the soundtrack to the film "" in November 1999 and shows up in the film's end credits. The tune was included on M2M's introduction collection, "Shades of Purple" (2000), and furthermore showed up on their aggregation collection "" (2003). 

The melody got positive surveys. Hurl Taylor from "Board" said it was "completely charming" and would engage both youthful and develop audience members. It achieved number 2 in Norway, number 4 in both Australia and New Zealand, number 16 in the UK and number 21 on the US "Board" Hot 100. It was guaranteed gold in the US and Australia and remained M2M's greatest hit. M2M played out the melody on scenes of the TV arrangement "One World", "Top of the Pops" and "Disney Channel in Concert". Two comparative music recordings were discharged for the melody, with one appearing from " Pokémon: The First Movie". 

Marion Raven and Marit Larsen originate from Lørenskog in the region east of Oslo. They met when they were five years of age and turned out to be closest companions, finding they had comparative interests in music. They started singing together and performing in melodic creations. The pair discharged a youngsters' collection, "Synger Kjente Barnesanger" ("Sing Famous Children's Songs"), in 1996 under the band name Marit and Marion, when Larsen was 11 and Raven was 12 years of age. The collection was named for a Spellemannprisen grant. After the collection's discharge they began composing their own pop melodies and sent demo accounts out; one of the demos wound up at Atlantic Records and they were marked to an overall contract in 1998. They held a challenge for fans to think of another name for their team, and one young lady recommended M2M. Raven and Larsen were 14 and 15 years of age, separately, when they recorded the tracks from their introduction collection "Shades of Purple", including their presentation single, "Don't Say You Love Me". 

The music and verses were composed by Raven, Larsen, Peter Zizzo and Jimmy Bralower. It was created by Zizzo and Bralower and was blended by Tom Lord-Alge. "Try not to Say You Love Me" is performed in a 4/4 time mark at a reasonably moderate rhythm of 100 beats for each moment. Raven and Larsen substitute singing lead vocals for the initial two sections, and afterward sing agreement together amid the themes. For the vast majority of the melody, the sections are in the key of C♯ minor and the tunes are in the relative real key of E major. The last theme has a key change to F♯ major. The melody's noticeable instruments are electric piano and acoustic guitar, with record scratching sounds layering the generation in the tune in a style likened to Hanson's "MMMBop". The last melody rehashes with promotion libbed foundation vocals until the tune grows dim. 

Expressively, the melody is tied in with getting "the principles straight on a maturing relationship: Slow down and don't state you adore me until you give me some time and become acquainted with me." According to musicologist Jon Mikkel Broch Ålvik, "Don't Say You Love Me" is the "believing individual's youngster pop." Ålvik rejects a shallow elucidation that the verses are a "moralistic message of forbearance", contending rather that M2M "flag a position that sounds considered and guaranteed instead of pedantic" and that the tune is an announcement of "thriving organization." The tune has been portrayed as bubblegum popular music with comparable melodious characteristics to tunes by young lady gatherings of the 1960s, while likewise having more impact from shake and vocalist musician sorts than was common for other teenager pop tunes of the late 1990s. 

There is a slight distinction in verses between the adaptation utilized in "" variant and the one discharged on "Shades of Purple". The "Shades of Purple" form incorporates the line "you begin kissing me, what's that about?" In the "Pokémon" rendition, the verse is "you said you adore me, what's that about?" When gotten some information about the verse change in a meeting, M2M answered "the "Pokémon" individuals didn't think that its proper to have kissing in the verses, since it was for more youthful children. We think [the verse change] was inept. The first form is on ["Shades of Purple"], and that is the one we needed to run with." M2M had not known about "Pokémon" until the tune was picked for the soundtrack, as the establishment was not yet famous in Norway. 

"Try not to Say You Love Me" showed up in "The List", a scene in the TV arrangement "Felicity" that circulated in the US on 3 October 1999 and contacted a crowd of people of 5million individuals, creating enthusiasm for the melody. On 10 October it showed up in the "Jack and Jill" scene "Proceeding onward". The melody was at that point being played on Radio Disney before it made its official US debut on 26 October 1999. The single was discharged on both CD and Compact Cassette. Inside a month, in excess of 100 US top-40 radio stations were playing the melody; by 10 November it was the 6th most mentioned tune on New York radio stations. The melody showed up amid the end credits of the film "Pokémon: The First Movie" and on the film's soundtrack; both the film and soundtrack were discharged in the US on 10 November 1999. "Try not to Say You Love Me" was the presentation single from the collection. The single previously entered the graphs in the US on 20 November, by which time in excess of 400,000 units had just been delivered to record stores. 

Notwithstanding the accomplishment in the US, in November 1999 it was accounted for that the single would not be discharged in the pair's nation of origin of Norway until the next year, as Warner Music Norway needed to hold up until both the "Pokémon" film and soundtrack were discharged in Europe to benefit from the introduction. The single was discharged in Norway on radio on 24 November, and by 11 January it was at a bargain in Norway and 25 different nations in Europe, the Americas, Asia and Oceania. It was relied upon to be discharged in the staying European nations before the month's over, however European nations where the single had not yet been discharged were at that point playing the melody on the radio. The tune was prevalent in Southeast Asia, getting substantial airplay in Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Singapore, and furthermore in South America; in late May 2000 in Mexico it was the top rated remote melody and the second top of the line tune in general. On 12 January it was included in the scene of "Beverly Hills, 90210", "Corrupted Love". The tune was discharged in Japan on 25 January, in Spain on 22 February, and in the UK on 20 March on East West Records. It showed up on "Shades of Purple", which was discharged in Europe in mid-February and the US on 7 March, and in 2003 it showed up on the collection "". 

Robert Christgau gave a positive survey, calling the tune one of the "unthinkably contacting" tracks on "Shades of Purple" that "sets the standard" for the remainder of the collection. Hurl Taylor from "Board" said the melody would engage both the youthful and develop audience members as it "perfectly pushes the limits between unadulterated pop and the cusp of the grown-up top 40". He included the melody was "Completely captivating in its energetic vocal and substantial arrangement of snares". Michael Paoletta, additionally from "Bulletin", considered the tune an "irresistible pop rocker", including that "what's most astonishing about the track is the vocal verve of the young ladies' blending." Heather Phares from AllMusic alluded to the tune as "sweet yet rational pop". Marius Lillelien, the executive of the Norwegian radio station "NRK P3", said "It's a very elegantly composed, all around delivered pop melody, they're youthful and conceivably the biggest Norwegian pop achievement ever. The tune is most appropriate to a group of people matured 10– 16, yet as I would see it won't frighten off more established audience members". "Try not to Say You Love Me" was assigned for the year's best tune at the 2000 Spellemannprisen grants, however it lost to "Publicity" by Briskeby. 

In the US, "Don't Say You Love Me" entered the "Board" Hot 100 at number 72, later topping at number 21. It likewise achieved number 40 on both the Latin Pop Airplay and Tropical Songs graphs. The single sold 39,000 duplicates in the week going before 27 November, and had sold 580,000 units by May 2000. It achieved number 2 in Norway and number 4 in both Australia and New Zealand. It made the main 10 in Finland, the best 20 in Canada, the UK, Ireland, Sweden and the Netherlands, the best 40 in Italy and Belgium and the best 80 in Germany, France and Switzerland. It was ensured gold in the US on 6 December 1999 and in Australia in 2000. 

"Try not to Say You Love Me" was M2M's greatest hit and is their most conspicuous melody. While their next single, "Mirror", was a main 40 single in Australia and Canada, and achieved number 62 on the "Bulletin" Hot 100, "Don't Say You Love Me" would remain M2M's solitary top-40 hit in the US, and their solitary hit at all in numerous different nations. The melody has been known as a one-hit wonder. While talking positively of the pair, in 2014 Abby Devora from MTV positioned M2M and the melody at number 2 on her rundown "9 Girl Group One-Hit Wonders You Need To Remember Right Now". Jessica Booth from Gurl.com incorporated the couple and tune in her 2012 rundown "Flashback: 15 Old-School Girl Singers We Miss", calling the tune "strangely snappy". Kaitlin Cubria from Teen.com recorded the team and tune in her 2014 rundown of "12 overlooked young lady bunches from the '90s/'00s that merit your time." In 2014 Nathan Jolly from "MAX" said it was "one of those few pop tunes that is joy manifest regardless of being a 'back the fuck off, buddy' song of devotion". 

The video was coordinated by Nigel Dick and was taped from 4 to 6 October 1999 at the Mission Tiki drive-in theater in Montclair, California. In the video, Raven sings the melody while she is in a vehicle with a kid, while Larsen sings and plays the guitar before another vehicle. This recording is combined with M2M singing at the drive-in, individuals moving, the projectionist battling with his breaking down gear, and the snack bar laborer who has a flooding popcorn producer. At the point when the popcorn stand detonates, M2M keep on performing encompassed by individuals as popcorn pours down. Air guns were utilized to shoot 200 waste receptacle measured packs of popcorn into the air to make the drizzling popcorn impact. In the US the music video made its debut on 24 October on The WB following that night's screening of "seventh Heaven". It started airing on The Box and MuchMusic toward the beginning of November 1999 and started airing on MTV on 15 November. 

Two comparable renditions of the video were discharged. In one, cuts from "Pokémon: The First Movie" are played on the screen at the drive in theater. In the other form, less pictures of the screen are appeared; when they are seen the "Pokémon" pictures are supplanted with either clasps of Raven and Larsen singing the melody or words, for example, "M2M" and "Break". The "Pokémon" form of the video utilizes the blue-penciled verses, while the other one uses the collection adaptation of the melody. The "Pokémon" adaptation was incorporated on the DVD of the film, while the other form was incorporated on the reward plate in "The Day You Went Away: The Best of M2M". 

To advance the single Raven and Larsen made a six-stop voyage through shopping centers in the Northeastern US between 21 August and 2 October; it was their first visit under the name M2M. On 9 November 1999, the day preceding "Pokémon: The First Movie" was discharged, M2M played out the tune live at the Warner Bros. Studio Store on Fifth Avenue, Manhattan, before fans and a huge media nearness. To advance the single M2M additionally visited Singapore, Hong Kong and Japan before coming back to Norway on 24 November. They played out the tune on the scene "Band on the Run" of the TV arrangement "One World", which broadcast on 27 November, and on 31 March 2000 they performed it on "Top of the Pops". M2M played out the melody live at Walt Disney World's Epcot park on 12 February 2000. This execution was recorded and showed up on a scene of Disney Channel in Concert on 29 April, which concentrated on both M2M and BBMak. As their greatest hit, "Don't Say You Love Me" was a prevalent tune amid live exhibitions. In December 2001 the melody was executed as a reprise, alongside "All that You Do", before a horde of 4,000 at a M2M show in Kuala Lumpur. 

Raven and Larsen stopped executing as M2M in 2002, and both proceeded to seek after solo professions; Larsen is known for playing out a down home music form of the melody amid solo exhibitions. The Filipino acoustic pop team Krissy and Ericka secured the tune on their 2009 self-titled collection. 

The European form of the single contained the B-divert "Feeling is Gone", one of three tracks recorded for "Shades of Purple" which were left off the US variant of the collection. The standard US variant included the "Pokémon: The First Movie" instrumental score "Mewtwo Strikes Back Suite" as the B-side. 

Australian CD single 

US single 

US Maxi-single 

Japanese Maxi-single 

European Maxi-single