Beorhtwulf of Mercia 

Beorhtwulf (, signifying "splendid wolf"; additionally spelled "Berhtwulf"; kicked the bucket 852) was King of Mercia, a kingdom of Anglo-Saxon England, from 839 or 840 to 852. His family line is obscure, however he may have been associated with Beornwulf, who ruled Mercia during the 820s. No coins were issued by Beorhtwulf's ancestor, Wiglaf, yet a Mercian coinage was restarted by Beorhtwulf from the get-go in his rule, at first with solid similitudes to the coins of Æthelwulf of Wessex, and later with free plans. The Vikings assaulted inside a year or two of Beorhtwulf's increase: the area of Lindsey was struck in 841, and London, a key focus of Mercian business, was assaulted the next year. Another Viking ambush on London in 851 "put Beorhtwulf to flight", as indicated by the "Old English Saxon Chronicle"; the Vikings were in this manner vanquished by Æthelwulf. This attack may have had a huge monetary effect on Mercia, as London coinage is highly decreased after 851. 

Berkshire seems to have gone from Mercian to West Saxon control amid Beorhtwulf's rule. The Welsh are recorded to have defied Beorhtwulf's successor, Burgred, not long after Beorhtwulf's passing, proposing that Beorhtwulf had been their overlord. Sanctions from Beorthwulf's rule demonstrate a stressed association with the congregation, as Beorhtwulf caught land and hence returned it. 

Beorhtwulf and his significant other, Sæthryth, may have had two children, Beorhtfrith and Beorhtric. Beorhtric is known from seeing his dad's contracts, yet he stopped to do as such before the finish of Beorhtwulf's rule. Beorhtfrith shows up in later sources which depict his homicide of Wigstan, the grandson of Wiglaf, in an argument about Beorhtfrith's arrangement to wed Wigstan's bereaved mother Ælfflæd. Beorhtwulf's passing isn't recorded in any enduring sources, yet it is felt that he kicked the bucket in 852. 

For the greater part of the eighth century, Mercia was the predominant Anglo-Saxon kingdom. Mercian impact in the south-eastern kingdoms of Kent, East Anglia, and Essex proceeded into the mid 820s under Coenwulf of Mercia. In any case, Coenwulf's passing in 821 denoted the start of a period in which Mercia experienced dynastic clashes and military annihilations that redrew the political guide of England. Four (conceivably five) lords, from what give off an impression of being four distinctive family gatherings, ruled Mercia all through the following six years. Minimal genealogical data about these rulers has endure, however since Anglo-Saxon names frequently included introductory components basic to most or all individuals from a family, students of history have proposed that kinfolk bunches in this period can be recreated based on the comparability of their names. Three contending family bunches are unmistakable in the sanctions and regnal arrangements of the time: the "C", "Wig" and "B" gatherings. The "C" gathering, which incorporated the siblings Coenwulf, Cuthred of Kent, and Ceolwulf I, was prevailing in the period following the passings of Offa of Mercia and his child Ecgfrith in 796. Ceolwulf was ousted in 823 by Beornwulf, maybe the first of the "B" gathering, who was murdered battling against the East Anglians in 826. He was trailed by Ludeca, not clearly connected to any of the three gatherings, who was executed in fight the next year. After Ludeca's passing, the first of the "Wig" family came to control: Wiglaf, who kicked the bucket in 839 or 840. Beorhtwulf, who prevailing to the position of royalty that year, is probably going to have originated from the "B" gathering, which may likewise have incorporated the disastrous Beornred who "held [power] a short time and miserably" after the homicide of King Æthelbald in 757. 

An elective model of Mercian progression is that various family gatherings may have vied for the progression. The sub-kingdoms of the Hwicce, the Tomsæte, and the unidentified Gaini are instances of such power-bases. Marriage unions could likewise have had an impact. Contending magnates—those brought in sanctions "dux" or "princeps" (that is, pioneers)— may have conveyed the lords to control. In this model, the Mercian rulers are minimal more than driving aristocrats. 

An essential hotspot for the period is the "Old English Saxon Chronicle", an accumulation of archives in Old English portraying the historical backdrop of the Anglo-Saxons. The "Annal" was a West Saxon generation, in any case, and is now and then idea to be one-sided for Wessex. Sanctions dating from Beorhtwulf's rule have endure; these were reports which allowed land to adherents or to churchmen and were seen by the lords who had the specialist to concede the land. A sanction may record the names of both a subject ruler and his overlord on the observer list attached to the allow. Such an observer rundown can be seen on the Ismere Diploma, for instance, where Æthelric, child of lord Oshere of the Hwicce, is depicted as a ""subregulus"", or subking, of Æthelbald of Mercia. 

It is conceivable that Beorhtwulf is a similar individual as the Beorhtwulf who saw a sanction of Wiglaf's in 836. Provided that this is true, this is Beorhtwulf's first appearance in the verifiable record. His promotion to the royal position of Mercia is typically thought to have happened in around 840. The date isn't given legitimately in any of the essential sources, yet it is known from regnal records that he succeeded Wiglaf as ruler. History specialist D. P. Kirby recommends that Wiglaf's passing happened in 839, putting together this date with respect to the known sequence of the rules of Beorhtwulf and Burgred, the following two Mercian lords. It is conceivable that Wigmund, the child of Wiglaf, was best quickly among Wiglaf and Beorhtwulf. The proof for this plausibility comes just from a later custom concerning Wigmund's child, Wigstan, so it is questionable whether he really did as such. 

No Mercian coins are known from the 830s, after Wiglaf recovered Mercia from Egbert of Wessex. Beorhtwulf restarted a Mercian coinage right off the bat in his rule, and the all-encompassing hole during the 830s has prompted the proposal that Wiglaf's second rule was as a customer lord of Egbert's, without authorization to mint his own coinage. Beorhtwulf's coinage would then demonstrate his freedom of Mercia. Notwithstanding, it is all the more ordinarily believed that Wiglaf took Mercia back by power. An elective clarification for Beorhtwulf's restoration of the coinage is that it was a piece of an arrangement for financial recovery notwithstanding the Viking assaults. The Viking risk may likewise represent the clear collaboration in issues of money among Mercia and Wessex which started in Beorhtwulf's rule and kept going until the finish of the autonomous Mercian kingdom on the demise of King Ceolwulf II in the years around 880. 

The soonest of Beorhtwulf's coins were issued in 841– 842, and can be recognized as crafted by a Rochester kick the bucket shaper who likewise delivered coins from the get-go in the rule of Æthelwulf of Wessex. Following ten years with no coinage, Beorhtwulf would have needed to go outside Mercia to discover talented pass on cutters, and Rochester was the nearest mint. Subsequently the connection to Rochester presumably does not demonstrate that the coins were printed there; all things considered, they were created in London, which was under Mercian control. Consequent coins of Beorhtwulf's are fundamentally the same as Æthelwulf's. One coin consolidates a representation of Beorhtwulf on the switch side with a structure utilized by Æthelwulf on the front; this has been deciphered as showing a coalition between the two kingdoms, yet it is bound to have been crafted by a counterfeiter or an uneducated moneyer reusing the plan of a coin of Æthelwulf's. An alternate coinage seems later during the 840s, and was likely finished by the Viking assaults of 850– 851. There are additionally coins without pictures that are probably going to have been delivered at the very end of Beorhtwulf's rule. 

Beorhtwulf's sovereignty started promisingly. In the skirmish of Catill or Cyfeiliog, he slaughtered King Merfyn Frych of Gwynedd and later sources suggest (see underneath) that he had the capacity to oppress the northern Welsh after this. 

Be that as it may, the "Old English Saxon Chronicle" records Viking assaults in 841 against the south and east banks of Britain, including the Mercian region of Lindsey, focused on present day Lincoln. The city of London, boss focal point of Mercia's exchange, was assaulted the next year. The "Narrative" expresses that there was "extraordinary butcher" in London, and vast coin crowds were covered in the city right now. 

Berkshire seems to have gone out of Mercian hands and become a piece of the kingdom of Wessex eventually amid the late 840s. In 844 Ceolred, the priest of Leicester, conceded Beorhtwulf a domain at Pangbourne, in Berkshire, so the zone was still in Mercian hands at that date. Asser, writing in around 893, trusted that King Alfred the Great was conceived somewhere in the range of 847 and 849 at Wantage in Berkshire. The suggestion is that Berkshire had recently gone under the control of Wessex, however it is additionally conceivable the domain was separated between the two kingdoms, potentially even before Beorhtwulf's increase. Whatever the idea of the change, there is no record of how it happened. It gives the idea that the Mercian ealdorman Æthelwulf stayed in office a short time later, suggesting a quiet progress. 

In 853, not long after Beorhtwulf's passing, the Welsh opposed Burgred and were repressed by a union among Burgred and Æthelwulf. 

The synod at Croft held by Wiglaf in 836, which Beorhtwulf may have visited, was the last such gathering assembled by a Mercian ruler. Amid Beorhtwulf's rule and from there on, the kingdom of Wessex had more impact than Mercia with the Archbishop of Canterbury. A sanction of 840 gives proof of an alternate kind concerning Beorhtwulf's relations with the congregation. The contract concerns handles that had initially been conceded by Offa to the religious community of Bredon in Worcestershire. The grounds had gone under the control of the congregation in Worcester, however Beorhtwulf had caught the land once more. In the contract Beorhtwulf recognizes the congregation's entitlement to the land, yet powers an attractive blessing from the priest consequently: "four extremely decision ponies and a ring of 30 mancuses and a skilfully fashioned dish of three pounds, and two silver horns of four pounds ... [and] ... two great ponies and two cups of two pounds and one plated measure of two pounds." This isn't a disconnected case; there are different sanctions that show Mercian lords of the time debating property with the congregation, for example, a contract of 849 in which Beorhtwulf got a rent ashore from the minister of Worcester, and guaranteed in kind that he would be "all the more solidly the companion of the diocesan and his locale" and, in the expressions of student of history Patrick Wormald, "would not ransack them in future". Wormald proposes that this merciless conduct might be clarified by the way that landed homes were getting to be more enthusiastically to discover, as so much land had been allowed to cloisters. The issue had been referenced over a century prior by Bede, who in a letter to Egbert, the Archbishop of York, had whined of "a total absence of spots where the children of nobles and of veteran thegns can get a home". Beorhtwulf's concession of bad behavior proposes that he couldn't depend on his nobles to help him in such a contradiction, and may show that his hang on the position of authority was uncertain. 

Holders of land were under a commitment to the ruler to help the lord's family unit, however exceptions could be acquired. A sanction of the late 840s discharged the religious community of Breedon on the Hill from the prerequisite to supply nourishment and hotel to Beorhtwulf's hirelings and envoys, including "the regal birds of prey, huntsmen, ponies, and their specialists". The exclusion cost a considerable total, and did not discharge the cloister from each weight; the commitment to encourage couriers from neighboring kingdoms or from abroad was barred from the exception. 

In 851, a Viking armed force arrived at Thanet, at that point still an island, and over-wintered there. A second Viking power of 350 boats is accounted for by the "Somewhat English Saxon Chronicle" to have raged Canterbury and London, and to have "put to flight Beorhtwulf, ruler of Mercia, with his military". The Vikings were vanquished by Æthelwulf and his children, Æthelstan and Æthelbald, however the monetary effect seems to have been critical, as Mercian coinage in London was extremely constrained after 851. 

No enduring contemporary source records Beorhtwulf's passing, however as indicated by the "Old English Saxon Chronicle" his successor, Burgred, ruled for twenty-two years and was driven from his position of royalty by the Vikings in 874, inferring that Beorhtwulf kicked the bucket in 852. From Burgred's sanctions it is realized that his rule started before 25 July 852. It has been recommended that a generally obscure ruler named Eanred may have ruled quickly among Beorhtwulf and Burgred; the proof for this comprises of a solitary silver penny engraved "EANRED REX", which has similitudes to a portion of Beorhtwulf's and Æthelwulf's pennies and subsequently is thought to have been delivered after 850. The main recorded King Eanred led in Northumbria and is thought to have passed on in 840, however an elective order of the Northumbrian rulers has been suggested that would take out this inconsistency. For the most part the penny is considered to have a place with "an obscure leader of a southern kingdom", and it can't be expected that an Eanred succeeded Beorhtwulf. 

Beorhtwulf was hitched to Sæthryth, clearly a figure of some significance in her own privilege as she saw the majority of his sanctions somewhere in the range of 840 and 849, after which she vanishes from the record. Beorhtwulf is said to have had two children, Beorhtfrith and Beorhtric. Beorhtric is known from seeing his dad's contracts, however he stopped to do as such before the finish of Beorhtwulf's rule. 

The account of Beorhtwulf's other known child, Beorhtfrith, is told in the "Passio sancti Wigstani", which may incorporate material from a late ninth century source, with some authentication in the annal of John of Worcester. Beorhtfrith wished to wed the imperial beneficiary Ælfflæd, King Ceolwulf's little girl, widow of Wiglaf's child Wigmund and mother of Wigstan. Wigstan would not permit the marriage, since Beorhtfrith was a brother of Wigmund's and was likewise Wigstan's back up parent. In retribution, Beorhtfrith killed Wigstan, who was in this manner adored as a holy person. The story, however recently starting point, is viewed as conceivable by present day history specialists. 

Essential sources 

Auxiliary sources