Interstate 196 

Interstate 196 (I-196) is a helper Interstate Highway that keeps running for in the US territory of Michigan. It is a state trunkline thruway that joins Benton Harbor, South Haven, Holland, and Grand Rapids together. In Kent, Ottawa, and Allegan districts, I-196 is known as the Gerald R. Portage Freeway, or just the Ford Freeway, after the 38th President of the United States, Gerald Ford, who was brought up in Grand Rapids and served Michigan in the House of Representatives. This name for the most part alludes just to the segment among Holland and Grand Rapids. I-196 alters course; it is marked as a north– south interstate from its southern end to the intersection with US Highway 31 (US 31) only south of Holland, and as an east– west trunkline starting here to its eastern end at a trade with I-96, its parent thruway. There are as of now three business courses identified with the fundamental road. There are two business circles (BL I-196) and one business goad (BS I-196) that serve South Haven, Holland and the Grand Rapids territories. Another business goad for Muskegon had been assigned with respect to the I-196 number. 

The present turnpike numbered I-196 is the second in the state to manage the number. Initially to be numbered as a major aspect of the I-94 passageway in the express, the Benton Harbor– Grand Rapids expressway was given the I-96 number during the 1950s while another Interstate among Muskegon and Grand Rapids was numbered I-196. That I-196 was worked in the late 1950s and finished in the mid 1960s. The principal portion of the present I-196 was opened as I-96 close Benton Harbor in 1962. Michigan authorities mentioned a change in 1963, which turned around the two numbers and the resulting fragments of expressway opened northward to Holland and from Grand Rapids westbound under the present number. The hole among Holland and Grandville was filled during the 1970s, and a segment of turnpike that goes through downtown Grand Rapids was modified as a more extensive road in 2010. 

Like other state thruways in Michigan, I-196 is kept up by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT). In 2011, the division's traffic reviews demonstrated that by and large, 77,500 vehicles utilized the interstate every day between Lane Avenue and US 131 in Grand Rapids and 12,778 vehicles did as such every day north of the split with US 31 close Holland. These are the most noteworthy and least checks along the roadway, separately. As an Interstate Highway, every one of I-196 is recorded on the National Highway System, a system of streets critical to the nation's economy, protection, and versatility. Likewise, the expressway has been named by the Michigan Legislature the "Gerald R. Portage Freeway" to respect the 38th President of the United States. The first enactment from 1974 stretched out that name to the full length of the turnpike, however when the different dedication parkway names were re-classified in 2001, the name was not connected to the Berrien County portion. From the intersection with M-63 north to the split with US 31 aside from the segment that interfaces the closures of the South Haven business circle, the turnpike is likewise a piece of the Lake Michigan Circle Tour (LMCT), a visitor course that pursues Lake Michigan. 

The interstate begins upper east of Benton Harbor at exit 34 on I-94 in Benton Charter Township in Berrien County. At the trumpet trade, I-196 runs north from I-94 and goes toward the west of the Point O'Woods Golf and Country Club. US 31 goes along with I-196 from the southwest and runs simultaneously with I-196 as the interstate goes through ranch fields in southwestern Michigan. The trunkline turns northwesterly close to the Lake Michigan Hills Golf Course and crosses the Paw River. Past the waterway, the road turns northeasterly and runs generally parallel to the Lake Michigan shoreline a few miles inland. At the network of Lake Michigan Beach, I-196/US 31 meets the northern end of M-63 at exit 7, and the LMCT joins the expressway out of the blue. North of this trade, the interstate parallels A-2, an area street that pursues the Blue Star Highway, the previous course of US 31. 

Somewhat further north, I-196/US 31 crosses into Van Buren County and expect the Gerald R. Passage Freeway name. The inland side of the turnpike is forested while the lakeward side is transcendently either woodland or fields. As it approaches South Haven, the interstate goes close to the Palisades Nuclear Generating Station and Van Buren State Park. North of the power plant and park, the road turns more distant inland to sidestep the city of South Haven. There is an exchange on the south part of town that gives access to Business Loop I-196 (BL I-196) and M-140. The expressway traverses M-43 without a trade and afterward converges the opposite end of the business circle about later. It crosses the Black River close to the Van Buren– Allegan region line. 

In Allegan County, I-196/US 31 passes a couple of greens and proceeds with northward through homestead fields. Close to the network of Glenn, A-2 traverses the expressway and runs parallel to it on the east. They exchange puts again when I-196/US 31 turns northeasterly on the south side of the twin urban areas of Saugatuck and Douglas. The turnpike traverses a segment of Kalamazoo Lake, a more extensive area of the Kalamazoo River that streams between the two towns. A-2 crosses back toward the eastern side of the expressway north of Saugatuck, and I-196/US 31 proceeds with north-northeasterly toward Holland. 

On the south side of Holland, the two parkways split separated; US 31 isolates from I-196 at a halfway trade close to the West Michigan Regional Airport (in the past the Tulip City Airport). At this trade, northbound traffic may pursue a left exit to proceed on the BL I-196/US 31 expressway or proceed with I-196 which turns all the more eastbound; the LMCT leaves I-196 now too. Signage along I-196 changes after this trade. So far, it had been marked north– south, however from the US 31 split forward, the headings are presently marked east– west. The turnpike goes toward the south side of the air terminal, and it crosses a rail line claimed by CSX Transportation and utilized by Amtrak's "Pere Marquette" train before bending northeasterly through the exchange with M-40. The turnpike crosses into Ottawa County south of the Macatawa River before meeting the other two trades for Holland, the second is the northern end of the business circle in Zeeland. 

Proceeding past Zeeland, I-196 runs all the more east-northeasterly as it parallels M-121 (Chicago Drive). The road goes toward the south side of Hudsonville and crosses A-37. About past Hudsonville, the trunkline has a trade with M-6, an interstate that keeps running along the south side of the Grand Rapids territory. Simply past this exchange, the road crosses into Kent County at the Kenowa Avenue bridge. Presently in the city of Grandville, I-196 swings northward to run parallel to the district line. The interstate has an exchange for 44th Street, which gives access to the RiverTown Crossings shopping center and other retail and eatery foundations in the territory. At exit 69, I-196 crosses Chicago Drive and the rail line and turns northeasterly by Jenison, a unincorporated network inverse the Kent– Ottawa area line. The Ford Freeway name is presently noticeably utilized on the road signage as I-196 pursues a segment of the Grand River. Past the trade for M-11 (28th Street), the interstate crosses into the suburb of Wyoming. 

In Wyoming, the interstate keeps running along the waterway, passing Millennium Park on the contrary banks in Walker and Hopewell Indian Mounds Park on the close banks. Toward the south of the turnpike, the business goad for Wyoming and Grand Rapids withdraws to pursue Chicago Drive close to a mechanical zone. After the trade for Market Avenue, I-196 crosses the Grand River and enters the city of Grand Rapids. The interstate winds northward past the transmission recieving wires for radio stations WJRW and WFUR and around the west side of the John Ball Zoological Garden. The trunkline has a trade with M-45 (Lake Michigan Drive) on the north side of the zoo before I-196 runs downhill turning eastbound. 

At the base of the slope, I-196 enters the urban center of Grand Rapids. The interstate runs eastbound through private neighborhoods on the city's west side as it approaches the exchange with US 131. This mind boggling structure is contiguous the Grand River north of the Gerald R. Portage Presidential Museum. The carriageways for I-196 go through the trade on various dimensions, with the eastward traffic conveyed down close waterway level and the westward paths over the confusing carriageways of US 131's interstate. I-196 crosses the stream on the contrary side of the trade and the two bearings come back to a similar dimension. The interstate gets an extra path now as the middle is supplanted by a solid obstruction. 

As the expressway runs eastbound, it passes the region of Grand Rapids known as the "Restorative Mile", an area tied down by the Van Andel Institute, Helen DeVos Children's Hospital, a grounds of the Michigan State University College of Human Medicine and the Butterworth Hospital grounds of Spectrum Health. The Ford Freeway runs somewhat toward the upper east as it crosses a line of the Grand Rapids Eastern Railroad among College and Eastern roads. It at that point goes toward the south of the workplaces structures that house the Kent County Health Department, the Sheriff's Department and the creature cover. A little over a mile and a quarter (2.0 km) east of those workplaces, I-196 meets its parent expressway, I-96 on the east side of the city. This trade denotes the eastern end of the Ford Freeway and I-196. 

In the principal speculative Interstate numbering plans, the expressways in Michigan currently numbered I-96 and I-196 should be a piece of the I-94 passage, and the turnpike among Muskegon and Grand Rapids was to be I-94N. Afterward, the underlying endorsements by the national government steered I-96 from Benton Harbor north to Grand Rapids and after that east to Detroit, and I-196 was the goad course from Grand Rapids to Muskegon. The primary fragment of expressway fabricated was a migrated area of US 16 close Coopersville and Marne. The road opened toward the finish of 1957 or in mid 1958, and the principal markers for I-196 were raised in 1959. The full Grand Rapids– Muskegon I-196 road was finished and opened to traffic in December 1962, associating with an I-96 turnpike that drove east toward Lansing; the US 16 passage was a ceaseless expressway with two distinctive Interstate assignments. Before the Grand Rapids– Benton Harbor fragment was finished, the Michigan State Highway Department (MSHD), antecedent to the cutting edge MDOT, appealed to government parkway authorities to switch the Interstate assignments west of Grand Rapids. Authorization for this switch was conceded in 1963, and the signs were changed in January 1964. Thought was likewise made to name the Grand Rapids– Benton Harbor expressway I-67. The recently finished I-196 was redesignated as an augmentation of I-96, and the finished expressway portions southwest of Grand Rapids were redesignated I-196; I-67 was rejected by the American Association of State Highway Officials. 

In August 1963, a segment of expressway along US 31 was opened between I-94 and South Haven. This segment was initially assigned as a component of I-96/US 31. After the assignment switch later in 1963, an extra were opened from the northern end of I-196 close Benton Harbor to Holland as I-196. An extra segment of interstate was opened between Grandville through downtown Grand Rapids to meet I-96 toward the finish of 1964. M-21 was moved to the turnpike from its past surface-road directing. The last connection in the interstate was finished in November 1974 along the Holland– Grandville fragment, finishing I-196 for a second time. In the meantime, M-21 was expelled from the interstate, truncating that roadway assignment to finish in Grand Rapids. 

In 2009, access to Jenison was improved by the expansion of a fractional exchange with Baldwin Street. The segment through downtown Grand Rapids east of the Grand River was reconstructed amid 2010 out of a venture MDOT named the "Fix on I-196". The venture included a third travel path toward every path with weave-blend paths among exchanges and reconstructed a few of the bridges in the territory. In 2016, the segments of I-196 that run simultaneously with US 31 north of the M-63 trade, aside from between the closures of the business circle at South Haven were assigned as a feature of the West Michigan Pike Pure Michigan Byway. 

There are right now two business circles (BL I-196) and one business goad (BS I-196) along I-196. A BS I-196 in Muskegon was assigned along what is currently Bus. US 31 before the Muskegon– Grand Rapids turnpike was redesignated I-96. 

Business Loop I-196 (BL I-196) is a circle that keeps running in South Haven for . The circle starts at exit 18 on I-196/US 31 and keeps running due north along La Grange Street. It at that point moves onto Phillips Street and converges toward Broadway Street. BL I-196 pursues Phoenix Street eastbound where the trunkline closes at exit 20 on I-196. The whole length is a piece of the LMCT. A detour of downtown was worked amid World War II; the previous course of US 31 through downtown was assigned Bus. US 31 around then. When I-196 was worked outside of South Haven in 1963, the previous US 31 sidestep was redesignated BL I-196. In 1972, the circle was moved to pursue the pre-war directing through downtown. In 2016, the majority of the business circle was assigned as a major aspect of the West Michigan Pike Pure Michigan Byway. 

Significant crossing points 

Business Loop I-196 (BL I-196) is a circle that keeps running for in Holland and Zeeland. The circle begins at an association with I-196/US 31 at exit 44 and proceeds simultaneously along the road into Holland. BL I-196/US 31 has a trade for A-2 (Blue Star Highway) and Washington Avenue before the turnpike finishes in the southern spans of Holland. The trunkline then keeps running as a partitioned expressway northward, bypassing downtown Holland toward the east and meeting M-40. Upper east of downtown, BL I-196 leaves US 31 and the LMCT at an exchange to pursue a freeway along the course of Chicago Drive. The circle finishes this freeway Zeeland and pull out to I-196 at exit 55. 

The circle was made in 1974 when I-196 was finished south of the city of Holland. Starting there, the old course of M-21 inside the urban communities to US 31 was redesignated as a business circle of I-196 with the state assuming responsibility for Washington Avenue to the downtown region. At that point from downtown circling back up to Chicago Drive, the business circle utilized the old M-21. Along Washington Avenue and Chicago Drive between intersections with US 31, the interstate bore a simultaneous Bus. US 31 assignment. The simultaneous trunkline inside the downtown territory of Holland was exchanged to the City of Holland in 2005, and BL I-196 was rerouted to pursue US 31. In 2016, the segment of the business circle that runs simultaneously with US 31 was assigned as a major aspect of the West Michigan Pike Pure Michigan Byway. 

Real crossing points 

Business Spur I-196 (BS I-196) is a goad that serves the Godfrey– Lee territory of Wyoming and the Roosevelt Park neighborhood of Grand Rapids. It begins at the halfway exchange for exit 72 on I-196 and after that moves onto the surface road Chicago Drive for most of the separation in Wyoming, going through a mechanical territory. After about a mile (1.6 km), the thruway goes through local locations. After intersection the Grand Rapids city limits, it turns northerly onto Grandville Avenue where it keeps running until turning onto Franklin Street. The goad at that point closes at the exchange with US 131. Its all out length is . It must be gotten to from eastward I-196 on the western end. 

In 1953, the state thruway office sufficiently finished of the Grand Rapids beltline to reroute M-21 to it. The previous steering of M-21 was then redesignated Bus. M-21. With the finish of I-196 from Holland to Grand Rapids in 1974, the thruway was truncated to its present organization and renamed BS I-196. 

Significant crossing points