The World Ends with You 

The World Ends with You is an activity pretending diversion with urban dream components created by Square Enix and Jupiter for the Nintendo DS. Set in the present day Shibuya shopping area of Tokyo, "The World Ends with You" includes an unmistakable workmanship style propelled by Shibuya and its childhood culture. Advancement was roused by components of Jupiter's past diversion, "". It was discharged in Japan in July 2007, and in PAL districts and North America in April 2008. Afterward, an upgraded port to oblige the diversion for cell phones ported by h.a.n.d. was discharged in 2012, while an improved port for the Nintendo Switch was discharged worldwide in 2018 under the title The World Ends with You: Final Remix. 

In the amusement, Neku Sakuraba and his partners are compelled to take an interest in a diversion that will decide their destiny. The fight framework utilizes a significant number of the one of a kind highlights of the Nintendo DS, including battle that happens on the two screens, and assaults performed by specific movements on the touchscreen or by yelling into the amplifier. Components of Japanese youth culture, for example, design, nourishment, and mobile phones, are key parts of the missions. 

"The World Ends with You" got positive surveys, lauding the designs, soundtrack, and joining of interactivity into the Shibuya setting. The couple of regular grumblings were identified with the lofty expectation to absorb information of the fight framework just as the loose touch-screen controls. In the seven day stretch of its discharge, the diversion was the second top rated DS title in Japan, and the top selling DS title in North America. Shiro Amano, author and craftsman of the "Kingdom Hearts" manga, later made a manga dependent on the computer game. 

The amusement happens in an anecdotal form of the Shibuya shopping locale in Tokyo, Japan. While regular day to day existence goes on in the Realground (RG), the picked dead are conveyed to a substitute plane of presence called the Underground (UG). The UG is likewise the scene for the Reapers' Game. By offering their most loved belonging to enter the Game, the dead increase the opportunity to challenge for the prize: to be breathed life into back or to rise above to a higher type of profound presence. The greater part of the individuals who rise above become Reapers, the rivals of players in future Games. Enduring seven days, each Game is a challenge to pass judgment on the value of humankind. Players set out to achieve destinations under the tenets made by the Composer, who is a divine resembling substance who looks after Shibuya. Another Reaper, the Conductor, errands different Reapers to hinder the players' endeavors. Inability to finish a mission will scatter the brain and soul of the player or Reaper, subsequently deleting his or her reality. 

A player in the UG is undetectable to the living in the RG, however one can in some cases read and impact their considerations. The UG is frequented by animals called "Commotion", which are pulled in by the negative sentiments of the living. To advance in the Reapers' Game, players are frequently required to vanquish Noise by murdering or "eradicating" them. Be that as it may, each Noise exists in two parallel universes (or "zones") all the while, and must be crushed by two players at the same time battling and vanquishing the Noise from these different zones. So as to do this, Players are required to frame a settlement with another Player to endure the Noise. Players get assignments through instant messages sent to their mobile phones, and their correct hands are engraved with a commencement showing the time left in the mission. Following multi day's central goal is finished, the rest of the players end up toward the beginning of the following day's main goal, having no feeling of the time that has gone in the middle. 

The player expect the job of , an asocial high school kid who claims he doesn't "get" individuals, and once in a while connects with others. PC controlled characters make up the remainder of the cast, which incorporates Players who are matched with Neku. In the principal Game, Neku is combined with , a high school young lady who assumes the type of her closest companion, as her physical appearance was her cost of passage for the Game. In the second Game, Neku's accomplice is a keen and wily high school kid, , who wants to be called . Neku's last accomplice is , an ex-Reaper who calls himself . Beat turned into a Reaper to figure out how to bring his more youthful sister, (nicknamed ), back to life. Rhyme had yielded herself to spare her sibling from a Noise assault. , the Producer, bound her spirit to a stick from which her Noise could be brought, and offered it to Beat. The last Game Master, , squashes her Noise structure and changed it once again into a stick. 

Other than the Composer and the Conductor, there are other high-positioning Reapers. For every seven day stretch of the Game, Game Masters are allocated by the Conductor to lead the restriction to the Players. Of the Game Masters restricting Neku, is the most hazardous. He eagerly goes around the principles trying to replace the Composer. Taking an interest in the Games with the point of procuring advancements for their execution, the's Reapers will likely rise to the most elevated type of otherworldly presence, the Angels. Heavenly attendants manage the Games and if the stakes of a Game are especially high, they send down one of their own to fill in as the Producer. For the three weeks of the diversion's story, Sanae Hanekoma is the Producer. Masked as a Shibuya bistro proprietor, he directs new players and portrays the "Mystery Reports" that are gotten by finishing extra missions in the wake of finishing the diversion. 

The amusement's story pursues Neku through the span of the three weeks that he plays the Game, combined with accomplices Shiki, Joshua, and Beat for every week, separately. Neku is confounded at first, inadequate with regards to information of how he passed on or how he touched base at the UG. As he creates kinships with his accomplices, he begins to comprehend the principles of the Game. After the principal week, just Shiki is permitted to come back to the living, and she guarantees to meet Neku at the statue of Hachiko. He additionally recoups his entrance expense, which was his recollections, with the exception of the occasions paving the way to his demise. Be that as it may, Shiki has progressed toward becoming what Neku values most, and she is utilized as his new section charge for the second week; what's more, Beat imperfections to the Reapers planning to figure out how to resuscitate Rhyme after she forfeits herself to spare him. Amid the second week Neku reviews little subtleties of his passing; in the long run, he perceives that he was shot at by Sho Minamimoto, one of the Reapers he looked amid the Game. Toward the second's end week, Joshua apparently forfeits himself to spare Neku from a blast made by Minamimoto. 

In any case, since Joshua was never in reality dead, the Game is invalidated and Neku is compelled to play the diversion a third time. His entrance charge this time is the majority of different players, which means Neku can't shape any settlements and stands zero chance against the Noise. Be that as it may, Beat promptly absconds from the Reapers and rejoins Neku. Neku and Beat find that the Reapers and the whole populace of Shibuya are wearing uncommon red sticks that indoctrinate them into speculation the equivalent agreeable considerations. With no missions to finish, the two dare to the legendary "Shibuya River", which Joshua was searching for amid the second week. At the waterway, they find , the Game's Conductor. Kitaniji clarifies that he made the red sticks trying to revamp Shibuya, which the Composer provoked him to do. In the event that he falls flat, both he (as his cost for losing the Game) and Shibuya will be deleted. 

Right then and there, Joshua returns and uncovers himself to be the Composer. Joshua restores the missing piece of Neku's memory of death: Joshua himself shot Neku, picking him to be his intermediary in his test with Kitaniji. Minamimoto, who had been endeavoring to usurp the situation of Composer, was attempting to murder Joshua in his debilitated state as a human. After Kitanji neglects to overcome Neku by utilizing his companions against him, Joshua gives Neku one final test: To flame upon Joshua to decide the destiny of Shibuya. Neku is too tangled to settle on a decision, and is shot somewhere near Joshua. Neku gets himself by and by at the scramble crossing, befuddled by occasions, yet alive this time. 

The diversion's credits show scenes seven days after the fact in the RG. As Neku strolls from Udagawa to Hachiko to meet Beat, Rhyme, and Shiki, he examines how the previous three weeks have improved him. In an announcement coordinated at a missing Joshua, Neku says that in spite of the fact that he won't excuse him for what he has done, he confides in him. Neku then inquires as to whether Joshua will be available at Hachiko too. Mystery reports that can be gotten by finishing extra missions in the wake of beating the diversion uncover that Joshua, in the wake of seeing the adjustment in identity of Neku throughout the long stretches of playing the amusement, chooses to save Shibuya, presently trusting the city to be perfect. The amusement closes with Neku forsaking his earphones, before a title card seems entitled ""The World Begins with You"". 

The "Last Remix" variant of the diversion includes new storyline content occurring after the fundamental amusement. Neku and Beat stir in a topographically misshaped substitute form of Shibuya, and are allocated a mission to escape Shibuya inside 24 hours. Joined by a Reaper named Coco Atarashi, the two start to clear their path through the substitute Shibuya while experiencing Shiki and Rhyme en route. As they advance, Neku has dreams of a city being pulverized and an unusual young lady with Shiki's soft toy, just as what appear to be twisted flashbacks of his own passing and Rhyme's penance. At the point when Rhyme penances herself to spare Beat in a way indistinguishable to Neku's vision, Neku understands that he is having dreams of things to come. Neku and Beat touch base at Mr. Hanekoma's bistro, and he uncovers that the Shibuya they have been navigating is one mammoth Noise made by Coco. Neku and Beat rout the Noise and come back to the real world. A maddened Coco shoots Neku dead, however is driven off by Joshua. Joshua meets with Mr. Hanekoma to examine ongoing occasions; they uncover that Shinjuku has been eradicated and Noise are beginning to show up in the RG, and that the odd young lady from Neku's dreams was an overcomer of the occurrence who they conjecture caused Neku's dreams and was helping him along. Somewhere else, Coco plots to keep utilizing Neku for her arrangements and restores Minamimoto to fill in as his accomplice. 

"The World Ends with You" is an activity pretending diversion, organized into three sections dependent on the three weeks that Neku is associated with the Reaper's Game, with every part further partitioned by every day of the week. The player controls Neku and his accomplice as they investigate Shibuya to finish every day's central goal. Albeit most missions require finish inside a specific time for Neku and his accomplice, this clock isn't associated to the progression of time for the player. 

Shibuya is isolated into a few regions, some of which might be difficult to reach on certain days or obstructed by a divider that must be expelled by fulfilling the solicitation of an adjacent Reaper, for example, deleting Noise images, putting on a specific brand of dress, or bringing a thing. Neku can filter the zone by initiating a unique stick. This sweep uncovers the musings of the non-player characters in the Realground and images, which may advance the plot. The sweep additionally uncovers irregular Noise images that float about the territory, or sometimes, skim around a particular character. The player starts a fight by contacting Noise images; every image comprises one round of fight. Choosing more than one Noise image at once results in a multi-round fight (alluded to in-amusement as different clamor "decreases") that continuously increments in trouble with each round, however on the other hand prompts more noteworthy prizes upon progress. Modifying the trouble of the Noise and the measure of wellbeing for Neku and his accomplice additionally adjust the advantages presented. 

Each region has style drifts that influence interactivity. By wearing pins or dress from the more mainstream marks in that locale, things' belongings will be improved; wearing the least elegant things will do the inverse, and things from brands in the middle of are not influenced. Be that as it may, the player can expand a brand's notoriety in one locale by more than once battling fights in that area while wearing things of that brand. The player can enter shops to purchase new sticks, garments, and nourishment things that are step by step devoured amid fights to improve the characters' essential traits. 

In the wake of finishing the diversion, the player can come back to any day in the story and play those occasions once more, keeping the characters' present measurements and stock. "Mystery Reports", composed portions that uncover foundation components of the story, can be opened through this mode by finishing explicit missions amid every day. Finishing the amusement enables the player to get to "One more Day" from the diversion's menus, an extra day of missions that discloses certain occasions identified with the primary storyline. "The World Ends with You" has one minigame called "Tin Pin Slammer" (or "Marble Slash") that can be played against PC rivals or with up to 3 others through a remote association. "Tin Pin Slammer" is like the marble diversion ringer in that every player endeavors to utilize their pins each one in turn to thump the other players' pins off the gameboard. 

"The World Ends with You" highlights "psych pins", enriching pins which have powers that no one but Neku can initiate while wearing them. Psych pins are utilized for battle, for "Tin Pin Slammer/Marble Slash", or as exchange an incentive for cash or hardware. Most sticks, especially those utilized in battle, can turn out to be all the more dominant as the player aggregates "Stick Points" (PP) which can likewise prompt development of the pins into increasingly strong adaptations. Stick Points are normally earned through fight, yet can likewise be earned through a time of inertia with the diversion, or by communicating with different DS players or arbitrarily if none are found. Every one of these techniques impacts the development of pins inside the amusement. 

The diversion's battle framework is known as the "Walk Cross Battle System". The battle happens crosswise over the two screens on the DS, with Neku on the touchscreen and his accomplice on the top screen, speaking to the diverse "zones" of a similar neighborhood; two characters fight similar adversaries that exist in both "zones" at the same time. Neku and his accomplice are synchronized amid fight; they share a similar wellbeing bar so that regardless of whether one character does not take any harm, the pair can bomb in fight if different takes excessively. A green "light puck" will go between the characters amid fight; by substituting fight between the character who has the puck, harm is expanded. The development of the light puck is dictated by the "match up proportion" among Neku and his accomplice; the puck remains longer with the character with higher proportions. The player can prepare Neku and his cooperate with dress that can modify the light puck's speed. The light puck likewise can amplify Neku and his accomplice's assaults as long as when they hold the puck, they are not assaulted by an adversary and can proceed with this in a volley. 

The player controls Neku by performing touchscreen activities dependent on the as of now prepared pins. These activities may incorporate slicing over a foe, tapping the screen quickly to discharge projectiles, holding down on an adversary to perpetrate harm or yelling into the amplifier to cause a full screen assault. Different pins should be contacted to actuate them, for example, for wellbeing rebuilding. Each stick has a predetermined number of employments before it must revive for a specific time. Different pins may just be utilized a fixed number of times amid a progression of fights, and don't revive until the fight arrangement is finished. Neku must be furnished with a limit of two pins at the amusement's begin; this can in the long run be moved up to a limit of six. 

Neku's accomplice on the top screen can be constrained by the player utilizing the face catches, in spite of the fact that players can utilize choices to have the PC help them. Every one of Neku's accomplices has a card diversion based technician; for instance, Shiki's card amusement requires the player to coordinate face-down Zener cards. The accomplice can make an essential assault after the player explores through a pathway of bolts to choose one of a few demonstrated cards utilizing the directional cushion or face catches. By exploring to a card that fits inside the card amusement governs, the player wins a star. When enough stars are gathered, the player can dispatch an amazing "Combination" assault utilizing both Neku and his accomplice through the "Harmonizer Pin" that shows up on the upper right of the touchscreen (accepting that the player has not revised where it's shown). The player can likewise enable the accomplice to character avoid assaults. 

In the diversion's discharges on single screen frameworks (versatile and Switch), the Battle System has been changed to mirror the absence of a second screen. The present accomplice rather goes about as a different stick among Neku's different pins, which the player can bring in to perform assaults by comparative touchscreen activities like tapping on a foe or cutting down on one. The player must adjust the utilization of the accomplice stick with Neku's own assaults, setting off to their accomplice over and again to develop towards the Fusion assault. The Fusion assault is propelled by tapping the accomplice stick on screen; the player at that point has a constrained period to finish card-based minigames to develop a harm multiplier. For instance with Shiki as their accomplice, the player is demonstrated one Zener card, alongside various other Zener cards that are appeared up for a minute prior being turned over. The player must choose those face-down cards that were matches for the indicated Zener card. The Switch form further offers a co-usable mode, where a second player, utilizing a Joy-Con, has power over the accomplice character and a constrained arrangement of stick assaults amid fight. 

"The World Ends with You" was created by a similar group that made the "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement, with contribution from Jupiter, the organization that created "". The advancement of the diversion began over two years before its Japanese discharge, amid the improvement of "Kingdom Hearts II" and the finish of advancement of "Kingdom Hearts: Chain of Memories". Around then, Nintendo had reported the DS, yet it was not yet available; Square Enix requested that the group make an amusement explicitly for the handheld framework. The imaginative group—comprising of Tatsuya Kando (chief), Tomohiro Hasegawa (co-executive), Takeshi Arakawa (arranging chief), and Tetsuya Nomura (character configuration)— had the capacity to encounter the DS amid the "Contact DS" occasion in November 2004. From this show, they had imagined a rendition of "Chain of Memories" in which the card amusement perspectives would be available on the base screen and an activity pretending diversion on the top. As they kept on taking a shot at the diversion, the engineers understood that they needed to utilize the touchscreen more, to make "an amusement that must be played on the DS". Nonetheless, they likewise experienced the issue that by concentrating intensely on the touchscreen, the top screen would be disregarded. From this, the possibility of the double screen fight framework emerged. A few different choices were investigated for the top-screen amusement, including direction based fights or a music diversion, however once they checked on the diversion from the eyes of the player, they at last settled on the card-amusement approach with the player having the alternative to control the diversion in the event that they needed to. Indeed, even with the fulfillment of the Japanese variant of the amusement, the group felt the double screen framework was a lot for abroad gatherings of people, and endeavored to change the card-diversion repairman into an exceptional meter that would top off with typical assaults from Neku, yet this was not finished in time for discharge. In any case, the group had the capacity to modify the "data over-burden" of the various instructional exercises toward the beginning of the diversion in the North American discharge, lessening the measure of content displayed just as enabling the instructional exercises to be skipped. The "Dynamic Encounter" framework, the capacity for the player to choose when and how to go into fight, was grown explicitly to stay away from the issues of "pounding" that are normal with most standard RPG frameworks. While they incorporated the mechanics of having the capacity to filter non-playable characters to see their contemplations, the group was not ready to coordinate this specialist more into the diversion. 

Notwithstanding making novel ongoing interaction, the planners needed to manufacture the amusement around a genuine area. At first, they had intended to utilize an extensive number of areas over the whole world as the setting. They limited the settings to explicit urban communities because of common sense issues. At last, Kando chose Shibuya as the primary setting inside the main year of improvement, in spite of worries that abroad players would discover the setting new. The group needed to ensure the city was spoken to precisely inside the amusement, and went on "area chases" onto building housetops without authorization to get photos. The design of Shibuya was copied for the diversion, holding this present reality tourist spots while rebranding the names of stores and structures for copyright reasons; for instance, the 109 Building was renamed to be the "104 Building", while one of the busiest Starbucks, neighboring the scramble crossing, was renamed "Outback Cafe". The achievement of the amusement has prompted fans going on voyages through the area to coordinate physical areas in Shibuya with those in the diversion. The choice of Shibuya prompted the fuse of a great part of the diversion's different highlights, including nourishment, dress, and mobile phone utilization. The group at first idea of utilizing spray painting around Shibuya as the wellspring of the player's capacity in the amusement however experienced issues speaking to it; this prompted the making of the psych pins utilized in the diversion. 

The group chose to remain with two-dimensional illustrations rather than three-dimensional designs, trusting it would help separate themselves from other Square Enix titles just as better speak to their vision for the diversion. At the point when previously drew nearer with the undertaking of making the workmanship for the amusement, foundation craftsmanship chief Takayuki Ohdachi thought the advanced setting would be excessively exhausting, and selected to utilize profoundly skewed and rakish pictures of Shibuya to keep away from this; the remainder of the inventive group discovered this way to deal with fit the diversion great. For battle, the foundation of the top screen was chosen for visual intrigue, while the base touchscreen foundation was intended to underscore the ongoing interaction. Ohdachi was additionally in charge of the work of art for the psych sticks, and utilized a blend of pop workmanship and ancestral structures for the different designs. Character plans were dealt with by Tetsuya Nomura and Gen Kobayashi. Character plans were made to coordinate with this present reality Tokyo setting, after which their outfits were structured dependent on the character's identity. Kobayashi was additionally responsible for structuring the diversion's non-player characters and noticed how most plans made it to the last item. Hasegawa was in charge of making the structures for the Noise animals, and needed to have them unmistakable as animals before they rot into skeletons. With regards to the topic of human feeling in the amusement, Hasegawa chose animals that passed on such emotions, for example, wolves and crows. Portrayal of the Noise in the amusement required illustration the 2D sprites from a few points to coordinate the activity on screen just as utilizing rotoscoping on pre-rendered sprites, and took a few emphasess between Square Enix and Jupiter to ensure that the sprites' specialty coordinated the style of diversion, with Kando making the two-hour trip among Tokyo and Kyoto week by week to keep an eye on the advancement. 

The designers realized that for the story they needed to "toss the player directly in the activity, with things he needed to manage without clarification" notwithstanding making a feeling of earnestness and riddle for the player. They built up an underlying draft of the diversion's plot and offered it to content author Sachie Hirano and situation occasion organizer Yukari Ishida to develop. The returned rendition was near the underlying vision for the amusement's story. Be that as it may, there were still troubles in rounding out the story, just accomplishing some smooth improvement part of the way through the procedure, and, after its all said and done, there were still changes made only preceding making the ace picture for the diversion. A few irregularities with the diversion's story were found in the last quality watches that must be settled. The Square Enix confinement group, while deciphering the vast majority of the discourse and interface things into English and other European dialects, protected numerous Japanese components to abstain from losing the way of life of the amusement. The group was additionally restricted by the measure of the exchange inflatables utilized inside amusement, and found a way to abstain from losing the importance of the story inside the diversion. 

As "The World Ends with You" centers around the character of Neku Sakuraba, so as to make an acceptable story the engineers put a great deal of spotlight on his advancement, for example, how he would feel, what considerations lie behind his activities, how he cooperated with different characters, and how the general population around him feel about him. The engineers included angles and day by day concerns, trusting that they could be things that players would need to manage their own lives and thusly would give them a chance to relate with Neku. 

The Japanese title, interpreted as "It's a Wonderful World", was not utilized globally because of copyright issues. Rather, the amusement was discharged in North America and Europe under the name "The World Ends with You". The diversion was formally declared on September 13, 2006 by Square Enix, and debuted at the 2006 Tokyo Game Show two weeks after the fact. On December 5, 2007, Square Enix declared that the amusement would be discharged for Europe and Australia in April 2008, while a comparable declaration was made for a North American discharge on December 17, 2007. 

A unique "Superb World" version of the "Sparkle Silver" Nintendo DS Lite was made and sold as a pack with the amusement as a feature of its Japanese discharge. The amusement's initial plot was adjusted into a two-part one-shot manga by Shiro Amano, distributed more than two issues of "Month to month Shōnen Gangan". In North America, the manga has been discharged online by means of the Square Enix Members site, alongside cell phone ring tones. Both Nomura and Tatsuya Kando expressed that they trusted they would be allowed the chance to make a spin-off of the diversion. Neku, Shiki, Joshua, Beat, and Rhyme show up in the computer game "" as non-playable characters who are tested to an errand like the Reapers' Game. The appearances are the first non-Disney and non-"Last Fantasy" characters to show up in the "Kingdom Hearts" establishment. 

The soundtrack to "The World Ends with You" was created and delivered by Takeharu Ishimoto. The diversion's music incorporates numerous sorts, joining rock, hip bounce, and electronica and was intended to fit the different inclinations of Shibuya. The melody showing up amid the credits of the diversion is "Cradlesong for You" by Japanese pop craftsman, Jyongri. Vocal specialists highlighted in the amusement incorporate Sawa Kato, Makiko Noda, Leah, Ayuko Tanaka, Mai Matsuda, Wakako, Hanaeryca, Cameron Strother, Andy Kinlay, Nulie Nurly, and Londell "Taz" Hicks. The designers utilized CRI Middleware's Kyuseishu Sound Streamer, a pressure calculation ordinarily utilized for voice-overs, to pack the soundtrack and fit more melodies on the amusement media, while supplanting full movement video cutscenes with Flash-style livelinesss to spare more space. The ADX-packed soundtrack and cutscene sound on the last form of the diversion take up around one-fourth (42 of 128 complete MB) of the amusement media. 

The official soundtrack of the diversion, was discharged in Japan on August 22, 2007 and is marked down in most English-language iTunes Stores. This discharge, in any case, does exclude the four tracks one of a kind to limitations outside Japan and is just an advanced adaptation of the Japanese soundtrack. Three of the tracks, "Sometime in the future", "Calling" and "Twister", were later remixed for the 2012 Nintendo 3DS title, "". "Calling" and "Twister" were additionally remixed for downloadable tracks for "". 

A changed soundtrack, "The World Ends With You - Crossover", was discharged on September 20, 2012. It incorporates the first tracks from the DS amusement, remixes of "Calling", "Sometime in the not so distant future" and "Twister" from "Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance", and the remixes from the iOS form. 

Square Enix, be that as it may, discharged the computerized 6-track EP on June 25, 2008 through the Japanese iTunes Store. This discharge contains the four melodies one of a kind to the worldwide form of the diversion, alongside the English rendition of "Owari-Hajimari" and a remix of "Twister". A 19-track variant of the collection was given a physical CD and iTunes discharge on July 30, 2008. 

A port for cell phones, entitled "The World Ends with You: Solo Remix", was discharged on iOS on August 27, 2012, and on Android on June 26, 2014. This variant of the diversion was created by Square Enix's versatile improvement group and h.a.n.d. inside the course of the year. The diversion's battle framework was revised to oblige the absence of a second screen, as depicted in the above Gameplay segment. 

Notwithstanding battle changes, the "Performance Remix" incorporates redrawn top notch sprites and is enhanced for the Retina show of iOS gadgets. The first soundtrack and extra remixes of these tunes are incorporated. Remote and web-based social networking highlights are additionally included: the Tin Pin Slammer can be played with different players by means of remote associations, and the diversion can interface with the player's web based life applications to show these as filtered contemplations from non-player characters inside the amusement. The "Performance Remix" adaptation includes a remixed soundtrack from the first DS discharge. New resources at the finish of the iOS diversion allude to a conceivable continuation, yet no affirmation has been made by Square Enix. The iOS rendition of the amusement was pulled from the iOS App Store in February 2015 because of an issue that kept the diversion from working with the iOS 8 working framework propelled in September 2014, however the Android variant stayed accessible. It came back to the App Store in June 2015. 

A port for the Nintendo Switch, entitled "The World Ends with You: Final Remix", was reported in January 2018 and discharged on October 12, 2018. The port, in view of the versatile "Solo Remix" rendition and with extra advancement from Square Enix and h.a.n.d., incorporates another control framework adjusted for the Switch, explicitly taking into consideration the utilization of the Joy-Con notwithstanding the touch-screen and discretionary center help for Neku's accomplice. An extra new situation was added to this adaptation. 

"The World Ends with You" got positive audits and has been economically effective. "Amusement Informer" named the diversion its Handheld Game of the Month grant for May 2008. IGN gave "The World Ends with You" its Editors' Choice Award, and named it the DS Game of the Month for April. In Japan, the amusement debuted as the second-smash hit DS title amid the seven day stretch of July 27, 2007. Almost 193,000 units were sold in Japan before the finish of 2007. "The World Ends with You" sold 43,000 duplicates amid April 2008 in North America. The primary shipment of the amusement sold out mid-May and a second shipment was made in mid-June 2008. The amusement was the top-selling DS title the seven day stretch of its discharge and again two weeks after the fact. As of September 30, 2008, "The World Ends With You" has sold roughly 140,000 duplicates in North America and 20,000 duplicates in Europe. 

Commentators lauded the takeoff from other famous titles, for example, Square Enix's "Last Fantasy" and "Kingdom Hearts" arrangement. Both the graphical introduction and the soundtrack were very generally welcomed. Audits additionally remarked that, at first, the character plans were excessively like past Square Enix titles and might be off-putting to a few however in the Shibuya setting they were "completely in their component." Some analysts likewise grumbled that the Stride Cross Battle System was unreasonably mind boggling for new players; Eurogamer's survey felt the "sink or swim" dependence on learning the intricate fight framework was a noteworthy hindrance for the amusement. "GamePro" noticed that the stylus input was loose, regularly mixing up development and assault activities. Then again, the framework was commended for its methodology, and for the capacity to modify the trouble of the framework inside the diversion. Neku Sakuraba's character curve was commended by a few analysts, for example, G4TV editorial manager Jonathan Hunt, who applauded his development from a "quiet young person" to a "common human". 1UP.com's survey abridged that the amusement is considerably more than the entirety of its parts: "By all rights, "The World Ends With You" ought to be an irritating debacle, a heap of tired tricks and trite buzzwords. However by one way or another every one of the things that should be deplorable become alright and make a diversion that is unquestionably progressively extraordinary, intriguing, and addictive than it has any option to be." 

"The World Ends with You" won a few honors from IGN.com, including best Nintendo DS pretending diversion, best story for a Nintendo DS amusement, best new IP for the DS, and the best Nintendo DS round of the year. It was additionally named for different honors, including best unique score for a Nintendo DS amusement and best aesthetic plan for a Nintendo DS diversion. It was positioned as the tenth best round of the 2000s discharged on a Nintendo framework by Nintendo Power. 

"The World Ends with You: Solo Remix" got a score of 9.5 and an Editor's Choice from IGN, who commended the port and its increases, despite the fact that condemned its cost point and absence of all inclusive similarity (the iPhone/iPod Touch and iPad variants of the diversion must be acquired independently.) Kotaku likewise reprimanded the high cost and absence of all inclusive similarity as 'shaky', however it applauded the port for its controls, saying "from multiple points of view, it feels increasingly fit to (the iPad) than it at any point did on the DS."