Donald Hardman 

Air Chief Marshal Sir James Donald Innes Hardman, (21 December 1899 – 2 March 1982), known as Donald Hardman, was a senior Royal Air Force officer. He started his flying vocation as a military pilot in World War I, accomplishing nine triumphs to turn into an expert. Amid World War II, Hardman held ranking staff and operational posts. He was Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) from 1952 to 1954, after which he filled in as an individual from the British Air Council until resigning in 1958. 

Conceived in Lancashire, Hardman joined the Royal Flying Corps in 1917 and was presented on France the next year. He flew Sopwith Dolphins with No. 19 Squadron, winning the Distinguished Flying Cross for his battling abilities. Between the wars he presented with No. 31 Squadron in India and No. 216 Squadron in Egypt. A wing authority at the flare-up of World War II, Hardman was appended to the Air Ministry for quite a while before being presented in 1944 on South East Asia, where he told No. 232 (Transport) Group amid the Burma crusade. He was designated an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1940 and a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1945, and was likewise referenced in despatches. 

Completing the war an air commodore, Hardman served progressively as Assistant Chief of the Air Staff, Commandant of RAF Staff College, Bracknell, and Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Home Command, before getting to be RAAF CAS in January 1952. He was selected a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath that year. As CAS he was in charge of rearranging the RAAF's topographically based order and-control framework into a useful structure. Coming back to Britain, he moved toward becoming Air Member for Supply and Organization in May 1954, and was elevated to air boss marshal the next year. He was raised to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire in January 1958, presently before his retirement. 

Conceived on 21 December 1899 in Oldham, Lancashire, James Donald Innes Hardman was the child of an ace cotton-spinner, likewise named James, and his better half Wilhelmina. The more youthful James, known as Donald, went to Malvern College. He started his military vocation in 1916 as a seventeen-year-old private in the Artists Rifles—some portion of the London Regiment—and joined the Royal Flying Corps (RFC) early the next year. Hardman was authorized a brief second lieutenant on 10 May 1917 and affirmed in his position on 21 July. 

Kept at first from seeing battle in view of his childhood, Hardman was inevitably presented on No. 19 Squadron on the Western Front in February 1918, similarly as the unit was finishing its transformation from SPAD S.VIIs to Sopwith Dolphins. He accomplished his first flying triumph in May 1918. On 28 September, Hardman was elevated from lieutenant to brief skipper, and designated as one of No. 19 Squadron's flight leaders. He scored two triumphs in a single foray on 30 October 1918, when he drove twelve Dolphins escorting DH.9 planes of No. 98 Squadron to Mons; in a dogfight that brought about the loss of ten British air ship, Hardman sent two German Fokker D.VIIs down on fire. His "cool judgment and ability in driving" amid this activity earned him the Distinguished Flying Cross; the honor was declared on 11 February 1919. Hardman's last wartime count was nine triumphs. The future for even an accomplished RFC pilot on the Western Front was as meager as three weeks; years after the fact, Hardman conceded that he was as yet astonished he had endure. 

Hardman's bonus was ended on 8 March 1919; the next year he initiated a financial matters degree at Hertford College, Oxford. On 18 October 1921, he joined the Royal Air Force (RAF) with a short-administration commission as a flying officer, and was presented on India's North-West Frontier in 1922. He presented with No. 31 Squadron, a military collaboration unit flying Bristol Fighters. Hardman's bonus was made changeless on 30 September 1925. Coming back to Britain, he joined No. 16 Squadron, which worked Bristol Fighters out of Old Sarum, in September 1926. Hardman was elevated to flight lieutenant on 1 July 1927, and went to the Armament and Gunnery School, Eastchurch, in 1928. He was then presented on the home office staff of No. 22 (Army Co-activity) Group, South Farnborough. 

On 8 July 1930, Hardman wedded Dorothy Ursula Ashcroft Thompson at St George's, Hanover Square, in London; the couple had two children and a little girl. In September the next year, he was presented on Heliopolis, Egypt, to present with No. 216 Squadron. Entrusted with shelling and transport obligations, the squadron worked Vickers Victorias and spearheaded the air course from Lagos to Khartoum in 1934. Coming back to Britain, Hardman entered the RAF Staff College, Andover, in January 1935. Subsequent to graduating, he was elevated to squadron pioneer on 1 February 1936. He served for the following two years as Staff Officer for Armament at No. 23 (Training) Group in Grantham. Hardman entered the British Army's Staff College, Camberley, in January 1938, and was elevated to wing authority on 1 January 1939. 

At the beginning of World War II, Hardman was sent to France with the RAF component of the British Expeditionary Force. After the Fall of France in 1940, he served on the base camp staff of No. 22 Group and was contact officer with the British Army's Eastern Command, before assuming responsibility for the Directorate of Military Co-activity—later the Directorate of Operations (Tactical)— at the Air Ministry. He was selected an Officer of the Order of the British Empire on 11 July 1940 for "recognized administrations rendered in late tasks", and referenced in despatches on 1 January 1941. On 1 March 1941, he was advanced impermanent gathering chief. 

Hardman was advanced transitory air commodore on 1 October 1944, and substantive gathering chief on 1 December. He was doled out to Air Command South East Asia (ACSEA) as the appointee officer—and RAF segment administrator—of the Combat Cargo Task Force (CCTF). Containing RAF, Royal Canadian Air Force, and United States Army Air Forces components, CCTF was in charge of providing the Fourteenth Army in Burma. Hardman's last wartime posting, initiating in February 1945, was as Air Officer Commanding No. 232 (Transport) Group in Comilla, India (presently Bangladesh). The gathering involved the squadrons that some time ago made up the RAF part of CCTF. Hardman portrayed the Burma crusade as "a striking representation of a reality new in fighting—specifically that air power can be utilized to transport, supply and bolster ground troops completely free of ground channels. This has been South-East Asia's commitment to the craft of war." He was selected a Companion of the Order of the Bath on 5 July 1945 for "brave and recognized administrations regarding the tasks in Burma". The US government granted him the Bronze Star; authorization to wear the improvement was gazetted on 15 March 1946. 

Hardman was elevated to acting air bad habit marshal on 1 October 1945. He stayed in South-East Asia following the suspension of threats, taking over as Air Officer in Charge of Administration for ACSEA (later Air Command Far East) in January 1946. After his arrival to Britain he was designated to a few senior posts in the RAF including, progressively, Assistant Chief of the Air Staff (Operations) in May 1947, Commandant of RAF Staff College, Bracknell, in January 1949, and Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Home Command in September 1951. Hardman's wartime rank of air commodore ended up substantive on 1 October 1946, and this was trailed by substantive advancement to air bad habit marshal on 1 July 1948. He was raised to acting air marshal on 1 October 1951. 

On 14 January 1952, Hardman was named Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) of the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), succeeding Air Marshal George Jones, who had served ten years in the position. The choice by Australia's Prime Minister, Robert Menzies, to choose a RAF officer caused hatred in the RAAF. This was intensified when Menzies expressed his reason as being that there might have been "no RAAF officer of adequate age, or operational experience, to take the post of Chief of the Air Staff", which seemed to overlook the wartime records of such figures as John McCauley and Frederick Scherger. "The Daily Mirror" in Sydney was one of a few news sources to voice a "stern dissent" over the issue. Menzies additionally felt that he could legitimize the arrangement of a pariah in light of the fact that the RAAF's geologically based order and-control framework required revamping along utilitarian lines, a framework with which a senior RAF part would be recognizable. England's CAS, Marshal of the Royal Air Force Sir John Slessor, was, to some degree reluctantly, in charge of satisfying the Australian Government's solicitation for a reasonable officer. In advancing Hardman as the "exceptional applicant" for the Australian post, Slessor endeavored to maintain a strategic distance from what he called "the indiscretions of certain years prior", alluding to Air Chief Marshal Sir Charles Burnett's questionable residency as CAS on secondment from the RAF right off the bat in World War II. 

Hardman rolled out two noteworthy improvements to the structure of the Air Force to streamline direction and control: coordinating RAAF Headquarters, Melbourne, with the Department of Air, and displacing the topographical territory directions with three practical associations, in particular Home (operational), Training, and Maintenance Commands. The practical direction framework has been depicted by history specialist Alan Stephens as Hardman's "real inheritance to the RAAF". While getting rid of the territory order structure that had been supported by Jones, Hardman carried on his ancestor's help for the neighborhood airplane industry. He likewise framed an approach concurrence with the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Sir John Collins, covering joint obligation and participation for sea fighting. Amid Hardman's term as CAS, No. 78 (Fighter) Wing was re-furnished with RAF de Havilland Vampire fly contenders to battalion Malta and bolster British activities in the Mediterranean. He was delegated a Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in the Queen's Birthday Honors declared on 5 June 1952, and raised to substantive air marshal on 1 July. 

As a protege of Slessor, Hardman declared: "An aviation based armed forces without aircraft isn't a flying corps". He kept up that the best way to achieve "genuine and suffering air prevalence" was by assaulting the adversary's crucial focuses, which incorporated its methods for delivering contenders. He suggested that the RAAF buy one of Britain's atomic skilled "V planes"— the Vickers Valiant, Handley Page Victor, or Avro Vulcan—however this never eventuated, and Australia's fly aircraft remained the English Electric Canberra until the since a long time ago postponed presentation of the General Dynamics F-111C in 1973. Towards the finish of his residency as CAS, Hardman gave a meeting in which he reprimanded Army and Navy activities against a scenery of proceeding with interservice competition for the safeguard spending plan. He was cited as saying: "The Air Force in this nation, for either barrier or offense, is the main power worth while. It tends to be sent anyplace on the planet to the point where it can do most great and be quickly changed to some other point." as opposed to the underlying anxiety at his arrangement, upon his takeoff from Australia Hardman was depicted by "The Age" as "the remarkable CAS in the RAAF's history", a "splendid coordinator", and an "ace of the hypothesis of air control". He was prevailing by McCauley on 18 January 1954. 

Hardman came back to Britain on the SS "Himalaya", and joined the British Air Council as Air Member for Supply and Organization on 1 May 1954, succeeding Air Chief Marshal Sir John Whitworth-Jones. In December, he spoke to the Air Council at No. 78 Wing's goodbye march in Malta, reminding the faculty assembled that he had been available at the wing's walk through Sydney in July 1952, preceding its flight for the Mediterranean. He was elevated to air boss marshal on 1 April 1955. In July 1956, he exhibited a Squadron Standard to his old unit, No. 19 Squadron. That October, he managed the investigation into the deadly accident of Vulcan "XA897" at Heathrow Airport after its lady round-the-world flight, the main overcomers of the six team individuals being the pilot and Air Marshal Sir Harry Broadhurst. Hardman was prevailing as Air Member for Supply and Organization via Air Chief Marshal Sir Walter Dawson on 1 January 1958, and was raised to Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire that day. He resigned from the RAF on 29 January. 

Hardman joined the leading body of New Electronic Products Ltd in May 1959. In February 1963, he succeeded Air Chief Marshal Sir Douglas Evill as the RAF Benevolent Fund's privileged district agent for Hampshire. Sir Donald Hardman kicked the bucket on 2 March 1982, while holidaying in Estoril, Portugal, and was made due by his significant other and youngsters.