Todd Manning 

Thomas Todd Manning is an anecdotal character from the American daytime show "One Life to Live" ("OLTL"). Made by author Michael Malone, the job was started in 1992 by on-screen character Roger Howarth. Todd was an undergrad and club sibling to Kevin Buchanan, Zach Rosen, and Powell Lord. In 1993, after a storyline in which he winds up familiar with Marty Saybrooke, he starts an assault on her with the assistance of Zach and Powell. The storyline was viewed as earth shattering by TV commentators. Its primary players—Howarth, Susan Haskell (Marty), and Hillary B. Smith (Todd's legal counselor Nora Hanen)— won Emmys in 1994, as did Malone and his composition group. Howarth left the job in 2003; it was recast with Trevor St. John, physically modified by plastic medical procedure. In 2011, Howarth came back to "OLTL"; it was uncovered Todd had been abducted and St. John's variant of the character was extremely Todd's indistinguishable twin sibling, Victor Lord, Jr., molded to accept Todd's place. 

Todd was at first a transient lowlife, yet his notoriety with the group of onlookers and pundits propelled the authors to do without murdering him or forever sending him to jail, as most cleanser musical dramas had finished with attackers previously. While keeping parts of his identity dull or savage, they had Todd display a soul and sympathy. They found a way to recover him and made him a basic piece of "OLTL" canvas, in spite of Howarth's protests to a recovery storyline. With the utilization of scholarly methods for the redemptive circular segment, the essayists obtained from nineteenth-century drama and Gothic conventions, and writing, for example, "Frankenstein". Todd turned into the result of an issue between his dad, Victor Lord, and his mom, Irene Manning, which gave him a fortune and binds to other significant characters, including his sisters, Tina and Victoria Lord. An imperative part of the character turned into his appearance, most quite the scar on his correct cheek, which rose as synonymous with him and served to help him to remember his past offenses against Marty. Music and the utilization of cleverness were likewise key to Todd's improvement. Despite the fact that he shaped numerous connections (counting with his spouses, Blair Cramer and Téa Delgado), and fathered kids, a characterizing normal for his identity was his protection from cozy connections and sexual closeness. 

The drive to reclaim Todd inevitably drew Howarth, who dependably considered Todd to be a reprobate, to leave the show for a year; he was awkward with the reclamation storyline and with numerous fans' certain responses to Todd. Recasting Todd years after the fact with St. John was for the most part thought to be fruitful by watchers and commentators. St. John, rather than impersonating Howarth's depiction, conveyed his very own turn to the character. After "OLTL" wiping out in 2012, Howarth conveyed Todd to "General Hospital" ("GH"), however returned, alongside St. John as Victor, Jr., to the online variant of "OLTL" in 2013, which was dropped following one year. 

Todd has been the subject of various cleanser musical drama articles, women's activist examinations, and enlivened the making of a doll in his similarity. He has remained a mainstream and dubious figure since his creation, and is viewed as one of cleanser musical show's breakout characters. 

In 1992, Todd, a protective back for Llanview, Pennsylvania University's football crew, has a one-night remain with Marty Saybrooke (Susan Haskell), a wild youngster. After she guides him for an analytics test and he fizzles it, which results in him getting suspended from the football crew, he accuses her. In 1993, Todd and his society siblings, Zach Rosen and Powell Lord, assault Marty in Kevin's apartment. Todd enlists lawyer Nora Hanen (Hillary B. Smith), who has faith in his blamelessness until a lady named Carol Swift uncovers Todd likewise assaulted her; Nora causes a malfeasance. Todd keeps on tormenting Marty, including by endeavoring to assault her for a second time, however she in the long run traps Todd into admitting, sending him, Zach and Powell to jail. Per Marty's declaration that Powell, who was peer constrained into assaulting her, is repentant, Powell gets a lighter sentence (one year with the likelihood of parole in three months to Todd and Zach's eight years with the likelihood of parole in four years). This goads on Todd's requirement for vengeance. While in jail, he gets to know Rebecca Lewis (Reiko Aylesworth) and goes to guiding sessions. Todd and Rebecca create sentimental affections for one another, and Todd persuades Rebecca to enable him to escape jail. He is cut in the chest with a couple of scissors by Nora when he pursues her for retribution. Officer Bo Buchanan (Robert S. Woods), Nora's adoration intrigue, saves her from Todd. The two battle, however Todd get away. Sequestered from everything, he is found by Marty and her sweetheart, Suede Pruitt. After incidentally murdering Suede when they battle, he is shot by Bo; Todd falls into the Llantano River, and is assumed dead. 

Todd endures and covers up at Llanfair, where he becomes a close acquaintence with two youngsters, C. J. also, Sarah Roberts. He is captured when he desirously goes up against new couple Rebecca and Powell. His jail van gets into a mishap with another vehicle, and he saves Marty, C. J. what's more, Jessica (Erin Torpey) from the vehicle. This outcomes in an early parole for Todd, yet he keeps on looking for advising. He is later blamed for assault by a few ladies. Marty reluctantly furnishes him with a justification for one of the assaults. An unhinged Powell, trusting Todd is in his mind, is later uncovered as the sequential attacker and abducts Rebecca. At the point when Todd goes up against him, influencing it with the goal that Rebecca to can get away, he seizes Todd and makes Todd feel the way Marty felt when they assaulted her. Todd continues to overwhelm Powell. After Powell is gotten and captured, Todd apologizes to Marty for all the agony he caused her, perceiving that he "was a beast." He starts beginning to look all starry eyed at Blair Cramer (Kassie DePaiva) in the wake of meeting her in a bar. In December 1994, Peter Manning bites the dust and Todd learns he is embraced. Conman David Vickers (Tuc Watkins) finds Todd's natural guardians, Victor Lord and Irene Manning. With assistance from Todd's conspiring organic sister, Tina, David professes to be the lost Lord beneficiary, yet Todd's actual parentage is at last uncovered, leaving Todd $27.8 million more extravagant. He buys a newspaper paper from Dorian Lord (Robin Strasser) and relaunches it as "The Sun", an immediate adversary to his recently discovered family's paper "The Banner". In 1995, Blair traps Todd into marriage by faking a pregnancy. She later discovers that she truly is pregnant, be that as it may, in the wake of being robbed, she prematurely delivers. Todd finds she at first lied about her pregnancy and has the marriage canceled. At the point when Blair ends up pregnant once more, they remarry in November 1995. In spite of the fact that they are cheerful, Blair disdains Todd's predictable worry for Marty. He goes to Ireland to give Marty a trip back to Llanview. Her companion, Patrick Thornhart (Thorsten Kaye), is being chased by Irish psychological oppressors. Todd acts like Patrick, is shot, and assumed dead. Blair faults Marty. Todd comes back to Llanview in 1996, to discover Blair in bed with Patrick. His sister, Victoria "Viki" Lord (Erika Slezak), acquaints him with his little girl, Starr (Kristen Alderson). Todd in the long run continues his existence with Blair. They have numerous troubles in their marriage, and Starr being determined to have aplastic paleness strains the marriage further. 

Blair is pregnant with Patrick's infant, who has been recognized as a benefactor coordinate for Starr. She brings forth his stillborn child in 1997. Todd censures Patrick for the unsuccessful labor and casings him for the homicide of extremely rich person and Llanview newcomer Guy Armitage. Blair discovers that Todd caused the blast that executed Guy, and separations him in June. At the point when Blair falls into a state of unconsciousness, Todd pays legal counselor Téa Delgado (Florencia Lozano) five million dollars to wed him so he can keep care of Starr. At the point when Blair stirs, he permits Blair appearance. In 1998, while Todd and Téa develop nearer, Todd is again blamed for assault; Blair and Sam Rappaport (Kale Browne), a legal counselor and father-figure to Todd, help demonstrate his guiltlessness. Back around the local area upon Todd's solicitation, he additionally expects to enable Todd to spare his blustery marriage to Téa. In the meantime, Todd and Blair develop nearer, and Blair and Téa compete for Todd's affections. As Todd and Téa begin to look all starry eyed at, Blair proceeds onward with Sam. At the point when Todd is going to be captured for the homicide of a lady named Georgie Phillips, he abducts the other fourteen suspects at the Buchanan family lodge with phony explosive lashed to his chest. Rachel Gannon admits to the homicide, however Todd is captured for the prisoner occurrence. He fakes dissociative character issue (split identities) to maintain a strategic distance from conviction and keep Téa in his life. Téa divorces him as a feature of his barrier technique, yet they remarry in November. Amid the gathering, a tape on which Todd admits to faking his split identities is inadvertently played at Starr's solicitation. Téa denies his idea of another five million to remain wedded to him. He leaves town in December, and Tea has the marriage invalidated in 1999. 

In 2000, Todd watches Téa, who begins dating Rachel's uncle, R. J. (Timothy Stickney). Out of jeaously, he nearly slaughters R. J. by means of a discharge, and uncovers himself to Téa, persuading her to leave town with him. At the point when Téa dumps him, he returns months after the fact without her. Todd and Blair develop close once more. By encircling Skye Chandler (Robin Christopher), he encourages her concealment her fury shooting of Max Holden (James DePaiva). They choose to remarry, however the night prior to the wedding, a vindictive Max drugs Blair and persuades they engaged in sexual relations. An enraged Todd uncovered Blair as Max's shooter. In the wake of covering Max alive to find reality, and soon a short time later discharging him, he enables Blair to avoid correctional facility by asserting she endured an insane break. She is submitted without wanting to. Months after the fact, she goes to Mexico, realizing that she is pregnant with Todd's kid. Todd pursues, where he conveys their child. Trusting the kid is Max's, he gives the child to David Vickers, and gives Blair a chance to think the infant kicked the bucket and was incinerated soon a while later. Amid her melancholy, she and Todd accommodate, and she at last reveals to Todd that the youngster was extremely his. Todd finds the baby and claims the kid was relinquished. Blair along these lines trusts the kid is an outsider. In December 2001, Todd persuades Blair to remarry him. They name their child John "Jack" Cramer Manning, and Todd influences it to show up they have embraced him. 

Jack creates aplastic iron deficiency like Starr. This eventually drives Sam to reason that they are organic kin, and to illuminate Blair that Jack is her natural child. She furiously faces Todd. When he concedes that he gave Jack away and constrained her to lament for a youngster that was never dead, she orders his reality as useless and bans him from her life, which results in him being seriously impulsive. Blair leaves town with the youngsters, however Todd pursues her to Hawaii, where his arrangements to abduct the kids with assistance from Ross Rayburn (Shawn Christian) are thwarted by Téa. Todd and Téa have intercourse when they get stranded together on an island with Ross. Todd breaks to come back to Blair, and ensures her when the Mafia comes after her in light of her confession on them in "The Sun." As Todd and Blair are going to remarry, Sam uncovers that Todd, with an end goal to win Blair's affections, arranged a hit on their caretaker, who had been assumed dead because of the Mafia's striking back. Todd had utilized the babysitter's "passing" as a reason for Blair to remain with him, later organizing a hit on Blair's life, with him as the rescuer. The wedding is canceled, and Blair separations herself from Todd. Before long thereafter, Mitch Laurence (Roscoe Born) seizes Starr. Blair trades her own life for her daughter's. Todd salvages Blair by grabbing his niece, Natalie (Melissa Archer), and trading her life for Blair's. Mitch, working for the assumed dead Victor Lord, means to take a relative's heart so he can live. Natalie is saved, and Todd encounters a fragile Victor before he at long last kicks the bucket from heart disappointment. Mitch hijacks Todd and secures him Victor's sepulcher so as to outline him for Sam Rappaport's homicide. Todd vanishes from the tomb, and Blair inevitably has him proclaimed dead. 

Todd's indistinguishable twin sibling, Victor Lord, Jr. (Trevor St. John), whom he had never known, is physically modified and mentally programmed to trust that he is Todd. From May 2003 to August 2011, he expect Todd's personality. In 2003, the assumed dead Irene Manning had requested a hit on the genuine Todd to shield him from uncovering her office. She had Todd lashed to a seat and influenced him to reveal everything about his life. She initially gave Victor Todd's scar, however then had Victor's face adjusted with reconstructive medical procedure to make him look like Mitch Laurence's missing sibling, Flynn Walker Laurence. Irene sent Victor away in Todd's place, so he could get a lot of the legacy as Victor Lord Sr's. beneficiary, and unconsciously help the organization. She kept the genuine Todd bolted up, rather than finishing the first intend to slaughter him. She inevitably admits to these certainties after Todd escapes and returns home. Todd battles with losing eight years of his life, and reprimands Victor for taking his youngsters, including the little girl he had with Téa, Danielle (Dani). He intends to murder Victor and is the top presume when Victor is gunned down. He guarantees his blamelessness and persuades Starr to enable him to escape prison to keep Irene from executing the family for Victor's fortune. In spite of the fact that Irene wounds him, Todd executes her. Téa's sibling, Tomás (Ted King), assumes praise for enabling an injured Todd to get away. Todd starts having distinctive recollections of murdering Victor. Before Tomás is condemned, Todd admits to Irene's homicide; Téa gets the charges diminished to self-preservation. Todd finds the firearm used to murder Victor and utilizations it to outline Tomás as vengeance for at first conveying him to Irene. Todd and a maverick CIA specialist constrain Tomás into a bogus admission. Todd faces trouble holding with Jack, who just acknowledges Victor as his dad, yet he keeps on holding with Starr and helps her with different issues. He additionally helps Cole Thornhart counterfeit his passing so he can live with Starr and their girl, Hope, in California. Todd is later captured for Victor's homicide. 

In 2012, Todd hops safeguard and lands in Port Charles after discovering that Starr has been associated with a fender bender that brought about the passings of Cole and Hope. Todd thinks nearby mobster Sonny Corinthos (Maurice Benard) is in charge of the passings and looks for vengeance. The charges against him for Victor's homicide are dropped, because of a case of posttraumatic stress issue (PTSD) following his years in bondage, yet Starr faces endeavored murder accusations for attempting to slaughter Sonny. A pregnant Téa, who has been searched out by Blair to speak to Starr, gets the charges dropped. In June, Todd is with Téa amid an exceptional rainstorm when she starts giving birth and brings forth a lethargic child kid. Sam Morgan (Kelly Monaco) is likewise bringing forth a child kid in a motel room. After Todd, hunting down help, happens upon Heather Webber (Robin Mattson) in a shack, and she discloses to Todd that Téa's infant has kicked the bucket, he goes over Sam's child. An elated Téa sees the kid and trusts he is hers. Todd permits Téa to trust the tyke is hers, after Heather convinces him not to disclose to Téa reality. Todd frames a cozy association with Carly Corinthos (Laura Wright), Sonny's previous spouse, in the wake of one more dismissal from Blair, who is set to wed Tomás. Todd's job in the infant switch is in the long run uncovered. To offer some kind of reparation for practically murdering her child, Steven, Heather deceives the judge and examiners about Todd's job in exchanging the infants. He is then discharged. 

In 2013, Todd comes back to Llanview to keep an eye on Dani, who had recently called him a few times. He witnesses Dani breakdown from a medication overdose because of her maltreatment of oxycodone. While she is recuperating at the emergency clinic, an alive Victor arrives. An amazed Téa, Dani, and Jack welcome Victor back, while Todd attempts to bond with his kids. Todd stays worried about Jack and Dani, endeavoring to purchase their affections with cash and choosing the most ideal approach to prevail upon them is to call a ceasefire with Victor. He likewise endeavors to win back Blair's affections. He inevitably concedes he just professed to coexist with Victor to draw him into an incorrect feeling that all is well with the world. Victor concedes that he harmed Todd's scotch with arsenic and after that endeavored to choke him. Jack takes Todd to the medical clinic, where he recoups yet is baffled when his family keeps on safeguarding Victor. Victor acknowledges he should leave town and bids a fond farewell to his family. Todd demonstrates Blair a compromising note he got with the names of all his friends and family on it. The secretive Tattoo Organization that held Victor requests that Todd find and slaughter Victor. Todd, Blair and Téa devise a plan to trick this association into trusting Victor is dead. Feeling safe that their plan has worked, they plan for a future. Todd gets another note by the Tattoo Organization, this time revealing to him that he fizzled them and that Victor has been recovered. Todd is informed that he should leave Llanview and go to the location given on the note. Todd and Blair are crushed. Todd bids a fond farewell to Viki and his kids, yet does not reveal to them the genuine reason he is leaving is to secure their family. Before Todd leaves, he and Blair have intercourse one final time, and it is uncovered that they have remarried. 

Todd was initially planned to be a brief job, yet Howarth's depiction of the character roused eminent fan response, which incited the makers to layer Todd's identity and feature him normally inside the arrangement. Michael Malone, Todd's maker, said fleshing out the character helped him to remember what he cherished about cleanser musical dramas, including, "The narrating is an authentic cooperation, among authors as well as by the performing artists." Malone felt he couldn't assume full acknowledgment for the improvement of Todd from Marty Saybrooke's serial attacker to what he later progressed toward becoming, and furthermore noticed Howarth's effect: 

In the formation of Todd Manning, nobody assumed a bigger job than the surprisingly skilled Josh Griffith, first partner head author, at that point co-head essayist, amid my stay at "One Life". Josh adored, lived and inhaled Todd and battled enthusiastically for his situation on the show. Second, Todd never would have developed from "first college kid" to the significant cast part he wound up without the ground-breaking ability of Roger Howarth. As a result of Roger's capacity to pass on the unpredictability of Todd (the hurt just as resentment, the frailty just as rave, the minds, longing, manipulativeness, hotness, delicacy, dreadfulness) we had the capacity to investigate both the profoundly clouded side of this character (the push to annihilate Marty to cover the assault, the endeavored vengeance on his attorney Nora, the assault on Luna) and in the meantime gradually reveal his developing battle (for the most part a fizzled battle) towards some sort of reclamation. Sentimental leads have regularly started their vocations playing scoundrels (Valentino, Clark Gable, Humphrey Bogart among them). These characters bid since they make ladies feel both the rush of the "terrible" and the bait of the concealed "great": they can lead the man to change through adoration. "I'll spare him!" Fans adored Todd from the earliest starting point since he generally had that intrigue. 

Malone initially scripted Todd as a sequential attacker. As a component of the 1993 assault storyline, it was unveiled that Todd assaulted a lady named Carol Swift, a year or two preceding assaulting Marty, and that there were insights he assaulted other young ladies before Carol. Howarth considered Todd's method of reasoning for assaulting Marty to be unpredictable. "Todd was enamored with Marty," he said. At the point when Marty rejects Todd's sentimental advances after their one-night stand, it is on the grounds that he was cold to her that equivalent night after they had intercourse. Marty's dismissal upsets Todd and it putrefies. When he comes up short a test after she coaches him, he reprimands her for the disappointment and starts crediting her as the purpose behind his issues. Howarth called Todd "advantaged and exceptionally rich". Since Todd was accustomed to getting what he needed, he didn't have even an inkling how to adapt to Marty dismissing him. 

In spite of the fact that Todd is the result of an issue between Victor Lord and Irene Manning, Malone gave him the last name "Keeping an eye on" without knowing the name of Victor's special lady, an oversight that enabled the journalists to later uncover him as Tina and Victoria Lord's sibling. He is at first exhibited as 18 years of age, yet throughout the years, his age has been changed dependent on the infrequent fast maturing of his youngsters. Malone expressed that creation Todd beneficiary to the Lord fortune gave the scholars "colossal story" that helped Howarth's character advance from a momentary job to a noteworthy cast part, which Malone credited to Howarth's "incredible ability". Dwindle Manning, who Todd thought was his dad, had passed on; Todd gets letters composed by his assenting mother uncovering that he is the Lord beneficiary, and worth nearly $30 million. Creating Todd not just as Victoria's undesirable kin, whom she was alarmed to find was her blood, however as "her expert opponent" who utilized "a splashy newspaper paper to clear out her respected" paper "The Banner" spoke to Malone. 

Official maker Susan Bedsow Horgan, when discussing Todd's mental inspirations, revealed that Peter Manning debased him verbally and mishandled his assenting mother, whom Todd cherished yet who relinquished and disillusioned him, leaving Todd with wounds that affected his later conduct. Creator Gerry Waggett expressed that Peter Manning had physically manhandled Todd his whole life. 

In late 1993, so as to make Todd look all the more threatening, he was given a scar to his correct cheek by Marty's companion, Luna Moody, when she hit him in his face with a crowbar while keeping his endeavor to assault Marty for a second time. The camera would regularly surround and underline Todd's scar, which later ended up synonymous with the character. 

To throwing chief Howard Meltzer, "Todd wears the scar like an identification. It's a notice to other people: Don't disturb me." Meltzer felt Howarth underplayed Todd; Todd did not need to tirade to actuate dread. Meltzer included: "He gets much more from the raising of an eyebrow than raising the volume of his voice. A large portion of Todd's execution is responding to the earth around him, and gratitude to Howarth's expressiveness, watchers can see the wheels turning." The scar likewise served to help Todd to remember his past villainy against Marty. It was connected by paste, with a little cosmetics to make it look increasingly valid, and for the most part took ten minutes to apply. 

Todd's long hair was likewise necessary to the character. It was depicted by "Cleanser Opera Magazine" as "cryptic, with a quality of intrinsic expert". The hair was said to exhibit Todd's absence of affectation and to pass on an "I couldn't care less" disposition. Todd's "overhanging forehead" appeared to be undermining, yet rather disguised the "extreme, helpless eyes underneath", highlights that stood out well from the character's "pouty, sexy mouth". The highlights, which gave "a beguiling, innocent quality", could at times pass on that Todd was less unsafe than he really was. Picture taker Robert Milazzo trusted Howarth's hair mellowed Todd's character. "You don't expect that power as a result of it," he stated, and felt that it made Todd all the more charming. Milazzo likewise expressed that the blend of Todd's delicate hair and force made Todd "an exceptionally mind boggling character to take a gander at". 

A questioner reasoned that Howarth was physically appealing and this may have added to the character's attraction. Howarth answered, "I recognize what the tradition of a gorgeous individual is, and I realize that for reasons unknown thin white folks are huge at this point. I surmise you could accuse that." 

In November 2008, amid St. John's depiction of the character, Todd is given another scar by John McBain amid a physical quarrel in which John beats Todd with a firearm. The scar symbolized Todd's "second assault of Marty", and was considered "a lovely gesture" to Todd's history. The scar was essentially littler than the first however set in a similar spot; it was passed by January 2009. St. John expressed, "I know. It's excessively awful. I sincerely have no clue why they wouldn't keep that update all over. It may be an efficient thing. You realize it expenses to apply that sort of cosmetics every day." 

The most vital part of Todd's appearance for St. John was his character's hair. His inclination was that Todd's hair was somewhat shorter; he told "Cleanser Opera Weekly" ("SOW") that he felt that Todd's hair was excessively "shaggy", which was not his own style, and that he trusted the authors and makers would give him a chance to trim off a bit. When he initially got the job, St. John's hair looked like Howarth's shorter jaw length hair style, which was at first worn from 2000 to 2003, and St. John was told by the authors and makers not to change his hair until further notice. St. John "settled on the innovative decision [to let himself] go in light of the fact that [Todd's] not so much right in the old noggin, and put on weight for the job. 

"One Life to Live's" makers expressed that a large portion of the show's music was custom composed, appropriate for the circumstance and what the characters in the scene may really play. For Todd, his unpredictable nature was spoken to with effectively dim signature music, which makers and fans called the "Todd topic". The music comprised of foreboding low harmonies and flagged that Todd was going to submit a horrendous, risky, or undermining act. 

Arranger David Nichtern, who made Todd's signature music, said he cherished the character and delighted in executing the diverse adaptations of the Todd subject. While depicting the music that denoted Todd's noticeable 1996 "come back from the dead" storyline (which archived his arrival to town in the wake of being assumed dead), Nichtern tended to the more extensive part of his creation for the character: "The majority of Todd's music has had a specific 'vibe' to it, particularly since the character is so well-drawn," he expressed. "It likewise has appeared to be especially appropriate to my guitar style, so I've appreciated 'getting to be' Todd musically. The key is dependably to speak to his clouded side, yet with the likelihood of recovery and power behind the entire thing." Nichtern included, "That is the thing that makes him such a fascinating character. Todd's prompts are constantly hand crafted in a manner of speaking, so there is vitality and consideration going toward getting the careful kind of what the present story-line is stating about his voyage." 

Three essential melodic topics were played all through Todd's advancement. The first Todd subject, from 1993 to 1996, enveloped Todd's assault of Marty and his initial wrongdoings. The second subject was heard all through 1998 and 2000, and the third topic was first heard in 2001. The Todd and Marty assault scene was supported principally by shake melodies. Heard at a low volume out of sight, hard shake melodies help minutes developing to the assault; they strengthen the generally certainly tense, forceful climate, and set a chilling tone for watchers. At the point when Todd is sure that he will assault Marty, directly before going upstairs to Kevin's room where she rests, the volume of a tune out of sight ("Head Like a Hole") is expanded, which accentuates the verses: "I'd preferably pass on/Than give you control." This utilization of ambient sounds enabled Todd's inspiration for the assault to essentially enlist with watchers. 

The threatening harmonies which played as Todd stalked and threatened Nora in 1993 for misusing his preliminary and sending him to jail were Todd's subject. There have been extra melodic topics for Todd; for instance, amid his sentiment with Rebecca in 1994, a widely inclusive sentimental topic with heartbreaking subtleties, which was on occasion intermixed with his dismal music, were heard. His salvage of Marty and two youngsters from a fender bender, and the Todd and Téa sentiment, additionally have their very own melodic subjects. For the mid-1994 plot point where Todd salvages Marty and the youngsters, the music was changed to mirror his choice to be a superior individual. It turns into his overwhelming subject, and is helped by a tuneful, forward-moving tune. This music is fundamentally a piece of Todd's 1994 reclamation storyline and the storyline when he is the Lord beneficiary in 1995. As indicated by Nichtern, the music for Todd and Teá, which he formed with his companion keyboardist Kevin Bents, was "as close as we get to Todd 'sentimental' music", with "the likelihood of a little exotic nature and sentiment". 

For the "Todd comes back from the dead" 1996 storyline, crazy sounding, anxious music means that Todd's mind has intensified. This topic went with Todd's enthusiastic breakdown and retribution plot in the wake of finding his significant other, Blair, having intercourse with Patrick. 

At the season of's first experience with "OLTL", he was a focused competitor. His crew was the most imperative piece of his life; Howarth expressed that Todd was "under exceptional weight from the male figures throughout his life". He felt that the way to understanding Todd was his worry about his status and how others saw him. He imagined that Todd abused individuals since it made him rest easy thinking about himself and that he would not like to seem helpless, so his barrier components "spun wild". Howarth, amid an April 1994 "Cleanser Opera Update" meet, said that the main thing that he respected about Todd was his garments style. His questioner called Todd's initial design sense "grunge, Salvation Army like 'clothes'," and Howarth portrayed Todd's later closet as "all Ralph Lauren" and "[d]ouble R.L. 80 dollar jeans and a 400-and-something-dollar coat". St. John, as Todd's second portrayer, depicted the character as "sort of both great and terrible. He has his great side with his children, but then he is scheming and horrendous and each one of those negative things". 

The show's journalists introduced Todd's identity as a blend of dull amusingness, uncivilized conduct, and the pith of a tormented soul; he regularly conveys jokes that go from silly to twisted. Cleanser musical show editorialist Jenn Bishop expressed that Todd's identity is "fierce, delicate, mindful, aloof, savvy, over the top, insane, unreasonable, wicked, courageous, tension filled, funny, and so on." and that "[he] cherishes, however he believes he's contemptible of intimate romance as a result of the things he's finished. He doesn't love himself and undertakings an exterior of a sure, presumptuous playboy, however underneath everything, he's somebody who looks for an unattainable love". Feature writer Jill Berry, who considered Todd to be conceited in the extraordinary, said that in spite of the fact that Todd urgently needs to be cherished, he is unfit to give or get it, and when he is adored, he will demolish it. She acknowledged Todd's capacity of cherishing his kids, which he communicated by doing "insane and unlawful things to demonstrate it", yet felt that a great part of the trouble he encounters is expedited independent from anyone else and that he is unequipped for gaining from his errors notwithstanding when they hurt his loved ones. She said Todd need "escalated treatment", which will never work since he won't change. For instance, as depicted by St. John in 2006, he battles for the guardianship of his child, Sam, however he is spurred by annoyance that he has been deceived and retribution more than by a longing to recuperate his kid. 

For quite a long while on the arrangement, a characterizing normal for Todd's identity was his protection from cozy connections and sexual closeness, which were because of his abuse by others, particularly his receptive dad, who may have assaulted him when he was fourteen. It was additionally because of his horrendous past wrongdoings, including his assault of Marty and useless parts of his association with Blair. Enduring a brush with death and being assumed dead in 1995 and, upon his arrival in 1996, discovering Blair having intercourse with Patrick made Todd severe; seeing Blair with another man explicitly, not long after his assumed demise, made him shut down inwardly. The essayists made Todd's dread of closeness into a conspicuous snag for his association with his second spouse, Téa. When she at one point endeavors to lure Todd by stripping down bare before him and begging him to have intercourse to her, he rejects her, clarifying that he never again confides in himself to be close in that way; he consequently tosses her out, for all intents and purposes exposed, into the center of a snowstorm. 

Minister expressed, "However watchers were given a clarification for his ghastly activities (parts and loads of youth injury), his wrongdoing was never pardoned or disregarded. Todd started to think about individuals – Rebecca, at that point Blair and later Téa – something missing in his prior sociopathic qualities." Soap musical drama pundit Kaydee Barnett expressed that Todd's dull edges had been diminished over a time of numerous years by Blair, Viki, and Starr. Todd's profound love for his sister, Viki, was halfway shown by him supporting her amid her fight with malignant growth, her challenges with her little girl and his niece, Jessica, and by protecting Viki to her foes. Berry delighted in the weakness Viki brought out of Todd, and felt that his self-loathing exhibited itself from numerous points of view, including when he would not name his child, Jack, after himself since his name conveyed an excessive amount of things. 

In the 1998 storyline where he fakes dissociative character issue (split identities) to keep away from a jail sentence for prisoner and risk charges, he is given four identities that speak to his center being: An innocent identity named Tom, Italian playboy Rod, parental figure Miss Perkins, and the harsh Pete (the identity in charge of his most noticeably bad wrongdoings). The disclosure that he is faking the identities decimates Viki, who had really experienced the turmoil; it likewise brings out regret in Todd, and makes him consider his mix-ups. The storyline closes with the suggestion that the identities might not have been as manufactured as Todd trusted them to be. The authors additionally made it so his challenges are showed in his bad dreams, which give him sleep deprivation and are structured as an investigate his mind; at various focuses inside the arrangement, Téa endeavors to help Todd by urging him to open up to her about them, which he in the long run does. His sentiments on his foes are passed on unmistakably; he stays one stage in front of them, and reliably out-smarts police, family, and others he targets, here and there utilizing weapons. 

Following Howarth's 1992 giving a role as Todd Manning, he once in a while abandoned the job. His 2003 takeoff was his longest nonappearance from "OLTL; "he didn't come back to the arrangement until 2011. Todd was recast in 2003 with St. John, and Howarth joined "As the World Turns" as Paul Ryan until it was dropped in 2010. Malone expressed that in light of Todd's allure, which he credited to Howarth, "The system was in this way cheerful to have him come back to Llanview at whatever point Roger would return, and glad to have him move into story in significant ways." In April 2011, following a while of hypothesis, "OLTL" affirmed Howarth's arrival, despite the fact that it was vague in the event that he would depict Todd Manning. He expressed, "I am anticipating coming back to "One Life to Live"". Official maker Frank Valentini stated, "We are excited to have Roger come back to "One Life to Live"". It was in the end uncovered that St. John's form of the character was truly Victor Lord, Jr., Todd's twin sibling, molded to trust that he was Todd and expect Todd's personality, while the genuine Todd (Howarth) was held prisoner for a long time. 

"OLTL" was dropped in mid 2012; Howarth conveyed Todd to "General Hospital" ("GH"), alongside his co-stars Kristen Alderson as Starr and Michael Easton as John McBain. Every one of the three on-screen characters were compelled to quickly leave "GH "when Prospect Park, the organization that purchased the rights to "OLTL "and publicized an online form of the show in 2013, sued ABC for rupture of agreement. Prospect Park contended that ABC subverted its endeavors by slaughtering off two characters, Starr's sweetheart Cole and her young girl Hope. Both St. John and Howarth showed up on the online form as Victor and Todd, however the suit kept ABC from proceeding to highlight Howarth, Alderson, and Easton" "as their unique characters on "GH; "ABC's answer was to make new characters for the performing artists. The online rendition of "OLTL "was dropped after one season. 

Malone acknowledged Howarth's flexibility for the reason he was given a role as Todd. Amid a February 1993 meeting with "Cleanser Opera Digest" ("SOD"), Howarth expressed he was astounded he won the part. "I truly don't have the foggiest idea how I made it," he said. He met a "One Life to Live" throwing executive two years already, while performing in a New York play, in any case, when the job of Todd opened up, he "tried out simply like every other person". He "made it to callbacks, and [he] got the part". Howarth stated, "I was hired ... to plant tranquilizes in Jason Webb's coat. All I knew was that my first name was Todd. I don't have the foggiest idea what occurred straightaway. They called me in again and abruptly I had a last name 'Keeping an eye on.' Then I get called to peruse one more day." 

Howarth expressed, "I was glad to get the piece of Todd, however it was the uttermost thing from the texture of my identity." In a meeting soon thereafter, with "Cleanser Opera Weekly", he frowned when helped to remember what he had stated, and remarked, "What an absolutely self-included, self-absorbed thing to state." He cleared up his past proclamation, saying that in spite of the fact that he was by all accounts reliably given a role as a "trouble maker" and as a "Greek fraternity sibling type", the two his childhood and encounters in school were not quite the same as those of Todd and his different jobs. For instance, Howarth was not in an organization in school, and, dissimilar to Todd and his past cleanser musical drama jobs, Kent in "Cherishing" and Jory on "Directing Light", status was immaterial to him. 

In spite of the fact that Howarth knew about grounds club life while going to George Washington University, he didn't base Todd or his different jobs on anybody he knew. At the point when gotten some information about his jobs, he was unfit to clarify why he was reliably given a role as a miscreant, yet said that he delighted in it. "I could never need to come in now and play a pleasant person for three months. That would be appallingly exhausting. This suits me fine. It's similarly as simple to imagine I'm a trouble maker for what it's worth to imagine I'm a hero," Howarth said. Playing an attacker resembled assuming some other job on the grounds that "[he knows] it's everything pretend". He was bewildered by authors' have to reclaim miscreants. "Todd's a quite fascinating character only the manner in which he is," Howarth said in late 1994. "There's no compelling reason to fix it if it's not broken. I don't have a clue where the entire idea of reclaiming characters originates from. Individuals used to state to me, 'I trust you get recovered so you can remain on the show.' Well, Todd hasn't been reclaimed, he's still on the show." He included, "I don't love the character I play. On the off chance that I met Todd in the city, I wouldn't state 'Howdy' to him, yet I do love playing this character." 

Howarth said of featuring on a cleanser musical show, "Each performer at one time goes through daytime. I wouldn't have said yes to the offer on the off chance that I would not like to remain some time on daytime." He included, "I don't hunger for acclaim. It's sort of ridiculous. I would not like to be an open figure. I needed to be an on-screen character, not a film star. In any case, I adore shake 'n' move there, I'd preferably be a hero. That would be cool." He said that "like all cleanser performing artists," he stays with the content most of the time, "however sometimes he goes off the page," remarking, "You get the chance to guide yourself. You think of a smidgen. It's improvisational. Perhaps you're doing it only for your castmates, yet the group of onlookers gets on." 

In 1997 and 1998, Todd was given comedic accomplices like the set-up in parody groups, in which the "clever person" for the most part has a "straight man" who either sets up the joke or basically does not get it. Todd's first accomplice was Charlie Briggs, depicted by performing artist Robert J. Hogan. Hogan was first observed as Briggs in 1995, working for the adversary production "The Banner" before Todd "[steals] him away" to work at his paper. Hogan stated, "Briggs had been on the show for a long time, however they never indicated him." Scenes among Todd and Briggs regularly included Todd issuing "some peculiar request" to Briggs, or Todd asking Briggs an "exit plan question" that was frequently "way out of line". Amid these scenes, Briggs would frequently react with a stunned look all over. In spite of the fact that Briggs seemed lost at a portion of Todd's remarks, Todd was some of the time unfit to understand that the joke was about him. Hogan felt Briggs was "in excess of a match" for Todd. "You take a gander at a child shouting at you," he stated, "and you can't pay attention to him." 

Another of Todd's comedic pairings is his companionship with a parrot he names Moose. Todd is nearer to Moose than he is to generally people. He confesses to the fledgling his private contemplations and insider facts, which causes struggle and hostility among Moose and his better half at the time, Téa. Florencia Lozano, Téa's portrayer, expressed, "My character ... has a very antagonistic association with the bird ... It's kind of desirous of me, I'm envious of the feathered creature. We're both endeavoring to draw near to Todd." The feathered creature was depicted by two South American blue and gold macaws named Flash and Lucky, and an Animal Planet narrative expressed that they had built up a "great list of references" when they showed up on "OLTL." They were prepared by Ed Richman, who had worked with the winged creatures for a long time in TV shows, for example, "Magnum, P.I." and "Jake and the Fatman. "Richman expressed that Howarth got on "genuine speedy" in regards to his connection with Flash and Lucky and said that he was the best performing artist he had worked with in the business. The parrots were utilized for various purposes: for threatening scenes where it looked like Moose "was going to execute someone", Richman utilized Flash, and Lucky was utilized for the "cherishing, extremely minding, physically close" depiction of Moose. Like different performing artists, the parrots had the capacity to interface, in character, with their kindred castmembers and accomplish comedic timing with them. Voice on-screen character Ron Gallop was employed to convey Moose's lines, which were made to help exhibit Todd's line of reasoning, meant Todd and Moose's nearby bond, and comprised of amusing or offending comments went for anybody causing issues for Todd. 

Howarth's takeoff from the arrangement inspired "OLTL" journalists and makers to do what many thought about unimaginable: recast Todd. Amid Michael Malone's second stretch as head essayist of "OLTL", he needed to choose if Todd would remain. Malone said that he and different makers couldn't enable Todd to for all time leave the show's canvas, so they recasted the job. They offered the job to Easton, who had depicted the vampire Caleb Morley on the cleanser musical drama "Port Charles", however he turned it down in light of the fact that he would not like to be partnered with a pretended by another set up performing artist. Malone said that St. John's tryout was "remarkable", and that in spite of the fact that a panel was engaged with the recast, everybody concurred "he was Todd". Malone felt that they settled on a dangerous choice, yet St. John made it work and that he had made the character his own. At first, St. John, in his first job in daytime TV, was presented as Walker Laurence, more youthful sibling of Mitch Laurence. 

Creator Gerry Waggett expressed that Walker was "rehashed as Todd with plastic medical procedure" after the show's watchers acknowledged St. John as a piece of the cast. The cleanser musical show press and fans guessed for a while that Todd had been recast with St. John. Site Soap Central.com expressed that in spite of official maker Frank Valentini neither affirming nor denying it, St. John's character showed "Todd-like" conduct. "Television Guide" affirmed the hypothesis and revealed that St. John, when gotten some information about it, expressed, "That would intrigue, however I don't perceive how it would function," and included, "Todd [had] an alternate voice and stature, yet this is a cleanser world and anything can occur." 

St. John's variant of Todd had experienced plastic medical procedure in the wake of being seriously beaten amid a homicide endeavor on his life requested by Mitch Laurence. While recuperating in the medical clinic, Todd conducts look into and learns Mitch has a sibling named Walker (likewise depicted by St. John), who passes by the name Flynn Laurence. Todd pays Flynn for data on Mitch, and has broad plastic medical procedure so as to physically take after Flynn and get vengeance on (just as shield his family from) Mitch. The authors uncovered Walker's actual distinguish gradually, enabling Walker to create as another character before implying that he could be Todd. 

St. John was uninformed that Malone and the makers of "OLTL" were thinking about him as Todd, however had no technique in his execution once he won the job. When discussing the recast, he expressed, "It's decent, in light of the fact that I had moment solid connections." He preferred that he could counsel old contents and his kindred castmembers to pick up data about his character, assets he didn't have when playing Walker. He had the capacity to utilize these assets to make sense of his relationship to different characters, which helped him investigate how to play a scene. St. John expressed that as a performer, he let the group of onlookers translate the character, and put stock in investigating and depicting the minute as it was written in the content. He stated, "Todd is as of now composed on the page, so I must breath life into him at that time." 

St. John was told by the show's executives to watch around fifteen scenes of Howarth's exhibitions of Todd since they needed him to depict Todd like Howarth did. St. John revealed that he watched two scenes, however never endeavored to imitate Howarth's style since he felt that it was restricting, uncreative, and dangerous. He stated, "I expected to get a feeling of todd's identity first, and that needs to happen naturally." He couldn't have cared less if Marlon Brando depicted the job before him, and said that even on-screen characters who depict Hamlet do it another way, including, "I couldn't care less what the other person did. That is his time." St. John felt that it was dependent upon him to choose how to perform Todd. "I realize that sounds haughty and presumptuous," he expressed, "however it would be unpleasant to attempt to impersonate someone." 

Dissimilar to how most performing artists are prepared, St. John trusted that it was not up to the entertainer to translate the character, yet that a character existed paying little respect to how a performer played him, which he understood was "an unordinary approach to approach acting". He likewise believed that playing Todd was fun and "never exhausting to watch" since Todd, albeit famous with the group of onlookers, is an unlikable character. St. John disclosed to Branco that when individuals inquired as to whether Todd was fit for hurting his friends and family, similar to his long-lasting adoration Blair or girl Starr, St. John would state that Todd was fit for anything, notwithstanding being explicitly pulled in to Starr or one of her companions, on the grounds that to state generally implied that he was "constraining the character". He included, "Todd is a wonderful character to play since he could submit massacre, or discover a solution for AIDS. He's loaded with conceivable outcomes—great and bad ... It couldn't be any more obvious, as a performer that dependably gives you strife to play—and that subtext advances an act." 

Howarth said essayists run with an unmistakable paradigm while making cleanser musical drama characters. Essayist Jennifer Hayward felt the equivalent, expressing that like nineteenth century acting and serials, cleanser musical shows draw on amazing models. Essayist Dianne L. Creeks expresses that the storyline fits in with a considerable lot of similar traditions of how assault has been exhibited in cleanser musical shows. As per Hayward, the "OLTL" essayists "had a tremendous time outdoors up Todd as the epitome of abhorrence". She said that the scholars who made Todd's first significant storyline, the assault of Marty Saybrooke and its result, treated assault like most cleanser musical dramas had done previously, by utilizing originals, for example, the battle among great and underhanded and the difference between the frail and solid. Creator Gerry Waggett stated, "The nearby ups of the attackers' appearances amid the strike, contorted to catch Marty's terrified and intoxicated point of view, rank among the show's most realistic pictures." An endeavor was made to sensationalize the assault and present it uniquely in contrast to the run of the mill voyeuristic viewpoint, and the scenes were intended to exasperate the gathering of people. Waggett included: "Marty's ensuing mission to convey her attackers to equity ruled the show" all through the mid year of 1993. 

So far, cleanser musical dramas utilized assault and its related paradigms to, similar to their nineteenth-century acting partners, "evaluate influence connections, particularly the persecution of the poor by the rich and of ladies by men". Hayward trusts that the storyline was at first imperfect since two of the attackers, Todd and Zach, were defamed, which misrepresented assault and "neglected to catch the mind boggling power relations underlying ... brutality towards ladies". The culprits were "basically malicious or out control", so they and their outlooks they spoke to could be rejected. The three characters spoke to three prime examples of the attacker: "the malicious instigator" (Todd); "the great resister" (Powell), and "the go between these spellbound figures" (Zach), yet in addition spoke to a takeoff from how assault was treated in cleanser musical dramas. Streams called the attackers "a confounded option in contrast to the standard cleanser musical show attacker", since they had an alternate association with their unfortunate casualty than in past assault stories and in light of the fact that they were numerous. Todd, whom Brooks called the "abhorrent 'other, was the pioneer and most terrible of the gathering and had a past physical association with Marty. Hayward stated, "What turns out to be particularly clear is that for these characters the demonstration of assault isn't about sex, about ladies, or even about Marty. It is about what takes place ... between men." 

Like serials since forever, cleanser musical dramas utilize the insecure way of life as a scholarly gadget, which is prove by the class' utilization of mixed up characters, detestable twins, and characters that experience the ill effects of numerous identity issue and whom resurrect. Personality is utilized in the assault storyline too. Prior to the assault, Todd was rough yet still human, however a while later, he turned into a dehumanized epitome of anger, shown by Todd's odd and perilous conduct after his conviction. Powell Lord, whose name is loaded with a similar sort of imagery Dickens utilized while picking his characters' names and who at first urges his companions to let Marty go yet at last surrenders to peer weight, is a "relative 'decent character when contrasted with Todd's outright abhorrent' personality". As Hayward would see it, "The show likewise withdraws from the assault worldview not just by demanding the fundamental 'goodness' of Powell Lord ... be that as it may, considerably more startlingly by reclaiming the malevolent Todd". At first, "the undeniably coerce ridden" Powell is the main attacker who has a heart. He endeavors to persuade Todd and Zach to admit their wrongdoing, and verges on admitting to his legal advisor. Hayward calls Powell, similar to Todd, "recovered", however not at all like Todd, was so coerce ridden that he endeavored suicide, was excused by Marty, and got an a lot lighter correctional facility sentence than Zach or Todd. 

At first, Todd, as portrayed by Hayward, was composed as "unequivocally terrible: gloomy, callous, charmless". As Todd's prevalence developed with the gathering of people, for the most part because of Howarth's capacities to depict Todd as in excess of a one-dimensional attacker, Malone and official maker Susan Bedsow Horgan picked the dubious alternative of recovering Todd as opposed to slaughtering him off or forever sending him to jail, which is the thing that cleanser musical shows had generally finished with irredeemable attackers before. The journalists started to reclaim Todd, or change him with the goal that he could be joined into the show, in the spring of 1994, a year after the assault. Hayward states that it required "an entire arms stockpile of emblematic weaponry," something that had never occurred in cleanser musical shows. Malone was interested by making the story along these lines, and considered it to be the otherworldly adventure of a man who needed absolution for his past wrongdoings. 

Malone expressed that Todd trusts that he doesn't merit absolution, which adds to him grasping his most exceedingly bad characteristics, something Malone felt worked better because of Howarth's acting decisions, which kept Todd from securing recovery effectively. Malone felt the most imperative piece of Todd's recovery was to have him re-stand up to Marty so as to more readily manage the reality he started her assault. Just as having Todd hazard his opportunity from jail and spare Marty from an auto collision, Todd gives his own blood to Marty to guarantee she endures. After a year, he chances his life to spare Patrick, Marty's darling, from death; this demonstration prompts Todd's assumed passing. In spite of having the character long to be thought of as an OK individual, the journalists felt his great deeds ought to never make him feel any less shocking for having assaulted Marty. At first, Howarth deviated, and did not believe the storylines to be redemptive. "[Todd's] not being recovered by any stretch of the imagination," he said. "Todd, from my perspective, is searching for an approach to conquer this anger so he can live in the public eye once more. Starting now and into the foreseeable future, his danger will be superficially, not detonating. It's all the more intriguing if his savagery is superficially and that he play against it. That is the place the nuance is." 

Hayward expressed that the authors diverted Todd from a practical cleanser musical show character into "the scoundrel appropriated from nineteenth-century acting" and Gothic fiction conventions. After Todd is sent to jail for Marty's assault, he pledges he will get away, and does as such by sedating himself and compelling himself to wake up from a state of unconsciousness, which enables him to escape from a speeding rescue vehicle. He comes back to Llanview to stalk and threaten Nora, the legal counselor who tossed his court case, who had gone incidentally visually impaired. He attempts to assault Marty for the third time, later unintentionally kills Marty's beau Suede amid a fight, captures the evangelist Rebecca Lewis, and is shot by the police, yet endures. The scholars additionally started to develop his character by stressing his delicacy towards Rebecca and appearing of the maltreatment he encountered from his receptive dad, which Hayward states does not "historicize the issue yet basically expels the reason for viciousness one stage". Laurie Stone of the "Town Voice" remarked that Howarth's execution directed Todd far from animation villainy, "increasing the character's ferocity as an avoid from wistfulness and nobility". Rather than slaughtering Todd off as other cleanser musical dramas had done to other unrepentant attackers, "OLTL" picked, as Stone put it, "to revamp the class: keeping up Todd as an attacker, while developing his human measurement". 

Stone tended to how the journalists kept Todd on the "OLTL" canvas, expressing, "Characters as risky as Todd go up on fire on cleansers. You can see little pine boxes on their eyelids, leaving just a single inquiry: in what manner will the savage get whacked?" Stone said that "Todd was this near being offed, however Howarth settled on that decision bizarre. Rampaging through anecdotal Llanview, he infused uncertainty into the bluntest exchange, his scoffs deflecting pessimism to uncover melancholy and humor" and "changed Todd into a spirit torqued Lucifer, his anger tore from maltreatment and washed in vindictive joy, his provocativeness ascending off his sense for survival and his bandit motivation to upset." She included, "Even the worn out scar he obtained on one cheek just uplifted his creature bid. No cleanser would cast off such gold and power—a figure at the same time angry, unexpected, despairing, and horny." 

The scholars utilized solid symbolism to reclaim Todd. Malone, who had been a writer and was known for his "Dickensian" plots on "OLTL", was affected by nineteenth-century writing. Malone revealed to Stone that he contrasted Rebecca's choice with wed Powell rather than Todd to Cathy's choice to wed Edgar Linton rather than Heathcliff in "Wuthering Heights". As indicated by Stone, Todd is a traditional character−"a cleanser character of phenomenal mental multifaceted nature, a being whose sentiments are characteristically blended and generally unresolvable". 

Hayward expressed that Malone and his group of journalists utilized four procedures drawn from the traditions of Victorian nostalgic fiction to reclaim Todd: his miserable adolescence with a detached yet minding mother and harsh dad; sending Todd to chapel to admit his past sins and present driving forces; his affection for Rebecca, "a guiltless and profoundly religious virgin"; and his companionship with two youngsters, C.J. what's more, Sarah Roberts. Hayward calls Rebecca, with her "surprised lack of involvement" and "pre-Raphaelite twists", "just about a personification of Dicken's increasingly nostalgic and less apt courageous women". She trusts that a significant number of Todd's scenes with Rebecca are intensely notorious, with emblematic portrayals of the Virgin Mary and Freudian pictures of Todd's own feminization. 

Hayward analyzes Todd to Mary Shelley's beast (Frankenstein's beast), particularly his kinship with C.J. what's more, Sarah. Shelley's beast watches two youngsters playing, and spares a young lady from suffocating. Essentially, Todd salvages C.J. what's more, Sarah's cousin, Jessica, from being mistreated by a more seasoned kid; this prompts him meeting C.J. what's more, Sarah. Like Shelley's beast, Todd watches the family's glad minutes from far off, and wishes to be a piece of their lives. He utilizes his time alone to make toys for the youngsters. When they inadvertently find him, he controls them into keeping his whereabouts a mystery by disclosing to them he is "a genie on the keep running from a malicious ace". Hayward stated, "The narratives he reveals to them work as clear analogies for his emotions about his dad." Stone included that Todd's directing sessions in jail were the essayists' endeavors to reclaim Todd, and both she and Hayward incorporate one of the last strategies the journalists utilized: Todd's salvage of Marty, Jessica and C.J. not long after a fender bender. Hayward calls the scholars' endeavors to utilize amazing account and visual procedures to recover Todd "questionable, best case scenario". 

Essayist Mary D. Dutta trusted that "OLTL", so as to "mollify the ethical apprehensions related with a thoughtful attacker", included "alleviating purposes behind Todd's sexual maltreatment of Marty"; to be specific, that he was assaulted at fourteen years old by his receptive dad, Peter Manning, however whether he was assaulted is debated. Dutta feels that the assault storyline summons a significant number of the assault legends that have showed up in writing since the eighteenth century, which incorporates "just trouble makers get assaulted," "ladies request it," and "ladies 'cry assault' just when they've been abandoned or have something to conceal". Dutta likewise incorporates the legend of the "improved rake", or "the attacker recovered by the lady who adores him, not exceptionally a similar lady he assaulted", which "deny or decrease apparent damage, or ... reprimand the unfortunate casualties for their own exploitation". Dutta states, "Todd's reclamation starts with his salvage of Marty and two youngsters from a fender bender and finishes with the disclosure that he is the legitimate beneficiary to a gigantic fortune." 

Todd's effect is shifted. The assault storyline enlivened women's activist investigations, and, in 1994, "OLTL" was granted a few Daytime Emmys recorded as a hard copy and representing every one of the standards included. Michael Malone and Josh Griffith's group won an Emmy for composing, Susan Haskell won an Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series, and Hillary B. Smith was granted the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Drama Series. Howarth won the Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Younger Actor in a Drama Series. In 1995, Howarth was designated for an Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series and "Cleanser Opera Digest" ("SOD") named him Outstanding Leading Actor. "Grass "additionally named him Outstanding Villain in 1998. While Howarth has been known as a "fan top choice, and a standout amongst the best performing artists in cleansers", Todd has been classified "one of the best characters ever" and Howarth's depiction of him has been designated "notorious". "The Hollywood Reporter" expressed that despite the fact that Todd was a sentenced attacker, he was the most well known character and Howarth was the most prominent on-screen character on "OLTL". As per Waggett, the assault storyline impelled Todd "onto the rundown of "OLTL" most abhorrent miscreants". He said that because of the storyline and to Howarth's ability, Todd "turned into the show's next focal point scalawag and in the end the show's male lead". Howarth showed up on a few meeting indicates following his Emmy win in 1994, including the "Phil Donahue Show" in May, with six other male cleanser stars, and soon thereafter, on "Live! with Regis and Kathie Lee". Host Regis Philbin remarked on the way that Howarth was getting more fan mail than some other American cleanser musical drama star, and called him "an awful reprobate, who's turned into a heartthrob to a large number of fiercely loving fans". "Television Guide" alluded to Todd as a breakout character. 

At the stature of Todd's fame, which was designated "Todd-insanity" and "the Todd Manning wonder", Howarth was exasperates that such a large number of ladies were pulled in to Todd and that the show's essayists had started to reclaim the character. In a September 1995 meeting with "The Hollywood Reporter", the distribution expressed that Howarth was agitated that "his awful character turned out to be such a fan top pick". In October 1995, Howarth told "Turf", "Individuals have come up to me and stated, 'My 7-year-old cherishes you.' What do I say to that? I'm not going to let them know, 'Don't let your 7-year-old sit in front of the TV.' But I need to state, it's exasperating." He offered credit to the show's scholars for Todd's prevalence, saying that the attackers' preliminary was very much developed and included, "I think, at this moment, we're simply riding the rush of something that began the previous summer. Past that, I don't generally realize why individuals like Todd". 

Todd's wild prominence barged in on Howarth's life. "It's truly beginning to disappoint me since I can't simply get down to business any longer," he said. He quit completing a ton of press meets after female fans shouted "Assault me, Todd" at fan occasions, and as a result of his conflict with Todd's reclamation circular segment. His comings-and-goings every now and then consistently, despite the fact that the job of Todd had been re-thrown with St. John, were welcomed with expectation, fervor, and hypothesis from the fans. At a certain point in 2000, Howarth returned for seven days, joined by huge pomp, so as to help with the takeoff of Florencia Lozano (Teá). Amid the ten years he was on the show, gossipy tidbits about his takeoffs were accounted for now and then week by week by the cleanser musical drama press. 

"Cleanser Opera Magazine" ascribed the accomplishment of Todd to Howarth's face and ability as an on-screen character. In February 1998, the magazine expressed, "Despite the fact that the scar that crosses his face while he plays Llanview's dull ruler isn't genuine, the threatening force Roger Howarth can so easily pass on with his eyes and wrinkled forehead are alarmingly legitimate." "Cleanser Opera Weekly" called his essence "mesmerizing" and expressed that his eyes handed-off his core interest. The magazine included that Howarth "has given Todd such a delectably terrifying edge we trust he unleashes more ruin in Llanview". Marla Hart of the "Chicago Tribune" expressed that "it has been an unforeseen delight to watch performer Roger Howarth as a lost soul looking for profound recovery". Hart hypothesized that the murkiness Howarth conveyed to the job made him intriguing to watch and was in charge of his Emmy win in 1994. 

St. John and the journalists got acclaim for the recast, and for effectively re-incorporating Todd into the show's canvas. "Cleanser Opera Weekly" expressed, "They said it wasn't possible. "One Life to Live's" Todd (recently played by Roger Howarth) couldn't be recast. Be that as it may, with an engaging performing artist and the correct pacing, "One Life to Live" may simply have done it". The magazine expressed that the essayists uncovered Todd's personality gradually, giving Walker a chance to create as a character before dropping clues that he may be Todd. When he uncovered who he truly was to his girl Starr, the group of onlookers had effectively speculated reality. "Cleanser Opera Weekly" called the uncover scene between St. John and Alderson, who played Starr, "one of those extraordinary (and, nowadays, uncommon) must-see minutes". "Cleanser Opera Digest" said that regardless of the recast, a troublesome circumstance all by itself, "St. John suitably recognized Walker, who's truly Todd, just as Flynn, who claimed to be Walker". The magazine expressed that St. John uncovered glints of Todd to the gathering of people: "We could see Todd when Walker brought down his eyes while keeping away from telling his sister, Viki; with fiancee Blair, Walker's look was continually moving, ensuring nothing could educate her to his mystery". The article likewise credited St. John with keeping up "the [uniquely scheming] relationship of Todd and Starr" and for keeping their scenes contacting and brilliant. 

On May 29, 2006, in what the cleanser musical drama segment of SheKnows depicted as "a standout amongst the most vital minutes" for "OLTL", and "amazing, harrowing, awful", St. John depicted Todd being executed for a wrongdoing he didn't submit. Finally, after the deadly infusion has been directed, John McBain surges in pronouncing Todd's blamelessness, with verification: the lady Todd is blamed for murdering (Margaret Cochran) is next to him, unmistakably still alive. Todd is restored soon a short time later. Amid the execution scene, a montage barely four minutes long was appeared while a melody played out of sight. The tune was designated "Spurned" (or "Todd's Song") and composed by Michal Towber particularly for the show. The montage included response shots of those seeing the execution, shots of Starr crying within the sight of a lynch horde outside the jail, and flashbacks of Todd's youngsters and of Blair amid both St. John and Howarth's residencies as Todd, with Howarth's face concealed. The scenes were classified "terrible" by watchers, and their reactions were differed. A significant part of the gathering of people was enraged by Blair's reluctance to trust that Todd was honest. Numerous watchers believed that Todd's demise was changeless; "Cleanser Opera Digest" theorized this was because of restricted Internet get to or to an absence of enthusiasm for spoilers. 

In spite of the fact that fans and St. John's collaborators felt that he merited an Emmy designation for his death row exhibitions, he didn't get one, yet "OLTL" got an assignment for Outstanding Drama Series by presenting the scene. One cleanser musical show site reprimanded St. John's Emmy censure, expressing that it was indiscernible that the show's Best Show designation was expected in substantial part to St. John's execution. Cleanser musical drama observers Nelson Branco and Michael Fairman called St. John's execution exhibitions the best on any daytime show in the mid 2000s. Towber and different authors for the show were designated for Outstanding Achievement in Music Direction and Composition for a Drama Series. 

In spite of the fact that the assault storyline was generally welcomed, it was additionally scrutinized. Jennifer Hayward, in her abstract investigation of the assault and its likeness to nineteenth century drama, expressed that this storyline not just energized "the hole among attackers and the assaulted yet in addition the figure of the attacker himself", and that demanding "the 'basic' goodness" of Powell Lord inferred that peer weight "could be a sufficient (or even physiologically conceivable) pardon for assault". Researcher Mary Buhl Dutta, contending that the storyline propagated assault legends, remarked on how the arrangement particularly utilized Marty, who satisfied the generalization of "the miscreant" who was the assault injured individual. Dutta expressed that "Marty had once 'cried assault when the Rev. Andrew Carpenter "repelled her sentimental suggestions, dishonestly blaming him for explicitly manhandling a kid he was advising". After she was really assaulted, she erroneously yet accidentally charges Kevin Buchanan, who was guiltless. Marty, as per Dutta, "is a 'miscreant' since she had a one-night remain with Todd before the assault, reinforcing his later case she 'requested it' in their second sexual experience". 

Commentators have asked why Todd is mainstream. Cleanser musical drama writer Marlena De Lacroix, who recognized that she neither preferred nor got Todd, communicated her powerlessness to comprehend his prominence among such huge numbers of fans, notwithstanding amid his few breaks from the show. She asked, "Why has the show given long periods of storyline time to him and everything except made a legend out of a criminal?" Hayward, who said that her own reaction to Todd's reclamation was irresolute, called the essayists' endeavor to reclaim Todd dubious and expressed that the job of Rebecca, the lady the scholars combined Todd with amid the recovery procedure, "appears to empower both female and male dreams about the intensity of a 'decent lady' to spare a man from his very own fierce driving forces". In his book "See the Man", Edisol Dotson recommended that watchers acknowledged Todd's recovery since he was physically alluring. Dotson expressed, "Were Todd an appalling man, he would have never been excused, and female fans would not swarm the studio's indirect access yelling his name." 

Cleanser musical show observer Jenn Bishop said she thought that it was hard to clarify Todd's prominence, and that in the event that she is confounded about her sentiments in regards to him, it is justifiable that others would be also. "If I somehow managed to give a surface dimension evaluation of Todd, I'd state he's a loathsome character with practically zero saving graces," she said. "His activities, which range from the unethical to criminal, can be out and out offensive. I wouldn't have any desire to know Todd, not to mention associate with him, in actuality. Nor would I need any lady to have any kind of association with him." Instead of considering Todd to be a wannabe, she considered him to be a greater amount of "an enemy of screw-up" and expressed that what added to his intrigue was that his assault storyline was bona fide. "While Todd isn't the first (or the last) cleanser character to have carried out this wrongdoing, the realness of this specific storyline didn't leave a ton of space for modifies," Bishop remarked. "For instance, Luke's assault of Laura on "General Hospital" was reworked and for quite a long time was alluded to as a 'temptation.' There was no 'hazy area'. This current [Todd's assault of Marty] couldn't be expelled as basically the conduct of a sentimental maverick." To Bishop, the final product of this viewpoint, and that the essayists had Todd by and large pay for his violations, "was the advancement of a dynamic, eccentric, multi-faceted character with numerous qualities that contention with each other" and "[a]ll this makes for one destroyed person, interesting to the watchers and one I can't resist the urge to like". 

Hayward ordered the composition group engaged with Todd's reclamation as "a generally high number of male scholars", and as a bizarre circumstance on the grounds that, verifiably, most cleanser musical drama journalists have been ladies. In a June 1994 meeting with "television Guide", in an article about the pattern amid the mid 1990s of recovered attackers on cleanser musical shows, head author Malone remarked that "[t]he bond between the lady and the violator is an incredible recorded custom in fiction and films," and said that Rudolph Valentino, Humphrey Bogart, Kirk Douglas, and Clark Gable "all started as absolutely irredeemable miscreants." Although he didn't imagine that most ladies need to be assaulted or are attracted to viciousness, he said that watchers "are reacting to the power of enthusiasm and an on-screen character who lets you inside the torment. Some [women] trust they can be cleared up in that energy and still turn it great. They think, 'With me, he'd be extraordinary. The writer of the article, Michael Logan, bolstered Malone's announcements, and remarked, "We should consider a spade a spade. There is an expansive unforeseen of American female cleanser watchers who discover something appealing about attackers". Hayward detailed that numerous female watchers were angry that Logan had depicted them along these lines, and expressed that their fascination in Todd was because of the aptitude of the on-screen character depicting him. 

Howarth said he wanted to depict a recovered Todd, and that the show would be in an ideal situation finding "a Todd who won't article to the material." He consequently left the arrangement for a year. In the October 24, 1995 "Cleanser Opera Digest" issue, he stated:In the starting, the character of Todd was fruitful. I'll generally be pleased with this story, since it was the consequence of a genuine collaboration. It was one of those terrific occasions when the essayist, maker, chief, grasps, designers and on-screen characters were all on a similar wavelength. Everyone was progressing in the direction of a shared objective. My assignment, at the time, was to demonstrate the humankind of somebody who was fundamentally barbaric. Todd wasn't one-dimensional, yet he was certainly a genuine maniac. Todd was a sequential attacker. He assaulted Carol Swift. At that point, he assaulted Marty Saybrooke, and that assault was severe, serious, fierce and reasonable. There were allusions he had assaulted other ladies previously. He stalked Nora, he stalked and attempted to assault Luna. [Then-Executive Producer] Linda Gottlieb let me know with sensible sureness that ["One Life to Live"] would not endeavor to reclaim Todd. Along these lines, I didn't figure the character would change. At that point about a year back, it turned out to be obvious to me they were taking the character on an alternate way—they were reclaiming him. In my brain, I'd been procured to play Todd Manning, an extremely sensible, genuine insane person. However at this point, the forces that-be needed me to play Todd Lord. What's more, the narrative of Todd Lord isn't reasonable—it's a fantasy. I figured, "It would be best for the show if I somehow happened to leave." That's the point at which I offered my renunciation. 

Howarth likewise expressed that Todd and Marty all of a sudden holding, regardless of whether reluctantly, did not bode well and that he proved unable, in great heart, bolster Todd's recovery by proceeding to play him as Todd Lord, who had turned into an amiable character. Since the assault was, as he called it, "so top to bottom thus ruthless", he saw Todd and Marty accomplishing something like having drinks with one another unusual. "Diversion Weekly" revealed that "One Life to Live" consented to let Howarth go on the condition he would not show up on another cleanser musical drama for a year. "Indy Week" stated, "Todd was mostly reclaimed into a reckless wannabe who stayed mainstream until the show's end, yet his portrayer and numerous commentators were careful about making them turned into a sentimental lead." 

In 2002, as a major aspect of ABC's push to sell stock from its cleanser musical dramas, the system started selling a doll in Todd's resemblance on its site, however were foiled by a backfire. Displayed after animation renditions of the Manning family that Starr would in some cases envision, the doll sold for $19.95. As indicated by the portrayal on the site, it was "an all-fabric doll with darker felt hair and blue eyes. He is 20 inches standing. He wears a blue shirt and dark jeans". The doll's face additionally incorporated Todd's scar. Despite the fact that quite a long while had gone since the assault and Todd had "since settled down", and had turned into a progressively thoughtful character, assault injured individual backer gatherings believed that selling the doll celebrated rape; so ABC expelled the doll from its online store. Photos of the doll were pulled from the Internet and the doll was hindered from being accessible at eBay or some other online store. 

The debate started when the business bulletin "The Jack Myers Report" brutally scrutinized ABC for selling the doll, and different news outlets revealed the disaster. Sway Tedeschi of "The New York Times" expressed, "In the charge toward online business incomes, ABC took in a valuable exercise a week ago: Don't endeavor to sell cuddly cloth dolls delineating maniacal attackers". Angela Shapiro, leader of ABC, stated, "I was inhumane and assume all out liability for it. I should have been touchy to the historical backdrop of the character and I wasn't". Another ABC official expressed, "We didn't practice legitimate affectability to the historical backdrop of the character of Todd. We have reconsidered and chosen not to sell the doll". A doll of Todd's little girl, Starr, stayed in ABC stores. Richard Roeper of the "Chicago Sun-Times" remarked, "I guess ABC didn't have a lot of a decision yet to pull the item - however I need to ponder about the general population who voiced those dissents." He included, "It was a moronic SOCK DOLL dependent on a SOAP OPERA CHARACTER. In case you're affronted by that, how would you get past the day without surrendering to attacks of crazy shock at regular intervals?" 

At the point when Todd was recast with St. John after Howarth's takeoff, numerous fans felt that like the jobs of Luke Spencer (Anthony Geary) on "General Hospital" and Erica Kane (Susan Lucci) on "Every one of My Children", Todd ought to be depicted just by the performing artist who had begun the job. As "Cleanser Opera Digest" put it, "Few recasts caused more turmoil". "Cleanser Opera Digest" likewise expressed that while there were fans who "will just consider Howarth to be their dearest Todd", St. John prevailed upon numerous fans by putting a lighter turn on the character. "Cleanser Opera Weekly" expressed that they were "ready for St. John". "Cleanser Opera Digest" concurred, remarking that St. John made the change authentic while adding new features to the character. The magazine likewise expressed that Todd's new appearance supported in his proceeding with reclamation. Cleanser musical drama feature writer Jill Berry communicated her endorsement for the recast, expressing, "Trevor's Todd keeps on inspiring me. He has given some sweetness to Todd that I find absolutely engaging". 

In late 2006, St. John and Howarth all the while started contract arrangements with their individual shows, which caused gossipy tidbits that St. John was withdrawing from "OLTL", leaving space for Howarth, who was with the cleanser musical show "As the World Turns" at the time, to return as Todd. "Television Guide" tried to clear up the issue and addressed official maker Frank Valentini, who expressed that despite the fact that he was not ready to remark on contracts, the makers were "doing our best to ensure that we do well by the group of onlookers". In 2007, "television Guide" got official affirmation Howarth would not be coming back to the arrangement. The magazine gathered information on its site, TV Guide.com, and found that 82 percent of the show's watchers needed to see Howarth return. Daniel R. Coleridge of TV Guide.com couldn't help contradicting the outcomes, expressing, "Maybe I'm in the minority, however I totally worship Trevor St. John", whose depiction of Todd he found "presumptuous, pompous and silly provocatively". 

In 2009, after the declaration that "As the World Turns" would be dropped in 2010, bits of gossip that Howarth would come back to "OLTL" recovered energy. The bits of gossip were additionally powered by an August 2010 scene of "OLTL," in which Howarth's image was appeared and an incoherent Téa expressed that the present Todd (St. John) was not Todd Manning. This brought about what Dan Kroll of the site Soap Opera Central.com portrayed as fans "rac[ing] to their PCs to make sense of the significance of the scene". Kroll conjectured that the scene was "made simply to get fans talking, or was it an insight to watchers something significant was waiting to be addressed?" Soap Opera Network, refering to anonymous sources and indicating the 2010 scene, provided details regarding their site that they had "adapted only Howarth [would] to be sure be returning" to the arrangement sooner rather than later. "Cleanser Opera Digest" journalist Carolyn Hinsey expelled the report, expressing on her Facebook page, "Genuinely, stop with the Howarth falsehood here please. He isn't returning to "OLTL." Case shut." Some fans were persuaded that St. John's character was an impostor, while others were not; despite the fact that Howarth in the end returned as Todd in 2011, his arrival was at first went with fan banter in regards to what job he would play, Todd Manning or another character. 

As indicated by Nelson Branco of "television Guide", "OLTL" disclosed "probably the most hazardous and ugliest scenes ever communicated on daytime" TV in March 2008 when Todd beat up young person Cole Thornhart (his little girl's sweetheart and Marty's child), and slapped Starr and Cole's companions Markko Rivera and Langston Wilde. Todd bursts in on Starr and Cole in bed together out of the blue, hopping to the end that Cole had assaulted her, "and [beats] the child of his assault unfortunate casualty tenaciously". Something like one cleanser musical drama blogger was insulted, and needed Todd to be rebuffed. 

As Branco would like to think, head author Ron Carlivati needed to utilize the storyline to return Todd to his dim roots by appearing as a beast once more, expressing, "Carlivati accomplished something one of a kind, striking and dangerous with one of his marquee characters", exhibiting Todd's harmed identity and raising doubt about his psychological steadiness. Carlivati said that Todd was persuaded that Starr's supposed assault was karmic recompense, notwithstanding when Starr demanded that she had not been assaulted. Branco proposed that Todd's decision and solid response to seeing the two in bed together was Todd's powerlessness to isolate sex from savagery, expressing, "Todd, in that example, ended up unhinged, neurotic, and crazy". Todd was trying to claim ignorance, and even nearly hit Starr twice when she tested his convictions. The scenes were applauded as "arresting". Cleanser writer Marlena De Lacroix, a self-portrayed "Todd hater" who felt that the character was insane, communicated trust that they were "the start of a storyline that will dig into Todd's psyche and illuminate watchers with regards to the complexities of a character who is rationally sick". De Lacroix stressed that despite the fact that the storyline could be paramount, it could be another approach to fabricate compassion toward Todd. 

Choosing to return to the assault storyline in 2007, Carlivati composed a story in which Marty is tossed from a van amid a fender bender soon thereafter. The van detonates, and she is assumed dead. In June 2008, Todd finds her alive, and finds that she is harassed with amnesia and has been disabled since the accident. He begins to nurture her back to wellbeing, misleading her about her character and her significance to her loved ones, and he begins to create sentimental affections for her. ABC advanced the storyline via airing promotions that called it, "The story you thought you'd never observe". Carlivati safeguarded the storyline by guaranteeing the crowd, who was worried about and opposed the storyline, that it would not have been composed if Marty had not lost her recollections. He expressed that he knew about how genuine it was matching the characters impractically, yet did not feel like they were harming Marty's character. Carlivati was focused on having the storyline advance gradually, and to utilizing the performing artists' and characters' science. Inevitably, Todd and Marty engage in sexual relations; Todd demands that he has dependably been enamored with Marty and plots to take his girl's child (who is likewise Marty's grandkid), keep running off with Marty and the infant, and raise the infant with her. 

As indicated by Branco, the show's past composition groups had proposed making a Marty and Todd romantic tale, however it never occurred, generally in light of the fact that Haskell and Howarth had wouldn't partake. As Branco would like to think, the push toward the storyline was the reason Howarth in the long run left "OLTL" for "As the World Turns". On the other hand, at a fan assembling in 2008, St. John kidded about Todd and Marty holding amid the Carlivati storyline, expressing, "I'm in support of assault." He later issued a statement of regret for the remark: "I should know not to ever attempt and poke a fun at such a genuine subject. I proposed no disre[s]pect and apologize to anybody I affronted." 

De Lacroix discovered Carlivati's storyline "disturbing", expressing that it was exploitative, sexist, offending to the crowd, and "the most fake, moronically created story I have ever observed". She additionally felt that it was a serious misjustice to the first storyline. Fans who were against the storyline called it "the re-assault", and ABC disclosed open administration declarations (PSAs) amid the Todd and Marty intimate moment for their watchers. Berry bolstered ABC's utilization of the PSAs, yet felt that they were utilized to legitimize the storyline and expressed that it would have been exceptional to not have introduced it in any case. Lynn Parrish, a representative for Rape, Abuse and Incest National Network (RAINN), which was not counseled by the show's scholars, revolted against the "re-assault" storyline. She delineated for Branco, "There is nothing sentimental about assault", and that "whoever composes a sentiment between an attacker and its unfortunate casualty under any conditions plainly doesn't comprehend assault nor viciousness—and most likely shouldn't expound on it". 

Branco called the first assault storyline "the best quality level of assault stories," and expressed that Carlivati had transformed it into a cleanser musical show buzzword. Carlivati's expansion to the characters' chronicles left him feeling double-crossed, hurt, discouraged, furious, offended, and sickened, and he said that he had squandered right around 20 years putting resources into and having confidence in the first assault storyline. At the "re-assault" storyline's decision, Branco expressed that the result merited the strained minutes. "Anyway indecent or corrupted the least secure storyline in late memory was," he stated, "the aftermath has been incredibly arresting—on account of the way that head essayist Ron Carlivati is playing all the mental beats of Todd's self-serving and criminal activities." Branco likewise offered credit to St. John. "Designated for a 2009 Soap Opera Spirit Award as exceptional lead performer, St. John inarguably confronted the most testing task of any on-screen character in 2008—in any classification," said Branco. "But then, some way or another, St. John made it work. In a lesser on-screen character's hands, the storyline definitely would have brought about vocation suicide for all included."