Nine Inch Nails 

Nine Inch Nails, normally abridged as NIN (adapted as NIИ), is an American modern musical crew that was shaped in Cleveland, Ohio in 1988. The band comprises of maker and multi-instrumentalist Trent Reznor, just as English performer Atticus Ross. Through the span of their three-decade presence, the band has marked with a few noteworthy names, the most current being Capitol Records, under the name The Null Corporation. 

The starting points of the band go back to 1988, while Reznor was utilized as a janitor at a studio in Cleveland. Using off-hour sessions, Reznor recorded and discharged the band's presentation collection, the synth-pop arranged "Lovely Hate Machine" (1989), under TVT Records to minor achievement. In any case, Reznor fought with the name about advancement. While endeavoring to end his agreement, Reznor marked with Interscope Records and discharged the all-encompassing play "Broken" (1992), a discharge that wandered fundamentally from the sound of their introduction. Their second and third collections, "The Downward Spiral" (1994) and "The Fragile" (1999), were discharged to basic recognition and business achievement, bringing the band gigantic prevalence, before going on break. The band continued visiting in 2005 and discharged their fourth collection, "With Teeth" (2005), to facilitate achievement. Following the arrival of their fifth collection, "Year Zero" (2007), Reznor left Interscope over a question of physical duplicates of the collection. The band kept visiting and freely discharged their 6th and seventh collections, "Phantoms I-IV" (2008) and "The Slip" (2008), preceding going on rest a second time. Returning in 2013, the band discharged their eighth collection, "Dithering Marks" (2013), under Columbia Records, trailed by a set of three of discharges spreading over from 2016-2018, including the EPs "Not The Actual Events" (2016) and "Include Violence" (2017), just as their ninth collection, "Terrible Witch" (2018). 

Before 2016, Reznor was viewed as the main steady part and inventive power of the band, going about as its originator, lead vocalist, maker, and multi-instrumentalist. In December 2016, English artist Atticus Ross, a continuous associate with Reznor, was presented as a changeless individual from Nine Inch Nails. Moreover, Reznor regularly collects a live band to perform with him in front of an audience. The visiting band has contained a few lineups through the span of three decades, the current of which is made out of Robin Finck, Alessandro Cortini, and Ilan Rubin. Their visits regularly utilize topical visual components to go with in front of an audience exhibitions, which every now and again incorporate expound light shows, and tunes are frequently revamped to fit a live setting. 

Notwithstanding offers of more than 20 million records around the world, Nine Inch Nails have been named for thirteen Grammy Awards, winning twice for the melodies "Wish" and "Satisfaction in Slavery" in 1992 and 1996, individually. In 1997, Reznor showed up in "Time" magazine's rundown of the year's most powerful individuals, and "Turn" magazine has depicted him as "the most fundamental craftsman in music". In 2004, "Moving Stone" put Nine Inch Nails at 94 on the magazine's rundown of the 100 biggest specialists ever. Nine Inch Nails was named as a chosen one for acceptance into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2014, its first year of qualification. The band was assigned again the next year, however was not drafted. 

In 1987, Trent Reznor played console in a Cleveland, Ohio band called the Exotic Birds, at that point overseen by John Malm Jr. Reznor and Malm progressed toward becoming companions, and when Reznor left the Exotic Birds to take a shot at music of his own, Malm casually turned into his supervisor. At the time, Reznor was utilized as an associate designer and janitor at Right Track Studios, in Cleveland; he approached studio proprietor Bart Koster for consent to record his very own few demos material for nothing amid unused studio time. Koster concurred and permitted Reznor to utilize it at whatever point it was vacant, remarking that it cost him "only a little wear on [his] tape heads". While finishing the early accounts, Reznor was unfit to discover a band that could express the material as he wanted. Rather, propelled by Prince, Reznor played every one of the instruments, aside from drums, himself. This job remains Reznor's on the majority of the band's studio chronicles, however he has at times included different performers and aides. Nine Inch Nails' presentation was at the Phantasy Theater in Lakewood, Ohio on October 21, 1988 as a major aspect of the Pretty Hate Machine Tour Series. In 1988, in the wake of playing its first shows supporting Skinny Puppy, Reznor's aspiration for Nine Inch Nails was to discharge one 12-inch single on a little European name. A few marks reacted positively to the demo material and Reznor marked with TVT Records. Nine choices from the Right Track demos recorded live in November 1988, on the whole known as "Most flawless Feeling", were later discharged in overhauled structure on the band's first full-length studio discharge, "Beautiful Hate Machine" (1989). The general sound on "Most perfect Feeling" is lighter than that of "Beautiful Hate Machine"; a few tunes contain all the more live drumming and guitar work all through, just as a heavier utilization of tests from movies. 

Reznor instituted the name "Nine Inch Nails" since it "truncated effectively", as opposed to for "any strict importance". Other reputed clarifications have coursed, charging that Reznor referenced Jesus' execution with nine-inch spikes, or Freddy Krueger's nine-inch fingernails. The English letters NIN are likewise noted for their likeness to the advanced Hebrew characters of the Tetragrammaton. The Nine Inch Nails' logo, which comprises of the letters [NIИ] set inside an outskirt, was structured by Reznor and Gary Talpas, and first showed up on the music video for Nine Inch Nails' introduction single, "Down in It", and was propelled by Tibor Kalman's typography on the Talking Heads collection "Stay in Light". Talpas, a local of Cleveland, would keep on planning Nine Inch Nails bundling craftsmanship until 1997. 

Composed, organized, and performed by Reznor, Nine Inch Nails' first collection "Lovely Hate Machine" appeared in 1989. It denoted his first joint effort with Adrian Sherwood (who delivered the lead single "Down in It" in London without meeting Reznor up close and personal) and Mark "Flood" Ellis. Reznor asked Sean Beavan to blend the demos of "Beautiful Hate Machine", which had gotten numerous ideas for record bargains. He blended sound amid Nine Inch Nails' live shows for quite a long while, in the end turning into an informal individual from the live band and singing live reinforcement vocals from his place at the blending console. Flood's generation would show up on each real Nine Inch Nails discharge until 1994, and Sherwood has made remixes for the band as of late as 2000. Reznor and his co-makers developed the Right Track Studio demos by including singles "Head Like a Hole" and "Sin". "Moving Stone's" Michael Azerrad portrayed the collection as "mechanical quality commotion over a pop system" and "nerve racking yet infectious music"; Reznor broadcasted this blend "an earnest proclamation" of "what was in [his] head at the time". Actually, the tune "Down in It" went through more than two months on "Bulletin" club-play move outline. In the wake of going through 113 weeks on the "Announcement" 200, "Beautiful Hate Machine" wound up one of the main autonomously discharged records to accomplish platinum accreditation. 

Three music recordings were made in advancement of the collection. MTV circulated the recordings for "Down in It" and "Head Like a Hole", however an express video for "Transgression" was just discharged in fractional structure for "Conclusion". The first form of the "Down in It" video finished with the suggestion that Reznor's character had tumbled off a structure and kicked the bucket in the road. This recording pulled in the consideration of the FBI. As Reznor clarifies in a meeting with "Spasm Magazine": 

There was a scene w[h]ere I was lying on the ground, seeming, by all accounts, to be dead, in a "Guest"- esque posture and we had a camera with a major climate swell topped with helium snared off to it ... the first we did, we began the film, I was laying on the ground and the ropes that were holding the inflatable snapped, the camera just took off into the atmosphere ... the camera landed two hundred miles away in a rancher's field some place. He discovers it and takes it to the police, imagining that it's an observation camera for maryjane, they build up the film and feel that it's a type of snuff film of a homicide, offer it to the FBI and have pathologists taking a gander at the body saying, 'better believe it, he's spoiling,' (I had corn starch on me, right) 'he's been breaking down for 3 weeks.' You could see different individuals from the band leaving and they had these peculiar outfits on, and they thought it was some sort of group killing. 

In 1989, while doing advancement for the collection, the band individuals were asked what demonstrates they might want to show up on. They playfully answered (conceivably while inebriated) that they might want to show up on "Move Party USA", since it was the most ludicrous choice they could consider at the time. A lot amazingly, they were set up for the show, and showed up. 

In 1990, Nine Inch Nails started the "Pretty Hate Machine Tour Series", in which it visited North America as an opening represent elective shake craftsmen, for example, Peter Murphy and The Jesus and Mary Chain. Reznor started crushing his gear while in front of an audience; "Rockbeat" questioner Mike Gitter credited the live band's initial accomplishment before shake situated groups of onlookers to this forceful frame of mind. Nine Inch Nails at that point set out on a world visit that proceeded through the first Lollapalooza celebration in 1991. 

After a poor European gathering opening for Guns N' Roses, the band came back to America in the midst of weight from TVT to deliver a follow-up to "Beautiful Hate Machine". In the wake of discovering they were thwarting control of his task, Reznor censured the marking of Nine Inch Nails as a financially arranged band and requested his name end his agreement, however they disregarded his supplication. Accordingly, Reznor covertly started chronicle under different pen names evade record organization obstruction. Associated with a fight with TVT, he marked a record manage Interscope Records and made Nothing Records: 

We made it clear we were not doing another record for TVT. However, they made it entirely clear they weren't prepared to sell. So I felt like, well, I've at last got this thing moving yet it's dead. Flood and I needed to record "Broken" under an alternate band name, in such a case that TVT discovered we were recording, they could reallocate all our poo and discharge it. Jimmy Iovine engaged with Interscope, and we sort of got slave-exchanged. It wasn't my doing. I knew nothing about Interscope. Furthermore, I was genuine annoyed at him at first since it was going from one terrible circumstance to possibly another. Be that as it may, Interscope went into it like they truly needed to realize what I needed. It was great, after I put my raving maniac follow up on. 

In 1992, Nine Inch Nails moved to 10050 Cielo Drive, Benedict Canyon, Los Angeles (renamed "Le Pig" by Reznor), the site of the Tate murders, when Charles Manson's "family" killed Sharon Tate, spouse of noted movie executive Roman Polanski, and four of her companions. The band utilized it to record "Broken", an all-inclusive play (EP) that was the initial Nine Inch Nails discharge dispersed by Interscope Records and achieved the best 10 on the "Announcement" 200. In the liner notes, Reznor credited the 1991 Nine Inch Nails visiting band as an impact on the EP's sound. He portrayed "Broken" as a guitar-based "impact of decimation", and as "a great deal harder ... than "Beautiful Hate Machine"". The motivation for the harder sound originated from the manner in which the live band played amid shows, for example, Lollapalooza. Melodies from "Broken" earned Nine Inch Nails two Grammy Awards: an execution of the EP's first single "Joy in Slavery" from Woodstock '94, and the second single "Wish". In reference to accepting the Grammy Award for Best Metal Performance for "Wish", Reznor clowned that "Wish" turned into "the main melody to win a Grammy that says 'clench hand fuck' in the verses." Against visiting of the fresh out of the plastic new material, Reznor started living and recording full-time at Le Pig, taking a shot at a subsequent free of limitations from his record name. 

Diminish Christopherson of the groups Coil and Throbbing Gristle coordinated an act video for "Wish", yet the EP's most dubious video went with "Joy in Slavery". The video was all around prohibited for its realistic delineation of execution craftsman Bob Flanagan uncovered and lying on a machine that delights, torments, at that point slaughters him. A third video for "Pinion", somewhat consolidated into MTV's "Elective Nation" opening succession, demonstrated a latrine that obviously flushes into the mouth of an individual in servitude. Reznor and Christopherson assembled the three clasps alongside film for "Help Me I Am in Hell" and "Surrendered" into a longform music video titled "Broken". It portrays the homicide of a young fellow who is grabbed and tormented while compelled to watch the recordings. This recording was never authoritatively discharged, yet rather showed up secretively among tape exchanging circles. A different exhibition video for "Surrendered" including Richard Patrick and Marilyn Manson was shot at Le Pig. A live chronicle of "Wish" was likewise shot, and the two recordings showed up in "Conclusion". 

"Broken" was trailed by the sidekick remix EP "Fixed" in late 1992. The main track that was left off the last form of the discharge is the remix of "Last", delivered by Butch Vig (the outro of the "Last" remix is heard in "Discard This", which additionally incorporates Reznor's remix of "Suck"). The unedited variant showed up on the web as a 8-bit mono 11 kHz record, "NIN_LAST.AIFF", accessible by FTP from cyberden.com in 1993; it has been expelled from the site, yet can in any case be found on p2p systems (Reznor consequently made it accessible in higher quality (256kbit/s mp3) at remix.nin.com). Vig later talked about his remix while responding to inquiries on a music generation discussion, saying "I began recording a ton of new parts, and took it a very different way. When it was done, Trent figured the front piece of the blend didn't fit the EP, so he simply utilized the closure. I'm happy it's on his site. Duke and Steve worked with me on the remix, in the all around beginning of Garbage." 

Early thoughts for "The Downward Spiral" were considered after the Lollapalooza 1991 celebration shows finished in September of that year. Reznor built up an idea about the collection's subjects and later utilized it as verses. He hunt down and moved to 10050 Cielo Drive, leasing it for $11,000 every month from July 4, 1992, denoting the start of the creation of both "Broken" and "The Downward Spiral". This was against his underlying decision to record the collection in New Orleans. 

Nine Inch Nails' second studio collection, "The Downward Spiral", entered the "Board" 200 at number two, and remains the most astounding selling Nine Inch Nails discharge in the United States for shipments of more than four million duplicates, notwithstanding selling five million duplicates around the world. Impacted by late-1970s works by Pink Floyd and David Bowie, "The Downward Spiral" incorporates a wide scope of surfaces and dispositions to represent the psychological advancement of a focal character. Flood co-delivered a few tracks on the collection, while Alan Molder blended a large portion of the collection and therefore took on increasingly broad creation obligations for future collection discharges. Reznor welcomed Sean Beavan to take a shot at "The Downward Spiral". In the wake of adding to remixes of Nine Inch Nails tunes, for example, "Closer", Beavan blended and co-delivered Marilyn Manson's "Antichrist Superstar" in 1996. Just as "Broken", "The Downward Spiral" was recorded at Le Pig Studios. "Walk of the Pigs" and "Closer" were discharged as singles. Two different melodies from the collection, "Hurt" and "Piggy", were issued to radio without a business single discharge. 

The music video for "Closer" was coordinated by Mark Romanek and got visit turn on MTV, however the system vigorously edited the first form, which they saw to be excessively realistic. The video demonstrates occasions in a lab managing religion, sexuality, creature savagery, legislative issues, and dread; questionable symbolism incorporated a naked uncovered lady with a cross veil, a monkey attached to a cross, a pig's head turning on some kind of machine, a chart of a vulva, Reznor wearing a S&M cover while swinging in shackles, and of him wearing a ball choke. A radio alter that mostly quiets the melody's unequivocal verses additionally gotten broad broadcast appointment. 

Basic reaction to "The Downward Spiral" has commonly been great, and review surveys see it as a standout amongst the most vital collections of the 1990s. It was incorporated into a few productions' best collection records: in 2005 the collection was positioned 25th in "Turn's" rundown of the "100 Greatest Albums, 1985– 2005", and in 2003 "Moving Stone" positioned the collection number 200 on their "The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time" list. "Blender" named it the 80th "Most noteworthy American Album". It was positioned No. 488 in the book "The Top 500 Heavy Metal Albums of All Time" by Martin Popoff. In 2001 "Q" named "The Downward Spiral" as one of the "50 Heaviest Albums of All Time"; in 2010 the collection was positioned No. 102 on their "250 Best Albums of Q's Lifetime (1986– 2011)" list. After "The Downward Spiral"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> discharge, Reznor created a going with remix collection entitled "Further Down the Spiral", the main non-significant Nine Inch Nails discharge to be guaranteed gold in the United States and among the smash hit remix collections ever. It contained commitments from Coil with Danny Hyde, electronic performer Aphex Twin, maker Rick Rubin, and Jane's Addiction guitarist Dave Navarro, among others. 

After the 1994 arrival of "The Downward Spiral", the live band set out on the Self Destruct Tour in help of the collection. The stage set-up contained messy blinds which would be pulled down and up for visuals appeared amid melodies, for example, "Hurt". The visit appeared the band's grungy and chaotic picture in which the individuals would turn out in worn out garments slathered in corn starch. The shows were rough and turbulent, with band individuals regularly harming themselves, and they would often devastate their instruments toward the finish of shows, assault one another, and organize jump into the group. The visit achieved its most extensive standard gathering of people with a mud-doused exhibition at Woodstock '94 that was communicated on Pay-Per-View and seen in the same number of as 24 million homes. Nine Inch Nails got impressive standard achievement from there on, performing with essentially higher generation esteems and adding showy visual components to the live show. Supporting represents the visit incorporated The Jim Rose Circus and Marilyn Manson. Discharged in 1997, the "Conclusion" video archived features from the visit, including full live recordings of "Eraser", "Hurt" and a one-take "Walk of the Pigs" cut coordinated by Peter Christoperson. Around this time, Reznor's studio compulsiveness, battles with dependence, and episodes of an inability to write delayed the creation of "The Fragile". 

Five years slipped by between "The Downward Spiral" and Nine Inch Nails' next studio collection, "The Fragile", which landed as a twofold collection in September 1999. "The Fragile" was brought about by making "songwriting and masterminding and generation and sound design ... something very similar. A melody would begin with a drum circle or a visual and in the long run a tune would rise out of it and that was the tune." Canadian shake maker Bob Ezrin was counseled on the collection's track posting; the liner notes express that he "gave last congruity and stream." 

On the impact points of the band's past victories, media expectation encompassed "The Fragile" over a year prior to its discharge, when it was at that point depicted as "oft-postponed". The collection appeared at number one on the "Announcement" 200, selling 228,000 duplicates in its first week and getting commonly positive audits. "Turn" hailed "The Fragile" as the "collection of the year," though Pitchfork Media panned its "exaggerated" verses. Nine Inch Nails discharged three business singles from the collection in various domains: "The Day the World Went Away" in North America; "We're in This Together" in the EU and Japan (on three separate plates); and "Into the Void" in Australia. A few melodies from the collection ended up regulars on elective shake radio stations, anyway the collection dropped to number 16 and slipped out of the "Board" Top 10 just seven days after its discharge, bringing about the band setting a record for the greatest drop from number one, which has since been broken. Reznor supported the resulting North American visit out of his own pocket. 

Prior to the collection's discharge, the tune "Starfuckers, Inc." incited media hypothesis about whom Reznor had expected its astringent verses to mock. Cinesexuality pundit Patricia MacCormack translates the tune as a "scorching assault on the elective music scene," especially Reznor's previous companion and protégé Marilyn Manson. The two craftsmen set aside their disparities when Manson showed up in the melody's music video, retitled "Starsuckers, Inc." and performed in front of an audience with Nine Inch Nails at Madison Square Garden in 2000. 

Reznor pursued "The Fragile" with another remix collection, "Things Falling Apart", discharged in November 2000 to poor surveys, a couple of months after the 2000 "Delicacy" visit which itself was recorded and discharged on CD, DVD, and VHS in 2002 as "And All That Could Have Been". A fancy release of the live CD accompanied the sidekick plate "As yet", containing stripped-down variants of melodies from the Nine Inch Nails list alongside a few new bits of music. 

Amid the "Delicacy 2.0" visit, Reznor endured a heroin overdose in London in June 2000, compelling a gig which was to be played that night to be dropped. The episode pushed Reznor into entering recovery, putting Nine Inch Nails on hold while he endeavored to wind up calm. 

In 2002, Johnny Cash secured the Nine Inch Nails' "Hurt" for his collection, "", to basic recognition. In the wake of seeing the music video, which later won a Grammy, Reznor himself turned into a fanatic of the interpretation: 

I pop the video in, and wow ... Tears welling, quiet, goose-bumps ... Stunning. [I felt like] I simply lost my sweetheart, since that melody isn't mine anymore ... It truly made me consider how ground-breaking music is as a medium and artistic expression. I thought of certain words and music in my room as a method for remaining normal, about a dreary and urgent spot I was in, completely disconnected and alone. [Somehow] that breezes up reinterpreted by a music legend from a fundamentally extraordinary period/type and still holds genuineness and meaning —unique, yet just as unadulterated. 

A further six years passed before Nine Inch Nails' fourth full-length collection. "With Teeth" was discharged in May 2005, however it was spilled preceding its official discharge date. The collection was composed and recorded all through 2004 after Reznor's fight with liquor addiction and substance misuse and legitimate issues with his previous supervisor, John Malm Jr. "With Teeth" appeared over the "Bulletin" 200, Nine Inch Nails' second rule at number one with a collection. The collection's bundle needs run of the mill liner notes; rather it just records the names of tunes and co-makers, and the URL for an online PDF blurb with verses and full credits. The whole collection was made accessible in gushing sound on the band's legitimate MySpace page ahead of time of its discharge date. 

Basic gathering of the collection was for the most part positive: "Moving Stone's" Rob Sheffield portrayed the collection as "vintage Nine Inch Nails". PopMatters denounced the collection, guaranteeing Reznor "came up short on thoughts." 

A music video for the tune "The Hand That Feeds" debuted on the Nine Inch Nails official site in March 2005. Reznor discharged the source documents for it in GarageBand position a month later, enabling fans to remix the melody. He comparably discharged records for the collection's second single "Just" in a more extensive scope of organizations, including Pro Tools and ACID Pro. David Fincher coordinated a video for "Just" with basically PC produced symbolism. The arranged music video for its third single, "Each Day Is Exactly the Same", was coordinated by Francis Lawrence however supposedly rejected in the after creation organize. Every one of the three singles bested the "Bulletin" Alternative Songs graph. 

Nine Inch Nails propelled an in Autumn 2005, bolstered by Queens of the Stone Age, Autolux and Death from Above 1979. Another opening follow up on the visit, hip-bounce craftsman Saul Williams, performed in front of an audience with Nine Inch Nails at the Voodoo Music Experience celebration amid a featuring appearance in tropical storm stricken New Orleans, Reznor's previous home. The Nine Inch Nails live band finished a voyage through North American amphitheaters in the late spring of 2006, joined by Bauhaus, TV on the Radio, and Peaches. The "Alongside You in Time" visit narrative was discharged in February 2007 by means of three configurations: DVD, HD DVD and Blu-beam Disk. The home video discharge appeared at number one on both the "Bulletin" Top Music Videos and "Announcement" Comprehensive Music Videos graphs in the United States. 

Nine Inch Nails' fifth studio collection, "Year Zero", was discharged just two years after "With Teeth", a checked change in the moderate pace from the arrival of past collections. With verses composed from the point of view of numerous imaginary characters, "Year Zero" is an idea collection reprimanding the United States government's strategies and their effect on the world 15 years later on. Basic reaction to the collection was commonly positive, with a normal rating of 76% on Metacritic. 

The story happens in the United States in 2022, which has been named "Year 0", by the legislature, being the year America was reawakened. It had endured a few noteworthy fear monger assaults, evidently by Islamic fundamentalists, including assaults on Los Angeles and Seattle, and accordingly, the legislature caught outright control of the nation. The legislature is a Christian fundamentalist religious government, keeping up control of the masses through establishments like the Bureau of Morality and the First Evangelical Church of Plano. The administration company Cedocore appropriates the medication Parepin through the water supply, making Americans who drink water emotionless and cheerful. There are a few underground dissident gatherings, for the most part working on the web, most outstandingly Art is Resistance and Solutions Backwards Initiative. In light of the expanding mistreatment of the legislature, a few corporate, government, and incendiary sites were transported back so as to the present by a gathering of researchers working surreptitiously against the specialists. The sites from what's to come were sent to the year 2007 to caution American individuals of the approaching tragic future and to keep it from regularly shaping in any case. 

An other reality diversion rose parallel to the "Year Zero" idea, developing its storyline. Signs covered up on visit stock at first driven fans to find a system of invented, in-amusement sites that depict an "Orwellian image of the United States around the year 2022". Before "Year Zero's" discharge, unreleased melodies from the collection were found on USB drives covered up at Nine Inch Nails show scenes in Lisbon and Barcelona, as a feature of the other reality amusement. Fan interest in the other reality amusement grabbed the eye of news sources, for example, "USA Today" and "Announcement", who have refered to fan-site The NIN Hotline, gathering Echoing the Sound, fan club The Spiral, and NinWiki as hotspots for new revelations. 

The collection's first single, "Survivalism", and different tracks from "Year Zero" were discharged as multitrack sound records for fans to remix. A remix collection titled "Year Zero Remixed" was later discharged, containing remixes from "Year Zero" by different specialists. The remix collection was Nine Inch Nails' last discharge on a noteworthy record mark for more than five years, as the demonstration had finished its legally binding commitment to Interscope Records and did not restore its agreement. The remix collection was joined by an intuitive remix website with multitrack downloads and the capacity to post remixes. 

Reznor arranged a film adaption of the collection and noted "Year Zero" as "a major aspect of a greater image of various things I'm chipping away at. Basically, I composed the soundtrack to a motion picture that doesn't exist." The venture moved into the TV medium in view of staggering expenses for "Year Zero" as a film, at that point Reznor discovered American film maker Lawrence Bender and met with authors. 

On August 10, 2007, Reznor declared that they would take the idea to broadcasting companies trying to verify an arrangement: "We're going to pitch it to the system, so we're two or three weeks from meeting the majority of the primary individuals, and we'll see what occurs." Since first reporting his arrangements for a TV arrangement, advance moderated, supposedly because of the 2007– 2008 Writer's Guild strike, yet it all things considered proceeded. the resultant miniseries, additionally named "Year Zero", was being developed with HBO and BBC Worldwide Productions, with the screenplay and content composed by Reznor and "Carnivàle" essayist Daniel Knauf. 

In February 2008, Reznor posted a news update on the Nine Inch Nails site entitled "2 weeks." On March 2, "Apparitions I– IV" (the principal discharge on The Null Corporation name), a 36-track instrumental collection, ended up accessible by means of the band's authentic site. "Phantoms I– IV" was made accessible in various distinctive configurations and structures, going from a free download of the main volume, to a $300 Ultra-Deluxe constrained version bundle. Every one of the 2,500 duplicates of the $300 bundle sold out in three days. The collection is authorized under a Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial Share Alike permit. The collection was made improvisationally over a 10-week time frame and supporters included Atticus Ross, Alan Molder, Alessandro Cortini, Adrian Belew, and Brian Viglione. 

Like the declaration that at last prompted the arrival of "Apparitions I– IV", a post on the band's site in April 2008 read "2 weeks!" On May 5, Nine Inch Nails discharged "The Slip" by means of its site with no commercial or advancement. The collection was made accessible for download gratis with a message from Reznor, "this present one's on me," secured under the equivalent Creative Commons permit as "Apparitions", and has seen individual downloads outperforming 1.4 million. "The Slip" has since been discharged on CD as a restricted release set of 250,000. 

Since the arrival of "Apparitions I– IV" and "The Slip", a 25-date visit titled "Lights in the Sky", was reported in a few North American urban areas, and was later extended to incorporate a few all the more North American dates just as dates in South America. Cortini and Josh Freese returned as individuals from the past visit, while Robin Finck rejoined the band and Justin Meldal-Johnsen was included low pitch guitar. Freese and Cortini left the live band, however it turned into a group of four with the expansion of Ilan Rubin on drums. 

On January 7, 2009, Reznor transferred unedited HD-quality film from three shows as a download of more than 400 GB by means of BitTorrent. In a prompt reaction, a fan association known as This One Is On Us immediately downloaded the information and had started to gather the recording close by its very own video chronicles to make an expert 3-section computerized film, trailed by a physical discharge made "by fans for fans". This visit narrative turned out to be aggregately known as "Another Version of the Truth" and was discharged all through late December 2009 to February 2010 by means of three arrangements: DVD, Blu-beam Disk and BitTorrent. To date, the gathering and the undertaking has gotten huge consideration from news sources, for example, "USA Today", "Moving Stone", Techdirt and Pitchfork TV, and holds the help of both Reznor and the fan network with dramatic screenings being held everywhere throughout the world. Nine Inch Nails craftsmanship executive and website admin Rob Sheridan noted on the band's legitimate site: 

This is one more case of a dedicated fanbase and an approach of receptiveness joining to fill in spaces left by old media hindrances. The whole NIN camp is totally excited that approaching our fans with deference and sustaining their innovativeness has prompted such a staggering overflow of mind boggling content, and that we currently have such a top notch trinket from our most goal-oriented visit ever. 

"Nine Inch Nails Revenge", an iPhone/iPod contact elite mood diversion created by Tapulous, was discharged on March 8, 2009 (five months after the organization reported the improvement of the amusement). This portion in the "Tap" computer game establishment was themed after Nine Inch Nails, and included tracks from "Apparitions I– IV" and "The Slip". Bits of the collection "Phantoms I-IV" were additionally utilized in creation of the soundtrack for the narrative "Citizenfour." 

In February 2009, Reznor posted his musings about the eventual fate of Nine Inch Nails on his official site, expressing that "I've been thinking for quite a while it's an ideal opportunity to make NIN vanish for some time." Reznor since cleared up that he "isn't finished making music under the moniker, yet that Nine Inch Nails is finished visiting for years to come." The "Wave Goodbye" visit closed on September 10, 2009, at the Wiltern Theater in Los Angeles. Reznor in this way discharged two tracks under the Nine Inch Nails moniker: the signature tune for the film "", and a front of U2's "Zoo Station", incorporated into the "Achtung Baby" tribute collection "AHK-toong BAY-bi Covered". 

In 2009 Reznor wedded Mariqueen Maandig, and framed a venture with Maandig and Atticus Ross named How to Destroy Angels. Its first discharge, a six-track self-titled EP, was influenced accessible for nothing to download in June 2010. Reznor's next coordinated effort with Ross was co-composing and delivering the official score for David Fincher's 2010 film, "The Social Network". Reznor and Ross got two honors for the score, a 2010 Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score for a Motion Picture, and a 2010 Oscar for Best Original Score. Reznor and Ross again teamed up with Fincher for the official score the American adjustment of the novel "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo", discharged in December 2011, and after that again on Fincher's 2014 film "Gone Girl" 

In July 2012 Reznor collaborated with computer game designer Treyarch to make the signature music for "". Soon thereafter Reznor again worked with Atticus Ross alongside Alessandro Cortini on a remix of the melody "Destroyer" by Telepathe. Reznor additionally showed up in a narrative called "Sound City" coordinated by Dave Grohl, notwithstanding co-composing and playing out the melody "Mantra" with Grohl and Josh Homme. This prompted further coordinated effort with Reznor and Homme on the 2013 collection from Queens of the Stone Age titled ... Like Clockwork. Reznor contributed vocals and drum programing to the melody "Kalopsia" and vocals on "Fairweather Friends" alongside Elton John on piano and vocals. In October a task with Dr. Dre and Beats Electronics was declared that Reznor composed was "likely not what you're expecting [from me]". The task was named "Daisy"; an advanced music administration was declared in January 2013. It was until January 2014 that the administration was completely propelled, with Reznor filling in as boss inventive officer. 

In a meeting with BBC Radio 1, Reznor showed that he would compose for most of 2012 with Nine Inch Nails "as a main priority". Reznor in the end affirmed that he was chipping away at new Nine Inch Nails material and may perform live once more. In February 2013, Reznor reported the arrival of Nine Inch Nails and uncovered the Twenty Thirteen Tour. He likewise uncovered that the new lineup of the band would incorporate Eric Avery of Jane's Addiction, Adrian Belew of King Crimson, and Josh Eustis of Telefon Tel Aviv, just as returning individuals Alessandro Cortini and Ilan Rubin. Notwithstanding, both Avery and Belew would stop the visiting band before exhibitions started, with previous part Robin Finck returning in their place. 

By May 28 another Nine Inch Nails collection was finished. Discharged September 3, "Dithering Marks" consolidated rhythms reminiscent of before discharges, however was progressively extensive and dramatic. Notwithstanding the as of late withdrawn Adrian Belew, Reznor utilized bassist Pino Palladino alongside Todd Rundgren and Fleetwood Mac's Lindsey Buckingham to accomplish different workmanship shake components. 

The collection delivered three singles, all discharged preceding that of the collection itself. "Returned Haunted" was discharged on June 6, with a going with music video bearing an epileptic seizure cautioning. The second single, "Duplicate of A", was discharged on August 12 for nothing out of pocket to US and UK Amazon.com account holders. "Everything" was the third and last single, recorded amid sessions for the Nine Inch Nails most noteworthy hits collection. The sessions offered approach to more melodies that wound up yielding the whole collection. 

In July the Twenty Thirteen Tour was in progress, starting with a large number of celebration appearances that incorporated the Fuji Rock Festival, and the Pukkelpop, Hockenheim, Germany's Rock'n'Heim and the Reading and Leeds celebrations in August. The Tension 2013 North American leg of the visit kept running from September to November and included Palladino, Lisa Fischer and Sharlotte Gibson to the lineup with Godspeed You! Dark Emperor and Explosions in the Sky as opening acts. This leg of the visit was archived and discharged in the spring as "Nine Inch Nails Tension 2013". 

In 2014 the band broadened its visit worldwide as a four-piece. The new lineup included past partners, Ilan Rubin, Alessandro Cortini, and Robin Finck. The band was joined by Queens of the Stone Age for the Australia and New Zealand visit, amid which a daily coin hurl figured out who opened. The visit shut in Europe with supporting synth-pop act Cold Cave. 

Following a month-long break, Nine Inch Nails again hit the street on a joint visit with Soundgarden. The 23-day venture stretched out all through the mainland US, with trial hip-jump aggregate Death Grips booked to open the majority of the shows. Two weeks into the visit, Death Grips declared its separation and dropped all ensuing live shows. Oneohtrix Point Never, The Dillinger Escape Plan and Cold Cave each swapped Death Grips independently for the rest of the visit. 

In 2014, its first year of qualification, Nine Inch Nails was selected for enlistment into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame with 14 different competitors. While they were not accepted that year, the band put second in the 2015 Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Nominees Fan Vote. In 2015, Nine Inch Nails was by and by selected for the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In any case, they indeed did not get enlisted. 

In June 2015, Nine Inch Nails discharged instrumental adaptations of "The Fragile" and "With Teeth" to stream only on Apple Music, an administration of which Reznor is boss innovative executive. In a meeting advancing the administration, Reznor referenced he has begun "messing around with certain things" concerning another Nine Inch Nails collection, expressing "It is anything but a record I'm attempting to complete in a month. It's all the more simply searching in obscurity and seeing what sounds fascinating". In December 2015, Reznor announced that "Nine Inch Nails will return in 2016". 

In October 2016, because of a fan's inquiry concerning the absence of new Nine Inch Nails music, Reznor reacted with "2016 isn't finished yet". In December 2016, Reznor remarked on his announcement with respect to Nine Inch Nails' arrival before the year's over: "Those words did leave my mouth, isn't that right? ... Simply watch out for what comes next." after three days, Reznor declared an EP titled "Not the Actual Events", alongside reissues of "Broken", "The Downward Spiral", and "The Fragile," with consequent reissues of "With Teeth", "Year Zero", and "The Slip" to be discharged later in 2017, these plans anyway failed to work out. Additionally declared was "The Fragile: Deviations 1", which involved 37 instrumental, exchange and unreleased tracks, a large number of which have never been heard anyplace. "Not the Actual Events" was discharged on December 23, 2016, with fans who pre-requested it getting their download joins one day sooner. Atticus Ross was additionally uncovered to be an official full-time individual from the band, the principal part other than Reznor to be added to the band. 

In mid 2017, the band declared three featuring celebration dates in North America. In January 2017, the band reported that it would perform at the Panorama Music Festival in New York on July 30. On March 21, the band declared on their authority Facebook page that it would feature Day 3 of FYF Fest in Los Angeles on July 23. In a similar post, the band additionally reported its 2017 visiting lineup, which included Reznor and Ross joined by the band's 2014 visiting lineup, Robin Finck, Alessandro Cortini, and Ilan Rubin. 

In June 2017, in an email that was issued out to clients looking out for deferred vinyl orders, Reznor affirmed that "Not the Actual Events" would really make up the initial segment of a set of three of EPs, with the second portion "Include Violence" being discharged on July 21 and the third and last EP of the set of three to follow in 2018. The single "Not exactly" was discharged seven days before the second EP's discharge. 

Likewise in 2017, the pair were entrusted to score the up and coming Ken Burns arrangement "The Vietnam War", and give both unique music and an accumulation soundtrack of famous melodies. Their score, which was discharged on September 15, 2017, included unique arrangements, and it likewise incorporates revamped pieces from other Nine Inch Nails melodies and their honor winning scores for "The Social Network" and "The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo". 

In May 2018, the band uncovered its ninth studio collection, entitled "Awful Witch", which was discharged on June 22, 2018. The band likewise declared the "Cold and Black and Infinite North America 2018 Tour", where it will visit with The Jesus and Mary Chain. To forestall ticket scalping, the band made the irregular stride of just offering physical tickets that must be acquired at the scene before the shows. Reznor expressed of the choice "The guarantee of a world improved by PCs and online network has fizzled us from numerous points of view, especially with regards to ticketing. Everything about the procedure sucks and everybody loses with the exception of the affiliate. We've chosen to have a go at something else that will likewise likely suck, yet in an unexpected way." 

There are a few music classifications Nine Inch Nails has been depicted as, including elective shake, mechanical shake, modern move, modern, electro-mechanical, modern metal, and electronic shake. AllMusic's Steve Huey states that "Nine Inch Nails were the most well known modern gathering ever and were to a great extent in charge of conveying the music to a mass crowd". Reznor has never alluded to his very own work as mechanical music, however confesses to acquiring methods from such early modern groups as Throbbing Gristle and Test Dept. Notwithstanding the difference between those craftsmen at first working under the expression "modern" and Nine Inch Nails, it has turned out to be normal in journalistic depictions of Reznor's assemblage of work to portray it all things considered. Reznor recognized in "Turn" magazine that "Down in It" was affected by early Skinny Puppy, especially the band's tune "Burrow It"; different tunes from "Lovely Hate Machine" and "With Teeth" have been portrayed as synth-pop. Assessing "The Fragile", commentator Steve Cooper noticed that the collection compares broadly shifted classes, for example, solo piano in "The Frail" and drum and bass components in "Starfuckers, Inc." Ambient music has been highlighted in some of Nine Inch Nails' music, including on "Apparitions I– IV" (which is explicitly dim encompassing), "Dithering Marks", "The Downward Spiral", "The Slip", and "The Fragile". 

Certain methods and styles can be found all through Nine Inch Nails' index. Melodies, for example, "Wish", and "The Day the World Went Away" show terraced elements. Reznor's singing pursues a comparative example, much of the time moving from murmurs to shouts. He likewise has utilized programming to change his voice in a few tunes, as obvious in "Starfuckers, Inc." and "Consume". The band's music additionally every so often contains complex time marks, outstandingly in "The Collector", from "With Teeth", and show top pick "Walk of the Pigs". Reznor consistently utilizes commotion and twisting in his tune plans, and fuses disharmony with chromatic song or potentially congruity. These systems are altogether utilized in the melody "Hurt", which contains a very conflicting tritone played on guitar amid the refrains, a B5#11, underlined when Reznor sings the eleventh note on "I" each time the B/E# dyad is played. "Closer" finishes up with a chromatic piano theme: The song is appeared amid the second stanza of "Piggy" on organ, at that point returns in power harmonies at drop D tuning all through the chorale of "Sin", while a modified (rising) rendition is utilized all through "A Warm Place", and after that repeats in its unique state for the last time on "The Downward Spiral". On "The Fragile", Reznor returns to this method of rehashing a theme on different occasions all through various melodies, either on an alternate melodic instrument, with a transposed agreement, or in an adjusted rhythm. A significant number of the melodies on "Year Zero" contain an all-encompassing instrumental closure, which envelops the whole second 50% of the three-minute long "The Great Destroyer". Allmusic's survey portrayed the collection's workstation blended sound: "guitars squall against glitches, signals, pops, and blotches of hazy sonic assaults. Percussion poses a potential threat, misshaped, natural, circled, screwed, spindled and broken." 

Expressive subjects found in Nine Inch Nails melodies are to a great extent worried about dull investigations of oneself running from religion, avarice, notoriety, desire, dependence, self-double dealing, maturing, lament, agnosticism, and incidentally legislative issues, with the last point frequently being examined in "Year Zero". Three of Nine Inch Nails' chronicles are idea collections: "The Downward Spiral", follow-up "The Fragile", and the previously mentioned "Year Zero". "With Teeth" (under the working title "Bleedthrough") was to be an idea collection around a perpetual dream happening in actuality, however Reznor in the end removed this thought from the record. 

Nine Inch Nails' most punctual impacts incorporate Ministry and Skinny Puppy, which helped shape what turned into 1989's "Pretty Hate Machine". The collection's liner notes additionally paid tribute to the hip-bounce gather Public Enemy and Prince. Another vast effect on the band's sound is Gary Numan, which is obvious as Reznor once said that "in the wake of hearing 'Autos' I realized I needed to make music with synthesizers". The 2005 single "Just" epitomizes the disco-style beats and synthesizers drawn from Numan's influence. Different specialists of importance to Nine Inch Nails envelop late 80s acts, for example, Queen, Devo, Joy Division, Adam Ant, and Soft Cell. 

Reznor has visited with a portion of his persuasions, including a concise visit opening for Skinny Puppy in 1988. In 1995, Nine Inch Nails went on visit with David Bowie, who, alongside Pink Floyd, had been a critical effect on "The Downward Spiral". 

Nine Inch Nails has impacted numerous more current craftsmen, which as indicated by Reznor run from "nonexclusive impersonations" dating from his underlying accomplishment to more youthful groups reverberating his style in a "more genuine, less imitative way". Following the arrival of "The Downward Spiral", standard craftsmen started to consider Nine Inch Nails' impact: David Bowie contrasted Reznor's contact with that of The Velvet Underground. Sway Ezrin, maker for Pink Floyd, Kiss, Alice Cooper, and Peter Gabriel, portrayed Reznor in 2007 as a "genuine visionary" and informed hopeful specialists to observe concerning his no-bargain frame of mind. Nine Inch Nails has been credited by music writers for promoting mechanical music, regardless of indecision from Reznor. 

The demonstration has gotten four honors from 25 designations, including two Grammy Awards for the melodies "Wish" and "Satisfaction in Slavery" in 1993 and 1996 separately. Nine Inch Nails have gotten two "Kerrang!" Awards; one of them being the "Kerrang!" Icon in 2006, regarding the band's general commitments since 1988 and long-standing impact on shake music. The band has likewise gotten nine designations from the MTV Video Music Awards for a few of its recordings, including two selections for the "Closer" music video and five assignments for "The Perfect Drug" music video, including Video of the Year. 

In 1997, Reznor showed up in "Time" magazine's rundown of the year's most compelling individuals, and "Turn" portrayed him as "the most essential craftsman in music". The Recording Industry Association of America ensured deals for 10.5 million units of the band's collections in the United States, which represented generally 50% of the band's accounted for deals worldwide around then. In 2003, "Moving Stone" magazine set "The Downward Spiral" at No. 200 in a 2003 rundown of "The 500 Greatest Albums of All Time", and by the next year positioned Nine Inch Nails at No. 94 in their "The 100 Greatest Artists of All Time" list. 

Until Atticus Ross participated in 2016, Reznor was the sole authority individual from Nine Inch Nails. Be that as it may, Reznor regularly frames a support gathering of artists to play out the melodies in a live setting. This live band, otherwise called Nine Inch Nails, reworks the band's studio index and makes an unexpected sound in comparison to that of Reznor's studio chronicles. Band individuals have at times been welcome to take an interest in the account procedure, however inventive control inside the studio has dependably been only with Reznor. 

The Tapeworm venture was made in 1995 as a Nine Inch Nails side-venture among Reznor and different live-band individuals as an increasingly "popularity based" innovative condition. The band at first included live band individuals Danny Lohner and Charlie Clouser, however in the long run extended to incorporate other regular Nine Inch Nails donors Josh Freese, Atticus Ross, and Alan Molder. Be that as it may, following 9 years of studio sessions, no material was ever authoritatively discharged from the gathering, and it was affirmed to be never again dynamic in 2005. 

The lineup of the live band tended to change radically between significant visits: beside Reznor staying on lead vocals, consoles and guitar, no individual from the live band had stayed steady since its beginning. Reznor refered to the long incubation time frame between studio collections as a major aspect of the purpose behind these continuous faculty changes, just as his craving for crisp understandings of his music. 

Reznor is a candid pundit of the music business, especially the impact that music organizations have applied upon his imaginative opportunity. Nine Inch Nails has conflicted with a few music industry partnerships, coming full circle in Reznor's choice to continue as an autonomous craftsman who does not utilize the money related support of the music business to finance his inventive yield. 

In the mid 1990s, Nine Inch Nails was engaged with a much-advertised fight with TVT Records, the main record name to sign the band. Reznor questioned the name's endeavored obstruction with his protected innovation. At last, Nine Inch Nails went into a joint endeavor with Interscope Records in which Reznor relinquished a bit of his distributing rights to TVT Music in return for the opportunity of having his very own Nothing Records engrave. In 2005, Reznor sued his previous companion and administrator John Malm, fellow benefactor of Nothing, for misrepresentation, break of agreement and guardian obligation, and different cases. Their relationship was formally disjoined in a New York court, with harms granted to Reznor in abundance of $3 million. 

At the command of Prudential Securities liquidation procedures, TVT put the rights to Reznor's chronicles for the name up for sale in 2005. This offer incorporated the entire TVT index, including "Lovely Hate Machine", and a level of sovereignties from Reznor's tune distributing organization, Leaving Hope Music/TVT Music. Rykodisc, which did not win the closeout but rather had the capacity to permit the rights from Prudential, reissued the no longer available "Lovely Hate Machine" CD on November 22, 2005. Ryko likewise reissued the "Head Like a Hole" CD and a vinyl release of "Lovely Hate Machine" in 2006. The name thought about discharging a luxurious version, similarly as Interscope had accomplished for "The Downward Spiral". They were impacted by Reznor and loved the thought, yet did not have any desire to pay him for the collection and the thought was rejected. 

In May 2007, Reznor made a post on the official Nine Inch Nails site distrustful of Universal Music Group (parent organization of Nine Inch Nails' record name, Interscope Records) for its evaluating and circulation plans for "Year Zero." He named the organization's retail estimating of "Year Zero" in Australia as "Crazy", inferring that "as a reward for being a 'genuine fan' you get ripped off". Reznor proceeded to state that he despised Interscope, and in later years the "atmosphere" of record marks may have an inexorably irresolute effect on buyers who purchase music. Reznor's post, explicitly his analysis of the chronicle business everywhere, inspired extensive media consideration. In September 2007, Reznor proceeded with his assault on UMG at a show in Australia, asking fans there to "take" his music online as opposed to obtaining it lawfully. Reznor proceeded to urge the group to "take and take and take some more and offer it to every one of your companions and continue taking". 

Reznor declared on October 8, 2007, that Nine Inch Nails had satisfied its legally binding responsibilities to Interscope Records and was presently allowed to continue as an "absolutely free operator, free of any chronicle contract with any mark". Reznor additionally conjectured that he would discharge the following Nine Inch Nails collection online along these lines to "The Inevitable Rise and Liberation of NiggyTardust!", which he created. Reznor later discharged the initial nine tracks of "Apparitions I– IV" and the total of "The Slip" in 2008 for nothing download. 

In another post on his site, Reznor again transparently condemned Universal Music Group for keeping him from propelling an authority intelligent fan remix site. All inclusive declined to have the site only days before its booked dispatch, refering to the potential "allegation", in Reznor's words, "that they are supporting a similar specialized infringement of copyright they are suing [other media companies] for". Reznor wrote accordingly that he was "tested ultimately to discover a method for breathing life into this thought without getting sprinkled by the pee as these media organizations piss everywhere on one another's feet". Notwithstanding these obstructions, the remix site was propelled in November 2007. 

Nine Inch Nails was booked to perform at the 2005 MTV Movie Awards, however pulled back from the show because of a conflict with the system over the utilization of an unaltered picture of George W. Hedge as a setting to the band's execution of "The Hand That Feeds". Before long a short time later, Reznor composed on his official site: "Evidently, the picture of our leader is as hostile to MTV all things considered to me." MTV answered that it regarded Reznor's perspective, however was "awkward" with the execution being "worked around divided political proclamations". An exhibition by Foo Fighters supplanted Nine Inch Nails' availability on the show. Amid the "Lights in the Sky" visit in 2008, a few exhibitions of "The Hand that Feeds" had the picture of Bush on a video screen behind the band. At certain gigs paving the way to the decision, the substance of Bush gradually transformed amid the tune into the essence of John McCain. 

In 2006, in the wake of being cautioned by a fan site, Reznor issued a stop this instant to Fox News Channel for utilizing three tunes from "The Fragile" on air without authorization. The tunes "La Mer", "The Great Below", and "The Mark Has Been Made" showed up in a scene of "War Stories with Oliver North" itemizing the clash of Iwo Jima. A post showed up on Reznor's blog, which read: "A debt of gratitude is in order for the Fox News heads-up. A cut it out has been issued. Screw Fox Fucking News." 

As a major aspect of the other reality diversion which went with the arrival of "Year Zero", three tracks from the collection were deliberately "spilled" before their official discharge at various Nine Inch Nails shows on USB streak drives. The astounding sound documents immediately coursed the web, and proprietors of sites facilitating the records before long gotten restraining orders from the Recording Industry Association of America, in spite of the way that the viral crusade, and the utilization of USB drives, was authorized by Nine Inch Nails' record name. The source that broke the story was cited as saying, "These screwing nitwits are pursuing a battle that the mark approved." 

The music of Nine Inch Nails has supposedly been utilized by the U.S. military as music torment to separate the purpose of prisoners. Reznor questioned the utilization of his music along these lines with the accompanying message on the first page of the Nine Inch Nails site: "It's troublesome for me to envision much else significantly annoying, belittling and chafing than finding music you've put your central core into making has been utilized for reasons for torment. In the event that there are any legitimate choices that can be reasonably taken they will be forcefully sought after, with any potential financial additions gave to human rights foundations. Express gratitude toward GOD this nation has seemed to agree with reason and we can put the Bush organization's rule of intensity, voracity, wilderness and franticness behind us." 

Beside contradictions over the utilization of Nine Inch Nails material, a few enterprises have rejected substance because of seen foulness. In 2009, Apple dismissed an update to Nine Inch Nails' iPhone application, "NIN: Access", since it found "The Downward Spiral" to contain "hostile or revolting substance", alluding to the melodious substance. Reznor reprimanded their choice, refering to the sound was likewise accessible through the iTunes application. 

A comparable episode including advanced substance dispersion happened in 2013 when Nine Inch Nails re-discharged the first 1993 film "Broken" on Vimeo. Inside long stretches of dispatch, the video was expelled because of a terms of administration infringement on material that "annoy, impel disdain or delineate inordinate viciousness". 

Nine Inch Nails has been selected for 13 Grammy Awards and has won honors on two events—for "Wish" in 1992 and "Joy in Slavery" in 1995: