Cricket World Cup 

The ICC Cricket World Cup is the universal title of One Day International (ODI) cricket. The occasion is composed by the game's administering body, the International Cricket Council (ICC), at regular intervals, with starter capability rounds paving the way to a finals competition. The competition is one of the world's most seen games and is considered the "lead occasion of the worldwide cricket timetable" by the ICC. 

The main World Cup was sorted out in England in June 1975, with the first ODI cricket coordinate having been played just four years sooner. In any case, a different Women's Cricket World Cup had been held two years before the principal men's competition, and a competition including various universal groups had been held as ahead of schedule as 1912, when a triangular competition of Test matches was played between Australia, England and South Africa. The initial three World Cups were held in England. From the 1987 competition onwards, facilitating has been shared between nations under an informal turn framework, with fourteen ICC individuals having facilitated somewhere around one match in the competition. 

The World Cup is available to all individuals from the International Cricket Council (ICC), in spite of the fact that the most noteworthy positioning groups get programmed capability. The rest of the groups are resolved by means of the World Cricket League and the ICC World Cup Qualifier. An aggregate of twenty groups have contended in the eleven releases of the competition, with fourteen contending in the most recent version in 2015; the following release in 2019 will have just ten groups. Australia has won the competition multiple times, with the West Indies, India (twice every), Pakistan and Sri Lanka (when each) additionally having won the competition. The best execution by a non-full-part group came when Kenya made the semi-finals of the 2003 competition. 

The primary universal cricket coordinate was played among Canada and the United States, on 24 and 25 September 1844. Be that as it may, the main credited Test coordinate was played in 1877 among Australia and England, and the two groups contended consistently for The Ashes in resulting years. South Africa was confessed to Test status in 1889. Agent cricket groups were chosen to visit one another, subsequent in reciprocal challenge. Cricket was likewise included as an Olympic game at the 1900 Paris Games, where Great Britain crushed France to win the gold award. This was the main appearance of cricket at the Summer Olympics. 

The primary multilateral challenge at universal dimension was the 1912 Triangular Tournament, a Test cricket competition played in England between every one of the three Test-playing countries at the time: England, Australia and South Africa. The occasion was not a triumph: the late spring was especially wet, making play troublesome on soggy revealed pitches, and attendances were poor, ascribed to a "surfeit of cricket". From that point forward, universal Test cricket has by and large been sorted out as two-sided arrangement: a multilateral Test competition was not composed again until the triangular Asian Test Championship in 1999. 

The quantity of countries playing Test cricket expanded continuously after some time, with the expansion of West Indies in 1928, New Zealand in 1930, India in 1932, and Pakistan in 1952. Nonetheless, universal cricket kept on being played as reciprocal Test coordinates more than three, four or five days. 

In the mid 1960s, English district cricket groups started playing an abbreviated rendition of cricket which went on for one day. Beginning in 1962 with a four-group knockout challenge known as the Midlands Knock-Out Cup, and proceeding with the debut Gillette Cup in 1963, one-day cricket developed in ubiquity in England. A national Sunday League was shaped in 1969. The first Day International match was played on the fifth day of a downpour prematurely ended Test coordinate among England and Australia at Melbourne in 1971, to fill the time accessible and as pay for the baffled group. It was a forty over diversion with eight balls for each finished. 

In the late 1970s, Kerry Packer set up the adversary World Series Cricket (WSC) rivalry. It presented a considerable lot of the now ordinary highlights of One Day International cricket, including shaded garbs, matches played around evening time under floodlights with a white ball and dull sight screens, and, for transmissions, numerous camera edges, impacts receivers to catch sounds from the players on the pitch, and on-screen designs. The first of the matches with hued regalia was the WSC Australians in wattle gold versus WSC West Indians in coral pink, played at VFL Park in Melbourne on 17 January 1979. The achievement and notoriety of the household one-day rivalries in England and different pieces of the world, just as the mid One-Day Internationals, provoked the ICC to consider sorting out a Cricket World Cup. 

The debut Cricket World Cup was facilitated in 1975 by England, the main country ready to advance the assets to arrange an occasion of such greatness at the time. The 1975 competition began on 7 June. The initial three occasions were held in England and authoritatively known as the Prudential Cup after the patrons Prudential plc. The matches comprised of 60 six-ball overs per group, played amid the daytime in conventional structure, with the players wearing cricket whites and utilizing red cricket balls. 

Eight groups took an interest in the primary competition: Australia, England, India, New Zealand, Pakistan, and the West Indies (the six Test countries at the time), together with Sri Lanka and a composite group from East Africa. One eminent exclusion was South Africa, who were restricted from universal cricket because of politically-sanctioned racial segregation. The competition was won by the West Indies, who crushed Australia by 17 keeps running in the last at Lord's.Roy Fredricks of West Indies was the first batsmen who got hit-wicket in ODI amid the 1975 World Cup last. 

The 1979 World Cup saw the presentation of the ICC Trophy rivalry to choose non-Test playing groups for the World Cup, with Sri Lanka and Canada qualifying. The West Indies won a second back to back World Cup competition, crushing the hosts England by 92 keeps running in the last. At a gathering which pursued the World Cup, the International Cricket Conference consented to make the challenge a quadrennial occasion. 

The 1983 occasion was facilitated by England for a third continuous time. By this stage, Sri Lanka had turned into a Test-playing country, and Zimbabwe qualified through the ICC Trophy. A handling circle was presented, far from the stumps. Four fieldsmen should have been inside it consistently. The groups confronted each other twice, before moving into the thump outs. India, an untouchable, cited at 66– 1 to win by bookmakers before the challenge started, were delegated champions subsequent to disquieting the West Indies by 43 keeps running in the last. 

India and Pakistan mutually facilitated the 1987 competition, the first occasion when that the challenge was held outside England. The recreations were decreased from 60 to 50 overs for each innings, the present standard, on account of the shorter light hours in the Indian subcontinent contrasted and England's mid year. Australia won the title by overcoming England by 7 keeps running in the last, the nearest edge in World Cup last history. 

The 1992 World Cup, held in Australia and New Zealand, acquainted numerous progressions with the amusement, for example, shaded garments, white balls, day/night matches, and a change to the handling confinement rules. The South African cricket group took an interest in the occasion out of the blue, after the fall of the politically-sanctioned racial segregation routine and the finish of the universal games blacklist. Pakistan conquered a troubling begin in the competition to in the long run annihilation England by 22 keeps running in the last and rise as victors. 

The 1996 title was held in the Indian subcontinent for a second time, with the consideration of Sri Lanka as host for a portion of its gathering stage matches. In the semi-last, Sri Lanka, heading towards a devastating triumph over India at Eden Gardens after the hosts lost eight wickets while scoring 120 keeps running in quest for 252, were granted triumph as a matter of course after group turmoil broke out in dissent against the Indian execution. Sri Lanka proceeded to win their lady title by crushing Australia by seven wickets in the last at Lahore. 

In 1999 the occasion was facilitated by England, with certain matches additionally being held in Scotland, Ireland, Wales and the Netherlands. Twelve groups challenged the World Cup. Australia met all requirements for the semi-finals in the wake of achieving their objective in their Super 6 coordinate against South Africa off the last over of the match. They at that point continued to the last with a tied match in the semi-last likewise against South Africa where a mistake between South African batsmen Lance Klusener and Allan Donald saw Donald drop his bat and stranded mid-pitch to be run out. In the last, Australia rejected Pakistan for 132 and afterward achieved the objective in under 20 overs and with eight wickets close by. 

South Africa, Zimbabwe and Kenya facilitated the 2003 World Cup. The quantity of groups partaking in the occasion expanded from twelve to fourteen. Kenya's triumphs over Sri Lanka and Zimbabwe, among others – and a relinquish by the New Zealand group, which wouldn't play in Kenya on account of security concerns – empowered Kenya to achieve the semi-finals, the best outcome by a partner. In the last, Australia made 359 keeps running for the loss of two wickets, the biggest ever aggregate in a last, crushing India by 125 runs. 

In 2007 the competition was facilitated by the West Indies and extended to sixteen groups. Following Pakistan's disturbed misfortune to World Cup debutants Ireland in the gathering stage, Pakistani mentor Bob Woolmer was discovered dead in his lodging. Jamaican police had at first propelled a homicide examination concerning Woolmer's passing however later affirmed that he kicked the bucket of heart disappointment. Australia vanquished Sri Lanka in the last by 53 runs (D/L) in ridiculous light conditions, and expanded their undefeated keep running in the World Cup to 29 matches and winning three straight titles. 

India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh together facilitated the 2011 Cricket World Cup. Pakistan were deprived of their facilitating rights following the fear based oppressor assault on the Sri Lankan cricket group in 2009, with the recreations initially booked for Pakistan redistributed to the next host nations. The quantity of groups taking an interest in the World Cup dropped down to fourteen. Australia lost their last gathering stage coordinate against Pakistan on 19 March 2011, finishing an unbeaten dash of 35 World Cup matches, which had started on 23 May 1999. India won their second World Cup title by beating Sri Lanka by 6 wickets in the last in Mumbai, and turned into the primary nation to win the last on home soil. 

Australia and New Zealand together facilitated the 2015 Cricket World Cup. The quantity of members stayed at fourteen. Ireland was the best Associate country with a sum of three successes in the competition. New Zealand beat South Africa in an exciting first semi-last to fit the bill for their lady World Cup last. Australia crushed New Zealand by seven wickets in the last at Melbourne to lift the World Cup for the fifth time. 

The Test-playing countries qualify consequently for the World Cup headliner while different groups need to qualify through a progression of fundamental qualifying competitions. Another passing arrangement was presented for the 2015 Cricket World Cup. The main two groups of the 2011– 13 ICC World Cricket League Championship qualify legitimately. The staying six groups join the third and fourth-set groups of 2011 ICC World Cricket League Division Two and the best two groups of the 2013 ICC World Cricket League Division Three in the World Cup Qualifier to choose the staying two spots. 

Qualifying competitions were presented for the second World Cup, where two of the eight places in the finals were granted to the main groups in the ICC Trophy. The quantity of groups chose through the ICC Trophy had differed consistently. The World Cricket League (regulated by the International Cricket Council) is the capability framework given to permit the Associate and Affiliate individuals from the ICC more chances to qualify. The name "ICC Trophy" has been changed to "ICC World Cup Qualifier". 

Under the present passing procedure, the World Cricket League, all Associate and Affiliate individuals from the ICC can meet all requirements for the World Cup. Partner and Affiliate individuals must play somewhere in the range of two and five phases in the ICC World Cricket League to meet all requirements for the World Cup finals, contingent upon the Division in which they begin the passing procedure. 

Procedure synopsis in sequential request (2011-2014): 

The organization of the Cricket World Cup has changed enormously through the span of its history. Every one of the initial four competitions was played by eight groups, partitioned into two gatherings of four. The challenge comprised of two phases, a gathering stage and a thump out stage. The four groups in each gathering played each other in the round-robin amass organize, with the best two groups in each gathering advancing to the semi-finals. The champs of the semi-finals played against one another in the last. With South Africa returning in the fifth competition in 1992 because of the finish of the politically-sanctioned racial segregation blacklist, nine groups played each other once in the gathering stage, and the main four groups advanced to the semi-finals. The competition was additionally extended in 1996, with two gatherings of six groups. The best four groups from each gathering advanced to quarter-finals and semi-finals. 

An unmistakable configuration was utilized for the 1999 and 2003 World Cups. The groups were part into two pools, with the best three groups in each pool progressing to the "Super 6". The "Super 6" groups played the three different groups that exceptional from the other gathering. As they propelled, the groups conveyed their focuses forward from past matches against different groups progressing close by them, giving them an impetus to perform well in the gathering stages. The best four groups from the "Super 6" arrange advanced to the semi-finals, with the victors playing in the last. 

The organization utilized in the 2007 World Cup included 16 groups dispensed into four gatherings of four. Inside each gathering, the groups played each other in a round-robin position. Groups earned focuses for wins and half-focuses for ties. The main two groups from each gathering pushed ahead to the "Super 8" round. The "Super 8" groups played the other six groups that advanced from the distinctive gatherings. Groups earned focuses similarly as the gathering stage, however conveyed their focuses forward from past matches against different groups who qualified from a similar gathering to the "Super 8" organize. The main four groups from the "Super 8" round cutting edge to the semi-finals, and the champs of the semi-finals played in the last. 

The organization utilized in the 2011 and 2015 World Cups included two gatherings of seven groups, each playing in a round-robin position. The main four groups from each gathering continued to the thump out stage comprising of quarter-finals, semi-finals and eventually the last. 

It is suggested that in 2019 World Cup, the quantity of groups taking part will go down to 10 and every one of the groups will play against one another once in round robin position, before entering the elimination rounds. This would be like the one utilized in 1992 World Cup. 

The ICC Cricket World Cup Trophy is introduced to the victors of the World Cup. The present trophy was made for the 1999 titles, and was the main perpetual prize in the competition's history. Before this, diverse trophies were made for every World Cup. The trophy was planned and created in London by a group of skilled workers from Garrard and Co over a time of two months. 

The present trophy is produced using silver and overlaid, and includes a brilliant globe held up by three silver sections. The segments, molded as stumps and safeguards, speak to the three principal parts of cricket: batting, bowling and handling, while the globe portrays a cricket ball. The crease is tilted to symbolize the hub tilt of the Earth. It stands 60 centimetres high and weighs around 11 kilograms. The names of the past victors are engraved on the base of the trophy, with space for a sum of twenty engravings. The ICC keeps the first trophy. A copy contrasting just in the engravings is for all time granted to the triumphant group. 

The competition is one of the world's most-saw games. The 2011 Cricket World Cup last was broadcast in more than 200 nations to over 2.2 billion watchers at home. TV rights, primarily for the 2011 and 2015 World Cup, were sold for over US$1.1 billion, and sponsorship rights were sold for a further US$500 million. The 2003 Cricket World Cup matches were gone to by 626,845 individuals, while the 2007 Cricket World Cup sold in excess of 672,000 tickets. The 2015 World Cup Sold over 1.1 million tickets which was a Record . 

Progressive World Cup competitions have created expanding media consideration as One-Day International cricket has turned out to be increasingly settled. The 2003 World Cup in South Africa was the first to wear a mascot, Dazzler the zebra. An orange mongoose known as "Mello" was the mascot for the 2007 Cricket World Cup. Short, a blue elephant was the mascot for the 2011 World Cup. 

On 13 February, the opening of the 2015 competition was commended with a Google Doodle. 

The International Cricket Council's official board votes in favor of the hosts of the competition subsequent to looking at the offers made by the countries quick to hold a Cricket World Cup. 

Britain facilitated the initial three rivalries. The ICC chose that England should have the main competition since it was prepared to commit the assets required to sorting out the debut occasion. India volunteered to have the third Cricket World Cup, yet most ICC individuals favored England as the more drawn out time of light in England in June implied that a match could be finished in one day. The 1987 Cricket World Cup was held in India and Pakistan, the first facilitated outside England. 

A considerable lot of the competitions have been together facilitated by countries from the equivalent geological district, for example, South Asia in 1987, 1996 and 2011, Australasia in 1992 and 2015, Southern Africa in 2003 and West Indies in 2007. 

Twenty countries have fit the bill for the Cricket World Cup in any event once. Seven groups have contended in each competition, five of which have won the title. The West Indies won the initial two competitions, Australia has won five, India has won two, while Pakistan and Sri Lanka have each won once. The West Indies (1975 and 1979) and Australia (1999, 2003 and 2007) are the main groups to have won back to back titles. Australia has played in seven of the eleven finals (1975, 1987, 1996, 1999, 2003, 2007, 2015). Britain still can't seem to win the World Cup, however has been sprinters up multiple times (1979, 1987, 1992). The best outcome by a non-Test playing country is the semi-last appearance by Kenya in the 2003 competition; while the best outcome by a non-Test playing group on their introduction is the Super 8 (second round) by Ireland in 2007. 

Sri Lanka as a co-host of the 1996 Cricket World Cup was the principal host to win the competition however the last was held in Pakistan. India won in 2011 as host and was the primary group to win in a last played in their own nation. Australia rehashed the accomplishment in 2015. Britain is the main other host to have made the last, in 1979. Different nations which have accomplished or equalled their best World Cup results while co-facilitating the competition are New Zealand as finalists in 2015; Zimbabwe who achieved the Super Six out of 2003; and Kenya as semi-finalists in 2003. In 1987, co-has India and Pakistan both achieved the semi-finals, yet were killed by Australia and England separately. Australia in 1992, England in 1999, South Africa in 2003, and Bangladesh in 2011 have been the host groups that were wiped out in the first round. 

An outline of the groups' exhibitions in each World Cup: 

Prior to the 1992 World Cup, South Africa was prohibited because of politically-sanctioned racial segregation. 

The quantity of wins pursued by Run-rate is the criteria for deciding the rankings till the 1987 World Cup. 

The quantity of focuses pursued by, no holds barred execution and after that net run-rate is the criteria for deciding the rankings for the World Cups from 1992 onwards. 

Legend 

† 

The table beneath gives an outline of the exhibitions of groups over past World Cups, as of the finish of gathering phase of the 2015 competition. Groups are arranged by best execution, at that point by appearances, all out number of wins, all out number of diversions, and in sequential order request individually. 

Since 1992, one player has been pronounced as "Man of the Tournament" toward the apocalypse Cup finals: 

There were no Man of the Tournament grants before 1992 yet Man of the Match grants have dependably been given for individual matches. Winning the Man of the Match in the last is legitimately vital, as this shows the player esteemed to have had the greatest influence in the World Cup last. To date the honor has constantly gone to an individual from the triumphant side. The Man of the Match grant in the last of the challenge has been granted to: