Jim Thome 

James Howard Thome (; brought into the world August 27, 1970) is an American previous baseball player who played 22 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB), from 1991 to 2012. He played for six unique groups, most remarkably the Cleveland Indians amid the 1990s and mid 2000s. A productive power hitter, Thome hit 612 grand slams amid his vocation—the eighth-most untouched—alongside 2,328 hits, 1,699 runs batted in (RBIs), and a .276 batting normal. He was an individual from five All-Star groups and won a Silver Slugger Award in 1996. 

Thome experienced childhood in Peoria, Illinois, as a component of an expansive hands on group of competitors, who transcendently played baseball and ball. In the wake of going to Illinois Central College, he was drafted by the Indians in 1989 and made his significant alliance debut in 1991. From the get-go in his vocation, he played third base before in the long run turning into a first baseman. With the Indians, Thome was a piece of a center of players that drove the establishment to two World Series appearances in three years amid the mid-1990s. He went through over 10 years with Cleveland before leaving by means of free organization after the 2002 season to join the Philadelphia Phillies, with whom he spent the accompanying three seasons. Exchanged to the Chicago White Sox before the 2006 season, Thome won the American League Comeback Player of the Year Award that year and achieved the 500 grand slam club amid his three-season residency with the group. By this point in his vocation, back agony restricted Thome to being an assigned hitter. After spells with the Los Angeles Dodgers and Minnesota Twins, he made brief comes back to Cleveland and Philadelphia before consummation his vocation with the Baltimore Orioles. After resigning, Thome acknowledged an official position with the White Sox. 

All through his vocation, Thome's quality was control hitting. In six unique seasons, he hit in excess of 40 grand slams, and in 2003, he drove the National League in homers with 47. His profession on-base in addition to slugging (OPS) of .956 is nineteenth untouched. In 2011, he turned into the eighth MLB player to hit 600 homers. Starting at 2017 Thome is the vocation head in stroll off grand slams with 13. One of Thome's trademarks was his exceptional batting position, in which he held the bat out with his correct hand and pointed it at right field before the pitcher tossed, something he originally found in "The Natural". Thome was known for his reliably uplifting mentality and "gregarious" identity. A functioning altruist amid his playing profession, he was regarded with two Marvin Miller Man of the Year Awards and a Lou Gehrig Memorial Award for his locale contribution. In 2018, Thome was accepted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame. 

Thome was conceived in Peoria, Illinois, on August 27, 1970, and is the most youthful of five kids. A considerable lot of the Thome family played games: Jim's grandma was contracted at a neighborhood Caterpillar plant exclusively to play for the organization's softball crew; his dad manufactured bulldozers for Caterpillar and played moderate pitch softball; his auntie Caroline Thome Hart is in the Women's Softball Hall of Fame; and his two more seasoned siblings, Chuck III and Randy, played baseball at Limestone High School. Thome figured out how to play baseball from his dad on a tennis court, and furthermore played ball in what he portrayed as the "ghetto" of Peoria, taking note of that he was the main white child there yet that he earned the regard of his kindred players. One day amid his childhood, Thome sneaked into the Cubs' clubhouse at Wrigley Field in a fruitless endeavor to get a signature from his most loved player, Dave Kingman. Despite the fact that Thome got marks from a few different players, this experience impacted him to be liberal with marking signatures for fans amid his playing vocation. 

Like his more established siblings, Thome went to Limestone High School where he accomplished all-state praises in ball and as a baseball shortstop. His High school mentor was Karl Gottlieb. He played American Legion Baseball for Bartonville Limestone Post 979 in the place where he grew up, too. In spite of the fact that he had would have liked to draw the consideration of scouts, at just he was moderately underweight for his tallness, implying that he pulled in just passing interest—the normal Major League Baseball (MLB) player said something 1993. Thome graduated in 1988 and, after not being drafted, selected at Illinois Central College where he proceeded with his baseball and b-ball professions. After one season, he was drafted by MLB's Cleveland Indians as a "bit of hindsight" in the thirteenth round of the 1989 MLB draft. 

For the 1989 season, Thome was alloted to the Gulf Coast League Indians, a small time offshoot of the Cleveland Indians. He completed the year with a .237 batting normal, no grand slams, and 22 runs batted in (RBIs). After his new kid on the block season, he met "hitting master" Charlie Manuel, who later turned into his director and coach. Not at all like most Indians staff, Manuel saw potential in Thome and buckled down with him, especially on his hip movement while swinging the bat. Thome later stated, "[Manuel] saw something in me I didn't." During this work, Manuel proposed to Thome that he bring up bat out to focus field before the pitch to loosen up himself like Roy Hobbs did when batting in the baseball film "The Natural". The work satisfied; in 1990, Thome hit .340 and totaled 16 grand slams and 50 RBIs playing at both the Rookie and Class A dimensions of the small time. Thome burned through a large portion of the 1991 season part time between Double-An and Triple-A where, in blend, he hit .319 with 7 homers and 73 RBIs. 

Thome made his MLB debut on September 4, 1991, as a third baseman against the Minnesota Twins. In the diversion, he recorded two hits in four at bats (2-for-4). He hit his first profession grand slam on October 4. Wounds abbreviated his 1992 crusade, amid which he played for both the Indians and their Triple-An offshoot, the Colorado Springs Sky Sox. Over the minor and real alliances that year, he consolidated to hit .236 with 4 grand slams and 26 RBIs in 52 recreations. In 1993, playing for the most part for the Charlotte Knights, the Indians' new Triple-An offshoot, he drove the International League with a .332 batting normal and 102 RBIs, supplemented by 25 grand slams. This execution earned him a late season advancement to the real association, where he hit .266 with 7 grand slams and 22 RBIs in 47 recreations. 

After seven back to back seasons with a losing record, "another ballpark and a couple offseason acquisitions combined with rising youthful stars have made the Indians authentic contenders" for the division title amid their 1994 season. The Indians' center of hostile players included Carlos Baerga, Kenny Lofton, Sandy Alomar, Jr., Thome, and Eddie Murray. A "promising youth", without precedent for his vocation, Thome spent the whole 1994 season with Cleveland, playing in 98 amusements while hitting .268 with 20 grand slams and 52 RBIs. With assistance from the previously mentioned center, the Indians held the trump card spot in the American League (AL) and were one amusement behind the Chicago White Sox in the standings for the AL Central Division lead before the 1994 players' strike constrained crossing out of the period's outstanding recreations. Amid the strike-abbreviated season, Thome had his first vocation multi-grand slam amusement, hitting two solo homers on June 22, 1994, against Detroit Tigers' pitcher John Doherty. It was not until that the Indians' prosperity prompted a playoff compartment. Thome was among the group's heads at the plate, hitting .314 with 25 grand slams and 73 RBIs, and the Indians completed with a 100– 44 record to win the AL Central yet lost the 1995 World Series to the Atlanta Braves in six diversions. Thome hit .211 in the World Series with one grand slam and two RBIs. Going before the Indians' 1996 season, sportswriters anticipated that Thome would be climbed in the batting request and bat in the 6th position (he had hit anyplace from the fifth to the eighth positions amid his initial two seasons). Amid the 1996 season, Thome hit 38 grand slams, when hitting a homer at Cleveland's Jacobs Field, the longest grand slam ever at a Cleveland ballpark. 

Prior to their 1997 season, the Indians moved Thome, initially a third baseman, to initially base in the wake of procuring third baseman Matt Williams from the San Francisco Giants. That year, Thome helped the Indians set another establishment single-season record for grand slams (220), contributing 40 of them. Thome additionally totaled an AL-high 120 strolls to oblige 102 RBIs. Cleveland came back to the World Series, however they lost to the Florida Marlins in seven diversions; Thome hit .286 with two homers and four RBIs in the World Series. 

The following three seasons were not as effective as the past three for either Thome or the Indians. In July 1998, Thome hit his 24th grand slam of that season while helping the Indians end the Yankees' 10-amusement series of wins. An article in "Sports Illustrated" distributed in July 1998 remarked that in spite of Thome's initial vocation achievement (two All-Star Games and appearances in two of the past three World Series), he was just "faintly popular" broadly and was not especially surely understood outside of Cleveland or the place where he grew up, Peoria. His previous partner Jeromy Burnitz stated, "You can't generally say he's misjudged, in light of the fact that everyone thinks of him as one of the top hitters in the American League, however he's encompassed by such a large number of good players, it's difficult to emerge in that group." 

In August, Thome broke a bone in his correct hand and went through half a month on the debilitated rundown, missing 35 diversions. He completed the year with 30 homers and 85 RBIs while posting a .293 batting normal. In Game 3 of the AL Championship Series against the New York Yankees, he hit two homers off Andy Pettitte on the way to a 6– 1 Cleveland triumph. Cleveland in this way lost the arrangement to the Yankees. 

Headed into Cleveland's 1999 season, there were high trusts in the Indians; essayists expected Thome to bat in the cleanup spot of the batting request. In May 1999, Thome hit a great pummel against Yankees pitcher Orlando Hernández, which helped Cleveland to a 7– 1 triumph. Altogether, his batting normal tumbled to .277, yet he expanded the two his grand slam and RBI sums to 33 and 108, individually. In Game 1 of the AL Division Series, Thome hit an amusement tying two-run grand slam off of Derek Lowe that sprung Cleveland's thrashing of the Boston Red Sox by a score of 3– 2. Be that as it may, subsequent to driving two-amusements to-none, Cleveland lost the five-diversion arrangement. 

Amid the 2000 season, Thome hit .269 with 37 grand slams and 106 RBIs. On June 21, he hit his twentieth grand slam of the year against the Chicago White Sox, denoting the seventh continuous season in which he hit at least 20 homers. On September 29, while amidst a tight race for the AL Wild Card spot, Thome drove the Indians to a 8– 4 triumph against the Toronto Blue Jays by hitting a two-run grand slam. After the diversion, Thome was cited as saying, "This group has fought all year, so this was just the same old thing new. Here we are, and we're here tomorrow to play one more day." Despite completing with a record of 90– 72, the Indians missed the playoffs. For the 2001 Indians' season, he completed second in the AL with 49 homers. Furthermore, Thome had 124 RBIs and 111 strolls. In any case, he drove the class with 185 strikeouts. He and Juan González, who totaled 140 RBIs, fueled the Indians to another division title. Notwithstanding these numbers, the Indians could by and by just achieve the AL Division Series, where they lost in five diversions to the Seattle Mariners. 

Thome had his best season with Cleveland in 2002, driving the AL in strolls (122), slugging rate (.677) and on-base in addition to slugging (OPS) (1.122), while batting .304 (sixteenth in AL) with a .445 on-base rate (second in AL). He likewise hit a vocation high 52 homers (second in AL) and gathered 118 RBIs (seventh in AL). The 52 grand slams set another Cleveland Indians' single-season record and made Thome the 21st real alliance player to join the 50 homer club. 

On December 6, 2002, Thome, who was a free specialist, marked a six-year, $85 million contract with the Philadelphia Phillies – he thought the Phillies were nearer to winning a title than the Indians. With the Phillies, Thome's compensation ascended from $8 million every year to $11 million every year. Thome hit an establishment record 334 grand slams in his first spell with the Indians. 

Thome hit 47 grand slams in his first season with the Phillies, completing one behind Mike Schmidt's single-season group record of 48 out of 1980, and tied with Alex Rodriguez for the MLB lead in 2003. On June 14, 2004 at Citizens Bank Park, Thome hit his 400th vocation grand slam, outperforming Al Kaline for 37th on the untouched homer rundown. He finished the 2004 Phillies season with 42 homers. In 2004, Thome won the Lou Gehrig Memorial Award, which is given to players who best epitomize Gehrig's character and uprightness both on and off the field. 

Thome missed a noteworthy part of the principal half of the Phillies' 2005 season because of damage; he aggregated just a .207 batting normal with 7 homers and 30 RBIs going into the All-Star break. He had season-finishing medical procedure on his correct elbow in August, while his substitution at a respectable starting point, Ryan Howard, won the NL Rookie of the Year Award. The Phillies exchanged Thome and money contemplations to the Chicago White Sox on November 25, 2005, for outfielder Aaron Rowand and small time pitching prospects Gio González and Daniel Haigwood. In spite of the fact that the development of Howard made Thome progressively disposable to the squad, another factor in his exchange to the White Sox was his family circumstance – Thome's mom, the "go-to woman" in his family and his greatest fan, had kicked the bucket a year sooner, and he stressed over his dad. Since Philadelphia was eager to exchange him, Thome deferred the no-exchange proviso in his agreement for the benefit of the group and mentioned that if conceivable, they exchange him to Chicago so he could be with his dad. 

Thome turned into Chicago's customary assigned hitter in April 2006 and prospered in his first season in Chicago. He set the group record for most homers in the long stretch of April (10), surpassing Frank Thomas' past record by one. He additionally set a noteworthy association record by scoring in every one of Chicago's initial 17 recreations. For the season, Thome hit 42 grand slams, drove in 109 runs, and hit .288, however he struck out in 30% of his plate appearances, the most elevated rate in the AL. On May 1, 2006, Thome came back to Cleveland to play against the Indians in his first diversion as a guest at Jacobs Field, and got an apathetic gathering. 

On September 16, 2007, Thome joined the 500 grand slam club by hitting a stroll off grand slam against Los Angeles Angels pitcher Dustin Moseley. Thome turned into the 23rd major leaguer to achieve the achievement and the third in the 2007 MLB season (the others were Frank Thomas and Alex Rodriguez), just as the first ever to do it with a stroll off grand slam. A few relatives including his dad were available to observe the achievement, which happened at a diversion amid which the White Sox conveyed free Thome bobbleheads to fans. Thome celebrated by indicating upward in tribute his late mother as he adjusted the bases. 

On June 4, 2008, Thome hit a grand slam—which at the time was the ninth-longest grand slam in U.S. Cell Field history—against Kansas City Royals pitcher Luke Hochevar in a 6– 4 White Sox triumph. He hit a performance grand slam in the AL Central Tiebreaker diversion, which ended up being the distinction as the White Sox vanquished the Minnesota Twins, 1– 0. Thome's hitting stayed solid amid Chicago's 2009 season – he hit his 550th vocation grand slam. On July 17, 2009, he hit an excellent pummel and a three-run grand slam for a solitary amusement vocation high seven RBIs. By the finish of the period, he had passed Reggie Jackson for eleventh spot on the unequaled grand slam list with 564 homers. 

On August 31, 2009, the White Sox exchanged Thome to the Los Angeles Dodgers alongside budgetary contemplations for small time infielder Justin Fuller. Thome postponed his no-exchange provision since he figured the Dodgers could win the World Series, something he had never done amid his profession, yet Thome's solitary appearances with the Dodgers were as a substitute, because of perpetual foot wounds that restricted his portability. Thome rejoined with previous Cleveland colleague Manny Ramirez in Los Angeles. He hit .235 with no grand slams and three RBIs while with the Dodgers (4-for-17). After the season, Thome petitioned with the expectation of complimentary organization, in the long run marking with the Minnesota Twins. 

Thome hit his first grand slam with the Twins on April 8, amid the Twins' season-opening excursion. The Twins opened Target Field, their new home arena, on April 12, 2010. This was the third time in Thome's vocation that his group had opened another arena – the 1994 Cleveland Indians when they opened Jacobs Field, and the 2004 Philadelphia Phillies when they opened Citizens Bank Park. On July 3, Thome hit two homers, passing individual Twin Harmon Killebrew for tenth on the record-breaking grand slam list. The diversion was ceased and the Twins played a pre-recorded message from Killebrew praising Thome on the achievement, amid which Killebrew noted he was cheerful Thome did it while an individual from the Twins. Thome hit the principal stroll off hit in Target Field on August 17, a 445-foot two-run grand slam in the base of the tenth inning against the White Sox. It was the twelfth stroll off grand slam of his profession, tying him for the most unsurpassed (a record he in this way broke). On September 4, Thome again hit two grand slams in a solitary amusement to tie and afterward pass Mark McGwire for the ninth spot on the profession grand slam list. Thome outperformed Frank Robinson's grand slam aggregate on September 11, when he hit his 587th profession grand slam in the highest point of the twelfth inning in Cleveland. Close to the finish of the period, Thome remarked that playing with the Twins made him feel revived. He completed the 2010 season with a .283 normal, 25 grand slams and 59 RBIs. Thome posted his best slugging rate since 2002. 

In January 2011, Thome acknowledged a one-year, $3 million contract with impetuses to keep playing for the Twins. On July 17, Thome hit the longest grand slam ever at Target Field, a homer into the upper deck in right-focus field. He hit his 599th and 600th vocation homers (in two directly at bats) at Comerica Park in Detroit on August 15, making him just the eighth player to accomplish that grand slam all out. 

On August 26, 2011, Thome deferred his authoritative no-exchange proviso to come back to his first group, the Cleveland Indians, in return for future contemplations for the Twins. On September 18, the clubs declared that Minnesota had gotten $20,000 for him, which Aaron Gleeman of NBC Sports called "senseless" and "nothing"; Paul Hoynes of "The Plain Dealer" composed that ticket and shirt deals alone from re-getting Thome secured the cash they paid to procure him. On September 23, Cleveland held a service to respect Thome, and uncovered designs to erect a statue portraying him in Heritage Park. In the diversion, he hit a grand slam that arrived close to the proposed area for his statue. While with Cleveland in 2011, Thome played in 22 amusements, prevalently hitting fifth in the batting request, and he posted a .296 batting normal with 3 grand slams and 10 RBIs. Through 2011, he was second among all dynamic real leaguers in profession grand slams (604; behind Alex Rodriguez) and RBIs (1,674; Rodriguez), and fifth in vocation slugging rate (.556; behind Albert Pujols, Rodriguez, Ryan Braun, and Howard). Thome was the Indians' untouched pioneer in homers (337), strolls (1,008), and strikeouts (1,400). 

After the 2011 season, Thome consented to a one-year, $1.25 million arrangement that returned him to Philadelphia. He got back to coming to Philadelphia an "easy decision" in his news meeting. He additionally referenced that, due to Ryan Howard's Achilles ligament damage, he would "spend the offseason setting himself up to play a respectable starting point more than once per week", regardless of not having played protectively since 2007. Thome began his first diversion at a respectable starting point since 2007 on April 8, 2012, amid which he began a 3– 6– 3 twofold play. 

Thome experienced firmness in his lower back in the Phillies' amusement against the Chicago Cubs on April 28, and right on time in May, he was set on the 15-day incapacitated rundown with a stressed lower back. At the time, he was batting just .100. Thome came back to the club toward the beginning of June, and arranged for interleague play against the Baltimore Orioles as the DH. Thome completed the nine-diversion interleague excursion with four grand slams and 14 RBIs. 

On June 17, Thome turned into the fourth significant alliance player to hit 100 grand slams with three distinct groups, joining Reggie Jackson, Darrell Evans and Rodriguez. After six days, Thome hit a squeeze hit stroll off grand slam in the ninth inning off of Jake McGee to beat the Tampa Bay Rays, 7– 6. This was Thome's 609th grand slam, tying Sammy Sosa for seventh unequaled in homers while likewise setting the new record for most stroll off homers (13) in the cutting edge time. Thome's last diversion as a Phillie was an evening misfortune to the Miami Marlins on June 30. After the diversion (which harmonized with Howard's arrival from the handicapped rundown), the group declared that Thome had been exchanged to Baltimore to fill in as their assigned hitter. 

The Orioles refered to Thome's veteran experience on a playoff-bound group as an essential factor in getting him. Orioles catcher Matt Wieters said of Thome, 

On July 20, Thome hit his first grand slam with the Orioles, his 610th ever moving him past Sosa for seventh spot untouched, against the Indians at Progressive Field. On August 6, Thome was put on the 15-day crippled rundown with a herniated circle; he stayed on the DL until September 21. In his first amusement back, he drove in the diversion winning RBI in additional innings against the Boston Red Sox. Subsequent to beating the Indians in an amusement where he hit his 611th profession grand slam, Thome stated, "There's a ton [of] recollections. I've had extraordinary recollections on that side and after that coming in here as an adversary against them. Whenever you return home, they state, it's extraordinary. It's significantly increasingly exceptional to get the W's. That's, I think, the primary concern. The primary concern is I played here quite a while." Orioles colleagues commented at Thome's duty to discussing the diversion while in the hole. Thome commented, "I talk the amusement. When I sit in the hole amid amusements, I talk baseball to these folks. They'll ask, 'Hello, what's this pitcher like?' or 'Shouldn't something be said about the diversion?' 'Shouldn't something be said about every one of those Indians groups you were on?' I did it to Eddie Murray when he was in his 40s." The Orioles made the playoffs, yet lost in five recreations to the Yankees amid the AL Division Series. Thome hit .133 in the playoffs with no grand slams or RBIs. 

On July 2, 2013, Thome joined the White Sox association as unique aide to the general supervisor. Later on, Thome tries to be an administrator, a yearning that White Sox executive Jerry Reinsdorf wholeheartedly bolsters; Reinsdorf remarked, "He can be a batting mentor. He'd be an incredible batting mentor, yet some time or another he'll be a director." In March 2014, Thome elucidated that he isn't formally resigned; while he "adores" his front office work with the White Sox, he would "need to take" a call about him playing once more. Be that as it may, on August 2, 2014, he marked a one-day contract with the Cleveland Indians to resign formally as an individual from the group. 

On January 24, 2018, Thome was chosen into the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum. He was formally enlisted on July 29, 2018, close by Trevor Hoffman, Vladimir Guerrero, and Chipper Jones. The Indians resigned Thome's number 25 on August 18, 2018. 

Thome is viewed as an extraordinary case of an "unadulterated" control hitter, as shown by his .278 Isolated Power (ISO) rating. Thome's consistency was an attract for clubs to keep on marking him, even toward the very end of his 22-year profession and after most sluggers' profitability blurs. In 2011, he was positioned the 6th best assigned hitter in MLB history by Fox Sports. Amid his vocation, he assembled a .284 batting normal against fastballs yet accumulated only a .170 batting normal against sliders. 

Since Thome was a draw hitter, restricting groups regularly utilized a protective move against him; by playing three infielders on the correct side of the field and the outfielders towards his force side, groups place themselves in better position to field batted balls. In 2011, "Lindy's Sports" portrayed him as an "incredibly quiet veteran slugger who dispatches cripple fastballs and breaking-ball slip-ups to all fields", however they noted that he struck out much of the time, had poor speed, and should serve just as an assigned hitter. Amid his profession, he had solid power numbers; in 15 of his 22 seasons, he had a slugging level of more than .500. He is a case of a "three-genuine result" player; 47.6% of his vocation plate appearances brought about either grand slams, strikeouts, or strolls, the most elevated ever by almost seven rate focuses. He is a self-portrayed moderate sprinter, yet has said that he generally hustled. He stole just 19 bases after 1994. 

Thome started his profession playing third base and did as such until the 1997 season, when he changed over to initially base to make room at third after the Indians exchanged for Matt Williams. Wounds, in any case, incurred significant damage and limited him only to being an assigned hitter in the last phases of his vocation. Generally speaking, he burned through 10 separate stretches on the handicapped rundown, for the most part for his back. Before the finish of Thome's vocation, his back kept him from playing the field successfully – he played a respectable starting point multiple times with the Phillies in 2012, which denoted the first occasion when he played the field since 2007 with the White Sox. Before the finish of his vocation, journalists depicted him similar to a "gigantic risk in the field". 

Thome was known all through the baseball world for wearing high socks and for his one of a kind batting position. In 1997, the Indians wore high socks for his birthday in August, yet wound up wearing them for the rest of the period out of superstition and in the end achieved the World Series. Upon his arrival to the Indians in 2011, the club again wore the high socks as a tribute. His batting position included him directing his bat toward focus field before the pitch. Thome embraced this position from Charlie Manuel, who was the Indians hitting mentor, and from that point forward Ryan Howard has likewise received it. Thome credits his quiet disposition to his good example amid his initial playing years, Eddie Murray, once remarking, 

Thome's cordial identity has been the subject of much consideration. In a 2007 survey of 464 MLB players, he tied with Mike Sweeney for second-friendliest player, behind Sean Casey. After Thome hit his 600th grand slam, Twins nearer Joe Nathan stated, "He is the world's most pleasant man." Teammate Michael Cuddyer included, "He is the most pleasant, gentlest, kindest person you will ever meet ... to everything aside from the baseball, regardless he hits that actually hard." His graciousness comes up in discussions with numerous MLB players. When he marked with the Phillies in the offseason before the 2012 season, Phillies general administrator Rubén Amaro, Jr. refered to Thome's consistent inspirational frame of mind as a principle explanation behind his marking. As an activity in staying humble, he every year visited his secondary school preceding spring preparing. A "Sports Illustrated" article said that Thome every now and again signs signatures for fans and that he is "perpetually persistent with solicitations". In a piece for "Philadelphia" magazine talking about Thome's Baseball Hall of Fame prospects, sportswriter Stephen Silver composed, A fan survey in "The Plain Dealer" in 2003 named him the most prominent competitor in Cleveland sports history. 

In spite of his wounds all through his later years, Thome totaled, as per Fangraphs, 71.6 Wins Above Replacement (WAR), a sabermetrics baseball measurement planned to evaluate a player's all out commitments to a group. He was one of couple of players whose prime was amid the steroid period and was not associated with utilizing steroids; Thome stubbornly denies regularly utilizing execution upgrading drugs. Not long after the declaration of his front office position (which connoted the finish of his playing vocation), essayists started to guess about whether Thome would make it to the Baseball Hall of Fame, and all the more explicitly, regardless of whether he would get access in his first year of qualification in 2018. Authors likewise addressed whether Thome's application would be prevented by his absence of self-advancement and others' propensity to ignore him. 

Thome and his better half, Andrea, have two kids, Lila Grace and Landon. He has additionally settled assets to put his 10 nieces and nephews through school. Amid the offseason he lives in Burr Ridge, Illinois. ESPN's "SportsCenter" revealed that soon after his nephew, Brandon, was deadened in a mishap, he asked Thome to hit a grand slam for him; Thome obliged, hitting two in the resulting diversion. Thome is likewise a giver and given assistance to the networks encompassing the groups for which he played. In acknowledgment of his locale inclusion, he was given the Marvin Miller Man of the Year Award in 2001 and 2004, and the Lou Gehrig Memorial Award in 2004. In 2013, after the November 17, 2013 tornado flare-up struck Washington, Illinois, only 15 miles from the place where he grew up, he and his significant other swore to give $100,000 to aid ventures. Among the humanitarian undertakings Thome and his better half intensely support are Children's Home + Aid, which endeavors to help underprivileged kids dominatingly with discovering care (e.g., child care, reception, and so on.), and a yearly advantage to fund-raise for the Children's Hospital of Illinois, proceeding with a convention his mom began years prior. Besides, the Thomes attempt "to remain associated with somewhere around a couple of associations in every one of the urban areas" that Thome has played.