Nico Ditch 

Nico Ditch is a six-mile (9.7 km) long direct earthwork between Ashton-under-Lyne and Stretford in Greater Manchester, England. It was burrowed as a protective fortress, or potentially a limit marker, between the fifth and eleventh hundreds of years. 

The jettison is as yet obvious in short areas, for example, a stretch in Denton Golf Course. In the parts which endure, the dump is wide and up to profound. Some portion of the earthwork is secured as a Scheduled Ancient Monument. 

The soonest archived reference to the dump is in a sanction specifying the giving of land in Audenshaw to the priests of the Kersal Cell. In the record, dating from 1190 to 1212, the dump is alluded to as "Mykelldiche", and a "magnum fossatum", Latin for "vast discard". 

The name Nico (once in a while Nikker) for the discard ended up built up in the nineteenth and twentieth hundreds of years. It might have been gotten from the Anglo-Saxon "Hnickar", a water soul who seized and suffocated unwary voyagers, yet the advanced name is in all probability a debasement of the name Mykelldiche and its varieties, as the Anglo-Saxon word "micel" signified "enormous" or "extraordinary", beholding back to the mid thirteenth century portrayal of the discard as "magnum fossatum". An elective inference is that Nico originates from "nǽcan", an Anglo-Saxon action word signifying "execute". 

Nico Ditch extends between Ashton Moss () in Ashton-under-Lyne and Hough Moss (), only east of Stretford. It goes through Denton, Reddish, Gorton, Levenshulme, Burnage, Rusholme, Platt Fields Park in Fallowfield, Withington and Chorlton-cum-Hardy, crossing four metropolitan precincts of present-day Greater Manchester. The jettison matches with the limits between the precincts of Stockport and Manchester, and among Tameside and Manchester to the extent Denton fairway. A segment is presently underneath the Audenshaw Reservoirs, which were worked towards the finish of the nineteenth century. The jettison may have broadened west past Stretford, to Urmston (). 

The earthwork was built some time between the finish of Roman principle in Britain in the mid fifth century and the Norman victory in 1066. Its unique reason for existing is indistinct, yet it might have been utilized as a protective fortress or as a regulatory limit. It perhaps denoted a seventh century limit for the expansionist Anglo-Saxons, or it might have been a late eighth or mid ninth century limit marker between the kingdoms of Mercia and Northumbria. In the early medieval period, the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of Northumbria, Mercia and Wessex battled for power over North West England, alongside the Britons and the Danes. Whatever its prior use, the discard has been utilized as a limit since in any event the Middle Ages. 

Legend has it that Nico Ditch was finished in a solitary night by the occupants of Manchester, as an insurance against Viking intruders in 869– 870; Manchester may have been sacked by the Danes in 870. It was said that each man had an apportioned territory to develop, and was required to burrow his area of the discard and assemble a bank equivalent to his own stature. As per nineteenth century old stories, the jettison was the site of a fight among Saxons and Danes; the fight should have given the adjacent towns of Gorton and Reddish their names, from "Carnage Town" and "Red-Ditch", however the thought has been expelled by students of history as a "prevalent extravagant". The names get from "filthy farmstead" and "reedy jettison" separately. 

Classicists and history specialists have been keen on the jettison since the nineteenth century, however a lot of its course has been worked over. Somewhere in the range of 1990 and 1997, the University of Manchester Archeological Unit unearthed segments of the jettison in Denton, Reddish, Levenshulme and Platt Fields, trying to decide its age and reason. Albeit no date was built up for the dump's development, the examinations uncovered that the bank toward the north of the jettison is of twentieth century beginning. Together with the dump's profile, which is U-molded as opposed to the V-shape normally utilized in military trench and barriers, this recommends the reason for the earthwork was to check a regional limit. The finish of the undertaking was that the discard was presumably a limit marker. 

Notwithstanding substantial enduring, the dump is as yet unmistakable in short segments, which can be wide and up to profound. A stretch through Denton Golf Course, and a segment going through Platt Fields Park, are viewed as the best saved remains. In 1997, a section of the discard in Platt Fields was ensured as a Scheduled Ancient Monument. The remainder of the dump stays unprotected.