Tony Hawk's Underground 

Tony Hawk's Underground is a skateboarding computer game distributed by Activision in 2003, the fifth passage in the "Tony Hawk's" arrangement. Neversoft built up the GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox variants, Beenox built up the Microsoft Windows rendition, which was discharged in Australia and New Zealand as a spending discharge in 2004, while the Game Boy Advance adjustment was created by Vicarious Visions and a portable form by Jamdat. 

"Underground" is based upon the skateboarding equation of past "Tony Hawk's" amusements: the player investigates levels and finishes objectives while performing traps. The amusement includes another emphasis on customization; the player, rather than choosing an expert skater, makes a custom character. "Underground" adds the capacity for players to get off their sheets and investigate by walking. The plot pursues the player character and their companion Eric Sparrow as the two become experts and become separated. 

The diversion was created with a subject of distinction, which was showed in the broad customization choices, the nearness of an account, and the item's portrayal as an experience amusement. True proficient skateboarders contributed their encounters to the plot. Upon discharge, the diversion was a noteworthy basic and business achievement, with commentators applauding its wide intrigue, soundtrack, customization, multiplayer, and plot. The designs and the controls for driving vehicles and strolling were less generally welcomed. "Underground"s PlayStation 2 form had sold 2.11 million duplicates in the United States by December 2007. A continuation, "Underground 2", was discharged in 2004. 

Like its ancestors in the "Tony Hawk's" arrangement, "Underground" is focused on skateboarding in a progression of levels. The player performs traps by means of mixes of simple stick and catch inputs. For instance, the player starts an ollie (a bounce trap) by holding and discharging the hop catch. Amid an ollie, the player may change the situation of the simple stick and press one of two catches to perform either a flip trap, (for example, an outlandish or kickflip) or a snatch trap, (for example, a benihana or nosegrab). The player can granulate on specific edges and rails; diverse traps might be performed amid a crush dependent on the situation of the simple stick. On quarter pipes, the player may execute lip traps. While skating on level surfaces, the player may manual in numerous ways through catch mixes. Incidental traps incorporate corrosive drops and divider rides. 

While a pound, lip, or manual trap is in progress, an equalization meter shows up: except if the player keeps this meter from tumbling to one side or right, the character will safeguard and need a couple of moments to recoup. Safeguarding can likewise be brought about by falling without one's board confronting descending. Finishing traps in progression without safeguarding is known as a combo. Comboing raises the player's score and tops off the Special Meter; when it is full, the player is conceded access to progressively expound traps worth more focuses, for example, the McTwist and 540 Flip. "Underground" acquaints the capacity with descent one's skateboard, which enables the player to investigate levels all the more cautiously and achieve new regions. Each dimension includes no less than one vehicle, generally a vehicle, that the player can drive. 

The dimensions depend on areas of the United States and different nations. In each dimension, certain assignments that advance the diversion's account must be finished before the player can proceed onward. These errands incorporate score assaults, races, thing accumulation, and achieving one of numerous holes found in a dimension. Each dimension houses one expert skateboarder, who gives a sidequest that opens a trap for the Special Meter. By virtue of the dimensions' substantial sizes and the coordination of objectives into the story, "Underground" has been depicted as an experience amusement. Characters can step up their details—which incorporate bounce tallness and speed—by finishing discretionary objectives in a dimension; this includes a component of pretending interactivity. Other ongoing interaction modes incorporate multiplayer minigames—one, a battle mode called "Firefight", can be played online in the PlayStation 2 rendition of the diversion—and a "free skate" mode that gives the player a chance to investigate levels without any objectives or story. 

"Underground" highlights broad customization. The player makes a custom character for the story mode, and may not play as a pre-made proficient skater outside a couple of settings: an extraordinary scene late in the amusement, minigames, and the free skate mode. A dimension proofreader enables the player to make skate parks with a vast exhibit of articles, going from customary skate park components like halfpipes, inclines, funboxes, and pound rails to increasingly shocking pieces like structures and areas of raised turnpikes. The player can change their park's season of day and ecological topic. Traps, skateboards, and level objectives might be altered too. 

While the reassure forms of the amusement are completely three-dimensional, the Game Boy Advance variant is rendered in an isometric style that fuses both 2D sprites and 3D models. This variant is an increasingly conventional "Tony Hawk's" diversion, with little consideration given to story or customization. The versatile variant is likewise confined. 

The hero and their companion, Eric Sparrow, live in rural New Jersey and dream of getting to be celebrated skateboarders. The hero figures out how to awe proficient skater Chad Muska, dropping by the neighborhood for a demo, who gives them another skateboard and advises them that a decent method to begin a skating profession is to pick up a sponsorship from a nearby skate shop. The hero searches out Stacy Peralta, who concurs until he sees something to separate them from the other neighborhood skaters, so the hero goes to Manhattan with Eric, who is on the pursued from street pharmacists setting their vehicle ablaze for taking from the skate shop. 

There, the pair shoot a skating video that inspires Stacy, who advances them a van and proposes they enter the Tampa AM, a novice division skate challenge held yearly at the Skate Park of Tampa in Tampa, Florida. Upon entry, Eric is captured for offending a cop, and the hero does favors for the neighborhood police office to verify his safeguard. Be that as it may, when they land for the challenge, it is uncovered that Eric had just finished his very own application structure and not the protagonist's, driving a down and out hero to attempt and awe rivals in the expert challenge so as to pick up affirmation. In the wake of inspiring Tony Hawk, the hero wins the Best Trick occasion at Tampa AM and is offered bargains by significant skateboard supports, sadly. The hero at that point heads to San Diego, California to meet Todd, the supervisor of the group, and finishes a few photograph shoots for a magazine. Following a wild festival party, it is uncovered that Eric has been grabbed by a similar support. 

The group at that point flies out to Hawaii to film a video, with the hero going for neighborhood recognizes that skaters have not taped at previously. Finding a tall inn, the hero ascensions to the rooftop and enlisted people Eric to film a trap video on it. The police touch base to capture them for trespassing, however the hero utilizes the chance to play out a McTwist over the helicopter and onto the shade of a neighboring lodging, permitting them and an awestruck Eric to dodge the police. The group at that point goes to Vancouver, British Columbia. In the wake of doing errands for local people and completing their piece of the group video, the hero goes to the video debut at the Slam City Jam. Nonetheless, Eric takes the thought and alters the hero's part out of the video, permitting just Eric to turn into an expert. After furiously standing up to Eric, the hero participates in Eric's star challenge and wins, turning into a professional too. 

Subsequent to planning their own master skateboard, the hero and Eric set out in a group outing to Moscow, Russia, where they accommodate. In any case, Eric gets alcoholic and joyrides in a Russian military tank. The hero bounces in and endeavors to stop the tank, however being new to the controls, neglects to prevent it from smashing. Eric bounces out and flees, leaving the hero, caught inside, to be captured by the Russian military. Eric then lies and claims the hero stole the tank, expressing that he in reality attempted to stop them. Reluctant to pay the $700,000 worth of harms, Todd dismisses the hero from the group, a lot to Eric's enjoyment. The American Embassy ransoms the hero, abandoning them to do favors for local people so as to return home to New Jersey. 

Eric, who currently possesses his very own skate organization, uncovers that he had been intending to double-cross the hero in the wake of having long relinquishing the possibility of "soul skating" (skating for happiness as opposed to wealth); after fruitlessly endeavoring to excluded them from the Tampa AM, Eric stole the helicopter film in envy before at last getting the hero commenced the skate group by lying back in Moscow. Resolved to battle back, the hero collaborates with Peralta and a few experts to make a spirit skating video, making another trap simultaneously. Because of the accomplishment of the video, Eric provokes the hero to one final skate-off, with the unedited helicopter tape in question. The hero wins by maintaining a strategic distance from Eric's endeavors to cheat and leaves with the tape while Eric separates in resentment. 

In the event that the story has been finished more than once, a substitute completion happens, where the hero thumps Eric oblivious, taking the tape back as opposed to holding the skate-off. 

The amusement highlights numerous true proficient skateboarders including: Tony Hawk, Chad Muska, and Stacy Peralta. "Underground" likewise includes appearance appearances by Iron Man, a satire of C.H.U.D. called T.H.U.D., and Kiss bassist Gene Simmons. 

The GameCube, PlayStation 2, and Xbox renditions of "Underground" were created by Neversoft, while the Game Boy Advance variant was created by Vicarious Visions the portable form by Jamdat, and the Windows adaptation made by Beenox. Activision, which had obtained Neversoft in 1999, distributed all forms of the amusement. 

"Underground" was made with a subject of uniqueness: it stars a beginner skater in a genuine story mode, though each past "Tony Hawk's" diversion had featured proficient skaters and had come up short on a plot. One explanation behind just enabling the player to utilize a custom character was that sure criminal acts finished in the plot would not ponder well true skaters. Past diversions in the arrangement had included character-creation includes also, however Neversoft extended customization in "Underground" by actualizing face-examining for the PlayStation 2 adaptation: if the player messaged a photo of their face to "faces@thugonline.com", the organization would digitize it for use in the amusement. As to customization alternatives, particularly the recreation center supervisor, maker Stacey Drellishak expressed that Neversoft was "attempting to make the most adjustable amusement ever". The engineers utilized narrating and investigation to separate their item from the plotless, task-based organization of past "Tony Hawk's" amusements, which drove Neversoft president Joel Jewett to depict "Underground" as an undertaking diversion. 

Levels in the reassure renditions of "Underground" were fundamentally bigger than those of prior "Tony Hawk's" recreations. Neversoft extended each dimension until it stopped to run effectively, at that point contracted it somewhat. The vast majority of the dimensions were displayed firmly after true areas; the architects headed out to districts illustrative of every city in the amusement and accepting photos and recordings as reference. The New Jersey level was a replication of an area where group craftsman Henry Ji had grown up as a youthful skater. Neversoft needed the player to get comfortable with the essential amusement mechanics rapidly and to see "Underground"s contrasts from past "Tony Hawk's" titles right away. To achieve this, they acquainted the capacity with movement by walking, and the capacity to move along edges in the initial couple of missions of the amusement. While Neversoft needed to keep "Underground" sensible and relatable generally, they included driving side-missions as an agreeable redirection and to push the limits of opportunity in skateboarding recreations. Be that as it may, these missions were proposed not to detract from the primary experience of skateboarding. 

"Star Skater 4", "Underground"s ancestor in the "Tony Hawk's" arrangement, had gotten analysis for its trouble: Neversoft had not understood that each amusement in the arrangement was drawing new fans who were not used to the requesting errands. Subsequently, Neversoft added four trouble settings to "Underground"s story mode, going from "Excessively Easy" to "Wiped out". Neversoft needed players to create aptitudes for higher trouble settings on Too Easy while as yet advancing through the story. The organization had included very troublesome missions in each past "Tony Hawk's" amusement; the techniques used to make these missions were the motivation for "Underground"s Sick mode. Advancement of the essential ongoing interaction mechanics and structure started rapidly however before the finish of August 2003, just two months before the diversion's American discharge, work was still in advancement. 

While the diversion's cutscenes are energized with 3D illustrations, the group recorded cutting edge recordings to present this present reality skateboarding groups, so players could more readily see each group before choosing one to join. Neversoft talked with expert skaters about their encounters of getting to be known in the skateboarding scene, at that point ordered components of these accounts into the amusement's content. Each skater who shows up in the plot created their very own scenes and voiced their own character. 

The amusement was advanced with a playable demo at Microsoft's "GameRiot" occasion held at Lollapalooza in July 2003. Activision worked up energy for "Underground" with the "Tony Hawk's Face Off Mobile Tour", a progression of special occasions crosswise over 29 urban communities in October 2003. Participants could play the amusement early and contend in it for tickets to Boom Huck Jam 2003, which Tony Hawk himself visited. Activision, which supported the October 2003 Gravity Games extraordinary games rivalry, advanced the diversion at the occasion and utilized its rendering motor to demonstrate traps performed by this present reality skaters. The support and Game Boy Advance adaptations were discharged on October 28 in the United States, November 14 in Europe, and May 2004 in Japan. The versatile adaptation was discharged worldwide in January 2004. 

"Tony Hawk's Underground" got "for the most part positive" audits, as indicated by survey aggregator Metacritic. GameZone's Michael Knutson expressed that "Underground" is "a standout amongst the best skating recreations around" and that players of each expertise level would appreciate it. Eurogamer's Tom Bramwell agreed: "as a 'get and-play' kind of diversion, "Hooligan" is interminably compensating once you get your head round the rudiments, and it's the best section point for the arrangement to date." 

The story was generally welcomed. Joe Rybicki of "Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine" commended that "out of the blue I can recall, an extraordinary games diversion really has a genuine story [with] true blue characters". IGN's Douglas Perry called it "a kick, though moderately lightweight in nature". He particularly lauded the inescapable comical inclination in the account and in the depiction of genuine skaters. Knutson called the story "extraordinary" and expressed, "I truly like that Neversoft had the guts to have a go at something this radical and dump the equation that they realize works so well." Ben Silverman of Game Revolution depicted the amusement's plot as a "senseless" cross between those of the 1980s movies "North Shore" and "Shining the Cube", yet he commended it for offering setting to the dimension objectives and keeping separation between the expertise opens. Bramwell called it "overdone". Rybicki found that the plot hurt the amusement's replay esteem and made missions be excessively oversimplified. On the other hand, "Diversion Informer"s Justin Leeper felt that "it serves to make a portion of the less-engaging objectives mediocre, on the grounds that there's an explanation behind doing them." 

The amusement's style were commonly generally welcomed. Bramwell called the designs "unaltered and progressively out of date" and reprimanded the nearness of "sharp, rakish character models, frightfully impossible lighting and odd little minutes when the player is attempting to transform round and winds up slamming into a check". Knutson, in the interim, was sure in regards to the illustrations, craftsmanship, and movement: he called them "almost impeccable" and commended the authenticity they conveyed to the intrinsically fantastical skateboarding class. Williams said that ""THUG"s cityscapes are inconceivably very much structured" and singled out the GameCube form of "Underground" as outstandingly all around rendered. Rybicki called the dimensions "huge and lovely". Knutson praised the soundtrack's extensive size and the audio cues' authenticity. Perry valued the "entertainingly frightful" damage sounds and the broad tune list. Paradoxically, IGN's Craig Harris commended the designs of the Game Boy Advance form however was progressively blended on the soundtrack. 

The other interactivity modes were gotten great. Knutson commended the diversion's high level of customization; he abridged that "everything is elucidated a hundred overlap: from make a-skater to make a-recreation center mode, it is basically astounding". He singled out the dimension supervisor as one of the most profound he had ever observed. GameSpy's Bryn Williams recognized the dimension manager as an "incredibly very much structured" highlight that added to the by and large "brightness" of the full item. Leeper said that every customization mode is "natural and easy to understand", and both he and Rybicki particularly appreciated the trap creation highlight. Analysts for "Famitsu" magazine adulated the story mode, whose open world arrangement they contrasted with the "Fabulous Theft Auto" arrangement. Knutson and Perry delighted in the multiplayer, especially the online Firefight mode. Williams thought correspondingly and expressed that "the most eminent disillusionment" of the diversion was the absence of online play for non-PlayStation 2 proprietors. Harris found the board customization of the Game Boy Advance rendition to be ineffectively actualized, however inside and out. In spite of his commendation for the customization modes, Leeper conceded that his most prominent satisfaction still originated from "searching out incredible lines and beating my scores". 

The strolling and driving controls were scrutinized. Bramwell asserted that these modes felt "like they've been appended with an old stick of paste that is about as cement as child oil". Knutson concurred, however he adulated the oddity of these redirections. He expressed that "the Tony Hawk arrangement has dependably had uncommon controls" and that "Underground", by and large, was no special case. Perry felt that the element expanded dimensions' replay esteem. Also, "Famitsu" analysts noticed that, in spite of the fact that the amusement's quick pace makes it very testing on occasion, the high trouble gives a feeling of achievement when hops and traps are performed effectively. Williams found the GameCube rendition's controls unremarkable, yet reasonable. Damon Brown from GameSpot expressed that the portable form's prohibitive controls—numerous traps require three catch inputs—were that variant's solitary proviso. 

"Underground" won Best Sports Game at the 2003 Game Critics Awards facilitated by Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). The 2004 MTV Video Music Awards presented another classification, Best Video Game Soundtrack, which "Underground" won. In Europe the week after the amusement's discharge, the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube forms were separately the fifth, 6th, and eighth-smash hit recreations for those consoles. It would stay continuous in the best twenty of consistently until January 24, 2004, for the Xbox and GameCube and February 21 for the PlayStation 2, comprehensive. As of December 2007, the PlayStation 2 release of the amusement had sold 2.11 million duplicates in the United States. The GameCube rendition settled on Nintendo's Player's Choice rundown by selling 250,000 duplicates in the United States. Its PlayStation 2 form additionally got a "Platinum" deals grant from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), showing offers of something like 300,000 duplicates in the United Kingdom. 

Neversoft and Activision discharged a spin-off, "Underground 2", on October 4, 2004, for Microsoft Windows, GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, Game Boy Advance, and PlayStation Portable consoles. The plot proceeds with that of "Underground" and spotlights on the player character and their group disrupting a restricting group. The ongoing interaction, structure, and level plan are fundamentally the same as those of "Underground". Be that as it may, "Underground 2" includes new traps and ongoing interaction mechanics, similar to the Natas turn, the capacity to plant redid stickers in levels with the "sticker slap", a moderate movement "Center" mode, and the capacity to procure focuses by having a fit of rage in the wake of falling. The plot is set in new areas, including Boston, New Orleans, Berlin, and Barcelona.