Abu Nidal 

Sabri Khalil al-Banna (May 1937 – 16 August 2002), known as Abu Nidal, was the organizer of Fatah: The Revolutionary Council, an aggressor Palestinian chip bunch all the more usually known as the Abu Nidal Organization (ANO). At the tallness of its capacity during the 1980s, the ANO was generally viewed as the most savage of the Palestinian gatherings. 

Abu Nidal ("father of battle") shaped the ANO in October 1974 after a split from Yasser Arafat's Fatah group inside the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO). Going about as an independent contractual worker, Abu Nidal is accepted to have requested assaults in 20 nations, executing more than 300 and harming more than 650. The gathering's activities incorporated the Rome and Vienna air terminal assaults on 27 December 1985, when shooters opened flame on travelers in concurrent shootings at El Al ticket counters, executing 20. Patrick Seale, Abu Nidal's biographer, composed of the shootings that their "arbitrary cold-bloodedness checked them as commonplace Abu Nidal activities". 

Abu Nidal kicked the bucket after a shooting in his Baghdad condo in August 2002. Palestinian sources trusted he was slaughtered on the requests of Saddam Hussein, while Iraqi authorities demanded he had ended it all amid a cross examination. "He was the loyalist turned maniac", David Hirst wrote in the "Gatekeeper" on the updates on his demise. "He served just himself, just the twisted individual drives that pushed him into revolting wrongdoing. He was a definitive hired soldier." 

Abu Nidal was conceived in Jaffa, on the Mediterranean shoreline of what was then the British Mandate of Palestine. His dad, Hajj Khalil al-Banna, claimed 6,000 sections of land (24 km) of orange forests arranged among Jaffa and Majdal, today Ashkelon in Israel. The family lived in extravagance in a three-story stone house close to the shoreline, later utilized as an Israeli military court. Muhammad Khalil al-Banna, Abu Nidal's sibling, told Yossi Melman: 

Khalil al-Banna's riches enabled him to take a few spouses. As per Abu Nidal in a meeting with "Der Spiegel", his dad had 13 spouses, 17 children and eight girls. Melman composes that Abu Nidal's mom was the eighth spouse. She had been one of the family's house cleaners, a 16-year-old Alawite young lady. The family disliked the marriage, as indicated by Patrick Seale, and subsequently Abu Nidal, Khalil's twelfth kid, was evidently looked down on by his more established kin, in spite of the fact that in later life the connections were fixed. 

In 1944 or 1945, his dad sent him to Collège des Frères de Jaffa, a French mission school, which he went to for one year. At the point when his dad passed on in 1945, when Abu Nidal was seven years of age, the family turned his mom out of the house. His siblings removed him from the mission school and selected him rather in an esteemed, private Muslim school in Jerusalem, presently known as Umariya Elementary School, which he went to for around two years. 

On 29 November 1947, the United Nations made plans to segment Palestine into an Arab and Jewish state. Battling broke out promptly, and the disturbance of the citrus-natural product business hit the family's salary. In Jaffa there were nourishment deficiencies, truck bombs and an Irgun mortar barrage. Melman composes that the al-Banna family had great relations with the Jewish people group. Abu Nidal's sibling disclosed to Melman that their dad had been a companion of Avraham Shapira, an originator of the Jewish safeguard association, Hashomer: "He would visit [Shapira] in his home in Petah Tikva, or Shapira riding his steed would visit our home in Jaffa. I additionally recall how we visited Dr. Weizmann [later first leader of Israel] in his home in Rehovot." But it was war, and the connections did not support them. 

Just before Jaffa was vanquished by Israeli troops in April 1948, the family fled to their home close Majdal, yet the Jewish state armies touched base there as well, and they needed to escape once more. This time they went to the Bureij displaced person camp in the Gaza Strip, at that point under Egyptian control. Melman composes that the family gone through nine months living in tents, subject to UNRWA for a recompense of oil, rice and potatoes. The experience powerfully affected Abu Nidal. 

The al-Banna family's business experience, and the cash they had figured out how to take with them, implied they could set themselves up in business once more, Melman composes. Their orange forests had gone, presently part of the new province of Israel, which had proclaimed its freedom on 14 May 1948. The family moved to Nablus in the West Bank, at that point under Jordanian control. In 1955, Abu Nidal moved on from secondary school, joined the Arab patriot Ba'ath party, and started a degree course in building at Cairo University, yet he left following two years without a degree. In 1960, he advanced toward Saudi Arabia, where he set himself up as a painter and circuit tester, and filled in as an easygoing worker for Aramco. His sibling revealed to Melman that Abu Nidal would come back to Nablus from Saudi Arabia consistently to visit his mom. It was amid one of those visits in 1962 that he met his better half, whose family had additionally fled from Jaffa. The marriage created a child and two little girls. 

Abu Nidal was regularly in weakness, as per Seale, and would in general dress in speed up coats and old pants, drinking whisky consistently in his later years. He progressed toward becoming, composes Seale, an "ace of camouflages and subterfuge, confiding in nobody, forlorn and self-defensive, [living] like a mole, concealed far from general visibility". Colleagues said that he was able to do diligent work and had a decent budgetary mind. Salah Khalaf (Abu Iyad), the vice president of Fatah who was killed by the ANO in 1991, realized him well in the late 1960s when he encouraged Abu Nidal. He told Seale: 

He had been prescribed to me as a man of vitality and excitement, however he appeared to be modest when we met. It was just on further colleague that I saw different qualities. He was incredibly great organization, with a sharp tongue and a tendency to expel the majority of mankind as covert agents and double crossers. I rather loved that! I found he was eager, maybe more than his capacities justified, and furthermore truly sensitive. He now and again stirred himself up into such an express, that he lost all forces of thinking. 

Seale proposes that Abu Nidal's adolescence clarified his identity, depicted as clamorous by Abu Iyad and as psychopathic by Issam Sartawi, the late Palestinian heart specialist. His kin's disdain, the loss of his dad, and his mom's expulsion from the family home when he was seven, at that point the loss of his home and status in the contention with Israel, made a psychological universe of plots and counterplots, reflected in his domineering authority of the ANO. Individuals' spouses (it was an all-male gathering) were not permitted to become a close acquaintence with each another, and Abu Nidal's better half was required to live in detachment without companions. 

In Saudi Arabia Abu Nidal helped found a little gathering of youthful Palestinians who considered themselves the Palestine Secret Organization. The activism cost him his activity and home: Aramco terminated him, and the Saudi government detained then ousted him. He came back to Nablus with his significant other and family, and joined Yasser Arafat's Fatah group of the PLO. Filling in as a random temp job man, he was focused on Palestinian legislative issues yet was not especially dynamic, until Israel won the 1967 Six-Day War, catching the Golan Heights, the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Melman composes that "the passage of the Israel Defense Forces tanks into Nablus was an awful encounter for him. The success excited him to activity." 

In the wake of moving to Amman, Jordan, he set up an exchanging organization called Impex, which went about as a front for Fatah, filling in as a gathering spot and channel for assets. This turned into a sign of Abu Nidal's vocation. Organizations constrained by the ANO made him a rich man by taking part in genuine business bargains, while going about as spread for arms arrangements and hired soldier activities> 

At the point when Fatah requested that he pick a "nom de guerre", he picked Abu Nidal ("father of battle") after his child, Nidal. The individuals who knew him at the time said he was an efficient pioneer, not a guerrilla; amid battling between the Palestinian "fedayeen" and King Hussein's troops, he remained in his office. In 1968 Abu Iyad selected him as the Fatah delegate in Khartoum, Sudan, at that point (at Abu Nidal's request) to a similar position in Baghdad in July 1970, two months before Black September, when more than 10 days of battling King Hussein's military drove the Palestinian "fedayeen" out of Jordan, with the loss of thousands of lives. Abu Nidal's nonappearance from Jordan amid this period, Seale composes, when plainly King Hussein was going to act against the Palestinians, raised doubt inside the development that he was intrigued just with regards to sparing himself. 

Not long after Black September, Abu Nidal started blaming the PLO, over his Voice of Palestine radio station in Iraq, of weakness for having consented to a truce with Hussein. Amid Fatah's Third Congress in Damascus in 1971, he joined Palestinian lobbyist and essayist Naji Allush and Abu Daoud (pioneer of the Black September Organization in charge of the 1972 Munich Massacre) in calling for more noteworthy majority rules system inside Fatah and vengeance against King Hussein. 

In February 1973, Abu Daoud was captured in Jordan for an endeavor on King Hussein's life. This prompted Abu Nidal's first task, utilizing the name "Al-Iqab" ("the Punishment"). On 5 September 1973, five shooters entered the Saudi consulate in Paris, took 15 prisoners and took steps to explode the structure if Abu Daoud was not discharged. The shooters flew two days after the fact to Kuwait on a Syrian Airways flight, as yet holding five prisoners, at that point to Riyadh, taking steps to toss the prisoners out of the flying machine. They surrendered and discharged the prisoners on 8 September. Abu Daoud was discharged from jail two weeks after the fact; Seale composes that the Kuwaiti government paid King Hussein $12 million for his discharge. 

Upon the arrival of the assault, 56 heads of state were meeting in Algiers for the fourth gathering of the Non-Aligned Movement. As indicated by Seale, the Saudi Embassy activity had been authorized by Iraq's leader, Ahmed Hasan al-Bakr, as a diversion since he was envious that Algeria was facilitating the gathering. Seale thinks of one of the prisoner takers conceded that he had been advised to fly the prisoners around until the meeting was finished. 

Abu Nidal had completed the task without the consent of Fatah. Abu Iyad (Arafat's representative) and Mahmoud Abbas (later President of the Palestinian Authority), traveled to Iraq to prevail upon Abu Nidal that prisoner taking hurt the development. Abu Iyad revealed to Seale that an Iraqi authority at the gathering stated: "For what reason would you say you are assaulting Abu Nidal? The task was our own! We approached him to mount it for us." Abbas was angry and left the gathering with the other PLO delegates. Starting there on, Seale composes, the PLO viewed Abu Nidal as under the control of the Iraqi government. 

After two months, in November 1973 (soon after the Yom Kippur War in October), the ANO commandeered KLM Flight 861, this time utilizing the name Arab Nationalist Youth Organization. Fatah had been talking about meeting a harmony gathering in Geneva; the seizing was expected to caution them not to proceed with it. Accordingly, in March or July 1974, Arafat removed Abu Nidal from Fatah. 

In October 1974 Abu Nidal shaped the ANO, calling it Fatah: The Revolutionary Council. In November that year a Fatah court condemned him to death "in absentia" for the endeavored death of Mahmoud Abbas. Seale composes that it is far-fetched that Abu Nidal had expected to slaughter Abbas, and similarly as improbable that Fatah needed to execute Abu Nidal. He was welcome to Beirut to talk about capital punishment, and was permitted to leave once more, yet obviously he had progressed toward becoming "persona non grata". Therefore, the Iraqis gave him Fatah's benefits in Iraq, including a preparation camp, ranch, paper, radio station, international IDs, abroad grants and $15 million worth of Chinese weapons. He additionally gotten Iraq's customary guide to the PLO: around $150,000 per month and a single amount of $3– 5 million. 

Notwithstanding Fatah: The Revolutionary Council, the ANO considered itself the Palestinian National Liberation Movement, Black June (for activities against Syria), Black September (for activities against Jordan), the Revolutionary Arab Brigades, the Revolutionary Organization of Socialist Muslims, the Egyptian Revolution, Revolutionary Egypt, "Al-Asifa" ("the Storm," a name likewise utilized by Fatah), "Al-Iqab" ("the Punishment"), and the Arab Nationalist Youth Organization. 

The gathering had up to 500 individuals, browsed young fellows in the Palestinian displaced person camps and in Lebanon, who were guaranteed great pay and help caring for their families. They would be sent to preparing camps in whichever nation was facilitating the ANO at the time (Syria, Iraq or Libya), at that point sorted out into little cells. Once in, As'ad AbuKhalil and Michael Fischbach compose, they were not permitted to leave once more. The gathering accepted unlimited authority over the enrollment. One part who addressed Patrick Seale was told before being sent abroad: "On the off chance that we state, 'Drink liquor'", do as such. In the event that we state, 'Get hitched,' discover a lady and wed her. In the event that we state, 'Don't have youngsters,' you should comply. On the off chance that we state, 'Proceed to slaughter King Hussein,' you should be prepared to forfeit yourself!" 

Seale composes that initiates were approached to work out their biographies, including names and addresses of family and companions, at that point sign a paper saying they consented to execution whenever found to have knowledge associations. Whenever suspected, they would be approached to rework the entire story, without inconsistencies. The ANO's paper "Filastin al-Thawra" consistently reported the execution of tricksters. Abu Nidal trusted that the gathering had been entered by Israeli operators, and there was a feeling that Israel may have utilized the ANO to undermine progressively moderate Palestinian gatherings. Psychological warfare specialists respect the view that Abu Nidal himself was such operator as "unrealistic". 

There were reports of cleanses all through the 1980s. Around 600 ANO individuals were executed in Lebanon and Libya, incorporating 171 out of one night in November 1987, when they were arranged, shot and tossed into a mass grave. Handfuls were grabbed in Syria and slaughtered in the Badawi outcast camp. The vast majority of the choices to execute, Abu Daoud told Seale, were taken by Abu Nidal "amidst the night, after he [had] thumped back an entire jug of bourbon." The cleanses prompted the abandonment from the ANO in 1989 of Atif Abu Bakr, leader of the ANO's political directorate, who came back to Fatah. 

Individuals were routinely tormented by the "Board of trustees for Revolutionary Justice" until they admitted to traitorousness. Seale composes that reports of torment included hanging a man bare, whipping him until he was oblivious, restoring him with virus water, at that point scouring salt or bean stew powder into his injuries. A bare detainee would be constrained into a vehicle tire with his legs and posterior noticeable all around, at that point whipped, injured, salted and restored with virus water. A part's balls may be fricasseed in oil, or softened plastic dribbled onto his skin. Between cross examinations, detainees would be tied up in minor cells. In the event that the cells were full, Seale composes, they may be covered with a pipe in their mouths for air and water; if Abu Nidal needed them dead, a projectile would be terminated down the pipe. 

The Intelligence Directorate was shaped in 1985 to administer extraordinary tasks. It had four subcommittees: the Committee for Special Missions, the Foreign Intelligence Committee, the Counterespionage Committee and the Lebanon Committee. Driven by Abd al-Rahman Isa, the longest-serving individual from the ANO—Seale composes that Isa was whiskered and pitiful, yet beguiling and powerful—the directorate kept up 30– 40 individuals abroad who took care of the ANO's arms reserves in different nations. It prepared staff, orchestrated international IDs and visas, and assessed security at airplane terminals and seaports. Individuals were not permitted to visit each other at home, and nobody outside the directorate should realize who was a part. Abu Nidal downgraded Isa in 1987, trusting he had turned out to be excessively near different figures inside the ANO. Continuously quick to rebuff individuals by embarrassing them, he demanded that Isa stay in the Intelligence Directorate, where he needed to work for his past subordinates, who as indicated by Seale were advised to treat him with scorn. 

The activity of the Committee for Special Missions was to pick targets. It had begun life as the Military Committee, headed by Naji Abu al-Fawaris, who had driven the assault on Heinz Nittel, leader of the Israel-Austria Friendship League, who was shot and slaughtered in 1981. In 1982 the advisory group changed its name to the Committee for Special Missions, headed by Dr. Ghassan al-Ali, who had been conceived in the West Bank and taught in England, where he acquired a BA and MA in science and wedded a British lady (later separated). A previous ANO part revealed to Seale that Ali supported "the most outrageous and foolhardy activities." 

On 3 June 1982, ANO usable Hussein Ghassan Said shot Shlomo Argov, the Israeli minister to Britain, once in the head as he left the Dorchester Hotel in London. Said was joined by Nawaf al-Rosan, an Iraqi insight officer, and Marwan al-Banna, Abu Nidal's cousin. Argov endure, however gone through three months in a state of extreme lethargy and a mind-blowing remainder incapacitated, until his passing in February 2003. The PLO immediately rejected obligation for the assault. 

Ariel Sharon, at that point Israel's protection serve, reacted three days after the fact by attacking Lebanon, where the PLO was based, a response that Seale contends Abu Nidal had planned. The Israeli government had been getting ready to attack and Abu Nidal gave an appearance. "Der Spiegel" put it to him in October 1985 that the death of Argov, when he realized Israel needed to assault the PLO in Lebanon, influenced him to have all the earmarks of being working for the Israelis, in the perspective on Yasser Arafat. He answered: 

What Arafat says about me doesn't trouble me. He, yet in addition an entire rundown of Arab and world government officials guarantee that I am an operator of the Zionists or the CIA. Others express that I am a hired fighter of the French mystery administration and of the Soviet KGB. The most recent gossip is that I am a specialist of Khomeini. Amid a specific period they said we were spies for the Iraqi routine. Presently they state that we are Syrian agents. ... Numerous clinicians and sociologists in the Soviet alliance endeavored to research this man Abu Nidal. They needed to locate a frail point in his character. The outcome was zero. 

Abu Nidal's most notorious task was the 1985 assault on the Rome and Vienna air terminals. On 27 December, at 08:15 GMT, four shooters opened flame on the El Al ticket counter at the Leonardo Da Vinci International Airport in Rome, slaughtering 16 and injuring 99. In Vienna International Airport a couple of minutes after the fact, three men tossed hand explosives at travelers hanging tight to register with a trip to Tel Aviv, killing four and injuring 39. As per Seale, the shooters had been told the general population in regular citizen garments at the registration counter were Israeli pilots coming back from a preparation mission. 

Austria and Italy had both been associated with endeavoring to mastermind harmony talks. Sources near Abu Nidal disclosed to Seale that Libyan insight had provided the weapons. The harm to the PLO was huge, as per Abu Iyad, Arafat's delegate. The vast majority in the West and even numerous Arabs couldn't recognize the ANO and Fatah, he said. "At the point when such terrible things occur, standard individuals are left reasoning that all Palestinians are culprits." 

On 15 April 1986, the US propelled bombarding strikes from British bases against Tripoli and Benghazi, slaughtering around 100, in countering for the besieging of a Berlin club utilized by US administration work force. The dead were accounted for to incorporate Hanna Gaddafi, the supportive little girl of Libyan pioneer Muammar Gaddafi; two of his other youngsters were harmed. English writer Alec Collett, who had been abducted in Beirut in March, was hanged after the airstrikes, purportedly by ANO agents; his remaining parts were found in the Beqaa Valley in November 2009. The collections of two British educators, Leigh Douglas and Philip Padfield, and an American, Peter Kilburn, were found in a town close Beirut on 17 April 1986; the Arab Fedayeen Cells, a name connected to Abu Nidal, asserted duty. English columnist John McCarthy was seized that day. 

On 17 April 1986—the day the collections of the educators were found and McCarthy was captured—Ann Marie Murphy, a pregnant Irish housekeeper, was found in Heathrow airplane terminal with a Semtex bomb in the bogus base of one of her packs. She had been going to load up an El Al departure from New York to Tel Aviv by means of London. The sack had been stuffed by her Jordanian life partner Nizar Hindawi, who had said he would join her in Israel where they were to be hitched. As indicated by Melman, Abu Nidal had prescribed Hindawi to Syrian insight. Seale composes that the bomb had been made by Abu Nidal's specialized board of trustees, who had conveyed it to Syrian aviation based armed forces knowledge. It was sent to London in a conciliatory sack and given to Hindawi. As indicated by Seale, it was broadly trusted that the assault was in light of Israel having constrained down a fly, two months sooner, conveying Syrian authorities to Damascus, which Israel had assumed was conveying senior Palestinians. 

On 5 September 1986, four ANO shooters seized Pan Am Flight 73 at Karachi Airport on its way from Mumbai to New York, holding 389 travelers and group for 16 hours in the plane on the landing area before exploding projectiles inside the lodge. Neerja Bhanot, the flight's senior purser, had the capacity to open a crisis entryway, and most travelers got away; 20 kicked the bucket, including Bhanot, and 120 were injured. The London "Times" detailed in March 2004 that Libya had been behind the seizing. 

Abu Nidal started to move his association out of Syria to Libya in the mid year of 1986, touching base there in March 1987. In June that year the Syrian government removed him, to some degree in light of the Hindawi undertaking and Pan Am Flight 73 capturing. He over and over assumed acknowledgment amid this period for activities in which he had no contribution, including the 1984 Brighton inn shelling, 1985 Bradford City arena shoot, and 1986 death of Zafer al-Masri, the city hall leader of Nablus (slaughtered by the PFLP, as indicated by Seale). By distributing a salutary note in the ANO's magazine, he additionally suggested that he had been behind the 1986 Space Shuttle Challenger calamity, composes Seale. 

Abu Nidal and Libya's pioneer, Muammar Gaddafi, supposedly wound up incredible companions, each holding what Marie Colvin and Sonya Murad called a "hazardous blend of a feeling of inadequacy blended with the conviction that he was a man of extraordinary predetermination". The relationship gave Abu Nidal a support and Gaddafi a hired soldier. Seale reports that Libya drew out the most exceedingly bad in Abu Nidal. He would not permit even the most senior ANO individuals to associate with one another; all gatherings must be accounted for to him. All international IDs must be given over. Nobody was permitted to go without his consent. Normal individuals were not permitted to have phones; senior individuals were permitted to make nearby calls as it were. His individuals thought nothing about his day by day life, including where he lived. On the off chance that he needed to engage, Seale composes, he would assume control over the home of another part. 

As per Abu Bakr, addressing "Al Hayatt" in 2002, Abu Nidal said he was behind the bombarding of Pan Am Flight 103, which detonated over Lockerbie, Scotland, on 21 December 1988; a previous head of security for Libyan Arab Airlines was later indicted. Abu Nidal allegedly said of Lockerbie, as indicated by Seale: "We do have some inclusion in this issue, however on the off chance that anybody to such an extent as notices it, I will murder him with my own hands!" Seale composes that the ANO seemed to have no association with it; one of Abu Nidal's partners let him know, "If an American fighter stumbled in some side of the globe, Abu Nidal would quickly guarantee it as his own work." 

In the late 1980s British knowledge discovered that the ANO held records with the Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI) in London. BCCI was shut in July 1991 by banking controllers in six nations after proof developed of across the board misrepresentation. Abu Nidal himself was said to have visited London utilizing the name Shakar Farhan; a BCCI branch supervisor, who passed data about the ANO records to MI5, supposedly drove him around a few stores in London without acknowledging his identity. Abu Nidal was utilizing an organization called SAS International Trading and Investments in Warsaw as spread for arms bargains. The organization's exchanges incorporated the buy of uproar weapons, apparently for Syria, at that point when the British rejected a fare permit to Syria, for an African state; truth be told, a large portion of the shipment went to the police in East Germany and half to Abu Nidal. 

On 14 January 1991 in Tunis, the prior night US powers moved into Kuwait, the ANO killed Abu Iyad, head of PLO knowledge, alongside Abu al-Hol, Fatah's head of security, and Fakhri al-Umari, another Fatah assistant; every one of the three men were shot in Abu Iyad's home. The executioner, Hamza Abu Zaid, admitted that an ANO employable had contracted him. When he shot Abu Iyad, he allegedly yelled, "Let Atif Abu Bakr help you now!", a reference to the senior ANO part who had left the gathering in 1989, and whom Abu Nidal accepted had been planted inside the ANO by Abu Iyad as a government operative. Abu Iyad had realized that Abu Nidal breast fed a disdain of him, to a limited extent since he had kept Abu Nidal out of the PLO. In any case, the genuine purpose behind the disdain, Abu Iyad told Seale, was that he had ensured Abu Nidal in his initial a long time inside the development. Given his identity, Abu Nidal couldn't recognize that obligation. Seale composes that the homicide "should along these lines be viewed as a last settlement of old scores". 

After Libyan knowledge agents were accused of the Lockerbie bombarding, Gaddafi attempted to separate himself from fear based oppression. Abu Nidal was removed from Libya in 1999, and in 2002 he came back to Iraq. The Iraqi government later said he had entered the nation utilizing a phony Yemeni visa and false name. 

On 19 August 2002, the Palestinian paper "al-Ayyam" announced that Abu Nidal had passed on three days sooner of numerous gunfire wounds at his home in Baghdad, a house the paper said was possessed by the "Mukhabarat", the Iraqi mystery administration. After two days Iraq's head of knowledge, Taher Jalil Habbush, gave out photos of Abu Nidal's body to writers, alongside a therapeutic report that said he had kicked the bucket after a slug entered his mouth and left through his skull. Habbush said Iraqi authorities had landed at Abu Nidal's home to capture him on doubt of scheming with remote governments. In the wake of saying he required a difference in garments, he went into his room and shot himself in the mouth, as per Habbush. He kicked the bucket eight hours after the fact in emergency clinic. 

"Jane's" accounted for in 2002 that Iraqi knowledge had discovered ordered reports in his home about a US assault on Iraq. When they struck the house, battling broke out between Abu Nidal's men and Iraqi insight. Amidst this, Abu Nidal raced into his room and was killed; Palestinian sources told "Jane's" that he had been shot a few times. "Jane's" recommended Saddam Hussein had him slaughtered in light of the fact that he dreaded Abu Nidal would act against him in case of an American intrusion. 

In 2008 Robert Fisk acquired a report written in September 2002, for Saddam Hussein's "administration knowledge office," by Iraq's "Unique Intelligence Unit M4." The report said that the Iraqis had been examining Abu Nidal in his home as a speculated covert operative for Kuwait and Egypt, and by implication for the United States, and that he had been asked by the Kuwaitis to discover interfaces among Iraq and Al-Qaeda. Just before being moved to a progressively secure area, Abu Nidal requested to be permitted to change his apparel, went into his room and shot himself, the report said. He was covered on 29 August 2002 in al-Karakh's Islamic burial ground in Baghdad, in a grave checked M7.