Attack of Constantinople (674– 678) 

The First Arab Siege of Constantinople in 674– 678 was a noteworthy clash of the Arab– Byzantine wars, and the main perfection of the Umayyad Caliphate's expansionist technique towards the Byzantine Empire, driven by Caliph Mu'awiya I. Mu'awiya, who had risen in 661 as the leader of the Muslim Arab realm following a common war, restored forceful fighting against Byzantium following a slip by of certain years and planned to convey a deadly pass up catching the Byzantine capital, Constantinople. 

As revealed by the Byzantine writer Theophanes the Confessor, the Arab assault was systematic: in 672– 673 Arab armadas verified bases along the shorelines of Asia Minor, and after that continued to introduce a free bar around Constantinople. They utilized the landmass of Cyzicus close to the city as a base to spend the winter, and restored each spring to dispatch assaults against the city's strongholds. At last, the Byzantines, under Emperor Constantine IV, figured out how to wreck the Arab naval force utilizing another development, the fluid flammable substance known as Greek flame. The Byzantines likewise vanquished the Arab land armed force in Asia Minor, constraining them to lift the attack. The Byzantine triumph was of significant significance for the survival of the Byzantine state, as the Arab risk retreated for a period. A harmony settlement was marked before long, and following the episode of another Muslim common war, the Byzantines even encountered a time of domination over the Caliphate. 

The attack left a few follows in the legends of the beginning Muslim world, despite the fact that it is conflated with records of another endeavor against the city a couple of years already, driven by the future Caliph Yazid I. Therefore, the veracity of Theophanes' record was addressed in 2010 by Oxford researcher James Howard-Johnston, who set more accentuation on the Arabic and Syriac sources. Then again, echoes of a substantial attack of Constantinople and a consequent harmony arrangement achieved China, where they were recorded in later chronicles of the Tang line. 

Following the shocking Battle of Yarmouk in 636, the Byzantine Empire pulled back the heft of its outstanding powers from the Levant into Asia Minor, which was protected from the Muslim development by the Taurus Mountains. This left the field open for the warriors of the beginning Rashidun Caliphate to finish their victory of Syria, with Egypt too falling not long after. Muslim attacks against the Cilician wilderness zone and profound into Asia Minor started as right on time as 640, and proceeded under Mu'awiya, at that point legislative head of the Levant. Mu'awiya additionally led the advancement of a Muslim naval force, which inside a couple of years became adequately solid to involve Cyprus and attack similar to Kos, Rhodes and Crete in the Aegean Sea. At long last, the youthful Muslim naval force scored a devastating triumph over its Byzantine partner in the Battle of Phoenix in 655. Following the homicide of Caliph Uthman and the flare-up of the First Muslim Civil War, Arab assaults against Byzantium halted. In 659, Mu'awiya even finished up a détente with Byzantium, including installment of tribute to the Empire. 

The harmony kept going until the finish of the Muslim common war in 661, from which Mu'awiya and his tribe developed successful, building up the Umayyad Caliphate. From the following year, Muslim assaults recommenced, with tension building as Muslim armed forces started wintering on Byzantine soil west of the Taurus extend, boosting the disturbance caused to the Byzantine economy. These land undertakings were some of the time combined with maritime assaults against the banks of southern Asia Minor. In 668, the Arabs sent guide to Saborios, "strategos" of the Armeniac Theme, who had revolted and broadcasted himself head. The Arab troops under Fadhala ibn 'Ubayd arrived past the point where it is possible to help Saborios, who had passed on subsequent to tumbling from his steed, and they spent the winter in the Hexapolis around Melitene anticipating fortifications. 

In spring 669, subsequent to accepting extra troops, Fadhala entered Asia Minor and progressed similar to Chalcedon, on the Asian shore of the Bosporus opposite the Byzantine capital, Constantinople. The Arab assaults on Chalcedon were repulsed, and the Arab armed force was pulverized by starvation and infection. Mu'awiya dispatched another military, driven by his child (and future Caliph) Yazid, to Fadhala's guide. Records of what pursued contrast. The Byzantine recorder Theophanes the Confessor reports that the Arabs stayed before Chalcedon for some time before coming back to Syria, and that on their way they caught and garrisoned Amorium. This was the first run through the Arabs attempted to hold a caught stronghold in the inside of Asia Minor past the battling season, and likely implied that the Arabs proposed to return one year from now and utilize the town as their base, however Amorium was retaken by the Byzantines amid the consequent winter. Middle Easterner sources then again report that the Muslims traversed into Europe and propelled an ineffective assault on Constantinople itself, before coming back to Syria. Given the absence of any notice of such a strike in Byzantine sources, it is most plausible that the Arab writers—assessing Yazid's quality and the way that Chalcedon is a suburb of Constantinople—"redesigned" the assault on Chalcedon to an assault on the Byzantine capital itself. 

The battle of 669 obviously exhibited to the Arabs the likelihood of an immediate strike at Constantinople, just as the need of having a supply base in the locale. This was found in the landmass of Cyzicus on the southern shore of the Sea of Marmara, where an assaulting armada under Fadhala ibn 'Ubayd wintered in 670 or 671. Mu'awiya now started setting up his last strike on the Byzantine capital. Rather than Yazid's endeavor, Mu'awiya proposed to take a waterfront course to Constantinople. The endeavor pursued a watchful, staged methodology: first the Muslims needed to verify strongpoints and bases along the coast, and after that, with Cyzicus as a base, Constantinople would be barricaded via land and ocean and cut off from the agrarian hinterland that provided its sustenance. 

Likewise, in 672 three extraordinary Muslim armadas were dispatched to verify the ocean paths and build up bases among Syria and the Aegean. Muhammad ibn Abdallah's armada wintered at Smyrna, an armada under a certain Qays (maybe Abdallah ibn Qays) wintered in Lycia and Cilicia, and a third armada, under Khalid, went along with them later. As per the report of Theophanes, the Emperor Constantine IV (), after learning of the Arab armadas' methodology, started preparing his own armada for war. Constantine's deadly implement included siphon-bearing boats expected for the arrangement of a recently created combustible substance, Greek flame. In 673, another Arab armada, under Gunada ibn Abu Umayya, caught Tarsus in Cilicia, just as Rhodes. The last mentioned, halfway among Syria and Constantinople, was changed over into a forward supply base and place for Muslim maritime attacks. Its battalion of 12,000 men was consistently pivoted back to Syria, a little armada was joined to it for guard and attacking, and the Arabs even sowed wheat and conveyed along creatures to touch on the island. The Byzantines endeavored to hinder the Arab plans with a maritime assault on Egypt, yet it was fruitless. All through this period, overland strikes into Asia Minor proceeded, and the Arab troops wintered on Byzantine soil. 

In 674, the Arab armada cruised from its bases in the eastern Aegean and entered the Sea of Marmara. As indicated by the record of Theophanes, they arrived on the Thracian shore close Hebdomon in April, and until September were occupied with consistent conflicts with the Byzantine troops. As the Byzantine writer reports, "Each day there was a military commitment from morning until night, between the outworks of the Golden Gate and the Kyklobion, with push and counter-push". At that point the Arabs left and made for Cyzicus, which they caught and changed over into a braced camp to spend the winter. This set the example that proceeded all through the attack: each spring, the Arabs crossed the Marmara and ambushed Constantinople, pulling back to Cyzicus for the winter. Actually, the "attack" of Constantinople was a progression of commitment around the city, which may even be extended to incorporate Yazid's 669 assault. Both Byzantine and Arab writers record the attack as going on for a long time rather than five. This can be accommodated either by including the opening efforts of 672– 673, or by tallying the years until the last withdrawal of the Arab troops from their forward bases, in 680. 

The subtleties of the conflicts around Constantinople are indistinct, as Theophanes gathers the attack in his record of the primary year, and the Arab writers don't make reference to the attack at everything except simply give the names of pioneers of unspecified campaigns into A byzantine area. Accordingly from the Arab sources it is just realized that Abdallah ibn Qays and Fadhala ibn 'Ubayd attacked Crete and wintered there in 675, while around the same time Malik ibn Abdallah drove an assault into Asia Minor. The Arab students of history Ibn Wadih and al-Tabari report that Yazid was dispatched by Mu'awiya with fortifications to Constantinople in 676, and record that Abdallah ibn Qays drove a crusade in 677, the objective of which is obscure. 

In the meantime, the distraction with the Arab risk had decreased Byzantium's capacity to react to dangers somewhere else: in Italy, the Lombards utilized the chance to vanquish a large portion of Calabria, including Tarentum and Brundisium, while in the Balkans, an alliance of Slavic clans assaulted the city of Thessalonica and propelled seaborne strikes in the Aegean, notwithstanding infiltrating into the Sea of Marmara. 

At long last, in harvest time 677 or mid 678 Constantine IV made plans to stand up to the Arab besiegers in a head-on commitment. His armada, outfitted with Greek flame, steered the Arab armada. It is likely that the demise of chief of naval operations Yazid ibn Shagara, detailed by Arab writers for 677/678, is identified with this annihilation. At about a similar time, the Muslim armed force in Asia Minor, under the direction of Sufyan ibn 'Awf, was vanquished by the Byzantine armed force under the officers Phloros, Petron and Cyprian, losing 30,000 men as per Theophanes. These annihilations constrained the Arabs to forsake the attack in 678. On its way back to Syria, the Arab armada was nearly obliterated in a tempest off Syllaion. 

The fundamental blueprint of Theophanes' record might be confirmed by the main close contemporary Byzantine reference to the attack, a celebratory sonnet by the generally obscure Theodosius Grammaticus, which was prior accepted to allude to the second Arab attack of 717– 718. Theodosius' sonnet honors a definitive maritime triumph before the dividers of the city—with the fascinating subtlety that the Arab armada too had flame tossing boats—and makes a reference to "the dread of their returning shadows", which might be deciphered as affirming the repetitive Arab assaults each spring from their base in Cyzicus. 

Constantinople was the operational hub of the Byzantine state. Had it fallen, the Empire's outstanding territories would have been probably not going to hold together, and would have turned out to be simple prey for the Arabs. In the meantime, the disappointment of the Arab assault on Constantinople was a groundbreaking occasion in itself. It denoted the climax of Mu'awiya's crusade of whittling down, sought after consistently since 661. Monstrous assets were filled the endeavor, including the production of an enormous armada. Its disappointment had also critical repercussions, and spoke to a noteworthy hit to the Caliph's eminence. On the other hand, Byzantine esteem achieved new statures, particularly in the West: Constantine IV got agents from the Avars and the Balkan Slavs, with a bounty of presents blessings and congrats and recognizing Byzantine amazingness. The resulting harmony likewise gave a genuinely necessary reprieve from consistent assaulting to Asia Minor, and enabled the Byzantine state to recuperate its equalization and unite itself following the disastrous changes of the earlier decades. 

The disappointment of the Arabs before Constantinople agreed with the expanded action of the Mardaites, a Christian gathering living in the mountains of Syria that opposed Muslim control and assaulted the swamps. Looked with this new danger, and after the monstrous misfortunes endured against the Byzantines, Mu'awiya started arrangements for a ceasefire, with international safe havens traded between the two courts. These were drawn out until 679, giving the Arabs time for a last strike into Asia Minor under 'Amr ibn Murra, maybe proposed to put weight on the Byzantines. The harmony bargain, of an ostensible 30-year length, gave that the Caliph would pay a yearly tribute of 3,000 "nomismata", 50 ponies and 50 slaves. The Arab battalions were pulled back from their bases on the Byzantine coastlands, including Rhodes, in 679– 680. 

Not long after the Arab retreat from his capital, Constantine IV rapidly sent an endeavor against the Slavs in the territory of Thessalonica, diminishing their robbery, assuaging the city and reestablishing royal power over the city's environment. Following the finish of harmony, he moved against the mounting Bulgar danger in the Balkans, however his tremendous armed force, including all the accessible powers of the Empire, was definitively beaten, opening the path for the foundation of a Bulgar state in the northeastern Balkans. In the Muslim world, after the passing of Mu'awiya in 680, the different powers of resistance inside the Caliphate showed themselves. The Caliphate's division amid this Second Muslim Civil War enabled Byzantium to accomplish harmony, yet additionally a place of power on its eastern boondocks. Armenia and Iberia returned for an opportunity to Byzantine control, and Cyprus turned into a townhouse among Byzantium and the Caliphate. The harmony endured until Constantine IV's child and successor, Justinian II (), broke it in 693, with crushing outcomes: the Byzantines were vanquished, Justinian was dismissed and a twenty-year time of rebellion pursued. Muslim attacks strengthened, prompting a second Arab endeavor at overcoming Constantinople in 717– 718, which additionally demonstrated fruitless. 

Later Arab sources harp broadly on the occasions of Yazid's 669 undertaking and assumed assault on Constantinople, including different legendary accounts, which are taken by current grant to allude to the occasions of the 674– 678 attack. A few critical identities of early Islam are referenced as partaking, for example, Ibn Abbas, Ibn Umar and Ibn al-Zubayr. The most noticeable among them in later custom is Abu Ayyub al-Ansari, one of the early friends ("Anṣār") and leading figure of Muhammad, who kicked the bucket of sickness before the city dividers amid the attack and was covered there. As indicated by Muslim convention, Constantine IV took steps to decimate his tomb, yet the Caliph cautioned that on the off chance that he did as such, the Christians under Muslim principle would endure. In this way the tomb was left in harmony, and even turned into a site of reverence by the Byzantines, who implored there in the midst of dry season. The tomb was "rediscovered" after the Fall of Constantinople to the Ottoman Turks in 1453 by the dervish Sheik Ak Shams al-Din, and Sultan Mehmed II () requested the development of a marble tomb and a mosque neighboring it. It turned into a convention that Ottoman sultans were girt with the Sword of Osman at the Eyüp mosque upon their increase. Today it stays one of the holiest Muslim places of worship in Istanbul. 

This attack in the Chinese dynastic accounts of the "Old Book of Tang" and "New Book of Tang". They record that the substantial, all around braced capital city of "Fu lin" (拂菻; for example Byzantium) was assaulted by the "Da shi" (大食, for example the Umayyad Arabs) and their officer "Mo-yi" (Chinese: 摩拽伐之, Pinyin: "Mó zhuāi fá zhī"), who Friedrich Hirth has distinguished as Mu'awiya. The Chinese narratives at that point clarify that the Arabs constrained the Byzantines to pay tribute a while later as a major aspect of a harmony settlement. In these Chinese sources, "Fu lin" was straightforwardly identified with the before "Daqin", which is currently considered by present day sinologists as the Roman Empire. Henry Yule commented with some unexpected the exactness of the record in Chinese sources, which even named the arbitrator of the harmony settlement as "Yenyo", or Ioannes Pitzigaudes, the anonymous agent sent to Damascus in Edward Gibbon's record in which he specifies a growth of tributary installments a couple of years after the fact because of the Umayyads confronting some money related inconveniences. 

The story of the attack acknowledged by current antiquarians depends to a great extent for Theophanes, while the Arab and Syriac sources don't specify any attack, yet rather singular battles, just a couple of which came to the extent Constantinople. In this way the catch of an island named Arwad "in the ocean of "Kustantiniyya"" is recorded for 673/674, despite the fact that it is hazy if this alludes to the Sea of Marmara or the Aegean, and Yazid's 676 endeavor is likewise said to have achieved Constantinople. The Syriac writers likewise can't help contradicting Theophanes in putting the conclusive fight and devastation of the Arab armada by Greek flame in 674 amid an Arab undertaking against the banks of Lycia and Cilicia, as opposed to Constantinople. This was trailed by the arrival of Byzantine powers in Syria in 677/678, which started the Mardaite uprising that undermined the Caliphate's hold on Syria enough to result in the harmony understanding of 678/679. 

In view of a re-assessment of the first sources utilized by the medieval students of history, the Oxford researcher James Howard-Johnston, in his acclaimed 2010 book "Observers to a World Crisis: Historians and Histories of the Middle East in the Seventh Century", rejects the conventional understanding of occasions, in light of Theophanes, for the Syriac recorders' variant. Howard-Johnston states that no attack really occurred, put together not just with respect to its nonappearance in the eastern sources, yet additionally on the calculated inconceivability of such an endeavor for the term detailed. Rather, he trusts that the reference to an attack was a later interjection, affected by the occasions of the second Arab attack of 717– 718, by an unknown source that was then utilized by Theophanes. As per Howard-Johnston, "The barricade of Constantinople during the 670s is a legend which has been permitted to cover the genuine achievement accomplished by the Byzantines in the most recent decade of Mu'awiya's caliphate, first via ocean off Lycia and after that ashore, through a revolt which, a little while later, stirred profound uneasiness among the Arabs, cognizant as they were that they had just covered the Middle East with their capacity". 

Then again, Marek Jankowiak at https://www.academia.edu/7091574/The_First_Arab_Siege_of_Constantinople contends that a noteworthy Arab attack occurred however that Theophanes (expounding on 140 years after the occasions, in view of a mysterious source itself expounded on 50 years after the occasions) misdated and distorted the occasions, and that the correct dating of the attack ought to be 667-669, with Spring 668 for the significant assault.