John Douglas (draftsman) 

John Douglas (11 April 183023 May 1911) was an English draftsman who planned over 500 buildings in Cheshire, North Wales, and northwest England, specifically in the bequest of Eaton Hall. He was prepared in Lancaster and rehearsed all through his vocation from an office in Chester. At first he ran the training individually, however from 1884 until two years before his passing he worked in organizations with two of his previous collaborators. 

Douglas' yield included new chapels, reestablishing and revamping existing holy places, church goods, new houses and adjustments to existing houses, and an assortment of different structures, including shops, banks, workplaces, schools, remembrances and open structures. His building styles were diverse. Douglas worked amid the time of the Gothic Revival, and a significant number of his works consolidate components of the English Gothic style. He was additionally impacted by structural styles from the territory of Europe and included components of French, German and Dutch design. Anyway he is most likely best associated with his consolidation of vernacular components in his structures, specifically half-timbering, impacted by the highly contrasting recovery in Chester. Other vernacular components he joined incorporate tile-hanging, pargeting, and the utilization of improving block in diapering and the plan of tall smokestack stacks. Of specific significance is Douglas' utilization of joinery and exceedingly point by point wood cutting. 

All through his vocation he pulled in commissions from affluent landowners and industrialists, particularly the Grosvenor group of Eaton Hall. The vast majority of his works have endure, especially his temples. The city of Chester contains some of his structures, the most appreciated of which are his half-timbered high contrast structures and Eastgate Clock. The most astounding centralization of his work is found in the Eaton Hall domain and the encompassing towns of Eccleston, Aldford and Pulford. 

John Douglas was conceived at Park Cottage, Sandiway, Cheshire, on 11 April 1830 and purified through water on 16 May 1830 at St Mary's Church, Weaverham. He was the second of the four kids, and the main child, of John Douglas and his significant other Mary née Swindley (1792– 1863). John Douglas senior was conceived in Northampton about 1798– 1800 and his better half was conceived in Aldford, a town on the Eaton home in Cheshire; her dad was the town metal forger at Eccleston, another town in the Eaton bequest. John Douglas senior was in terms of professional career a manufacturer and joiner, and furthermore depicted himself as a surveyor and a timber shipper. In 1835 he went about as engineer for a house at Hartford, a town among Sandiway and Northwich. At the season of the 1851 evaluation he was utilizing 48 men. He claimed land in Sandiway, and a house and land in the neighboring town of Cuddington. 

Nothing is known about John Douglas junior's school training. He picked up information and involvement in his dad's structure yard and workshop which were connected to the family house. In the mid or late 1840s he was articled to E. G. Paley, of Sharpe and Paley, planners in Lancaster, Lancashire. At the point when his articles were finished, Douglas turned into Paley's main right hand. In either 1855 or 1860 he built up his own office at No. 6 Abbey Square, Chester. 

Douglas' senior sister, Elizabeth, was conceived in 1827. His more youthful sisters were Mary Hannah and Emma, who were conceived in 1832 and 1834 separately. Mary Hannah kicked the bucket five months before Emma's introduction to the world, and Emma herself passed on in 1848. Douglas wedded Elizabeth Edmunds, a rancher's little girl from Bangor-is-y-Coed, Flintshire, on 25 January 1860 in St Dunawd's Church in the town, a congregation he was later to reestablish. At first the couple lived over the workplace at 6 Abbey Square, and later they moved nearby to No. 4. Their five kids were conceived in these houses, John Percy in 1861, Colin Edmunds in 1864, Mary Elizabeth in 1866, Sholto Theodore the next year, and Jerome in 1869. Just two of the youngsters made due to adulthood; Mary Elizabeth kicked the bucket from red fever in 1868, Jerome lived for just a couple of days, and John Percy passed on matured 12 of every 1873. 

Around 1876 the family moved to inhabit 31 and 33 Dee Banks, Chester, one of a couple of semi-withdrew houses disregarding the River Dee, which were worked by Douglas. His significant other kicked the bucket in 1878 from laryngitis following a year's sickness. Douglas did not remarry. His child Colin prepared as a designer and worked in Douglas' office yet kicked the bucket in 1887 at 23 years old from utilization. His other child Sholto isn't known to have had any calling however he was a substantial consumer of liquor. Amid the 1890s Douglas constructed a huge house for himself, Walmoor Hill, likewise at Dee Banks ignoring the waterway. Here he lived until his demise on 23 May 1911 at 81 years old. His memorial service was held at Overleigh old graveyard, Chester, where he was covered. The next Sunday a dedication administration was held at St John the Evangelist's Church, Sandiway. His bequest added up to somewhat over £32,000 (). Aside from his enduring structures, just two dedications stay to his memory. One is a tablet in St Paul's Church, Boughton, the congregation in which he adored and which he had revamped. The other is a plaque put on one of his structures in St Werburgh Street, Chester, in 1923 by his understudies and partners. 

Douglas rehearsed without anyone else until 1884, when his child, Colin, turned out to be sick. He at that point took Daniel Porter Fordham into association and rehearsed as Douglas and Fordham. Fordham was conceived around 1846 and had been a colleague in Douglas' office since something like 1872. In 1898, having created utilization, Fordham resigned from the training and went to live in Bournemouth where he kicked the bucket the next year. He was supplanted as accomplice by Charles Howard Minshull, who had been conceived in Chester in 1858 and who wound up articled to Douglas in 1874; the training progressed toward becoming Douglas and Minshull. Amid the primary decade of the 20th century, Douglas turned out to be less dynamic in any case, for reasons which are obscure, the organization was broken down in 1909. The training came back to the title of John Douglas, Architect. Minshull went into organization with E. J. Muspratt in Foregate Street, Chester. At the point when Douglas kicked the bucket, this organization worked from the Abbey Square location as Douglas, Minshull and Muspratt. 

Little is thought about Douglas' private life and identity. Just two pictures of him are known to endure. One is a photo taken in later middle age. The other is an exaggeration sketch made by an associate in his office. This shows him in maturity, bowed, twisted and bespectacled, conveying a portfolio and an ear trumpet. As indicated by compositional history specialist Edward Hubbard, Douglas' life "appears to have been one of intensive commitment to architecture ... which may well have been strengthened by the demise of his better half and other local stresses". His tribute in the "Chester Chronicle" expressed that he "lived central core in his calling". 

Douglas was a committed Christian who consistently gone to his neighborhood church, St Paul's Church, Boughton, a congregation he modified. His home, Walmoor Hill, incorporated a rhetoric. He likewise had a "solid feeling of national devotion", joining statues of Queen Victoria in specialties at Walmoor Hill and in his structures in St Werburgh Street, Chester. Douglas was bad at taking care of the budgetary issues of his training. The Duke of Westminster's secretary composed of him in 1884, "A great designer yet a poor hand at records!". Postponement in displaying his records frequently prompted challenges and disarray; such deferral once in a while added up to as much as ten years. Generally next to no is thought about his own life. No family papers have endure and none of the reports from the workplace at 6 Abbey Square has been found. 

Douglas structured somewhere in the range of 500 structures. He worked in any event 40 new holy places or houses of prayer, reestablished, changed or made augmentations to numerous different temples, and planned fittings and furniture for the insides of holy places. He planned new houses, modified or made increments to other people, and fabricated different structures related with those houses. Douglas' works additionally included homesteads, shops, workplaces, lodgings, an emergency clinic, water fountains, tickers, schools, open showers, a library, an extension, a monolith, cheddar plants, and open comforts. As his office was in Chester, the vast majority of his works were in Cheshire and North Wales, albeit some were further away from home, in Lancashire, Staffordshire, Warwickshire and Scotland. 

All through his profession Douglas pulled in commissions from well off and vital supporters. His first-realized free work was an adornment, which is no longer in presence, for the greenery enclosure of the Honorable Mrs Cholmondeley. She was the sister-in-law of Hugh Cholmondeley, second Baron Delamere, and it was from the 2nd Baron that Douglas got his first real bonus, an impressive revamping of the south wing of his seat at Vale Royal Abbey in 1860. Around a similar time, Lord Delamere charged him to fabricate the congregation of St John the Evangelist at Over, Winsford, as a remembrance to his first spouse. 

Douglas' most critical supporters were the Grosvenor group of Eaton Hall, Cheshire. In 1865 he was authorized to plan the passageway stop and different structures for Grosvenor Park in Chester, and St John's Church in the town of Aldford in the Eaton Hall domain for Richard Grosvenor, second Marquess of Westminster. At the point when the marquess kicked the bucket in 1869 he was prevailing by his child Hugh Grosvenor, 1st Duke of Westminster. Douglas got countless from the first Duke and from his child, the second Duke, all through his vocation. It is assessed that for the 1st Duke alone he structured four temples and sanctuaries, eight parsonages and expansive houses, about 15 schools, around 50 farms (in entire or to some degree), about 300 cottages, hotels and smithies, two processing plants, two motels and about 12 commercial structures on the Eaton Hall bequest alone. He additionally planned structures on the duke's Halkyn home in Flintshire, including another congregation. 

Other affluent landowners who authorized work from Douglas included William Molyneux, fourth Earl of Sefton, Francis Egerton, third Earl of Ellesmere, George Cholmondeley, fifth Marquess of Cholmondeley, Rowland Egerton-Warburton of Arley Hall, Cheshire, and in Wales, the group of Lord Kenyon, and the Gladstone family, including W. E Gladstone. He likewise gotten commissions from industrialists, including John & Thomas Johnson, cleanser and soluble base producers from Runcorn, Richard Muspratt, a substance industrialist from Flint, Flintshire, and W. H. Lever, cleanser maker and maker of the town of Port Sunlight. 

Despite the fact that the firm where Douglas got his preparation was in a common city in the north of England, it was at the bleeding edge of the Gothic Revival in the nation. The Gothic Revival was a response against the neoclassical style, which had been famous in the eighteenth and mid 19th centuries, and it fused highlights of the Gothic style of the Middle Ages. Both Edmund Sharpe and E. G. Paley had been impacted by the Cambridge Camden Society and, all the more explicitly, by A. W. N Pugin who trusted that "Gothic was the main right and Christian approach to manufacture". Sharpe had likewise been impacted by Thomas Rickman, and he had composed papers on medieval grant himself. Paley had been impacted by his sibling, Frederick Apthorp Paley, who was excited about Gothic design, and who had additionally been affected by Rickman. Amid the time Douglas was working in Lancaster the firm was in charge of structure and reestablishing places of worship in Gothic Revival style, one of which was St Wilfrid's Church in the Cheshire town of Davenham, some from Sandiway. Douglas' first church, that of St John the Evangelist at Over, Winsford, was totally English Gothic in style, all the more explicitly Early Decorated. 

Douglas' persuasions were not from England alone. Despite the fact that he never voyage abroad, he joined Gothic styles from mainland nations, particularly Germany and France. This mix of Gothic styles added to what has come to be known as the High Victorian style. Its highlights incorporate a feeling of hugeness, soak rooftops which are every now and again hipped, round turrets with funnel shaped rooftops, apexes, substantial corbel tables, and the utilization of polychromism. A considerable lot of Douglas' works, particularly his prior ones, are High Victorian in style, or consolidate High Victorian highlights. One trademark highlight of Douglas' work is the consideration of dormer windows ascending through the overhang and surmounted by hipped rooftops. 

Another significant impact in his work was the ascent of enthusiasm for vernacular engineering. When Douglas moved to Chester, the highly contrasting recovery utilizing half-timbering was well under way, and Douglas came to fuse this style in his structures in Chester and somewhere else. The high contrast recovery did not begin in Chester, yet it became Chester's forte. The primary Chester engineer engaged with the recovery had been Thomas Mainwaring Penson, whose first work in this class was the rebuilding of a shop in Eastgate Street in the mid 1850s. Other early Chester planners associated with the restoration were T. A. Richardson and James Harrison and it came to be grown for the most part by T. M. Lockwood and by Douglas. Some portion of Douglas' soonest work for the Grosvenor family, the passage hotel to Grosvenor Park, utilized half-timbering in its upper story; this is the principal known use by Douglas of high contrast. Other vernacular themes were taken from before styles of English engineering, specifically, the Tudor style. These incorporate tile-hanging, pargetting and gigantic block ribbed smokestack stacks. In this style, Douglas was impacted by the planners Nesfield and Shaw. Douglas likewise utilized vernacular components from the landmass, particularly the late medieval brickwork of Germany and the Low Countries. 

A normal for Douglas' work is his consideration regarding both outer and inward itemizing. Such itemizing was not gotten from a specific style and Douglas picked components from whichever style fit his motivation for every particular undertaking. His enumerating connected especially to his joinery, maybe roused by his involvement in his dad's workshop, and was connected both to wooden fittings and to the furnishings he planned. A further Continental impact was his utilization of a Dutch peak. The most critical and reliably utilized component in Douglas' vernacular structures was his utilization of half-timbering, which was normally utilized for parts of the structure. In any case, in the instances of Rowden Abbey and St Michael and All Angels Church, Altcar, the whole structures were timber-encircled. 

Douglas' soonest noteworthy payments were for the second Baron Delamere and were altogether different in sort and style from each another. The expansion of a wing to Vale Royal Abbey (1860) was in Elizabethan style while St John's Church at Over (1860– 63) was of the Gothic Revival in Early Decorated style. The Congregational Chapel, additionally at Over (1865) was again unique, being worked in polychromic block in High Victorian style. In the interim, Douglas had structured a shop at 19– 21 Sankey Street, Warrington (1864) with Gothic arcades and point by point stone cutting which Hubbard considers to be his "first structure of genuine and exceptional quality...in its path a standout amongst the best things he at any point did". Not long after this came the primary commissions for the Grosvenor family, comprising of a hotel and different structures in Grosvenor Park, Chester (1865– 67), and St John the Baptist's Church, Aldford (1865– 66). His first bonus for an expansive house was Oakmere Hall (1867) for John and Thomas Johnson, industrialists of Runcorn. It is in High Victorian style and incorporates a fundamental square and an administration wing, a vast pinnacle on the south face, a little pinnacle with turrets, a porte-cochère, soak rooftops and dormer windows. Another early church was St Ann's at Warrington (1868– 69), again High Victorian in style, which is depicted as being "startlingly striking" and "a wonder church in Douglas' yield". By 1869– 70 Douglas had begun to structure structures on the Eaton Hall bequest; in his investigation "Das englische Haus", the German engineer and essayist Hermann Muthesius incorporated an outline of the Eaton "Cheddar dairy". Around this time Douglas additionally re-demonstrated St Mary's Church, Dodleston. 

A significant number of the common structures in this period were littler scale structures. These incorporate bungalows in Great Budworth, and cabins, houses, schools and homesteads in the Eaton Hall domain and its related towns. In 1872 he structured Shotwick Park, a huge house in Great Saughall, worked in block with some half-timbering; it has soak rooftops, tall ribbed smokestacks and turrets. About a similar time he remade Broxton Higher Hall, joining much half-timbering. Commissions for all the more huge houses came in the late 1880s. The Gelli (1877) is a house in three territories intended for the Kenyon sisters in the town of Tallarn Green, Flintshire. Additionally worked for the Kenyon family is Llannerch Panna in Penley, Flintshire (1878– 79), which is "skillful in its treatment of timberwork". A totally high contrast house with jettying is Rowden Abbey (1881) in Hertfordshire. Back in North Wales, Plas Mynach (1883) in Barmouth incorporates much definite woodwork inside. 

In about 1879– 81 Douglas fabricated a porch of houses without anyone else land in Chester, 6– 11 Grosvenor Park Road, the street prompting the principle access to Grosvenor Park, in High Victorian style. Around 1883 he planned Barrowmore Hall (or Barrow Court) at Great Barrow (since obliterated) which was one of his biggest houses. Likewise around this time he planned structures on the Eaton Hall home, including Eccleston Hill (1881– 82), a huge house for the Duke's secretary, the Stud Lodge, a littler structure of similar dates, Eccleston Hill Lodge (1881), a three-story gatehouse at the fundamental access to the recreation center, with a high hipped rooftop and turrets, and The Paddocks (1882– 83), another expansive house, this time for the Duke's territory specialist. In Chester downtown area his plans incorporated the Grosvenor Club and North and South Wales Bank (1881– 83) in Eastgate Street, worked in stone and block, with a turret and a ventured peak, and 142 Foregate Street for the Cheshire County Constabulary (1884), with a molded peak in Flemish style. 

St Mary's Church, Whitegate was reestablished in 1874– 75 for the second Baron Delamere, holding a great part of the medieval inside however revamping the outside, including a short chancel, and consolidating half-timbering. St Paul's Church, Boughton in Chester was Douglas' own area church which he modified in 1876 consolidating portions of the prior structure. Douglas' solitary church fabricated altogether fifty-fifty timbering is the little church of St Michael and All Angels at Great Altcar in Lancashire. A congregation worked in block with half-timbering is St Chad's (1881) at Hopwas in Staffordshire. Amid this period Douglas manufactured or reestablished a progression of places of worship altogether in stone, consolidating predominantly Gothic highlights together with vernacular components. These incorporate St John the Baptist's Church, Hartford (1873– 75), St Paul's, Marston (1874, presently destroyed), the Presbyterian Chapel (1875) at Rossett, Denbighshire, St Stephen's, Moulton (1876), the reconstructing of Christ Church, Chester (additionally in 1876), the Church of St Mary the Virgin (1877– 78) at Halkyn, Flintshire, and the Welsh Church of St John the Evangelist (1878) in Mold, likewise in Flintshire. Later in this period he constructed St Mary's Church, at Pulford in 1881– 84 for the Duke of Westminster and in 1882– 85 St Werburgh's New Church at Warburton for Rowland Egerton-Warburton. 

In 1885– 87 the organization planned Abbeystead House for the fourth Earl of Sefton in North Lancashire. Hubbard portrays this as "the best of Douglas' Elizabethan houses, and one of the biggest which he at any point planned". Amid this time increments were made to Jodrell Hall in Cheshire and Halkyn Castle in Flintshire. In 1885 the Castle Hotel at Conwy, Caernarfonshire, was renovated, and in 1887– 88 a strongroom was added to Hawarden Castle, trailed by a yard in 1890. Amid this period more structures were added to the Eaton Hall domain, and these included houses and bungalows, for example, Eccleston Hill, and Eccleston Ferry House, and ranches, for example, Saighton Lane Farm. In 1890– 91 a monolith was worked in the Belgrave Avenue way to deal with Eaton Hall. The last house structured by Douglas on a vast scale was Brocksford Hall (1893) in Derbyshire. This was a nation house in Elizabethan style utilizing diapered block and stone dressings with a clock tower. In Chester downtown area, 38 Bridge Street (1897) is a timber-encircled shop that joins a segment of Chester Rows and contains vigorously enhanced cutting. From 1892 the organization planned houses and bungalows in Port Sunlight for Lever Brothers. Likewise in the town they planned the Dell Bridge (1894), and the school (1894– 96), which is currently called the Lyceum. In 1896 Douglas planned a house for himself, Walmoor Hill in Dee Banks, Chester, in Elizabethan style. Somewhere in the range of 1895 and 1897 he planned a scope of structures on the east side of St Werburgh Street in the focal point of Chester. At its south end, at the intersection of Eastgate Street, is a bank whose ground story is worked in stone, and behind this driving up St Werburgh Street, the ground story comprises of shop fronts. Over this the range comprises of two stories in addition to a storage room, which are canvassed in exceedingly ornamented timber-surrounding. On the principal floor is a progression of oriel windows, the second floor is jettied, and at the top are eleven peaks. Pevsner thinks about that this scope of structures is "Douglas taking care of business (however additionally at his showiest)". Hubbard communicates the sentiment that "in this work, the city's half-timber recovery achieved its very apogee". 

Amid the association, work proceeded on structuring new houses of worship and reestablishing more seasoned ones. In 1884– 85 a house of prayer was worked at Carlett Park at Eastham in the Wirral and in 1884– 87 St Deiniol's Church was worked in Criccieth, Caernarfonshire. Christ Church, Rossett (1886– 92), St Paul's Church, Colwyn Bay (1887– 88 with later augmentations), and St Andrew's Church, West Kirby (1889– 91) pursued. St John's Church in Barmouth, Merionethshire was worked somewhere in the range of 1889 and 1895. It is one of the biggest of Douglas' houses of worship, in spite of the fact that in 1891, amid its development, the pinnacle crumbled and must be remade. Different temples worked in North Wales were Christ Church in Bryn-y-Maen, Colwyn Bay, and All Saints, Deganwy (both 1897– 99). 

In about 1891– 92 the Church of St James the Great, Haydock, was assembled. This was developed down the middle timber to give assurance against conceivable mining subsidence. Other new places of worship worked amid this association were St Wenefrede's Church, Bickley (1892), St David's Welsh Church in Rhosllannerchrugog, Denbighshire, All Saints Church, Higher Kinnerton (1893), the Congregational Church in Great Crosby (1897– 98), and St John the Evangelist's Church, Weston, Runcorn (1897– 1900). A tower was added to St Peter's Church, Chester in 1886– 87 and a pinnacle was added to Holy Trinity Church, Capenhurst in about 1889– 90. In 1886– 87 Douglas added a chime tower to St John the Baptist's Church, Chester and this was trailed by the modifying of its north path. Different rebuilding efforts, embellishments, and increases of landmarks and furniture were completed in places of worship amid this organization. 

In 1898 the firm planned St Oswald's Chambers in St Werburgh Street, Chester, and this was trailed by further structures in the city. In 1902– 03 Douglas fabricated St John the Evangelist's Church, in the town of his introduction to the world, Sandiway. It was based ashore claimed by Douglas and he paid for the expense of the chancel and the lych entryway. In 1899 the Diamond Jubilee Memorial Clock, developed in open created iron, was raised on the Eastgate in Chester to recognize Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee in 1897. In 1898– 1901 Chester's open showers were fabricated; this was an irregular work for Douglas as it included authority building work. Amid this period a standout amongst Douglas' most essential mainstream structures was planned, St Deiniol's Library, at Hawarden, Flintshire, for W. E. Gladstone and his family. The principal stage was developed somewhere in the range of 1899 and 1902, and the library was finished in 1904– 06. Around this time the training was authorized to take a shot at two holy places in relationship with Gladstone; St Ethelwold's (1898– 1902) was another congregation at Shotton in Flintshire, and augmentations were made to St Matthew's at Buckley, likewise in Flintshire, somewhere in the range of 1897 and 1905. The other new places of worship worked amid this period were Douglas' solitary Scottish church, the Episcopal Church (1903) in Lockerbie, Dumfriesshire, and St Matthew's Church (1910– 11) in Saltney, Flintshire. Adjustments were made and furniture was intended for different houses of worship. Douglas' last significant task was the expansion of a pinnacle to his congregation of St Paul's at Colwyn Bay, yet he kicked the bucket before this could be finished. 

Douglas distributed no compositions of his own and left no records of his thoughts and musings. The main production with which he was related was the "Monastery Square Sketch Book", which he altered. The book showed up in three volumes, the principal dated 1872 and the others undated; it comprised of representations and illustrations (with certain photos in the third volume) by numerous donors. The photos delineated structures and furniture, chiefly dating from the late medieval period and the sixteenth and 17th centuries, and for the most part from Cheshire and northwest England. Douglas' solitary commitment was a mutually attributed plate in the third volume. All things considered, he planned the cover sheets, or if nothing else the attracting consolidated it, of the Abbey Gateway in Chester. 

Douglas rehearsed for the entire of his profession in a commonplace district town, and the vast majority of his works were amassed in Cheshire and North Wales, yet he "directed a training which accomplished national prestige". He was never an individual from the Royal Institute of British Architects, yet his works highlighted as often as possible in national distributions, including "Building News", "The Builder", "The Architect", and "The British Architect", the remainder of which especially applauded a large number of his works. Some of Douglas' works were shown at the Royal Academy and showed up in "Institute Architecture". Douglas' eulogy in "The British Architect" alluded to him as having "accomplished a notoriety which has since a long time ago put him in the front position of living engineers". In the arrangement "The Buildings of England", Nikolaus Pevsner portrayed him, without reservation, as "the best Cheshire draftsman". In the buddy arrangement "The Buildings of Wales: Clwyd", Hubbard communicated the sentiment that he was "the most vital and dynamic neighborhood designer of the period". Basic recognition was not bound to Britain; Douglas' works were acclaimed by the French engineer Paul Sédille, and Muthesius composed of his "quintessential authority of structure". In spite of this, the main authority acknowledgment he got in his lifetime was an award for Abbeystead House, which was appeared at a display in Paris. 

A significant number of the designers preparing and working in Douglas' office were impacted by him. Maybe the best known about these were Edmund Kirby and Edward Ould. Kirby is best associated with his Roman Catholic houses of worship. Ould proceeded to plan various structures in Chester and further abroad in a Douglas-like style, including outstandingly Wightwick Manor and different structures at Port Sunlight. Different designers who did not work in his office were likewise impacted by him; these incorporate Thomas Lockwood, Richard Thomas Beckett, Howard Hignett, A. E. Forces, James Strong and the Cheshire County Architect, Henry Beswick. 

A vast extent of Douglas' structures still exist, huge numbers of them being recorded structures, in a wide assortment of sorts and styles. Douglas isn't associated with any one structure type; his places of worship and houses are viewed as of equivalent significance. He was not a pioneer of a specific new advancement, however rather pursued national elaborate patterns while as yet holding his independence. His structures are "definitely not copyist" and they "bear an exceptionally individual and almost constantly conspicuous stamp". The real qualities of his structures are "certain extents, creative massing and grouping ... faultless specifying and a brilliant feeling of craftsmanship and feeling for materials". His work is "design which can be delighted in just as respected". 

References 

Sources