Gemini (2002 Tamil film) 

Gemini is a 2002 Indian Tamil-language criminal movie composed and coordinated by Saran and delivered by AVM Productions. The film highlights Vikram in the title job of a little time criminal and hopeful wear who, in the wake of experiencing passionate feelings for, chooses to shun wrongdoing; Kiran Rathod plays his affection intrigue. Murali stars as Singaperumal, a cop who rouses and manages Gemini in his endeavors to change. The give incorporates Kalabhavan Mani a role as the central enemy while Vinu Chakravarthy, Manorama and Thennavan depict critical jobs. In view of pack wars in Chennai, the film dives into the lives of bandits and the jobs the police and society play in their recovery and acknowledgment. 

In mid 2001, rival hoodlums "Vellai" Ravi and Chera changed themselves with the support of a cop. Saran was roused by this occurrence and scripted a story dependent on it. The film was at first entitled "Erumugam" with Ajith Kumar expected to assume the lead job, however the undertaking was retired following seven days' shoot when Ajith lost intrigue and left. Saran improved the content, retitled the creation "Gemini" and cast the new leads. The restored undertaking was declared in August 2001. Creation started in the blink of an eye a while later in December that year and was finished by March 2002. The film was shot mostly at the AVM Studios in Chennai, while two melody successions were recorded in Switzerland. The film had cinematography by A. Venkatesh and altering by Suresh Urs while the soundtrack was scored by Bharathwaj. 

The film's soundtrack was generally welcomed, with the melody "O Podu" turning into a sensation in Tamil Nadu. "Gemini" was discharged two days in front of the Tamil New Year on 12 April 2002 and got blended audits from commentators, with commendation coordinated towards the exhibitions of Vikram and Mani yet analysis towards Saran's content. Made at an expected expense of , the film earned in the cinema world and turned into the most noteworthy netting Tamil film of the year. The film's prosperity, to a great extent credited to the fame of "O Podu", revived the Tamil film industry, which was encountering troubles after a progression of film industry disappointments. The film won three Filmfare Awards, three ITFA Awards and four Cinema Express Awards. Later that equivalent year, Saran revamped the film in Telugu as "Gemeni". 

Teja (Kalabhavan Mani) is a prominent hoodlum in North Madras who frequently copies the conduct qualities of various creatures for snide impact. Joined by his pack, he touches base at a judge's court for a conference. His creature tricks are derided at by "Chintai" Jeeva, another blamed. Teja and his group strike back and murder Jeeva inside the court premises. Jeeva was an individual from an opponent pack headed by Gemini (Vikram), a hopeful goon from Chintadripet who needs to oust Teja and have his spot. To retaliate for Jeeva's demise, Gemini chases down the killer Pandian while (Isaac Varghese), one of Gemini's men, executes him. This occurrence prompts a quarrel among Gemini and Teja, and a battle for matchless quality follows. Pandian's mom Annamma (Manorama), a penniless lady, finds the whereabouts of her child's killers. She approaches Gemini, turns into the group's cook, and anticipates an opportunity to harm them. 

Gemini meets and becomes hopelessly enamored with Manisha (Kiran Rathod), a free-lively school young lady. To seek after her, he joins a night class at her school and she begins to look all starry eyed at him, ignorant of his actual personality. Two specialists approach Gemini to oust merchants from a market with the goal that a shopping complex can be worked in its place. As the market is in his control, Gemini rejects the offer, and the representatives contract Teja to execute the activity. Faking a quarrel with Gemini, his sidekick Kai (Thennavan) joins Teja's posse, goes about as within man, and thwarts the arrangement. Teja ends up maddened at being outmaneuvered by Gemini. 

Singaperumal (Murali), an insightful cop, is elevated to the situation of Director General of Police (DGP). Enthusiastic about annihilating wrongdoing, he captures the two Gemini and Teja, and the captures are made "confidentially" inferable from their political impact. Mindful of the contention between them, Singaperumal places them in a private cell so they can pound the life out of one another. While Teja attempts to get retribution for the market issue, Gemini does not battle back but rather induces Teja to trap Singaperumal by conceding and mentioning an opportunity to change. Gemini's trap works, and they are discharged. 

Since Gemini was captured at the school, Manisha finds his character and disdains him. To recover her consideration, Gemini changes his ways. In spite of the fact that his posse at first dislikes it, they yield. As Gemini and his posse lament their activities, Annamma uncovers her actual personality and pardons them. Singaperumal enables Gemini to get once more into school and rejoin with Manisha. Teja comes back to his group and proceeds with his illicit exercises. He hassles Gemini to help him in his business. Gemini educates Singaperumal of Teja's exercises; Teja is found carrying opiates, is indicted, and serves a term in jail. 

A couple of months after the fact, Singaperumal is exchanged, and a degenerate officer (Vinu Chakravarthy) has his spot. The current DGP discharges Teja, and together, they encourage Gemini to work for them and compensate for the misfortunes they brought about, however Gemini cannot. To compel him to come back to his old ways, Teja convinces Isaac to scheme against Gemini. With Isaac's assistance, Teja plots and murders Kai. Gemini is goaded and goes up against Teja to settle the issue. Amid the battle, Gemini pounds Teja and swaps their garments, leaving Teja bound and choked. The new DGP arrives and shoots Gemini dead; he later understands that he had really shot Teja who was in Gemini's garments. While the DGP laments over Teja's passing, he gets news that he has been exchanged to the Sewage Control Board. 

In February 2001, black market wears "Vellai" Ravi and Chera, who threatened the city of Madras (presently Chennai) during the 1990s, surrendered a real existence of wrongdoing and took up social work. The then-DCP of Flower Bazaar Shakeel Akhter directed the pledge taking function and respected the recovery program. Amid the creation of his movie "Alli Arjuna" (2002), executive Saran went over a paper article conveying this bit of news and was interested. In the blink of an eye a short time later in March 2001, Saran reported his next directorial adventure would be motivated by the occurrence. Titled "Erumugam" (signifying "upward portability"), the venture was planned to enter creation after the finish of "Alli Arjuna". 

The chief unveiled that it was "a cutting edge clothes to newfound wealth story" where the hero ascends from humble starting points to a fortunate position. The endeavor was to be subsidized by A. Purnachandra Rao of Lakshmi Productions. The movie would check the executive's third joint effort with Ajith Kumar in the number one spot after the accomplishment of "Kaadhal Mannan" (1998) and "Amarkalam" (1999). Laila Mehdin and Richa Pallod, who played the courageous woman in Saran's "Parthen Rasithen" (2000) and "Alli Arjuna" individually, were to assume the female lead jobs. While the account for the film's sound purportedly started on 16 March 2001, the recording was to begin in mid-June and proceed until August that year, trailed by after generation work in September. It was intended to discharge the film on 14 November 2001 agreeing with Diwali. Be that as it may, subsequent to finding an all the more captivating content in "Red" (2002), Ajith lost intrigue; he left the venture following seven days' shoot and the generation was retired. Following this episode, Saran expressed that he could never do another film with Ajith. The pair would, in any case, accommodate their disparities later, and work together on "Attahasam" (2004) and "Aasal" (2010). 

Saran revamped the content dependent on posse wars in Chennai and started the undertaking once more. The film, at that point untitled, was reported in August 2001 with Vikram to star in the number one spot job. The creation was taken over by M. Saravanan, M. Balasubramaniam, M. S. Guhan and B. Gurunath of AVM Productions. The film was AVM's 162nd generation and their first film following a five-year break, their last creation being "Minsara Kanavu" (1997), the arrival of which stamped a long time since their presentation "Naam Iruvar" (1947). By delivering "Gemini", AVM wound up one of the four film studios that had been creating films for more than fifty years. While titling the film, maker M. Saravanan picked "Gemini" among the numerous titles recommended to him, but since Gemini Studios was the name of a noteworthy generation house, Saravanan kept in touch with S. S. Balan, editorial manager of "Ananda Vikatan" and child of Gemini Studios originator S. S. Vasan, mentioning authorization to utilize the title. Accordingly, Balasubramanian gave his assent. 

With Vikram cast in the title job, Saran was scanning for a newcomer to assume the female lead job of a Marwari lady. Kiran Rathod is a local of Rajasthan, where the Marwaris start from. She is a relative of performing artist Raveena Tandon, whose director presented to Rathod the idea to act in "Gemini". Saran was persuaded in the wake of seeing a photo of Rathod and cast her; "Gemini" in this manner turned into her presentation Tamil film. Malayalam on-screen characters Kalabhavan Mani and Murali were drawn closer to assume huge jobs. 

"Gemini" is broadly accepted to be Mani's first Tamil film, however he had effectively featured in "Vaanchinathan" (2001). There have been shifting records on how he was thrown: while Vikram cases to have proposed Mani for the job of Teja, Saran said in one meeting that throwing Mani was his thought, and negated this in another meeting, saying that Mani was picked on his better half's suggestion. While scanning for a new on-screen character for the DGP's job, Saran saw Murali in "Dumm" (2001) and discovered him "exceptionally honorable". He picked Murali as he needed that respect for the job. Despite the fact that he had intended to make Murali a scoundrel toward the finish of the film, Saran ruled against it since he was "flabbergasted to recognize wonderment easily when Murali entered the sets and performed". 

Thennavan, Vinu Chakravarthy, Ilavarasu, Charle, Dhamu, Ramesh Khanna, Vaiyapuri, Madhan Bob, Thyagu and Manorama structure the supporting cast. Gemini Ganesan showed up in this film. The specialized divisions were dealt with by Saran's customary team, which comprised of cinematographer A. Venkatesh, proofreader Suresh Urs, creation planner Thota Tharani and outfit originators Sai and Nalini Sriram. The movement was by Super Subbarayan (activity) and Suchitra, Brinda and Ashok Raja (move). The music was made by Bharathwaj and the verses were composed by Vairamuthu. Kanmani who proceeded to coordinate movies like "Aahaa Ethanai Azhagu" (2003) and "Chinnodu" (2006) filled in as an associate chief. 

"Gemini" was formally propelled on 21 November 2001 at the Hotel Connemara, Chennai within the sight of superstars including Rajinikanth (through video conferencing) and Kamal Haasan. The dispatch work was set apart by the accommodation of the content, tunes and verses. Essential photography was planned to start in mid-December that year, yet initiated somewhat prior. Vikram shot for the film at the same time with "Samurai" (2002). At the point when Kalabhavan Mani was reluctant in tolerating the film because of different responsibilities in Malayalam, shooting was rescheduled to film his scenes first. Saran convinced Mani to assign dates for twelve days to finish his scenes. Since Mani was a mimicry craftsman, Saran requested that he show his abilities; Mani aped the conduct of a couple of creatures and Saran picked among them, which were added to the film. 

"Gemini", except for two tunes which were recorded in Switzerland, was shot at AVM Studios. One of the melodies, "Penn Oruthi", was shot at Jungfraujoch, the most astounding railroad station in Europe. Some portion of the tune succession was shot on a sledge in Switzerland, making it the second Indian film to have done as such after the Bollywood film "Sangam "(1964). In spite of the fact that there were issues in procuring consent, official maker M. S. Guhan persevered. The abroad shoots were organized by Travel Masters, a Chennai-based organization claimed by previous on-screen character N. Ramji. "Gemini" was finished on calendar and M. Saravanan lauded the chief, saying, "... we felt like we were working with S. P. Muthuraman himself, such was Saran's proficiency". 

The characters of Gemini and Teja were displayed on "Vellai" Ravi and Chera respectivelyTamil-Burma repatriates who settled in Bhaktavatsalam province (B.V. State) in Vyasarpadi, North Madras. They were individuals from adversary packs headed by Benjamin and Subbhaiah separately. Their contention started when Benjamin, a DYFI part, scrutinized the unlawful exercises of Subbhaiah who, aside from running a plastics and iron metal business, held kangaroo courts. At the point when their fight formed into a Christian-Hindu clash, they enrolled jobless men and framed posses to take up arms against one another. While Subbhaih's nephew Chera turned into his right-hand man, "Vellai" Ravi turned into Benjamin's helper. Benjamin and Ravi's group murdered Subbaiah in 1991. After a year, Chera's pack struck back by slaughtering Benjamin with the assistance of another group part, Asaithambi. Another hoodlum, Kabilan, joined Chera's pack and they executed in excess of fourteen individuals to retaliate for Subbaiah's homicide. One of the homicides occurred inside the Egmore court in mid 2000 when Chera's posse executed Ravi's helper Vijayakumar, prompting a police crackdown on the hoodlums. Dreading an experience, both "Vellai" Ravi and Chera chose to surrender their lives of wrongdoing and change. The then-DCP of Flower Bazaar, Shakeel Akhter, held the "change function" in February 2001. "Vellai" Ravi and Chera were re-captured under Goondas Act amid the film's pre-generation. 

At the point when approached about his interest for "rambunctious subjects", Saran stated: 

The characters of DGP Singaperumal and "Chintai" Jeeva depended on Shakeel Akhter and Vijayakumar individually. Since the offenders were re-captured in the wake of being given an opportunity, the underlying content had Singaperumal turning detestable amid the peak. At the point when Saran felt that the gathering of people would not be caring to him and that it would harm the film, he added another degenerate cop to carry out the responsibility while keeping up Singaperumal as an "exceptionally solid, great cop". 

The soundtrack collection and foundation score were made by Bharathwaj. Since making his entrance into Tamil movies with Saran's directorial debut "Kaadhal Mannan", he has scored the music for most movies coordinated by Saran. The verses were composed by writer lyricist Vairamuthu. 

"O Podu" was a famous articulation among understudies in Tamil Nadu. At the point when the chief needed a catchphrase for a melody, Vairamuthu proposed utilizing the term and expanding on it. On the chief's request, the term was then consolidated into and blended with the title tune, bringing about the thing number "O Podu". The tune was brought about by AVM as a method for contacting the majority. The track, picturised on Rani and Vikram and arranged by Ashok Raja, was sung by Anuradha Sriram. For the melody, Vikram performed "savu koothu", a kind of burial service move regular in Tamil Nadu. The verses of "Deewana", sung by Sadhana Sargam, had some Hindi words as it was picturised on the champion, a run of the mill Marwari lady from Sowcarpet for whom Hindi works out easily. In a meeting with "The Hindu", Vairamuthu uncovered that the track "Naattu Katta" depended on a society melody. 

The melodies were generally welcomed by the gathering of people and the track "O Podu", specifically, was a hit. Following the tune's prosperity, Vikram was welcomed wherever with shouts of "O Podu". He was overpowered by the reaction and, having just filled in as a voice craftsman and artist, offered to sing his rendition of the tune to which the makers concurred. As indicated by Vikram, the melody was recorded and taped a similar morning, and was added to the soundtrack collection a month after its underlying discharge. The film had been finished by at that point and the extra track was included amid the end credits. At first, a little film including Vikram and Kiran was sent to the films for screening amid the end credits. In any case, the crowd were disappointed with the abbreviated adaptation of the melody and constrained theater proprietors to rewind the tune and play it once more. In the wake of accepting calls from merchants and theater proprietors, the producers in the long run sent the whole melody. 

The collection sold in excess of 100,000 tapes even before the film discharged in spite of uncontrolled theft. It was one of the greatest hits in Bharathwaj's vocation and earned him his first Filmfare Award. The music likewise pulled in some sudden responses. The high-vitality track "O Podu" made adolescents crazy; some turned to viciousness, rankling townspeople in Tamil Nadu and harming open property in Malaysia for entertainment only. The verses by Vairamuthu, which are commonly in unadulterated Tamil, contained slang and words from different dialects like "Deewana" (Hindi). This takeoff was condemned by film writer Sreedhar Pillai, who scorned the verses of "O Podu" as "unadulterated drivel". 

The music got positive audits from faultfinders. Sify composed that Bharadwaj's music was the film's solitary redeeming quality. Composing for Rediff, Pearl expressed that the music chief was "great". Malathi Rangarajan of "The Hindu" said that the melody by Anuradha Sriram has given the expression "O! Podu!", which has been a piece of the "neighborhood dialect" for quite a long time, "another, insane measurement". The tune appreciated song of praise like prevalence and as indicated by V. Paramesh, a seller of film music for a long time, sold like "hot cakes". It earned Ranion whom the tune was picturisedthe moniker "O Podu Rani". In any case, the melody's picturisation pulled in analysis. In an article that examined and discredited the abnormal state of profanity delineated in south Indian movies, Sudha G. Tilak of "Tehelka" composed that hit tracks like "O Podu" were "clear in their debased suggestiveness". 

In 2009, "Late morning" expressed, "O podu is as yet considered the foundation of the uncontrollable koothu move". In 2011, "The Times of India" named the melody an "evergreen hit number". Following the web marvel of "Why This Kolaveri Di" in 2011, "O Podu" was included close by "Appadi Podu", "Naaka Mukka" and "Ringa" in a little accumulation of South Indian melodies that are considered a "national fury" in India. 

The film, which should be discharged on 14 April 2002 concurring with the Tamil New Year, was discharged two days from the get-go 12 April, obviously to gain by end of the week accumulations. "Gemini" was discharged nearby Vijay's "Thamizhan", Prashanth's "Thamizh" and Vijayakanth's "Raajjiyam". The film was discharged crosswise over Tamil Nadu with 104 prints, the most for a Vikram film at the season of discharge. Upon the arrival of discharge, the movie debuted in Singapore with the saint, champion, chief and maker in participation. AVM sold the film to merchants for a "sensible benefit" and promoted it forcefully. They composed limited time occasions at Music World in Chennai's Spencer Plaza, Landmark and Sankara Hall, where Vikram pitched the film marking signatures. Since "O Podu" was such a hit among youngsters, AVM welcomed youthful kids to compose surveys, and gave away prizes. In 2006, Saran uncovered in a discussion with chief S. P. Jananathan that his anxiety rendered him restless for four days until the film was discharged. 

"Gemini" got blended audits from faultfinders. Malathi Rangarajan of "The Hindu" composed that the "Vikram style" activity film was to a greater extent a stylised charge as authenticity was a setback in numerous groupings. She included that while the validity dimension of the storyline was low, Saran had attempted to strike a parity in making a conventional film. Pearl of Rediff.com commended Saran's "suggestive" screenplay however found the plot "old" and reminiscent of Saran's "Amarkalam". The faultfinder pronounced, ""Gemini" is your ordinary masala potboiler. Also, it works." interestingly, Sify was incredulous of the film and expressed, "Neither energizing nor engrossing "Gemini" is as trite as they get. [...] Saran ought to be accused for this awkward film, which has no storyline and has meager respect for rationale or sense." 

The execution of the lead additionally earned blended reaction. Malathi Rangarajan dissected, "Be it activity or touchy order, Vikram loans a characteristic touch [...] enables "Gemini" to score. [..] With his comic streak Mani makes himself an agreeable reprobate." Kalabhavan Mani's mimicry and depiction of a scoundrel with a comic sense got approval from the pundits and group of onlookers alike. Rediff stated, "The feature in "Gemini" is without a doubt Kalabhavan Mani's execution. [...] As the paan-biting Gemini, Vikram, as well, conveys a persuading act." However, Sify observed the cast to be the film's significant downside and examined, "Vikram as Gemini is unremarkable [...] Kalabhavan Mani a brilliant performer hams as he plays a miscreant [...] Top character on-screen character Murali is additionally squandered in the film." 

Following the film's prosperity, Vikram was contrasted and on-screen character Rajinikanth. D. Govardan of "The Economic Times" expressed, "The film's prosperity has shot its saint, Vikram as the most looked for after legend after Rajinikanth in the Tamil film industry today". Rajinikanth, who saw the film, met Vikram and adulated his execution. Saran told in a meeting that Rajinikanth was so awed with the melodies, he anticipated the film's achievement notwithstanding considering Rathod for a job in his film "Baba" (2002). The film's reason of a criminal transforming his ways was valued. D. Ramanaidu of Suresh Productionsthe co-maker of the Telugu remakesaid, "The narrative of a boisterous sheeter transforming into a decent man is a decent topic". In August 2014, "Gemini" was included in a rundown of "Top 10 Tamil Gangster Films" incorporated by Saraswathi of Rediff.com. 

In an article talking about the ascent of the hoodlum based film turning into a class in itself, Sreedhar Pillai wrote in a reference to "Gemini": 

"Gemini" was a film industry achievement and turned into the greatest hit of the year in Tamil. Made on an expected spending plan of , the film earned more than . The film's prosperity was to a great extent ascribed to the prevalence of the tune "O Podu". D. Govardan of "The Economic Times" expressed, "A perfectly made "masala" (zest) film, with the melody O Podu.. as its USP, it took off from the very first moment and has from that point forward not thought back". Vikram, who was a battling performing artist for just about 10 years, acknowledged "Gemini" as his first genuine blockbuster. Sreedhar Pillai said that a decent story, introduction and enthusiastic music made it a "triumphant recipe" and proclaimed ""Gemini" has been the greatest hit among Tamil movies over the most recent two years". Notwithstanding, the cynics in the business rejected the film's prosperity as a fluke. 

The film ran effectively in theaters for over 125 days. Since most Tamil movies discharged on the former Diwali and Pongal were not effective, "Gemini" helped the business recuperate. "Standpoint" composed, ""Gemini" has without any help restored the Tamil film industry." The movies accumulations resuscitated the fortunes of theaters that were nearly conclusion. AVM got a letter from the proprietor of New Cinema, a venue in Cuddalore, who reimbursed his obligations with the income the film produced. Abirami Ramanathan, proprietor of the multiplex Abhirami Mega Mall, said that "Gemini's" prosperity would back off the fast conclusion of theaters from 2,500 to 2,000. Following the achievement of the film, Saran named his generation house "Gemini Productions", under which he delivered films including "Aaru" (2005), "Vattaram" (2006) and "Muni" (2007). 

Supported by the film's prosperity and wide-achieving prominence, Saran changed it in Telugu as "Gemeni". It is the main film Saran made in a language other than Tamil. The redo featured Venkatesh and Namitha ahead of the pack jobs, while Kalabhavan Mani and Murali repeated their jobs from the Tamil variant. A large portion of the team individuals were held. Posani Krishna Murali made an interpretation of the exchanges to Telugu. The soundtrack was formed by R. P. Patnaik, who reused the greater part of the tunes from the first film. Discharged in October 2002, the film got tepid reaction and neglected to rehash the accomplishment of the first. In 2013, a Kannada change was accounted for to have been arranged with Upendra ahead of the pack, however he expelled the reports as bits of gossip. 

In September 2002, "Gemini" was screened as a major aspect of a six-day workshop together directed by the Department of Journalism and Communication and the Mass Communication Alumni Association of the University of Madras; it focussed on the effect of film on society. An amusement based unscripted TV drama for kids, which was circulated between 2003– 2004, was titled "O Podu". AVM was engaged with the show, which was delivered by Vikatan Televistas and coordinated by Gerald. The show was communicated for 26 weeks on Sun TV on Sundays with Raaghav as its stay. In September 2003, physical coach Santosh Kumar played "O Podu" among a scope of well known music as a major aspect of a move vigorous exercise session in a wellness camp held for the Indian cricket group at Bangalore. 

At the point when Vikram was joined as the brand diplomat of Coca-Cola in April 2005, the advertisements included him playing characters from various different backgrounds. One among them was a "rambunctious job", the pith for which was taken from the character Gemini. Amid the run-up to the 2006 get together decision, Chennai-based writer Gnani Sankaran started a social mindfulness development to anticipate discretionary extortion and named it "O Podu" as a short type of "Oatu Podu" signifying "make your choice". The development encouraged the electorate to practice the privilege to dismiss hopefuls under Section 49-O of The Conduct of Election Rules, 1961, wherein a voter, who has chosen not to vote in favor of anybody, can record the reality. For this reason, the general population behind "O Podu" likewise asked the decision commission to encourage a different catch on the electronic casting a ballot machine. 

Amid the 2010 Asia Cup, a Sri Lankan band performed "O Podu" at the India versus Pakistan cricket coordinate held in Dambulla. In July 2011, Vikram introduced "Liver 4 Life", an activity propelled by MIOT Hospitals to make familiarity with the Hepatitis B infection. As the battle was focused at school and undergrads, the coordinators changed the expression "O Podu" into "B Podu" and made it the occasion's slogan to gain by the tune's gigantic intrigue. In an entertaining arrangement in the film, Dhamu's character professes to be a specialist of a military artistic expression named "Maan Karate" ("Maan" signifies "Deer"), which is really the craft of fleeing like a deer when in threat. The expression ended up popular and was utilized to name the 2014 parody film "Maan Karate" in light of the fact that at whatever point there is an issue in his life, the saint (played by Sivakarthikeyan) neglects to confront them and keeps running for spread.