James Robert Baker 

James Robert Baker (October 18, 1947 – November 5, 1997) was an American creator of strongly ironical, prevalently gay-themed transgressional fiction. A local Californian, his work is set on the whole in Southern California. Subsequent to moving on from UCLA, he started his vocation as a screenwriter, however wound up disappointed and began composing books. Despite the fact that he earned popularity for his books "Fuel-Injected Dreams" and "Kid Wonder", after the contention encompassing distribution of his novel, "Tim and Pete", he confronted expanding trouble having his work distributed. As indicated by his life accomplice, this was a contributing variable in his demise by suicide. 

Bread cook's work has accomplished clique status in the years since his passing, and two extra books have been after death distributed. First-release duplicates of his prior works have turned into gatherer's things. His epic "Testosterone" was adjusted to a film of a similar name, however it was anything but a money related achievement. Two different books have been optioned for movies, however they have not been delivered. 

Bread cook was conceived in Long Beach, California and brought up in what he considered a "smothering, Republican Southern Californian family unit". Opposing his folks, he moved toward becoming pulled in to the periphery components of society, including nonconformists (anybody living as a bohemian, acting insubordinately, or seeming to advocate an insurgency in habits), craftsmen and gays. In secondary school amid the 1960s he investigated his sexuality at underground gay youngster dance club, while living in dread that his oppressive dad would discover. At a certain point, his dad contracted a private investigator to tail him, when he presumed Baker was taking part in an extramarital entanglements with a male neighbor. This relational intricacy would be utilized in a large number of his books, most broadly in "Kid Wonder". 

Dough puncher started taking medications, and progressed toward becoming, in his own words, "a wild, high school speed crack". He likewise started drinking vigorously, ascribing it to the way that he was closeted. Be that as it may, even in the wake of turning out, his substance misuse stayed over the top and "still had its very own actual existence". Subsequent to calming down, he went to UCLA movie school, where he was one of the victors of the Samuel Goldwyn Writing Awards, and coordinated two movies: "Mouse Klub Konfidential" and "Blonde Death". "Mouse Klub Konfidential", a film about a Mickey Mouse Club Mouseketeer who turns into a gay subjugation pornographer, was a questionable section in the 1976 San Francisco's LGBT Film Festival, as some idea Baker was really pushing Nazism. It is likewise attributed with having caused Michael Medved to desert his fantasy of film making and rather become a film pundit. 

Pastry specialist's long lasting aspiration was to compose. After moving on from UCLA, he went through around five years composing Hollywood screenplays in the mid 1980s, a procedure he loathed. While monetarily effective, he was baffled that his work was not being delivered. "I felt like a way to-entryway sales rep setting off to all these [story] pitch gatherings ... [filled with] out of control, ugly blockheads". 

Directing his concentration toward books, his first book, "Adrenaline", was distributed under the pen name Dillinger. An account of two gay criminal darlings on the run, it foretold the parody and medication filled viciousness so unmistakable in his later books. Here Baker started building up the topics that ruled his following works: political agitation; irate and fairly distrustful gay men; the dim underside of Los Angeles, compared with its radiant outward picture; the pietism of composed religion; mysterious sex and its suggestions in the period of AIDS; and homophobia and the mistreatment of gays in a Republican ruled America. Its plot gadget of dark horse characters constrained into trip because of conditions outside their ability to control was one Baker investigated in the majority of his resulting work. The unobtrusive accomplishment of this novel urged him to dedicate himself to what have turned into his best known works, "Fuel-Injected Dreams" (a novel rotating around a character approximately dependent on record maker Phil Spector) and the 1986 discharge "Kid Wonder". After the novel was distributed, he quit screenwriting so as to exclusively focus on books. He spent the greater part of every day composing and looking into, and carried on characters and scenes of his books on tape to consummate the discourse. 

His essential center was gay-themed composing, however he additionally expounded on media outlets. For the most part sarcastic, his composing was loaded up with progressively clear displeasure and despise for the Republican neo-con plan, particularly after the AIDS pandemic started to negatively affect the gay network. A solid voice in gay writing, Baker had admirers and depreciators for his gay radical position, both in the standard abstract network just as the gay network itself. 

A self-portrayed revolutionary, Baker has been ordered as an essayist of transgressional fiction, in that his books are habitually populated by sociopathic, agnostic characters who participate in forbidden practices, for example, overwhelming medication use, inbreeding, necrophilia and different practices; and regularly submit demonstrations of extraordinary, surrealistic brutality. A man of varied tastes, Baker refered to as scholarly impacts essayists and movie chiefs extending from Proust to Jim Thompson and Sam Peckinpah. He likewise appreciated the punk author Dennis Cooper. 

His work is loaded up with pop social references to both film and music, just as legislative issues. Orson Welles' "Dash of Evil" and John Ford's "The Searchers" are referenced unmistakably in more than one of his books, and Roxy Music is referenced in essentially every novel he composed. The symbolism in his books is to a great extent true to life, with articulations, for example, "blur in/become dull", "brisk cut" and "VistaVision"; and sentences, for example, "a montage follows the following fifteen years" and "If the last reel of Cheryl's life had been a CinemaScope Technicolor movie ...". 

Dough puncher's work got blended audits. His solitary two books not explicitly gay themed (however containing gay characters and a to some degree gay reasonableness), "Kid Wonder" and "Fuel-Injected Dreams", were better gotten by commentators, and increasingly prominent with perusers, however he was never a top rated author. Pastry specialist himself evaluated that his books sold around 25,000 duplicates each. His following book, nonetheless, "Tim and Pete", met with unfriendly audits, essentially for its promotion of political death and fear strategies in fighting AIDS separation. Pastry specialist himself was undecided regarding the matter. "I figure death changes things ... Be that as it may, I'm not by any stretch of the imagination calling for brutality," he said. "It's a novel, not a position paper." 

In a 1993 meeting, be that as it may, Baker expressed: 

I figure a solid case can be made that political death really changes things. On the off chance that you take a gander at the deaths in this nation during the 1960s you can absolutely perceive how it influenced history in an extremely significant manner. So in the event that you murdered conservative figures, you'd likewise be adjusting the course of history, and wiping out individuals who might just be president in 1996 and the individuals who are making slamming gays their main issue at this moment. From one perspective, I'm not pushing PWA's transform themselves into human bombs, however then again I need to concede that on the off chance that I tapped on CNN and heard someone had brushed Patrick Buchanan's head clean up, I'd be elated, and to state generally would be a falsehood. 

There were likewise charges of prejudice, because of his depictions of blacks and Hispanics. Cook denied those charges, and called attention to that the hero later understood that the blacks were likewise gay and the Latina "was only a sweet elderly person enduring a great deal of (stuff) that I couldn't envision." He proceeded to state, "I simply needed to investigate the contentions among gays and Latinos and gays and blacks ... the genuine emotions [and the] confusions of one another. I understood it wouldn't all be decent and politically right. In the event that blacks (and Latinos) need my regard, they need to manage their very own homophobia. I'm not playing liable liberal any longer". 

The book caused a lot of contention among pundits, with some calling it "reckless", and saying it was "resolved to give offense" and "seems to support savagery". One pundit of the book stated, "The work quickly turns into an expression of remorse for political psychological warfare and viably advocates the death of the whole American New Right. While the purposes behind such a retaliation theme are maybe clear, can it truly be countenanced? Is it accurate to say that we are as yet defended in alluding to this as craftsmanship? Furthermore, regardless of whether we are, is there a time when such denunciation (and such proposals) turned out to be essentially counterproductive?" 

Another pundit, notwithstanding, called it "a mind blowing creation" and composed: 

"In coming years Baker will be viewed as having comprehended the ramifications of this period in our history while the remainder of us were essentially living it". It enraptured the perusing open also, with letters to the manager of significant papers both supporting and restricting Baker's belief system. Cook himself knew that the book would be questionable, and intentionally incited a great part of the response he got. He stated: 

""Tim and Pete" attempts to pass on in print what individuals truly think instead of what they should think or what's P.C. My dream was to leave perusers so incensed they'd toss down the book and walk directly out to a firearm store since they needed to see the finale so terrible they understand the main way it'd happen is on the off chance that they get it going, in actuality!" 

After the gathering of "Tim and Pete", with a few commentators calling him "The Last Angry Gay Man", Baker confronted expanding trouble finding a distributer for his work and his budgetary position wound up shaky. He was just ready to distribute one novella, "Conservative", and that was independently published on the Internet. 

Cook's life accomplice, Ron Robertson, trusts that this trouble drove Baker on a fast, downwards passionate winding. Cook murdered himself at his home on November 5, 1997, by suffocation in his carport. His demise was noted in scholarly circles and predominant media; the "Gay Times" in the United Kingdom stated, "Bread cook's suicide is especially disastrous on the grounds that it ransacks American gay composition of a refreshingly particular voice very dissimilar to the po-confronted exposition of such a significant number of his counterparts." 

Since his passing, Baker's notoriety has consistently expanded among commentators and the perusing open; and his works presently have religion status in the artistic network. By 2006, first releases of "Adrenaline", "Kid Wonder", "Fuel-Injected Dreams" and "Tim and Pete" had turned into gatherer's things and instructed high costs at uncommon book shops. 

Robertson, presently Baker's abstract agent, was fruitful in having two extra books distributed after Baker's demise. One of those, "Testosterone", was shot in 2003. Coordinated by David Moreton and featuring Antonio Sabato Jr., the plot was essentially adjusted and the film was a basic and budgetary disappointment. Both "Kid Wonder" and "Fuel-Injected Dreams" have been optioned for the motion pictures a few times, most as of late in 2004, however they were never created. Dough puncher's work has additionally been distributed in Germany, Sweden, Italy, Great Britain, Australia, Japan and Russia. 

However "Tim and Pete" was his most disputable work, "Kid Wonder" is commonly viewed as his "masterpiece", and remains his most mainstream book. A dark parody of the film business, it is additionally a farce of the "oral memoirs" promoted by George Plimpton with his books about Edie Sedgwick and Truman Capote, in that the hero's life is uncovered as meetings between the essayist and the characters. In spite of the fact that it has been applauded as "one of only a handful couple of books from the most recent few decades that could legitimately be known as a work of art", commentators have likewise called attention to that it is presumably unfilmable because of its unpleasant skepticism with respect to the motion picture industry. 

Dough puncher's last distributed work, "Conservative", just as his after death books "Testosterone" and "Turmoil", speak to an expressive flight in that he embeds himself into the plot as either an auxiliary character or the hero. The last two were altered, and on account of "Political agitation", halfway changed by his proofreader, Scott Brassart. "Testosterone" required just minor changes, while "Rebellion" experienced a whole revise, with Brassart rebuilding the plot and streamlining more than 500 pages of exposition and notes into a quick paced, 250 page novel. For the peruser, in any case, it is just Baker's voice as author that is heard. 

Three of Baker's books have up to this point not been distributed: "White Devils", "Proto Punk", and "Executing Todd". Furthermore, he composed two screenplays which have not up 'til now been shot: "Inez" and "Desert Women".