Clash of Dyrrhachium (1081) 

The Battle of Dyrrhachium (close present-day Durrës in Albania) occurred on October 18, 1081 between the Byzantine Empire, driven by the Emperor Alexios I Komnenos (r. 1081– 1118), and the Normans of southern Italy under Robert Guiscard, Duke of Apulia and Calabria. The fight was battled outside the city of Dyrrhachium (otherwise called "Durazzo"), the Byzantine capital of Illyria, and finished in a Norman triumph. 

Following the Norman triumph of Byzantine Italy and Saracen Sicily, the Byzantine head, Michael VII Doukas (r. 1071– 1078), promised his child to Robert Guiscard's little girl. At the point when Michael was removed, Robert accepting this as a reason to attack the Byzantine Empire in 1081. His military laid attack to Dyrrhachium, yet his armada was vanquished by the Venetians. On October 18, the Normans drew in a Byzantine armed force under Alexios I Komnenos outside Dyrrhachium. The fight started with the Byzantine conservative directing the Norman left wing, which broke and fled. Varangian hired soldiers participated in the quest for the escaping Normans, yet ended up isolated from the fundamental power and were slaughtered. Norman knights in the inside assaulted the Byzantine focus and directed it, making the heft of the Byzantine armed force defeat. 

After this triumph, the Normans took Dyrrhachium in February 1082 and progressed inland, catching the vast majority of Macedonia and Thessaly. Robert was then compelled to leave Greece to manage an assault on his partner, the Pope, by the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry IV (r. 1084– 1105). Robert left his child Bohemond responsible for the military in Greece. Bohemond was at first effective, crushing Alexios in a few fights, however was vanquished by Alexios outside Larissa. Compelled to withdraw to Italy, Bohemond lost all the domain picked up by the Normans in the crusade. The Byzantine recuperation started the Komnenian reclamation. 

The Normans originally landed in Southern Italy in 1015 from northern France and served nearby Lombard rulers as hired soldiers against the Byzantine Empire. As they were paid with grounds, soon they were ground-breaking enough to challenge Papal expert; in 1054, they vanquished the Pope at the Battle of Civitate, constraining him to recognize their power. In 1059, the Pope made Robert Guiscard, of the Hauteville family, Duke of Apulia, Calabria, and Sicily. Be that as it may, a large portion of Apulia and Calabria were in Byzantine hands, and Sicily was in Saracen hands. 

By 1071, Robert, together with his sibling Roger, had assumed control in the course of the last Byzantine fortress in Italy, Bari. By the following year, they vanquished all of Sicily, finishing the Islamic Emirate of Sicily. In 1073, the Byzantine Emperor Michael VII sent an emissary to Robert offering the hand of his child Constantine to Robert's girl Helena. Guiscard acknowledged the offer and sent his girl to Constantinople. Be that as it may, in 1078, Michael was ousted by Nicephorus Botaneiates, an occasion that obliterated any odds Helena had for the honored position. This gave Robert an intention to attack the domain asserting his little girl had been abused; notwithstanding, his mediation was deferred by a revolt in Italy. 

Robert recruited all men of a battling age into the military, which he refitted. Then, he sent an envoy to the Byzantine court with requests to request legitimate treatment for Helena and to prevail upon the Domestic of the Schools, Alexios. The consequences of these endeavors stay obscure, yet the minister fell under Alexios' appeal and as he was coming back to Italy, he knew about Alexios' effective upset against Botaneiates, by which he moved toward becoming Alexios I Komnenos. 

At the point when the diplomat returned, he asked Robert to make harmony, guaranteeing that Alexios needed only companionship with the Normans. Robert had no aim of harmony; he sent his child Bohemond with a development constrain towards Greece and Bohemond arrived at Aulon, with Robert following not long after. 

The Norman armada of 150 boats including 60 horse transports set off towards the Byzantine Empire toward the finish of May 1081. The military numbered 15,000 men, including around 1,300 Norman knights. The armada cruised to Avalona in Byzantine domain; they were joined by a few boats from Ragusa, a republic in the Balkans who were adversaries of the Byzantines. 

Robert before long left Avalona and cruised to the island of Corfu, which surrendered due to a little battalion. Having won a bridgehead and a reasonable way for fortifications from Italy, he progressed on the city of Dyrrhachium, the capital and boss port of Illyria. The city was all around safeguarded on a long, tight landmass running parallel to the coast, however isolated by marshlands. Guiscard brought his military onto the landmass and set up a campsite outside the city dividers. In any case, as Robert's armada cruised to Dyrrhachium, it was hit by a tempest and lost a few boats. 

Then, when Alexios heard that the Normans were getting ready to attack A byzantine area, he sent a minister to the Doge of Venice, Domenico Selvo, mentioning help and offering exchanging rights consequently. The Doge, frightened by Norman control of the Strait of Otranto, took order of the Venetian armada and cruised without a moment's delay, astonishing the Norman armada under the direction of Bohemond as night was falling. The Normans counter-assaulted industriously, however their freshness in maritime battle double-crossed them. The accomplished Venetian naval force assaulted in a nearby development known as "ocean harbor" and together with their utilization of Greek flame "bombs", the Norman line dissipated, and the Venetian armada cruised into Dyrrhachium's harbor. 

Robert was not disheartened by this maritime thrashing, and started his attack of Dyrrhachium. In direction of the battalion at Dyrrhachium was the accomplished general George Palaiologos, sent by Alexios with requests to hold out no matter what while Alexios himself summoned a military to ease the city. 

In the interim, a Byzantine armada arrived and – in the wake of uniting with the Venetian armada – assaulted the Norman armada, which was again steered. The battalion at Dyrrhachium figured out how to hold out all mid year, regardless of Robert's launches, ballistae and attack tower. The battalion made constant sallies from the city; on one event, Palaiologos battled throughout the day with a pointed stone in his skull. Another sally prevailing with regards to obliterating Robert's attack tower. 

Robert's camp was struck by malady; as per contemporary student of history Anna Comnena up to 10,000 men kicked the bucket, including 500 knights. All things considered, the circumstance of the Dyrrhachium army developed edgy in light of the impacts of Norman attack weapons. Alexios educated of this while he was in Salonica with his military so he progressed in full power against the Normans. As indicated by Comnena, Alexios had around 20,000 men; antiquarian John Haldon puts the military's size somewhere in the range of 18,000 and 20,000 men, while John Birkenmeier gauges it between 20– 25,000 men. It comprised of Thracian and Macedonian tagmata, which numbered around 5,000 men; the world class excubitors and vestiaritai units, which numbered around 1,000 men; a power of Manichaeans which included 2,800 men, Thessalian mounted force, Balkan recruits, Armenian infantry and other light troops. Just as the local troops, the Byzantines were joined by 2,000 Turkish and 1,000 Frankish soldiers of fortune, around 1,000 Varangians and 7,000 Turkish assistants sent by the Seljuk Sultanate of Rûm. Alexios likewise pulled back the tagmas from Heraclea Pontica and the staying Byzantine property in Asia Minor and thusly, he adequately abandoned them to be overwhelm by the Turks. 

Alexios progressed from Salonica and set up a campsite on the waterway Charzanes close Dyrrhachium on October 15. He held a war committee there and looked for counsel from his senior officers; among them was George Palaiologos, who had figured out how to escape the city. A dominant part of the senior officers, including Palaiologos, encouraged alert, taking note of that time was with the Emperor. Alexios, be that as it may, favored a quick ambush, planning to get Guiscard's military from the back, while they were all the while blockading the city. Alexios moved his military to the slopes inverse the city, wanting to assault the Normans the following day. 

Guiscard, be that as it may, had been educated of Alexios' landing by his scouts and the evening of October 17, he moved his military from the landmass to the territory. After learning of Guiscard's turn, Alexios overhauled his fight plan. He split his military into three divisions, with the left wing under the direction of Gregory Pakourianos, the conservative under the order of Nikephoros Melissenos, and himself in direction of the middle. Guiscard shaped his fight line inverse Alexios's, with the conservative under the order of the Count of Giovinazzo, the left under Bohemond and Guiscard confronting Alexios in the inside. 

The Varangians had been requested to walk just before the principle line with a solid division of toxophilite a little behind them. The bowmen had been directed to move before the Varangians and flame a volley before withdrawing behind them. The toxophilite proceeded with this strategy until the military neared contact. 

As the restricting militaries shut in, Guiscard sent a unit of mounted force situated in the inside to bluff an assault on the Byzantine positions. Guiscard trusted the bluff would draw up the Varangians; in any case, this arrangement fizzled when the rangers was constrained back by the bowmen. The Norman conservative abruptly charged forward to the point where the Byzantine left and focus met, coordinating its assault against the Varangian left flank. The Varangians persevered while the Byzantine left, including a portion of Alexios' first class troops, assaulted the Normans. The Norman development deteriorated and the directed Normans fled towards the shoreline. There, as indicated by Comnena, they were energized by Guiscard's significant other, Sikelgaita, depicted as "like another Pallas, if not a second Athena". 

Meanwhile, the Byzantine right and focus had been participating in engagements with the Normans inverse them. In any case, with the breakdown of the Norman right, the knights were in peril of being outmaneuvered. Now, the Varangians (mostly Anglo-Saxons who had left England after the Norman Conquest) participated in the quest for the Norman right. With their monstrous fight tomahawks, the Varangians assaulted the Norman knights, who were headed out after their ponies froze. The Varangians before long ended up isolated from the principle constrain and depleted so they were in no situation to oppose an ambush. Guiscard sent a solid power of spearmen and crossbowmen against the Varangian flank and caused substantial setbacks on them. The few remaining Varangians fled into the congregation of the Archangel Michael. The Normans promptly set the congregation ablaze, and all Varangians died in the burst. 

In the mean time, George Palaiologos sortied out of Dyrrhachium, yet neglected to spare the circumstance. Alexios' partner, Serbian King Constantine Bodin stayed aside with his military, aiming to anticipate the result of the fight. At the point when the Byzantines were vanquished and began to escape, Bodin withdrew with his military. The Turks who had been loaned to him by the Seljuk Sultan Suleyman I pursued Constantine's model. 

Denied of his left wing (still in quest for the Norman right), Alexios was uncovered in the middle. Guiscard sent his substantial mounted force against the Byzantine focus. They originally directed the Byzantine skirmishers before breaking into little separations and crushing into different purposes of the Byzantine line. This charge broke the Byzantine lines and made them defeat. The royal camp, which had been left unguarded, tumbled to the Normans. 

Alexios and his watchmen opposed as long as they could before withdrawing. As they withdrew, Alexios was isolated from his gatekeeper and was assaulted by Norman fighters. While getting away, he was injured in his temple and lost a ton of blood, yet in the end made it back to Ohrid, where he regrouped his military. 

The fight was a substantial annihilation for Alexios. History specialist Jonathan Harris expresses that the annihilation was "just as serious as that at Manzikert." He lost around 5,000 of his men, including the greater part of the Varangians. Norman misfortunes are obscure, however John Haldon claims they are considerable as the two wings broke and fled. Student of history Robert Holmes expresses: "The new gallant strategy of accusing of the spear "framed" – tucked immovably under the arm to join the effect of man and steed – demonstrated a fight victor." 

George Palaiologos had not had the capacity to reemerge the city after the fight and left with the primary power. The barrier of the fortification was left to the Venetians, while the city itself was left to the Count of the Tent (or Byzantine commonplace managers) preparing from Arbanon (i.e., ἐξ Ἀρβάνων ὁρμωμένω Κομισκόρτη; the expression "Κομισκόρτη" is short for κόμης της κόρτης signifying "Check of the Tent"). 

In February 1082, Dyrrhachium fell after a Venetian or Amalfian resident cleared a path for the Normans. The Norman armed force continued to take the majority of northern Greece without confronting much opposition. While Guiscard was in Kastoria, errand people landed from Italy, bearing news that Apulia, Calabria, and Campania were in rebellion. He likewise discovered that the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry IV, was at the entryways of Rome and assaulting Pope Gregory VII, a Norman partner. Alexios had consulted with Henry and given him 360,000 gold pieces as an end-result of a collusion. Henry reacted by attacking Italy and assaulting the Pope. Guiscard raced to Italy, leaving Bohemond in order of the military in Greece. 

Alexios, edgy for cash, requested the appropriation of all the congregation's fortune. With this cash, Alexios summoned a military close Thessalonica and went to battle Bohemond. Notwithstanding, Bohemond crushed Alexios in two fights: one close Arta and the other close Ioannina. This left Bohemond responsible for Macedonia and almost all of Thessaly. Bohemond progressed with his military against the city of Larissa. In the interim, Alexios had assembled another military and with 7,000 Seljuk Turks sent by the Sultan, he progressed on the Normans at Larissa and vanquished them. The disheartened and unpaid Norman armed force came back to the coast and cruised back to Italy. In the interim, Alexios conceded the Venetians a business settlement in Constantinople, just as exclusion from exchanging obligations as a byproduct of their restored help. They reacted by recovering Dyrrhachium and Corfu and returning them to the Byzantine Empire. These triumphs restored the Empire to its past business as usual and denoted the start of the Komnenian reclamation.