Nikki and Paulo 

Nikki Fernandez and Paulo are anecdotal characters on the ABC dramatization TV arrangement "Lost", which accounts the lives of more than forty individuals after their plane crashes on a remote island some place in the South Pacific. American on-screen character Kiele Sanchez and Brazilian performing artist Rodrigo Santoro play the overcomers of the accident of Oceanic Flight 815. 

The couple is presented from the get-go in the third season. The makers of the show were regularly solicited what the rest from the plane-crash survivors were doing on the grounds that the show just spotlights on roughly fifteen of the survivors, and the characters of Nikki and Paulo were made accordingly. Response to the characters was commonly negative, with show sprinter, Damon Lindelof, recognizing the couple are "generally detested" by fans. Subsequently, the couple was executed off later in a similar season when they are inadvertently covered alive. 

Initially from Brazil, Paulo is a scalawag working with his American sweetheart Nikki, an on-screen character. Paulo fills in as a gourmet specialist for a well off TV official in Sydney. Nikki visitor stars on the official's show and furthermore lures him, which makes Paulo awkward. Paulo murders the official by harming his nourishment, permitting him and Nikki to take his sack of jewels, which are worth $8 million. After three days, on September 22, 2004, Nikki and Paulo get onto Oceanic Flight 815 to come back to Nikki's home in Los Angeles. 

They lose the precious stones in the plane accident and invest a lot of their energy in the island looking for them. Paulo suspects they are the main explanation behind their relationship, and in this manner does not disclose to Nikki when he discovers them on their thirty-third day after the accident. At some point while looking in the wilderness, they run over the , a logical research station worked in the mid 1980s. Nikki is uninterested, yet Paulo later profits independent from anyone else for his forty-ninth day on the island, concealing the jewels in the can. While in the washroom, Paulo catches two of the baffling and perilous island occupants known as the Others discuss catching a portion of Paulo's kindred survivors; in any case, he hushes up about this data. 

On their seventy-second day on the island, Nikki and Paulo join Locke when he adventures back to the Pearl Station, planning to speak with the Others. Paulo comes back to the latrine to recover the precious stones, putting away them in his clothing from there on. As they leave, the gathering observers Mr. Eko's demise and internment not a long way from The Pearl. Eighty-one days after the accident, Nikki gets some answers concerning Paulo concealing the jewels from her. Angry, she discharges a venomous creepy crawly on him that causes Paulo to be incapacitated for the following eight hours. As he is entering the condition of loss of motion, Paulo concedes he just kept the precious stones from her since he figured she would abandon him after she got them. Regrettably, the passing of the venomous creepy crawly just pulled in more insects which nibble Nikki, so she is likewise incidentally deadened. The pair are confused with dead subsequent to being found by the survivors. Nikki and Paulo are then covered alive by James "Sawyer" Ford and Hugo "Hurley" Reyes in the wake of hurling the precious stones in the grave with them as they believe them to be of no an incentive on the island. A lot later, Miles Straume − a mystic who can peruse individuals' musings from their season of death − demonstrates he thinks about the jewels. 

Paulo was composed to be unlikable, with the expectation he would make up for himself when his backstory was uncovered in his last scene. Paulo either loathes or is unconcerned toward the regularly gallant activities of a portion of the survivors, investing a lot of his energy playing golf. He grumbles to Nikki about not being incorporated; be that as it may, he does little to assist around the camp and does not attempt to improve his status in the survivors' order. When he gets opportunities to take an interest in treks, for instance, when Hurley finds a vehicle, Paulo is uninterested and debilitates Nikki from joining Hurley on his experience. Nikki attempts to take an interest, keeping an eye on an injured Mr. Eko and volunteering to run with Locke to the Pearl station, a lot to the astonishment of Paulo. Paulo goes with her, and he displays a steady snide conduct in the Pearl. 

Nikki is manipulative of Paulo and seems to think more about the precious stones than her relationship. After the accident, Paulo ends up suspicious Nikki is simply utilizing him to get the precious stones. The main thing she asks him after the accident is the whereabouts of the precious stones, and abstains from noting Paulo when he inquires as to whether they would in any case be as one in the event that she didn't require him to help discover the jewels. Paulo does what Nikki guides him to as a result of his dread of losing her, which results in their demises. 

Toward the finish of the primary season, the scholars had the thought one of the foundation survivors would rise and get an on-island flashback scene to help answer the inquiry, "What the heck is going on with the other 35 individuals who nothing ever happens to?" The first of those was Leslie Arzt, just for him to detonate a couple of scenes later. It was initially imagined just a lady, who was already an on-screen character, would be brought into the fundamental storyline, however the thought later changed to incorporate her sweetheart too. Nikki and Paulo were likewise initially set "to have secured a winking curve of stories". Anyway the scholars rather chose to recount to their story in one scene and rapidly evacuate the characters, because of grievances about the characters and the third season's decrease in viewership. It additionally turned into a running muffle that Sawyer did not know who Nikki and Paulo were, calling them "Nina" and "Pablo" and asking "who the hellfire [they were]". Lindelof later expressed, "We had the inclination with Nikki and Paulo that it wasn't directly about a month prior to the fans began responding. We were at that point beginning to think, 'Perhaps our nature here has been off-base. 

Nikki and Paulo's unique presentation onto the show was erased for time from the polished product of the scene, "Further Instructions". They should be unintentionally found by Claire Littleton in Jack's tent engaging in sexual relations amidst the scene. They were rather presented toward the finish of the scene when Locke gives a discourse. 

Half-French, half-Puerto Rican Kiele Michelle Sanchez depicted Nikki in six scenes of the third period of "Lost". She experienced difficulty shooting her internment scene because of her claustrophobia. Rodrigo Santoro, who has been classified "the Brazilian Tom Cruise" and "the Brazilian Russell Crowe", was thrown in his first real American TV job as Paulo on "Lost". Showing up in a sum of seven scenes, Santoro was purportedly paid "somewhere in the range of $2634 and $6427 every week". Lindelof called Santoro "gifted" and "ideal for "Lost" since he's a face that the American gathering of people is curious about with", regardless of being an honor winning performer in his nation of origin of Brazil. Some portion of the reason Santoro was thrown over different performing artists was on the grounds that his physical make-up was regarded alluring; be that as it may, the authors said that they were not keen on composing for his character in view of that, nor did he need them to. Santoro has expressed he appreciated working with Sanchez and planned to profit to work for "Lost". 

Response to the "mischievous, however damned" characters was more negative than for other "Lost" characters. One "Diversion Weekly" columnist gave Paulo the moniker "Paulo Poops-a-Lot", referencing scenes from the scenes "The Cost of Living" and "Enter 77". America Online<nowiki>'</nowiki>s TV Squad condemned the composition for the characters, and the characters were designated "fantastically irritating" by "Maclean's" magazine. "TV Without Pity" called Paulo "strolling inadvertent blow-back". "Television Guide" composed they were "too darn flawless appearing to be authentic as people". "Excitement Weekly" included them in their rundown of the "21 Most Annoying TV Characters Ever", remarking "nobody could have anticipated how grinding the pair's whiny stupidity would turn into." 

At the point when bits of gossip circled on the Internet and were referenced in ABC plugs that the characters were going to pass on, a few watchers sought after a "twofold homicide" of Nikki and Paulo and cheered when their desire was allowed. More than three months before the scene publicized on TV, Santoro expressed in a meeting with Brazilian "Moving Stone" that his character would pass on amidst the third season. It was additionally declared that Sanchez had marked on to film a fall 2007 pilot for another ABC appear, "Football Wives", and in this way, it would have been impossible for her to keep on going about as a "dangerous femme fatale".