Candid Klepacki 

Candid Klepacki is an American artist, computer game author and sound executive, best known for his work on the "Direction and Conquer" arrangement. Having figured out how to play drums as a kid, he joined Westwood Studios as a writer when he was 17 years of age. He has scored a few recreations there, including the "Grounds of Lore" arrangement, Westwood Studios' "Rise" amusements, "The Legend of Kyrandia" arrangement, "Cutting edge Runner", and the "Direction and Conquer" arrangement. His work in "" won two honors. 

He lives in Las Vegas, where he has formed a performance vocation and played and created for a few nearby groups. His own and band work contacts upon a few types, including instrumental, shake music, hip bounce music, soul music, and funk. He has named the style of music he composes as "Rocktronic". His work has showed up in different media, including the Spike TV program "The Ultimate Fighter". 

Klepacki is as of now the sound executive of Petroglyph amusements, where he scored "". Klepacki was reached to score "", yet was excessively occupied with Petroglyph to take the venture, and declined to make reference to the offer. Klepacki formed three tunes, including "Damnation March 3", for "" by EA Los Angeles. His performance CD entitled "Viratia" is bundled with a comic he helped produce. 

Klepacki was raised by a group of artists of Polish and Italian drop who played on the Las Vegas strip. He drew workmanship as a diversion, however music won to his greatest advantage. He got his first drumset at age 8 and started performing expertly by age 11. Among his initial impacts were electronica and overwhelming metal gatherings, including Depeche Mode, Afrika Bambaataa, AC/DC, and Iron Maiden. Looking to ace guitar, bass, and consoles, he framed nearby groups and made a demo tape of unique material by age 17. His driving force for enhancing his instrumental capacities was "not having the capacity to speak with other band individuals on ideas...for unique melodies." His first bit of sound apparatus was a TASCAM 4-track tape recorder, which he used to record demos, band rehearses, and live shows. 

Subsequent to figuring out how to program BASIC on a Tandy 1000 and getting to be keen on PC and computer games, he connected for work as a diversion analyzer at Westwood studios. He presented his demo tape—depicted as "an acoustic guitar melody with electric guitar leads and console strings, and raining audio effects"— to the organization's sound chief. The developing organization enrolled him as an arranger for the NES port of "DragonStrike" and the PC diversion "Eye of the Beholder II". He later formed with MIDI sequencing for a few other "Prisons and Dragons" recreations. In 1992, he helmed the sound of "Ridge II", endeavoring to supplement the music of the first "Hill". He later noticed that he pushed the sequencing program on his Amiga as far as possible while scoring the amusement. While taking a shot at "Disney's The Lion King" in 1994, he and the Westwood group were appeared of the incomplete component film. Film writer Hans Zimmer later adulated Klepacki for modifying his scores. Subsequent to completing the third passage into "The Legend of Kyrandia" arrangement; "Malcolm's Revenge", Frank Klepacki met with Westwood pioneers to talk about the up and coming diversion "Order and Conquer"— the first in an arrangement which would bring him more extensive notoriety and basic approval. 

In 1994, Klepacki met with Westwood Studios engineers to talk about the soundtrack of the organization's next undertaking—"Direction and Conquer". To characterize the amusement's style, Klepacki tuned in to various groups, including Nine Inch Nails and Ministry, which would supply the notable mechanical style found in most of the melodies. He joined different components of this music and added his very own touch to make a one of a kind sound. With the organization's ongoing movement to 22 kHz sound, Klepacki formed with an ASR-10 sampler, a Roland S760 sampler, a Roland JD 990 synth module, and an electric guitar. The initial couple of tunes he made for "Order and Conquer" contained voice tests—including the remarkable pieces "Follow up on Instinct" and "No Mercy" (which highlighted wild assertions from "Bill and Ted's Bogus Journey"). The examples were later found to meddle with the amusement's expressed sound, and were supplanted with adaptations coming up short on the voices, in spite of the fact that the first forms (and a few other unused pieces) can even now be found on the DOS "C&C" and "Clandestine Operations" plates. Complete renditions of the melodies later showed up on the diversion's business soundtrack. He would keep on examining cuts from film and other media all through his profession, utilizing a statement from "The Brain from Planet Arous" in the "Yuri's Revenge" soundtrack "Brainfreeze", for instance. Klepacki next made instrumental pieces for "Direction and Conquer", drawing impacts from symphonic, house, overwhelming metal, and hip bounce music. For the credits, Klepacki expressed "Airstrike", highlighting a snare later utilized in "" for the Global Defense Initiative. Then again, the Brotherhood of Nod finishing utilized the melody "Destructible Times" composed by Klepacki's nearby band, I AM. Engineers mentioned the melody since it "mirrored the war angle and boss vibe of Nod's side." The "C&C" development pack "The Covert Operations" highlighted seven new surrounding pieces, which were all likewise included on the circle in excellent CD Audio design. In spite of the fact that the soundtrack was not discharged through retail, Westwood sold it by extraordinary request through its site and in diversion indexes. 

While chipping away at "Incognito Operations", Klepacki made "Damnation March" from the possibility of "a stone tune to walking boots," completing the melody in one day subsequent to imagining the guitar riff. After tuning in, chief Brett Sperry demanded this melody be utilized as the mark subject of "Direction and Conquer: Red Alert." Originally proposed for use with the Brotherhood of Nod, it highlights aggressive examples—including walking, modern sounds, and an authority yelling orders. Klepacki at first scored "Red Alert" in light of science fiction camp, yet early melodies were racked. He shifted gears to compose coarse pieces, inciting the "Red Alert" group to develop the style of "Direction and Conquer". In getting ready to form, Klepacki obtained new example libraries for special and peculiar sounds. Specific innovative states of mind would result in a couple of tunes at once. He previously composed overwhelming melodies like "Laborers" and "Squash", at that point made unbiased, synthesizer-loaded music, for example, "Vector" and "Take off". Klepacki scored "Fogger" and "Mud", one of his undisputed top choices, before completing with "Aggressor Force" and "Radio 2". He took parts from attempting to show up as a Soviet trooper slaughtered by Kane and an Allied authority in the cut scenes of "Red Alert". He recently showed up as a Nod officer and the voice of the commando in "Order and Conquer" and would voice bit parts in future Westwood recreations. 

In the wake of finishing "Red Alert", he enjoyed a short reprieve to audit his work. He presumed that a few tunes could be improved, however "Red Alert" had officially gone gold, blocking new forms. These remixes later showed up on the fruitless "Direction and Conquer: Sole Survivor". "Red Alert"s soundtrack was casted a ballot best computer game soundtrack of 1996 by "PC Gamer" and "Gameslice "magazines, overcoming Trent Reznor's score for "Tremor". Analysts called it "amusing to tune in to" and "top notch." As of 2005, "Red Alert" was recorded in the "Guinness Book of World Records" for selling a few million units, presenting to Klepacki his most extensive group of onlookers. He composed extra music for the diversion's development packs, "Counterstrike" and "Outcome". He credited the achievement of "Red Alert" to an imbuement of present day styles not found in different diversions. Klepacki at first discounted the ubiquity of his music, accepting that his music "should just beyond words." He thought of it as "extremely dreamlike" to understand his soundtracks had picked up reputation, and has since grasped his fans and pundits. 

In 1997, Klepacki scored an "Edge Runner" adjustment. Despite the fact that Westwood gained the rights to utilize the first film score by Vangelis, the organization was not enabled access to the first ace chronicles, and Klepacki needed to reproduce the subjects by ear. Engineers were fulfilled by his tender loving care, feeling that his computerized entertainments sounded more clear than the firsts. In 1998, Klepacki made for "Rise 2000". He endeavored to refresh the music from "Hill II" into "this non-blip stuff," and worked in reverences to the first style of the movies as formed by Toto. "Hill 2000" was panned by faultfinders, however Klepacki's score was applauded for holding fast to the customary "Ridge" style. Klepacki considered "2000" to be a more complete work than "Hill 2", which was obliged by programming and equipment impediments. He formed for "" with Jarrid Mendelson—with whom he would later work together on "". He started by expressing "Step", an enthusiastic shake piece expected to reproduce the impact of "Damnation March" for the new diversion. Incidentally, one of the trailers for Command and Conquer 3 highlighted 'Step' as the soundtrack. Westwood rather needed "Tiberian Sun" to highlight darker, progressively grumpy music, and "Step" was retired for the present sound. Deprived of thoughts because of the distinct alter in course, Klepacki asked Mendelson to team up; he respects tracks they both chipped away at as the best. "Tiberian Sun" eventually included dull, encompassing techno music and surrounding space music fit to the amusement's dystopian and cutting edge setting. Klepacki refered to the piece "Distraught Rap" as his top choice. An ardent "Star Wars" fan, he delighted in scoring cut scenes including James Earl Jones, the voice of Darth Vader. The scenes likewise enabled him to incorporate the "Airstrike" and "No Mercy" topics into the amusement's score in spite of the previously mentioned move. With the extension pack "Firestorm", he endeavored to "set things appropriate" by composing progressively energetic melodies and including "Step", which would likewise show up in "Order and Conquer: Renegade". 

He next scored "Terrains of Lore III" and "". Klepacki characterized "Red Alert 2"s style with overwhelming metal guitar and quick paced beats. Klepacki scored the diversion with a Korg TR Rack, Novation Nova work area, and Roland XV-5080. "Red Alert 2" incorporated a remix of "Hellfire March". The arrival to high-vitality tunes was owed to some extent to fan analysis of "Tiberian Sun". Klepacki kept up the fiery style in "Red Alert 2"s development pack "Yuri's Revenge". For ""— the following section in the arrangement—Klepacki attempted to refresh the style of the first "Order and Conquer" by making it "cooler and progressively intricate." Several "Direction and Conquer" backbones show up as improved adaptations, including "Target (Mechanical Man)", "Modern", "Follow up on Instinct", and "No Mercy". The primary subject's tune originates from "C&C 80's Mix", a piece created for "Undercover Operations" yet rejected before discharge. Klepacki's last commitment to Westwood Studios was the music of "Earth and Beyond", containing four collections of material. Obtained by Electronic Arts in 1998, Westwood was sold in 2002 and the rest of the workers were migrated to EA Los Angeles. A few Westwood organizers left the organization. Despite the fact that Klepacki offered to score "" and presented a demo to EA, he was not reached to create. At the point when asked in 2002 whether he'd keep scoring music following ten years in the business, he shouted, "ten down, next ten to go!" After Westwood's conclusion, he thought about his past work at a supper held by Joseph Kucan and other previous representatives. 

Klepacki took a concise break to chip away at solo collections, at that point joined Petroglyph Games as full-time sound chief in 2004. He arranged by getting to be versed in the activity's prerequisites and requests. His first errand was scoring "", Petroglyph's dispatch title; he likewise chosen voice on-screen characters. A devoted fanatic of the "Star Wars" establishment, Klepacki delighted in supplementing John Williams' style as he worked with audio effects utilized in the component films. He worked intimately with software engineers to guarantee immaculate aural usefulness. Despite the fact that most the diversion's score is John Williams' work, Klepacki gauges that he contributed 20% unique material. Aside from the principle topic, he intended to limit his altering so as to hold the exemplary "Star Wars" sound. He predominantly made for new territories out of the "Star Wars" universe just found in "Domain at War". He calls his work on the amusement "the pinnacle of my profession," and felt he had gone through his whole time on earth prepping his capacities for that soundtrack. As an advantage of forming, he visited Skywalker Ranch and Industrial Light and Magic, and invested wholeheartedly in having his name related with an official "Star Wars" item. 

For the "Powers of Corruption" development pack, he took more noteworthy innovative freedom with the "Star Wars" feel by composing a unique topic for the new criminal group. In endeavoring to create this piece, he composed a few starter snares that were later incorporated into the amusement's fight topics. He made six pieces for the development absolute, including the finale subject. In accordance with the criminal topic of the amusement, Klepacki obtained themes and reproduced the state of mind from scenes including Jabba the Hutt "Consequently of the Jedi". His score for the extension pack was acknowledged upon first accommodation to LucasArts. As Petroglyph's sound chief, he additionally chosen audio cues—a dubious procedure because of the issue of making the criminal group's sounds "somewhat unique, without straying a lot from the first signature sounds." Klepacki worked with LucasArts to choose voice performing artists, and contributed his very own gifts to the job of IG-88 and other minor characters. A blooper reel of his voice acting was discharged on Petroglyph's discussions after the one-thousandth part enrolled. Klepacki was reached to score "Direction and Conquer 3", yet was excessively occupied with obligations at Petroglyph and declined to specify the offer freely. Electronic Arts employed Steve Jablonsky to score the amusement; an EA people group administrator at "C&C 3's" gatherings recommended that the sound group examined Klepacki's music and endeavored to reproduce his style. Klepacki feels that "Direction and Conquer" is a noteworthy piece of his life and that he might want to come back to the "Tiberian" period. He surrendered that work at Petroglyph recreations would most likely keep him from working with Electronic Arts. A long time later in 2018 he would have that open door because of EA banding together with Petroglyph to remaster the recreations since a large number of the previous designers from Westwood Studios had begun, and keep on working at, Petroglyph. 

Klepacki's next venture was a diversion cooperation by SEGA and Petroglyph named "". As of December 2006, he had formed a few tunes for different groups and delighted in the "chance to make something new once more, not based on...existing licensed innovation. Klepacki "started by considering what melodies were recognized as fan top choices in...past related work". He was met about the inventive procedure on March 27, 2007 by Kevin Yu, a Petroglyph people group supervisor, and gave a nitty gritty voyage through his studio at the organization. His office included one of the quickest PCs at Petroglyph and a vocal stall where unit reactions and different vocalizations were tried and changed before voice on-screen characters performed completing work. Klepacki was happy that Universe of War did not request exacting submission to a specific style. He proclaimed that shocks were available for "Order and Conquer" fans sitting tight for him to come back to his "underlying foundations" and "adrenaline-siphoning soundtrack style", and proposed that they "envision my mindset...when Command and Conquer first turned out, and add around fifteen years experience to that." Klepacki condensed the amusement's fundamental styles right away before discharge: 

As sound executive, Klepacki additionally made many audio cues for "Universe at War". For the outsider Hierarchy, he developed an "unnatural" tasteful through a "weapons store of damaged clamors". Klepacki utilized a "mix of substantial cranes recorded with overdriven impacts" to give the group's walkers a "threatening machinelike breathing sound", and made up his own language to record "different snorts, snarls, characteristics, and abnormal vocalizations. Since Hierarchy saints expected to convey to the player in English, Klepacki built discourse to appear as though the outsiders were "clairvoyantly addressing you, with a back-covering impact on their voices...as if the words are being diverted directly to your mind". The Novus impacts were normally staged and included "mechanical development, power, and metal sounds". He developed one more language for two characters Viktor and Mirabel, who once in a while address each other. Finally, he drew on climate and other common sounds for the Masari, portraying their atmosphere as having "more weight, thunder, substantial bass thunderings, vortex gusts..." Klepacki guided the voice-acting to have a "respectable and solid" feel without showing up regularly medieval or excessively emotional. He at last felt he took the necessary steps of "three individuals" with "Universe at War", as the amusement's sound prerequisites changed always, requiring cautiousness and developer support. "Divine Intervention" was later named for an "Amusement Audio Network Guild" grant, and the soundtrack was discharged as a free download after Petroglyph's endeavors toward a customary discharge were baffled. 

Klepacki next made three melodies for "", including "Hellfire March 3". "Hellfire March 3" was recorded with the guide of a 4-piece musical gang nearby the Skywalker Symphony Orchestra and Choir at the Skywalker Sound scoring stage; the choir additionally sang in Russian for a refreshed form of "Processor" from "Red Alert 2". He commented in 2008 that he could never become burnt out on "Hellfire March", and was grateful it had resounded with such huge numbers of fans. Around this time, he created utilizing "Cubase", "Kontakt", a "MOTU" 2408 sound interface, and a few instruments. Working together with Video Games Live, Klepacki performed "Hellfire March" and its "Red Alert 2" form in Las Vegas in 2008, and later performed "Damnation March 3" in the Netherlands with a choir and symphony through the "Recreations in Concert" arrangement; he wore a Soviet armed force recruit uniform for the melody. Klepacki communicated a craving in 2009 to score a "Stunning Tournament" arrangement amusement and an "age one-style" "Transformers" diversion, just as a blockbuster motion picture. 

Klepacki has additionally played in and delivered collections for a few Las Vegas groups. I AM's "There's a Home" is his first full-length CD appearance. The band included Greg Greer on vocals, Rod Arnett on bass, Dan Ryan on guitar, and Klepacki on drums. Shaped from the musicality area of nearby band "Shatterbone", I AM discharged one collection in 1995 and separated. Depicted as elective dynamic shake, the band's music drew impacts from Tool and Soundgarden. The tune "Destructible Times" was utilized for the Brotherhood of Nod finishing off with the first "Order and Conquer". After the separation, Klepacki joined Home Cookin', a ten-part gathering which played funk and soul in the convention of Tower of Power. Established in 1989, Home Cookin' industrially appeared with "Mmm, Mmm, Mmm," in 1997 (which highlighted a main hit) and discharged a second collection ("Pink in the Middle") in 2000 preceding disbanding following a visit in California. Towards the finish of its run, the band played at Quark's Bar in and at the Boston Grill and Bar. The gathering now and then opened shows with a four-part funk act named "Junkfood". Home Cookin' was prevalent by perusers of Las Vegas Weekly, prevailing upon a few honors its history—including "Best Horns" in a band. Klepacki flaunted that turnout for the band at clubs was as a rule over four hundred individuals. In 2003, he framed "The Bitters", a trio made out of Klepacki, bassist Vinny Moncada, and guitarist Jeff Murphy. With a style depicted as metal and jazz combination, the gathering has discharged one collection as of August 2006. Klepacki is likewise part to the gathering "Mo Friction", upheld by previous Home Cookin' individuals. Their introduction collection will stamp Klepacki's first excursion as a band's lead vocalist. 

Klepacki's performance work appeared in 2002 with "Morphscape". Creation started in 1996 with the tune "Cybertek", however a collection was not arranged as of now. The remainder of "Morphscape"s tunes were formed after "Red Alert 2". Klepacki created the collection's title track while taking a shot at "Direction and Conquer: Renegade", and feels the amusement's style is unmistakably present in "Morphscape". Klepacki discharged the last item after Westwood's disintegration. His greatest motivation in making solo works is the army of fans keen on "Direction and Conquer". Klepacki took a break from making computer game music to compose two other solo collections, the first is entitled "Rocktronic". Discharged in 2004, the collection was portrayed as dull, restless, and substantial such that will speak to "Direction and Conquer" fans. Klepacki searched out explicit examples and instruments utilized in the Command and Conquer soundtrack for use in the discharge; the title "Rocktronic" was an endeavor to name his style of music. Highlighting live drumming in specific tunes, the collection is Klepacki's smash hit. Following "Rocktronic" was "Virtual Control", discharged in 2005. Klepacki supplemented his typical style with investigations in hip jump on the collection. Tracks from each discharge have been occasionally utilized in "The Ultimate Fighter", alongside certain custom topics composed for the show. 

On August 1, 2006, he uncovered his next solo venture would be named "Arousing of Aggression" and affirmed the music would be "overwhelming" and "hard-hitting." When talked with, Klepacki said that he diverted worry into the substantial music of the new collection. "Hostility" was discharged in October of that year, and was made accessible on iTunes on December 7. He filled the liner notes of the collection with the names of a few steady fans who had bought his music. As of April 2007, he estimates that another performance discharge will be prepared before the year's over. Subsequent to setting up acknowledgment on "Extreme Fighter", Klepacki started scoring subjects for HDNet's "Inside the MMA" and "HDNet Fights" in fall 2007. Around this time, he made it to the region finals of the Guitar Center "drum-off" rivalry in the wake of winning two store difficulties in Las Vegas yet was disposed of. His performance collection "Infiltrator" was discharged in April 2009. As indicated by Klepacki, the collection was propelled by his ongoing work on the Red Alert arrangement. Klepacki appreciates Las Vegas because of its decent variety of melodic ability and productive number of shows and attractions. He credits his dramatic artistry to being brought up in the city, taking note of that one needs to "emerge" to be seen among the excitement environment of Vegas. The city's "Las Vegas Weekly" respected him as a "boss writer" in its mid-April 2009 issue, featuring his productive fan-base and work as maker for different neighborhood groups. 

When creating for computer games, Klepacki puts in a couple of days to make and ace one tune by and large. He feels composing music for diversions is to some degree troublesome as just early programming manufactures are accessible to play; he here and there must form melodies dependent on ambiguous depictions. Forming for cut scenes is simpler by correlation, and Klepacki appreciates drawing motivation and course from amusement structure craftsmanship. In any case, he wants to create for an amusement all through its improvement as opposed to compose melodies for a completed item. He feels that diversion music has been more earnestly to create than film or solo music as he should form for all circumstances a player may find or build. Klepacki keeps up formats with a base of normal instruments arranged for abrupt blasts of motivation, as he disdains "having specialized issues...as an impediment." When asked how the creating procedure starts, Klepacki related: 

Klepacki has said that the most compensating piece of forming computer game music is working with a group—which he thinks about to science between band individuals—and realizing he is a piece of a more noteworthy reason. He trusts that diversion music could improve if craftsmen concentrated on quality and got motivation from playing recreations. He has communicated enthusiasm for having Electronic Arts sell his soundtracks in retail locations, ideally by computer games in electronic offices. He encourages those wishing to get in the computer game business to go to traditions and examine designer organizations. He likewise noted in 2008 that "structure and designing aptitudes are currently required," encouraging upstart authors to guarantee their work is film-quality. Klepacki is cheerful to see more seasoned amusements offered on the Wii, trusting that gamers are "perceiving by and by that straightforward, short fun encounters are similarly as great as...long, colossal creation encounters." Klepacki recorded a few impacts for his style of organization: "John Williams normally for my affection for Star Wars and his style when all is said in done, Michael Kamen for his forming decent variety, Metallica for starting my metal impact, Vince Dicola who as I would see it is path under-evaluated for his extraordinary work, Sly and The Family Stone for motivating funk, syncopation, and constructive vitality, Larry Graham for rousing me to play funk bass, Nine Inch Nails for their special employments of ravaged sound, and Rob Zombie for joining music with a topic and persona." 

Klepacki runs an individual site including an account, filed interviews, and a playlist of melodies gushed in 128 kbit/s mp3. His music is likewise accessible from iTunes. As a "Star Wars" fan, he has broadly expounded on the film debuts of the keep going two prequels on his site. He keeps up a record at YouTube and has posted three recordings of his work with different groups. He is a passionate supporter of advanced film, trusting the medium to be the apex of value. He has scored two short movies, and won a CineVegas grant for his work with "Unreel Invasion". Klepacki trusts that the class of computer game music is more regarded than it has ever been. He noticed that mind boggling and quality music comes at a greater expense, provoking certain makers to just "get someone who could cop the Hollywood sound" rather than supporting unique style. At the point when gotten some information about his profession depressed spot, he named "Request of the Griffon" for the TurboGrafx-16, refering to challenges with the framework's constrained melodic capacities. Concerning his performance profession and Westwood, Klepacki laments "not having gone to a greater amount of the fun organization capacities and gatherings while I was rather playing club gigs with groups with the attitude of attempting to get marked or found." When requested to think about his vocation, he answered: 

Klepacki isn't looking for a record bargain, refering to an "appalling chain of ventures to getting well known." Scathingly disparaging of the account business, he faults MTV—depicted as an "adolescent 

unscripted TV drama channel"— for putting a pretty face on music and pulverizing the free valuation of genuine sound. Klepacki has announced popular music as having turned into the "biggest sham in music history—soul-less, mechanical, and made for the sole reason for making the quickest dollar conceivable, with more accentuation on symbolism than the music." He's likewise censured lip-syncing and the repackaging of music sort through various names, for example, Nu metal for shake music and Neo soul for soul music. He trusts that marking an arrangement does not ensure benefits, and would prefer to keep his normal everyday employment as sound chief. These opinions were reverberated in an uncommon component on the band Home Cookin' in 2000—Klepacki said the gathering needed to "work with a mark, not for them." Stating that he would not bargain his work for prevalence, he trusts that "the main craftsmen that have any life span are the ones that pioneer a development—not tail one." He appreciates working autonomously, as he doesn't need to "change...music for pop radio." He champions the web as a medium through which innovative and unique specialists can be found. Klepacki trusts it is the favored road for music when contrasted with radio airplay—where one hears "precisely the same tunes 3 months on end." When met about document sharing, he communicated blended feelings. Holding that minimized circles are "simply excessively damn costly", Klepacki trusts that a couple of dollars' decrease in cost would "dissuade individuals from downloading for nothing." Conversely, he takes note of that specialists—who "don't get as a lot of cash as you might suspect"— should be made up for their work. His most loved craftsmen by decade, beginning with the 1960s, are Sly and the Family Stone, Graham Central Station, Metallica, Home Cookin', and Bob Schneider.