Takalik Abaj 

Tak'alik Ab'aj (; ; ) is a pre-Columbian archeological site in Guatemala. It was once in the past known as Abaj Takalik; its antiquated name may have been Kooja. It is one of a few Mesoamerican destinations with both Olmec and Maya highlights. The site prospered in the Preclassic and Classic periods, from the ninth century BC through to at any rate the tenth century AD, and was an essential focal point of business, exchanging with Kaminaljuyu and Chocolá. Examinations have uncovered that it is one of the biggest destinations with molded landmarks on the Pacific beach front plain. Olmec-style models incorporate a conceivable enormous head, petroglyphs and others. The site has one of the best groupings of Olmec-style mold outside of the Gulf of Mexico. 

Takalik Abaj is illustrative of the primary blooming of Maya culture that had happened by around 400 BC. The site incorporates a Maya regal tomb and instances of Maya hieroglyphic engravings that are among the soonest from the Maya locale. Exhuming is proceeding at the site; the fantastic design and tenacious custom of figure in an assortment of styles recommend the site was of some significance. 

Finds from the site show contact with the removed city of Teotihuacan in the Valley of Mexico and infer that Takalik Abaj was vanquished by it or its partners. Takalik Abaj was connected to long-separate Maya exchange courses that moved after some time however enabled the city to take an interest in an exchange arrange that incorporated the Guatemalan good countries and the Pacific seaside plain from Mexico to El Salvador. 

Takalik Abaj was a sizeable city with the chief design bunched into four principle bunches spread crosswise over nine porches. While a portion of these were normal highlights, others were fake developments requiring a tremendous interest in labor and materials. The site included an advanced water seepage framework and an abundance of formed landmarks. 

"Tak'alik Ab'aj<nowiki>'</nowiki>" signifies "standing stone" in the nearby K'iche' Maya language, joining the descriptor "tak'alik" signifying "standing", and the thing "abäj" signifying "stone" or "shake". It was at first named "Abaj Takalik" by the American paleontologist Suzanna Miles, utilizing Spanish word request. This was syntactically wrong in K'iche'; the Guatemalan government has now formally revised this to "Tak'alik Ab'aj"'. Anthropologist Ruud Van Akkeren has suggested that the antiquated name of the city was Kooja, the name of one of the most elevated positioning first class heredities of the Mam Maya; "Kooja" signifies "Moon radiance". 

The site lies in the southwest of Guatemala, about from the outskirt with the Mexican province of Chiapas and from the Pacific Ocean. 

Takalik Abaj is situated in the north of the district of El Asintal, in the extraordinary north of Retalhuleu office, some from Guatemala City. The site lies among five espresso manors in the lower regions of the Sierra Madre mountains; the Santa Margarita, San Isidro Piedra Parada, Buenos Aires, San Elías and Dolores ranches. Takalik Abaj sits upon an edge running north– south, plunging in a southwards course. This edge is verged on the west by the Nimá River and on the east by the Ixchayá River, both streaming down from the Guatemalan Highlands. The Ixchayá streams in a profound gorge yet an appropriate intersection point is situated close to the site. The circumstance of Takalik Abaj at this intersection point was likely vital in the establishing of the city, since this diverted critical exchange courses through the site and controlled access to them. 

Takalik Abaj sits at an elevation of around above ocean level in an ecoregion classed as subtropical wet woods. The temperature ordinarily changes between and the potential evapotranspiration proportion midpoints 0.45. The zone gets high yearly precipitation, differing between , with a normal yearly precipitation of . Nearby vegetation incorporates the Pascua de Montaña ("Pogonopus speciosus"), Chichique ("Aspidosperma megalocarpon"), Tepecaulote ("Luehea speciosa"), Caulote or West Indian Elm ("Guazuma ulmifolia"), Hormigo ("Platymiscium dimorphandrum"), Mexican Cedar ("Cedrela odorata"), Breadnut ("Brosimum alicastrum"), Tamarind ("Tamarindus indica") and Papaturria ("Coccoloba montana"). 

A street, designated 6W, passes the site running from the town of Retalhuleu to Colomba Costa Cuca in the bureau of Quetzaltenango. 

Takalik Abaj is situated at a rough separation of from the contemporary archeological site of Monte Alto, from Kaminaljuyu and from Izapa in Mexico. 

The changing styles of design and iconography at Takalik Abaj recommend that the site has been involved by changing ethnic gatherings. The archeological finds of the Middle Preclassic period propose that the number of inhabitants in Takalik Abaj may have been partnered with the Olmec culture of the Gulf Coast marshes district who are thought to have been speakers of a Mixe– Zoquean language. In the Late Preclassic period, Olmec workmanship styles were traded for Maya styles and apparently this move was joined by a deluge of ethnic Maya, talking a Mayan language. There are a few insights from the indigenous accounts that the occupants of the site may have been the Yoc Cancheb, a part of the Mam Maya. The Kooja ancestry of the Mam, an old honorable line, may have had a Classic Period root in Takalik Abaj. 

Takalik Abaj was one of a progression of early destinations on or close to the Pacific beach front plain that were vital business, stylized and political focuses. It is evident that it flourished from the generation of cacao and from the exchange courses that crossed the district. At the season of the Spanish Conquest in the sixteenth century the territory was as yet vital for its cacao generation. 

Investigation of obsidian recouped at Takalik Abaj shows that the dominant part started from the El Chayal and San Martín Jilotepeque sources in the Guatemalan good countries. Lesser amounts of obsidian began from different sources, for example, Tajumulco, Ixtepeque and Pachuca. Obsidian is a characteristic volcanic glass that was utilized crosswise over Mesoamerica to make tough devices and weapons including blades, leads, pointed stones, bloodletters for custom autosacrifice, kaleidoscopic sharp edges for woodwork and numerous other everyday instruments. The utilization of obsidian by the Maya has been compared to steel use in the cutting edge world and it was broadly exchanged all through the Maya area and past. The extent of obsidian from various sources differed after some time: 

The site had a long and persistent settlement history, with the time of important occupation extending from the Middle Preclassic down to the Postclassic. The most punctual known occupation at Takalik Abaj dates towards the finish of the Early Preclassic, ca. 1000 BC. In any case, it was not until the Middle to Late Preclassic that its first genuine brilliance started with a prominent flood in engineering developments. From this period onwards a progression of culture and populace settlement is in proof, as spoken to by the ingenuity of a neighborhood fired style (called "Ocosito") that stayed being used until the Late Classic. The Ocosito style was commonly made with red glue and pumice and expanded westwards at any rate similar to Coatepeque, southwards to the Ocosito River and eastwards to the Samalá River. By the Terminal Classic, earthenware related with a good country K'iche' clay style had started to show up intermixed with Ocosito fired complex stores. Ocosito earthenware production were supplanted completely by the K'iche' fired custom by the Early Postclassic period. 

Takalik Abaj was first involved toward the finish of the Early Preclassic period. The remaining parts of an Early Preclassic local location have been found toward the west of the Central Group, on the bank of the El Chorro stream. These first houses were worked with floors produced using stream cobbles and reed-covered rooftops bolstered on timber posts. Dust examination has uncovered that the principal occupants entered the region when it was still thick backwoods, which they started to clear so as to develop maize and different plants. More than 150 bits of obsidian have been recouped from this zone, known as El Escondite, generally starting from the San Martín Jilotepeque and El Chayal sources. 

Takalik Abaj was reoccupied toward the start of the Middle Preclassic. This was presumably by Mixe– Zoquean occupants, as confirm by the ample Olmec-style design at the site dating to this period. The development of open engineering had likely started by the Middle Preclassic; the most punctual structures were made of earth, which was at times incompletely consumed so as to solidify it. Earthenware production from this period had a place with the neighborhood Ocosito convention. This artistic convention, in spite of the fact that it was nearby, indicated solid affinities with the pottery of the seaside plain and lower regions of the Escuintla district. 

The Pink Structure ("Estructura Rosada" in Spanish) was worked as a low stage amid the initial segment of the Middle Preclassic, when the city was creating Olmec-style figure and La Venta was prospering on the Gulf shoreline of Mexico (c.800– 700 BC). Amid the last piece of the Middle Preclassic (c.700– 400 BC), the Pink Structure was covered under the principal adaptation of the colossal Structure 7. It was right now that the utilization of Olmec stylized structures was stopped and Olmec form was wrecked, flagging a middle of the road time frame before the start of the city's Early Maya stage. The progress between the two stages was a continuous one, without sudden changes. 

Amid the Late Preclassic (300 BC – AD 200) different destinations in the Pacific beach front district formed into genuine urban communities; Takalik Abaj was one of these, with a territory more noteworthy than . The discontinuance of Olmec impact upon the Pacific beach front zone happened toward the start of the Late Preclassic. As of now Takalik Abaj developed as a critical focus with a clearly neighborhood style of craftsmanship and design; the occupants started to make rock figures and to erect stelae and related special raised areas. As of now, between 200 BC and 150 AD, Structure 7 achieved its greatest measurements. Landmarks were raised with both political and religious centrality, some of which bore Maya-style dates and delineations of rulers. These early Maya landmarks are cut with what might be among the soonest Maya hieroglyphic engravings and utilization of the Mesoamerican Long Count logbook. The early dates on Stelae 2 and 5 enable this style of figure to be all the more safely fixed in time inside the late first century to the mid second century AD. The purported potbelly style of figure likewise showed up as of now. The presence of Maya form and the discontinuance of Olmec-style model may speak to a Maya interruption into the zone recently involved by Mixe– Zoquean occupants. One plausibility holds that Maya elites entered the zone so as to assume responsibility for the cacao exchange. Notwithstanding, given the obvious progression in neighborhood clay styles from the Middle to Late Preclassic, the adjustment in ascribes from Olmec to Maya may have been more an ideological than a physical change. In the event that they "had" touched base from somewhere else, the finds of Maya stelae and a Maya illustrious tomb propose that the Maya were in an overwhelming position, regardless of whether they landed as merchants or vanquishers. 

There is proof of expanding contact with Kaminaljuyu, which developed as a central focus as of now, connecting the Pacific beach front exchange courses with the Motagua River course, just as expanded contact with different destinations along the Pacific coast. Inside this all-inclusive exchange course, Takalik Abaj and Kaminaljuyu seem to have been the two central foci. The early Maya style of model spread all through this system. 

Amid the Late Preclassic structures were assembled utilizing volcanic stone held together with earth, as in the Middle Preclassic. Be that as it may, they developed to incorporate ventured structures with indented corners and stairways dressed with adjusted stones. In the meantime, old Olmec-style figures were moved from their unique positions and set before the new-style structures, once in a while reusing model sections in the stone confronting. 

Despite the fact that the Ocosito clay custom proceeded being used, the Late Preclassic earthenware production in Takalik Abaj were firmly identified with the Miraflores Ceramic Sphere that included Escuintla, the Valley of Guatemala and western El Salvador. This fired convention comprises of fine red products that are especially connected with Kaminaljuyu and are found all through the southeastern Guatemalan good countries and the nearby Pacific slant. 

In the Early Classic, from around the second century AD, the stela style that created at Takalik Abaj and was related with the depiction of notable figures was embraced over the Maya marshes, especially in the Petén Basin. Amid this period a portion of the previous landmarks were purposely decimated. 

In this period, the earthenware production demonstrated a change with the passage of the good country Solano style, This fired custom is most connected with the Solano site in the southeastern Valley of Guatemala and the most trademark type is a block red product secured with a brilliant orange micaceous slip, now and again painted with pink or purple beautification. This style of pottery has been related with the good country K'iche' Maya. These new earthenware production did not supplant the prior Ocosito complex but instead progressed toward becoming blended with them. 

Archeological examinations have demonstrated that the demolition of landmarks and intrusion of new development at the site happened all the while with the entry of purported Naranjo style earthenware production, which seem, by all accounts, to be connected to styles from the extraordinary city of Teotihuacan in the far off Valley of Mexico. The Naranjo earthenware custom is especially normal for the western Pacific shoreline of Guatemala between the Suchiate and Nahualate waterways. The most widely recognized structures are pitchers and bowls with a surface that has been smoothed with a material, leaving parallel imprints, and generally covered with a white or yellow wash. In the meantime, the utilization of neighborhood Ocosito pottery wound down. This Teotihuacan impact puts the pulverization of landmarks in the second 50% of the Early Classic. The nearness of the heros connected to the Naranjo-style earthenware production was not of long span and proposes that the champions applied long-remove control of the site, supplanting the nearby rulers with their very own governors while leaving the neighborhood populace flawless. 

The success of Takalik Abaj broke the old exchange courses running along the Pacific coast from Mexico to El Salvador, these were supplanted by another course running up the Sierra Madre and into the northwestern Guatemalan good countries. 

In the Late Classic the site seems to have recuperated from its before annihilation. Naranjo-style earthenware production reduced enormously in amount and there was a flood in new huge scale development. Numerous landmarks broken by the champions were re-raised as of now. 

Despite the fact that utilization of the neighborhood Ocosito-style earthenware production proceeded, there was a stamped interruption of K'iche' pottery from the good countries in the Postclassic time frame, amassed especially in the northern piece of the site however stretching out to cover the entirety. The indigenous records of the K'iche' themselves guarantee that they vanquished this area of the Pacific coast, recommending that the nearness of their earthenware production is related with their triumph of Takalik Abaj. 

The K'iche' success seems to have occurred around AD 1000, exactly four centuries sooner than had been assumed utilizing estimations dependent on the indigenous records. After the underlying landing of the K'iche' movement proceeded at the site immediately, and the nearby styles were just supplanted by styles related with the heros. This proposes the first occupants deserted the city they had involved for right around two centuries. 

The principal distributed record showed up in 1888, composed by Gustav Bruhl. The German ethnologist and naturalist Karl Sapper portrayed Stela 1 in 1894 after he saw it adjacent to the street he was voyaging. Max Vollmberg, a German craftsman, drew Stela 1 and noticed some different landmarks, which pulled in light of a legitimate concern for Walter Lehmann. 

In 1902 the emission of the adjacent Santiaguito well of lava shrouded the site in a layer of volcanic fiery remains that changes between thick. 

Walter Lehmann started the investigation of the figures of Takalik Abaj during the 1920s. In January 1942 J. Eric S. Thompson visited the site with Ralph L. Roys and William Webb in the interest of the Carnegie Institution while undertaking an investigation of the Pacific Coast, distributing his records in 1943. Further examinations were attempted by Suzanna Miles, Lee Parsons and Edwin M. Shook. Miles presented the name Abaj Takalik to the site, which showed up in her contributed section in volume 2 of the "Handbook of Middle American Indians" distributed 1965. Already it had been known by different names, including San Isidro Piedra Parada and Santa Margarita, after the names of the manors in which the site lies, and furthermore by the name of Colomba, a town toward the north in the bureau of Quetzaltenango. 

Unearthings at the site during the 1970s were supported by the University of California, Berkeley. They started in 1976 and were embraced by John A. Graham, Robert F. Heizer and Edwin M. Shook. This first season revealed 40 new landmarks, including Stela 5, to add to the dozen or so definitely known. Unearthings by the University of California at Berkeley proceeded until 1981 and revealed considerably more landmarks in that time. From 1987 unearthings have been proceeded by the Guatemalan Instituto de Antropología e Historia (IDAEH) under the bearing of Miguel Orrego and Christa Schieber, and new landmarks keep on being revealed. The site has been announced a national park. 

In 2002 Takalik Abaj was entered on the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative Lists, under the heading of "The Mayan-Olmecan Encounter". 

The center of the site covers about and incorporates stays of exactly 70 momentous structures situated around twelve squares. Takalik Abaj has 2 ballcourts and more than 239 known stone landmarks, including noteworthy stelae and special raised areas. The rock used to make landmarks in Olmec and early Maya styles is entirely different from the delicate limestone utilized in the Petén urban communities. The site is likewise noted for its water powered frameworks, including a "temazcal" or sauna shower with an underground seepage, and Preclassic tombs found in unearthings from the late 1990s onwards by Drs. Marion Popenoe de Hatch, Christa Schieber de Lavarreda and Miguel Orrego, from the Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes. 

The structures at Takalik Abaj are spread among four gatherings; the Central, North and West Groups are bunched together yet the South Group is situated going toward the south. The site is normally solid, being flanked by soak gorges. The site is spread over a progression of nine porches, which fluctuate in width from and have faces changing in range from . These porches are not consistently arranged, rather the heading of their holding faces relies on the lie of the nearby territory. The three principle patios supporting the city are counterfeit, with over of fill being utilized in spots. 

At the point when Takalik Abaj was at its most noteworthy degree, real design in the city secured a territory of around , despite the fact that the zone involved by private development has not been resolved. 

The pressure driven framework included stone trenches, which were not utilized for water system yet rather to channel overflow and keep up the auxiliary respectability of the key engineering. These channels were additionally used to convey water to the local locations of the city, and it is conceivable that the channels likewise filled a custom need connected to the downpour god. Up until this point, the remaining parts of 25 channels have been found at the site. The bigger channels measure wide by high, auxiliary channels measure about a large portion of that. 

There are two strategies for development utilized for the water channels. Mud channels date from the Middle Preclassic while stone-lined channels date from the Late Preclassic through to the Classic, with stone-lined channels from the Late Classic being the biggest channels worked at the site. It is assumed that the mud channels were not adequately viable, in this way prompting the switch in development materials and the usage of stone-lined channels. In the Late Classic bits of broken stone landmarks were reused in the development of the water channels. 

Porch 2 is in the Central Group. Structures on this porch date as far back as the Middle Preclassic and incorporate an early case of a ballcourt. 

Porch 3 is in the Central Group. The exterior spoke to a noteworthy development task and dates to the Late Preclassic. The southeastern segment of Terrace 3 is accepted to have been the most holy court in the city, in light of its convergence of model and particularly upon the nearness of Structure 7 on the east side of the square. This zone of the antiquated city has been designated "Tanmi T'nam" ("Heart of the People" in Mam Maya) by the civic chairman of El Asintal. A north-south line of 5 landmarks was raised at the base of Structure 8, on the southwest side of the court, and another line of 5 models runs east-west parallel toward the southern edge of the patio, with an extra 2 designs marginally south of them. 

Patio 5 is on the eastern side of the site promptly toward the north of the Central Group. It gauges east to west and north to south. Terrace 5 is on the San Isidro Piedra Parada estate and is at present utilized for the development of espresso. The holding face of the porch was worked of compacted dirt amid the Late Preclassic and spoke to a huge reversal of work. This patio proceeded being used until the Postclassic. 

Patio 6 bolsters the 16 structures of the West Group. It quantifies from east to west and from north to south. The porch indicates different periods of development, it overlies a substructure worked from extensive worked squares of basalt, which dates to the Late Preclassic, later periods of development date to the Late Classic and the patio has hints of the Postclassic K'iche' control of the site. The porch exists in the San Isidro Piedra Parada and Buenos Aires manors and the land is right now committed to the development of elastic and espresso. An advanced street compromises of Terrace 6. 

Porch 7 is a characteristic patio that underpins a piece of the North Group. It runs east– west and is long. It underpins 15 structures dating from the Terminal Classic through to the Postclassic and related with the K'iche' control of the site. This porch lies between the Buenos Aires and San Elías estates and the eastern part has been cut by an advanced street. 

Porch 8 is another common patio in the North Group. It additionally runs east west and is long. A cutting edge street has cut the eastern piece of the porch and the western side of Structure 46 upon its edge. The porch bolsters just this structure and one other toward the north (Structure 54). The patio was presumably a neighborhood with developed land related with the North Group. This patio is related with the K'iche' control of the site from the Terminal Classic through to the Postclassic. 

Patio 9 is the biggest porch at Takalik Abaj and supports some portion of the North Group. It is around running east– west and from north to south. The holding face of the porch runs quickly toward the north of the principle North Group complex on the western portion of Terrace 7 for , at the eastern outrageous of this area it turns north above Terrace 8 for before changing to run another east, restricting Terrace 8 on its west and north sides. Terrace 9 underpins just two noteworthy structures (Structures 66 and 67). A cutting edge street cuts the eastern side of the Terrace 9, unearthings where the street has cut the porch have uncovered the conceivable survives from a ballcourt. 

The Ballcourt is situated in the southwest of Terrace 2 and dates to the Middle Preclassic. It has a north– south arrangement with the sides of the wide playing territory shaped by Structures Sub-2 and Sub-4. The ballcourt is simply over long with a playing zone of . The southern furthest reaches of the ballcourt is shaped by Structure Sub-1, only over toward the south of Structures Sub-2 and Sub-4, making a southern end-zone that runs east– west and measures with a surface zone of . 

Structure 5 is a huge pyramid on the west side of Terrace 3. It was generally worked amid the Middle Preclassic. It frames the western end of an arrangement of three structures, the others being Structures 6 and 7. 

Structure 6 is a ventured rectangular stage framing the center of the arrangement on Terrace 3. It was first worked in the Middle Preclassic yet came to is most prominent degree amid the Late Preclassic and the start of the Early Classic. It is a standout amongst the most critical formal structures in the Central Group. 

Structure 7 is a vast stage situated toward the east of the square on Terrace 3 in the Central Group and is considered to have been a standout amongst the most sacrosanct structures at Takalik Abaj because of a progression of essential finds related with it. Structure 7 measures and dates to the Middle Preclassic, despite the fact that it didn't achieve its last structure until the last piece of the Late Preclassic. Based upon the northern piece of Structure 7 are two littler structures, assigned as Structures 7A and 7B. In the Late Classic, Structures 7, 7A and 7B were altogether refaced with stone. Structure 7 underpins three columns of landmarks adjusted north– south that may have filled in as a galactic observatory. One of these columns was lined up with the star grouping Ursa Major in the Middle Preclassic, another lined up with Draco in the Late Preclassic, while the center line was lined up with Structure 7A. Another vital find in Structure 7 was a Late Classic round and hollow incensario given the name "La Niña" by archeologists because of its conspicuous female appliqué figure. It dates to the soonest dimensions of K'iche' control of the site and is high and wide at the base. It was discovered together with an extensive amount of different contributions including further earthenware production and pieces of broken models. 

The Pink Structure ("Estructura Rosada") was a little stately stage based upon the focal pivot of Structure 7 preceding the last was raised over it. It is trusted that this substructure was being used in the meantime as Olmec mold was being created both at Takalik Abaj and at La Venta in the Olmec heartland of Veracruz in Mexico. 

Structure 7A is a little structure sitting over the northern piece of Structure 7. It dates to the Middle Preclassic and has been unearthed. The Late Preclassic imperial tomb known as Burial 1 was found in its middle. An extensive offering of many artistic vessels was found in the base of the structure and is related with the entombment. Structure 7A experienced significant modifying in the Early Classic and was again changed in the Late Classic. Structure 7A measures and stands practically high. Its four sides were dressed with standing stones encompassed by an asphalt. 

Structure 7B is a little structure arranged on the eastern side of Structure 7. Like Structure 7A, the four sides were dressed with standing stones and were encompassed by an asphalt. 

Structure 8 is situated toward the southwest of the court on Terrace 3, promptly toward the west of the entrance stairway. Five etched landmarks were raised in succession at the base of the east side of the structure; the four that have been uncovered are Monument 30, Stela 34, Stela 35 and Altar 18. 

Structure 11 has been exhumed. It was secured with adjusted rocks held together with mud. It is situated toward the west of the square in the southern zone of the Central Group. 

Structure 12 deceives the east of Structure 11. It has additionally been uncovered and, as Structure 11, it is secured with adjusted stones held together with mud. It deceives the east of the square in the southern territory of the Central Group. The structure is a three-layered stage with stairways on the east and west sides. The unmistakable remains date to the Early Classic yet they overlie Late Preclassic development. A line of figures lines the west side of the structure, including six landmarks, a stela and a special raised area. Further landmarks line the east side, one of which might be the leader of a crocodilian, the others are plain. Sculpture 69 is situated on the south side of the structure. 

Structure 17 is situated in the South Group, on the Santa Margarita estate. It contained a Late Preclassic reserve of 13 kaleidoscopic obsidian cutting edges. 

Structure 32 is situated close to the western edge of the West Group. 

Structure 34 is in the West Group, at the eastern corner of Terrace 6. 

Structures 38, 39, 42 and 43 are joined by low stages on the east side of a court on Terrace 7, adjusted north– south. Structures 40, 47 and 48 are on south, west and north sides of this court. Structures 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 structure a little gathering on the west side of the porch, verged on the north by Terrace 9. Structure 42 is the tallest structure in the North Group, estimating about high. These structures are hills. 

Structure 46 is a hill at the edge of Terrace 8 in the North Group and dates from the Terminal Classic through to the Postclassic. The west side of the structure has been cut by a cutting edge street. 

Structure 54 is based upon Terrace 8, toward the north of Structure 46, in the North Group. It is encompassed by an open zone without hills that was most likely a blended private and horticultural territory. It dates from the Terminal Classic through to the Postclassic. 

Structure 57 is an expansive hill at the southern furthest reaches of the Central Group with a fantastic view over the waterfront plain. The structure was worked in the Late Preclassic and experienced a second period of development in the Late Classic. It might have filled in as a post point. 

Structure 61, Mound 61A and Mound 61B are all on the east side of Terrace 5, on the San Isidro ranch. Structure 61 was worked amid the Early Classic and is dressed with stone, it was based upon a before development dating to the Late Preclassic. Stela 68 was found at the base of Mound 61A close to a broken special stepped area. Structure 61 and its related hills may have been utilized to control access to the city amid the tallness of its capacity, Mound 61A was reused amid the Postclassic control of the site. Early Classic finds from Mound 61A incorporate four fired vessels and four obsidian kaleidoscopic cutting edges. 

Structure 66 is situated on Terrace 9, at the northern outrageous of the North Group. It had a superb view over the whole city and may have filled in as a guard present controlling access on the site. It dates from the Terminal Classic through to the Postclassic. 

Structure 67 is an extensive stage on Terrace 9 that may have been related with a conceivable local location upon that patio and situated toward the north of the North Group. 

Structure 68 is in the West Group. A piece of the western side of the structure has been cut by an advanced street. This has uncovered an arrangement of superimposed dirt substructures dating to the Late Preclassic, the structure was then dressed with stone in the Early Classic. 

Structure 86 is toward the west of Structure 32, at the western edge of the West Group. The main period of development dates to the Early Classic, somewhere in the range of 150 and 300 AD, when it appeared as a depressed porch, with stairways plunging amidst its border dividers. At the focal point of the yard were set an earth raised area and a stone, around which and over the remainder of the porch were stored a tremendous number of contributions comprising of artistic vessels, generally from the Solano convention. 

North Ballcourt. The conceivable survives from a second ballcourt were found toward the north of the North Group and may have been related with the control of that bunch from the Terminal Classic through to the Postclassic. It was worked from compacted dirt and runs east– west, the North Structure was tall and the South Structure had a stature of , the playing territory was wide. 

Starting at 2006, 304 stone landmarks have been found at Takalik Abaj, generally cut from nearby andesite rocks. Of these landmarks 124 are cut with the rest of plain; they are for the most part found in the Central and Western Groups. The worked landmarks can be isolated into four wide groupings: Olmec-style models, which speak to 21% of the aggregate, Maya-style figures speaking to 42% of the landmarks, potbelly landmarks (14% of the aggregate) and the neighborhood style of figure spoken to by zoomorphs (23% of the aggregate). 

The greater part of the landmarks at Takalik Abaj are not in their unique positions yet rather have been moved and reset sometime in the not too distant future, along these lines the dating of landmarks at the site regularly relies on complex correlations. A model is a progression of four landmarks found in a court before a Classic period stage, with no less than two of the four (Altar 12 and Monument 23) dating to the Preclassic. 

There are a few stelae etched in the early Maya style that bear hieroglyphic writings with Long Count dates that place them in the Late Preclassic. This style of model is genealogical to the Classic style of the Maya swamps. 

Takalik Abaj has different supposed Potbelly landmarks speaking to stout human figures etched from substantial stones, of a sort found all through the Pacific swamps, stretching out from Izapa in Mexico to El Salvador. Their exact capacity is obscure however they seem to date from the Late Preclassic. 

The numerous Olmec-style models, including Monument 23, a gigantic head that was recarved into a specialty figure, appear to demonstrate a physical Olmec nearness and control, potentially under an Olmec representative. Classicist John Graham expresses that: 

Others are more uncertain: the Olmec-style models may essentially suggest a typical iconography of intensity on the Pacific and Gulf coasts. Regardless, Takalik Abaj was positively a position of significance for Olmecs. The Olmec-style figures at Takalik Abaj all date to the Middle Preclassic. With the exception of Monuments 1 and 64, the dominant part were not found in their unique areas. 

There are in excess of 30 landmarks in the early Maya style, which dates to the Late Preclassic, making it the most widely recognized style spoke to at Takalik Abaj. The incredible amount of early Maya form and the nearness of early instances of Maya hieroglyphic composing recommend that the site had a vital impact in the improvement of Maya belief system. The causes of the Maya sculptural style may have created in the Preclassic on the Pacific coast and Takalik Abaj's situation at the nexus of key exchange courses could have been vital in the dispersal of the style over the Maya territory. The early Maya style of landmark at Takalik Abaj is firmly connected to the style of landmark at Kaminaljuyu, indicating common impact. This interlinked style spread to different destinations that framed piece of the all-inclusive exchange system of which these two urban communities were the twin foci. 

Models of the Potbelly style are discovered up and down the Pacific Coast from southern Mexico to El Salvador, just as further away from home at destinations in the Maya swamps. Albeit a few examiners have recommended that this style is pre-Olmec, archeological unearthings on the Pacific Coast, including those at Takalik Abaj, have demonstrated that this style started to be utilized toward the finish of the Middle Preclassic and achieved its tallness amid the Late Preclassic. The potbelly forms at Takalik Abaj all date to the Late Preclassic and are fundamentally the same as those at Monte Alto in Escuintla and Kaminaljuyu in the Valley of Guatemala. 

Potbelly designs are commonly harsh models that show impressive variety in size and the situation of the appendages. They portray hefty human figures, more often than not sat leg over leg with their arms upon their stomach. They have puffed out or hanging cheeks, shut eyes and are of uncertain sexual orientation. 

Neighborhood style figures are for the most part rocks cut into zoomorphic shapes, including three-dimensional portrayals of frogs, amphibians and crocodilians. 

The "Cargador del Ancestro" ("Ancestor Carrier") comprises of four pieces of model that had been reused in the veneers of four distinct structures amid the last piece of the Late Preclassic. Landmarks 215 and 217 were found in 2008 amid unearthings of Structure 7A, while Stela Fragments 53 and 61 had been uncovered in past unearthings. Archeologists found that in spite of the fact that Monuments 215 and 217 had diverse topics and were executed in varying styles, they in actuality fitted together splendidly to shape some portion of a solitary figure that was as yet deficient. This incited an amendment of recently discovered model parts and brought about the disclosure of two further pieces, initially found in Structures 12 and 74. 

The four pieces were found to make up a solitary momentous high segment with a bizarre mix of sculptural qualities. The outrageous upper and lower parcels are harmed and deficient and the model includes three segments. The most reduced segment is a rectangular section with an early hieroglyphic content on the two countenances and a luxuriously dressed Early Maya figure on the front. The figure is wearing a hood as a crocodile or crocodile-cat half and half with the jaws agape and the substance of a precursor rising. The lower segment of this segment is harmed and a piece of both the content and the figure is absent. 

The center area of the section, framing a sort of capital, is a high-help figure of the leader of a bat executed in the bended lines of the Maya style, with little eyes and eyebrows shaped by two little volutes. The leaf-formed nose is normal for the Common Vampire Bat ("Desmodus rotundus"). The mouth is open, uncovering the incompletely saved teeth, and a conspicuous tongue expands downwards. A band of twofold triangles goes around the model with a cut line or rope and may symbolize the bat's wings. 

The upper segment of the section is the etched figure of a squat, exposed footed individual remaining upon the bat's head. The figure wears an undergarment bound by a belt and brightened with an expansive U image. An intricately cut chest decoration with join design drops from the neck over the waste. The style is to some degree unbending and is reminiscent of formal olmec design, and different outfit components look like those found on Olmec figures from the Gulf Coast of Mexico. The figure has oval eyes and extensive earspools, the nose and mouth of the figure are harmed. It wears two groups that cross on the back and are joined to the belt and the shoulders, they bolster a little human figure confronting in reverse. The position and attributes of this littler figure are fundamentally the same as those of Olmec models of newborn children, in spite of the fact that the face is older. This auxiliary figure is wearing a kind of long skirt or train that is practically indistinguishable to one worn by an Olmec-style moving panther figure found at Tuxtla Chico in Chiapas, Mexico. This train reaches out down into the center segment of the segment, proceeding with mostly down the back of the bat's head. The situation of the shoulders and the essence of the primary figure are not anatomically right, driving the archeologists to reason that the "face" is really a chest decoration and that the real leader of the fundamental figure is absent. In spite of the fact that the upper segment of the section contains numerous Olmec components, it additionally comes up short on some unmistakable highlights that are found in obvious Olmec workmanship, for example, the catlike articulation that is regularly delineated. 

The model originates before 300 BC, in view of the style of the hieroglyphic content, and is believed to be an Early Maya landmark that was planned to speak to an Early Maya ruler (at the base) who conveyed the black market (for example the bat) and his precursors (the fundamental figure above conveying a littler figure on its back). The Maya stone worker utilized half-recollected Olmec elaborate components upon the precursor figure in a type of Maya-Olmec syncretism, delivering a mixture design. All things considered it speaks to the progress starting with one social stage then onto the next, at a point where the prior Olmec occupants had not yet been overlooked and were seen as incredible precursors. 

Special stepped area 1 is found at the base of Stela 1. It is rectangular fit as a fiddle with cut trim on its side. 

Raised area 2 is of obscure provenance, having been moved to outside the overseer's home on the San Isidro Piedra Parada manor. It is long, about wide and about high. It speaks to a creature differently recognized as a frog and a panther. The body of the creature was molded to frame an empty crosswise over and profound. The figure was broken into three pieces. 

Raised area 3 is a generally worked level, roundabout special stepped area about crosswise over and high. It was presumably related initially with a stela however its unique area is obscure, it was moved close to the director's home on the San Isidro Piedra Parada manor. 

Special stepped area 5 is a harmed plain roundabout raised area related with Stela 2. 

Special stepped area 7 is close to the southern edge of the square on Terrace 3, where it is one of five landmarks in a line running east-west. 

Special stepped area 8 is a plain landmark related with Stela 5, situated on the west side of Structure 12. 

Special raised area 9 is a low four-legged position of authority set before Structure 11. 

Special raised area 10 was related with Stela 13 and was found over the vast offering of earthenware production related with that stela and the imperial tomb in Structure 7A. The landmark was initially a position of authority with tube shaped backings that was reused as a special raised area in the Classic time frame. 

Special raised area 12 is cut in the early Maya style and archeologists believe it to be a particularly early precedent dating to the initial segment of the Late Preclassic. Due to the carvings on the upper substance of the special raised area, it is assumed that the landmark was initially raised as a vertical stela in the Late Preclassic, and was reused as a flat special stepped area in the Classic. Right now 16 pictographs were cut around the external edge of the special stepped area. The cutting on the upper substance of the raised area speaks to a standing human figure depicted in profile, confronting left. The figure is flanked by two vertical arrangement of four glyphs. A littler profile figure is portrayed confronting the principal figure, isolated from it by one of the arrangement of glyphs. The focal figure is portrayed remaining upon a flat band speaking to the earth, the band is flanked by two earth beasts. Over the figure is a divine band with part of the leader of a sacrosanct feathered creature noticeable in the inside. The 16 glyphs on the edge of the landmark are framed by human figures blended with different components. 

Special stepped area 13 is another early Maya landmark dating to the Late Preclassic. Like Altar 12 it was most likely initially raised as a vertical stela. Eventually it was purposely broken, with extreme harm dispensed upon the primary segment of the figure, crushing the focal and lower divides. Sometime in the not too distant future it was reused as a flat raised area. The remaining parts of two figures can be seen flanking the harm lower bit of the landmark and the extensive leader of the hallowed feathered creature makes due over the region of harm. The correct hand figure is wearing an entwined skirt and is most likely female. 

Special stepped area 18 was one of five landmarks shaping a north-south line at the base of Structure 8 on Terrace 3. 

Raised area 28 is situated close Structure 10 in the Central Group. It is a round basalt special stepped area only over in distance across and thick. On the front edge of the special stepped area is a cutting of a skull. On the upper surface are two help carvings of human feet. 

Raised area 30 is installed in the fourth step of the entrance stairway to Terrace 3 in the Central Group. It has four low legs supporting it and is like Altar 9. 

Raised area 48 is an in all respects early case of the Early Maya style of figure, dating to the initial segment of the Late Preclassic, somewhere in the range of 400 and 200 BC. Special stepped area 48 is formed from andesite and measures and is thick. It is situated close to the southern extraordinary of Terrace 3, where it is one of a column of 5 landmarks running east-west. It is cut on its upper face and upon each of the four sides. The upper surface bears the complicated plan of a crocodile with its body as an image speaking to a cavern and containing the figure of a situated Maya wearing an undergarment. The sides of the landmark are cut with an early type of Maya symbolic representations, the content seems to allude legitimately to the individual delineated on the upper surface. Special stepped area 48 had been deliberately secured by Stela 14. The development of a Maya ruler from the body of the crocodile parallels the fantasy of the introduction of the Maya maize god, who rises up out of the shell of a turtle. In that capacity, Altar 48 might be one of the most punctual portrayals of Maya folklore utilized for political finishes. 

Landmark 1 is a volcanic rock with the bas-help model of a ballplayer, presumably speaking to a nearby ruler. This figure is looking to one side, bowing on one knee with two hands raised. The figure was found close to the riverbank at an intersection purpose of the waterway Ixchayá, some toward the west of the Central Group. It quantifies about in tallness. Monument 1 dates to the Middle Preclassic and is particularly Olmec in style. 

Landmark 2 is a potbelly mold found from the street running between the San Isidro and Buenos Aires ranches. It is about high and in width. The head is gravely dissolved and slanted marginally advances, its arms are somewhat twisted with the hands multiplied downwards and the fingers stamped. Monument 2 dates to the Late Preclassic. 

Landmark 3 additionally dates to the Late Preclassic. It was moved in present day times to the espresso drying zone of the Santa Margarita manor. It isn't known where it was initially found. It is a potbelly figure with a vast head; it wears an accessory or pendant that hangs to its chest. It is about high and wide at the shoulders. The landmark is harmed and missing the lower part. 

Landmark 4 has all the earmarks of being a figure of a hostage, inclining somewhat forward and with the hands bound behind its back. It was found on the grounds of the San Isidro manor however it isn't known precisely where. It was moved to the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología in Guatemala City. This landmark likely dates to the Late Preclassic. It is high and about wide. 

Landmark 5 was moved to the manager's place of the San Isidro Piedra Parada estate; where it was initially found is obscure. It quantifies in tallness and is wide at the broadest point. It is a figure of a hostage with the arms bound with a piece of fabric that falls over the hips. 

Landmark 6 is a zoomorph mold found amid the development of the street that passes the site. It was moved to the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología in Guatemala City. The model is only over in stature and is wide. It is a stone cut into the type of a creature head, presumably that of an amphibian, and is probably going to date to the Late Preclassic. 

Landmark 7 is a harmed model as a mammoth head. It stands and was found in the primary portion of the 20th century on the site of the power generator of the Santa Margarita estate and moved near the organization office. The model has a vast, level face with conspicuous eyebrows. Its style is fundamentally the same as that of a landmark found at Kaminaljuyu in the good countries. 

Landmark 8 is found on the west side of Structure 12. It is a zoomorphic model of a beast with cat attributes vomiting a little human figure from its mouth. 

Landmark 9 is a nearby style mold speaking to an owl. 

Landmark 10 is another landmark that was moved from its unique area; it was moved to the home of the Santa Margarita ranch and where it was initially found is obscure. It is about high and wide. This is a harmed figure speaking to a bowing hostage with the arms tied. 

Landmark 11 is situated in the southwestern region of Terrace 3, toward the east of Structure 8. It is a characteristic rock cut with a vertical arrangement of five pictographs. Further left is a solitary symbolic representation and the glyphs for the number 11. This model is viewed as in a particularly early Maya style and dates to the initial segment of the Late Preclassic. It is one of a line of 5 landmarks running east-west along the southern edge of Terrace 3. 

Landmark 14 is a disintegrated Olmec-style form dating to the Middle Preclassic. It speaks to a crouching human figure, conceivably female, wearing a hood and earspools. Under one arm it holds a panther offspring, under the other it conveys a grovel. 

Landmark 15 is a substantial rock with an Olmec-style help model of the head, shoulders and arms of a human figure rising up out of a shallow specialty, the arms twisted inwards at the elbow. The back of the rock is cut with the rump of a cat, presumably a puma. 

Landmark 16 and Monument 17 are two pieces of the equivalent broken figure. This model is traditionally Olmec in style and is vigorously dissolved yet speaks to a human head wearing a hood as an optional face wearing a protective cap. 

Landmark 23 dates to the Middle Preclassic period. It creates the impression that it was an Olmec-style monster head that was recarved into a specialty figure design. In the event that this was initially an epic head, at that point it would be the main model known from outside the Olmec heartland. Monument 23 is etched from andesite and falls amidst the size range for affirmed Olmec titanic heads. It stands high and measures wide by profound. Like the precedents from the Olmec heartland, the landmark includes a level back. Lee Parsons challenged John Graham's distinguishing proof of Monument 23 as a recarved huge head; he saw the side decorations that Graham recognized as ears as rather being the looked over eyes of an open-jawed beast looking upwards. Countering this, James Porter has guaranteed that the recarving of the essence of a giant head into a specialty figure is unmistakably obvious. Monument 23 was harmed in the mid-twentieth century by a nearby bricklayer who endeavored to break its uncovered upper segment utilizing a steel etch. Accordingly, the top is divided, despite the fact that the broken pieces were recouped by archeologists and have been instituted back. 

Landmark 25 is a vigorously dissolved help model of a figure situated in a specialty. 

Landmark 27 is situated close to the southern edge of Terrace 3, only south of a line of 5 figures running east-west. 

Landmark 28 is arranged close Monument 27 at the southern edge of Terrace 3. 

Landmark 30 is situated on Terrace 3, in succession of 5 landmarks at the base Structure 8. 

Landmark 35 is a plain landmark on Terrace 6, it dates to the Late Preclassic. 

Landmark 40 is a potbelly landmark dating to the Late Preclassic. 

Landmark 44 is a figure of a hostage. 

Landmark 47 is a neighborhood style landmark speaking to a frog or amphibian. 

Landmark 55 is an Olmec-style figure of a human head. It was moved to the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología (National Museum of Archeology and Ethnology). 

Landmark 64 is an Olmec-style bas-help cut onto the south side of a characteristic andesite shake and elaborately dates to the Middle Preclassic, in spite of the fact that it was found in a Late Preclassic archeological setting. It was found "in-situ" on the eastern bank of the El Chorro stream, some toward the west of the South-Central Group. It speaks to a human figure with some catlike attributes. The figure is depicted in profile and is wearing a belt. It holds a crisscross staff in its all-encompassing left hand. 

Landmark 65 is a severely harmed delineation of a human head in Olmec style, dating to the Middle Preclassic. Its eyes are shut and the mouth and nose are totally wrecked. It is wearing a head protector. It is situated toward the west of Structure 12. 

Landmark 66 is a neighborhood style model of a crocodilian head that may date to the Middle Preclassic. It is situated toward the west of Structure 12. 

Landmark 67 is a gravely disintegrated Olmec-style design demonstrating a figure rising up out of the mouth of a puma, with one hand raised and holding a staff. Hints of a cap are obvious. It is situated toward the west of Structure 12 and dates to the Middle Preclassic. 

Landmark 68 is a neighborhood style figure of an amphibian situated on the west side of Structure 12. It is accepted to date to the Middle Preclassic. 

Landmark 69 is a potbelly landmark dating to the Late Preclassic. 

Landmark 70 is a neighborhood style figure of a frog or amphibian. 

Landmark 93 is an unpleasant Olmec-style mold dating from the Middle Preclassic. It speaks to a situated human puma with a human head. 

Landmark 99 is a titanic head in potbelly style, dating to the Late Preclassic. 

Landmark 100, Monument 107 and Monument 109 are little potbelly landmarks dating to the Late Preclassic. They are for the most part close to the entrance stairway to Terrace 3 in the Central Group. 

Landmark 108 is a special stepped area put before the fundamental stairway offering access to Terrace 3, in the Central Group. 

Landmark 113 is situated outside of the site center, some south of the Central Group, about west of El Asintal, in an auxiliary site known as the South Group, which comprises of six structure hills. It is cut from an andesite rock and bears an alleviation cutting of a puma lying on its left side. Its eyes and mouth are open and different panther pawprints are cut upon the body of the creature. 

Landmark 126 is an extensive basalt shake bearing bas-alleviation carvings of life-estimate human hands. It is found upon the bank of a little stream close to the Central Group. 

Landmark 140 is a Late Preclassic model of a frog, it is situated in the West Group, on Terrace 6. 

Landmark 141 is a rectangular special stepped area dating to the Late Preclassic. It is situated in the West Group on Terrace 6. 

Landmarks 142, 143, 145, 146, 147, 148, 149 and 156 are among 19 normal stone landmarks that line the course of the Nima stream, some west of the West Group, inside the Buenos Aires and San Isidro estates. They are basalt and andesite stones that have profound roundabout melancholies with cleaned sides that are maybe the aftereffect of some sort of working action. 

Landmark 154 is an expansive basalt shake, it bears two petroglyphs speaking to innocent countenances. It is situated on the west side of the Nima stream, on the Buenos Aires ranch. 

Landmark 157 is a substantial andesite shake on the west side of the Nima stream, on the San Isidro manor. It bears the petroglyph of a face with eyes and eyebrows, nose and mouth. 

Landmark 161 exists in the North Group, on the San Elías manor. It is a basalt outcrop estimating high by wide in favor of the Ixchayá gorge. It bears a petroglyph of a face cut onto the upper piece of the stone, looking upwards. The face has cheekbones, a noticeable jaw and a somewhat open mouth. It has some expressive likeness to Early Classic jade covers, in spite of the fact that it does not have certain highlights related with these. 

Landmark 163 dates from the Late Preclassic. It was found reused in the development of a Late Classic water channel alongside Structure 7. It speaks to a situated figure with noticeable male privates and is severely harmed, with the head and shoulders missing. 

Landmark 215 is a piece of the Cargador del Ancestro form. It was discovered installed in the east substance of Structure 7A, where it was painstakingly put in the meantime as the regal internment was buried in the focal point of the structure. 

Landmark 217 is another piece of the Cargador del Ancestro design. It was inserted in the east substance of Structure 7A in a similar way, and in the meantime, as Monument 215. 

Stelae are cut stone shafts, frequently etched with figures and symbolic representations. A determination of the most outstanding stelae at Takalik Abaj pursues: 

Stela 1 was found close to Stela 2 and moved close to the director's place of the San Isidro Piedra Parada manor. It is high, wide and thick. It bears the model of a standing figure looking to one side, holding a staff as a snake with a mythical beast cover at the lower end; a cat is over the snake's body. It is comparable in style to Stela 1 at El Baúl. A seriously dissolved hieroglyphic content is to one side of the figure's face, which is currently totally unintelligible. This stela is early Maya in style, dating to the Late Preclassic. 

Stela 2 is a landmark in the early Maya style that is engraved with a harmed Long Count date. Because of its solitary halfway protection, this date has something like three conceivable readings, the most recent of which would put it in the first century BC. Flanking the content are two standing figures confronting one another, the model likely speaks to one ruler getting power from his antecedent. Over the figures and the content is a lavish figure portrayed in profile looking down at the left-hand figure beneath. Stela 2 is situated before the holding mass of Terrace 5. 

Stela 3 is gravely harmed, being broken into three pieces. It was discovered some place on the San Isidro Piedra Parada ranch despite the fact that its precise unique area isn't known. It was moved to a historical center in Guatemala City. The lower segment of the stela portrays two legs looking to one side remaining upon a level band separated into three segments, each area containing an image or glyph. 

Stela 4 was revealed in 1969 and moved close to the chairman's home on the San Isidro Piedra Parada manor. It is of a style fundamentally the same as the stelae at Izapa and stands high. The stela bears a perplexing structure speaking to an undulating vision snake ascending toward the sky from the water spilling out of two earth beasts, the jaws of the snake are open wide towards the sky and from them rises a naturally Maya face. A few glyphs show up among the symbolism. This stela is early Maya in style and dates to the Late Preclassic. 

Stela 5 is sensibly all around safeguarded and is recorded with two Long Count dates flanked by portrayals of two standing figures depicting rulers. The most recent of these two dates is AD 126. The right-hand figure is holding a snake, while the left-hand figure is holding what is most likely a puma. This landmark likely speaks to one ruler passing capacity to the following. A little situated figure is cut onto every one of the sides of this stela alongside a gravely dissolved hieroglyphic engraving. The style is early Maya and has affinities with models at Izapa. 

Stela 12 is situated close Structure 11. It is seriously harmed, having been broken into parts, of which two remain. The biggest part is from the lower segment of the stela and portrays the legs and feet of a figure, both looking a similar way. They remain upon a board partitioned into geometric segments, each containing a further structure. Before the legs are the remaining parts of a glyph that gives off an impression of being a number in the bar-and-dab group. A littler piece lies adjacent. 

Stela 13 dates to the Late Preclassic. It is severely harmed, having been broken in two sections. It is cut in early Maya style and bears a structure speaking to a stylised serpentine head, fundamentally the same as a landmark found at Kaminaljuyu. Stela 13 was raised at the base of the south side of Structure 7A. At the base of the stela was discovered a huge offering of in excess of 600 artistic vessels, 33 kaleidoscopic obsidian cutting edges, just as different antiquities. The stela and the offering are related with the Late Preclassic imperial tomb known as Burial 1. 

Stela 14 is on the southern edge of Terrace 3, in the Central Group, where it is one of 5 landmarks in an east-west column. It is molded from andesite and has 26 container like despondencies upon the upper surface. It is one of only a handful couple of such landmarks found inside the formal focal point of the city. Altar 48 was found underneath Stela 14 in 2008, having been deliberately shrouded by it in olden times. Stela 14 measures by thick and gauges more than . The lower surface of the stela had been etched totally level with 6 little cupmarks and a progression of imprints framing a structure reminiscent of the disposed of skin of a snake or of a vertebral section. 

Stela 15 is another landmark on the southern edge of Terrace 3, one of a column of five. 

Stela 29 is a smooth andesite landmark at the southeast corner of Structure 11 with seven stages cut into its upper segment. 

Stela 34 was found at the base of Structure 8, where it was one of a column of five landmarks. 

Stela 35 was one more of the five landmarks found at the base of Structure 8. 

Stela 53 is a section of model that was found in the last Early Preclassic period of Structure 12, legitimately behind Stela 5. Stela 53 shapes a piece of the Cargador del Ancestro mold. Stela 5 was set while Stela 53 was implanted in Structure 12, and the long tally date on the previous likewise permits the setting of Stela 53 to be fixed in time at Late Preclassic– Early Classic change. 

Stela 61 is a piece of the Cargador del Ancestro form. In the Late Preclassic– Early Classic progress it had been implanted in the east access stairway to Terrace 3. 

Stela 66 is a plain stela dating to the Late Preclassic. It is found in the West Group, on Terrace 6. 

Stela 68 was found at the southeast corner of Mound 61A on Terrace 5. This stela was broken in two and the rest of the pieces seem to have a place with two separate landmarks. The stela, or stelae, when bore early Maya design however this seems to have been purposely crushed, leaving just a couple of formed images. 

Stela 71 is an early Maya cut piece reused in the development of a water channel by Structure 7. 

Stela 74 is a piece of Olmec-style mold that was found in the Middle Preclassic fill of Structure 7, where it was put when that structure supplanted the Pink Structure. It bears a foliated maize configuration finished with a U-image inside a cartouche and has other, littler, U-images at its base. It is fundamentally the same as a plan found on Monument 25/26 from La Venta. 

A Late Preclassic tomb has been uncovered, accepted to be an imperial internment. This tomb has been assigned Burial 1; it was found amid unearthings of Structure 7A and was embedded into the focal point of this Middle Preclassic structure. The internment is likewise connected with Stela 13 and with a monstrous offering of in excess of 600 fired vessels and different ancient rarities found at the base of Structure 7A. These earthenware production date the offering as far as possible of the Late Preclassic. No human remains have been recouped yet the observe is thought to be an entombment because of the related relics. The body is accepted to have been entombed upon a litter estimating , which was presumably made of wood and covered in red cinnabar residue. Grave products incorporate a 18-piece jade accessory, two earspools covered in cinnabar, different mosaic mirrors produced using iron pyrite, one comprising of in excess of 800 pieces, a jade mosaic veil, two kaleidoscopic obsidian cutting edges, a finely cut greenstone fish, different dabs that probably framed adornments, for example, armlets and a determination of earthenware production that date the tomb to AD 100– 200. 

In October 2012, a tomb cell based dated between 700 BC and 400 BC was accounted for to have been found in Takalik Abaj of a ruler nicknamed K'utz Chman ("Grandfather Vulture" in Mam) by archeologists, a sacrosanct lord or "enormous boss" who "crossed over any barrier between the Olmec and Mayan societies in Central America," as indicated by Miguel Orrego. The tomb is recommended to be the most seasoned Maya regal entombment to have been found up until now.