Gerard K. O'Neill 

Gerard Kitchen O'Neill (February 6, 1927 – April 27, 1992) was an American physicist and space extremist. As an employee of Princeton University, he developed a gadget called the molecule stockpiling ring for high-vitality material science tests. Afterward, he imagined an attractive launcher called the mass driver. During the 1970s, he built up an arrangement to fabricate human settlements in space, including a space territory configuration known as the O'Neill barrel. He established the Space Studies Institute, an association committed to financing investigation into space assembling and colonization. 

O'Neill started inquiring about high-vitality molecule material science at Princeton in 1954, after he got his doctorate from Cornell University. After two years, he distributed his hypothesis for a molecule stockpiling ring. This development permitted molecule quickening agents at a lot higher energies than had recently been conceivable. In 1965 at Stanford University, he played out the first impacting pillar material science test. 

While showing material science at Princeton, O'Neill wound up keen on the likelihood that people could endure and live in space. He looked into and proposed a cutting edge thought for human settlement in space, the O'Neill chamber, in "The Colonization of Space", his first paper regarding the matter. He held a gathering on space producing at Princeton in 1975. Numerous who progressed toward becoming post-Apollo-time space activists visited. O'Neill manufactured his first mass driver model with educator Henry Kolm in 1976. He considered mass drivers basic for separating the mineral assets of the Moon and space rocks. His honor winning book "" motivated an age of room investigation advocates. He kicked the bucket of leukemia in 1992. 

O'Neill was conceived in Brooklyn, New York on February 6, 1927 to Edward Gerard O'Neill, a legal advisor, and Dorothy Lewis O'Neill (née Kitchen). He had no kin. His family moved to Speculator, New York when his dad briefly resigned for wellbeing reasons. For secondary school, O'Neill went to Newburgh Free Academy in Newburgh, New York. While he was an understudy there he altered the school paper and accepted a position as a news telecaster at a nearby radio station. He graduated in 1944, amid World War II, and enrolled in the United States Navy on his seventeenth birthday celebration. The Navy prepared him as a radar professional, which started his enthusiasm for science. 

After he was decently released in 1946, O'Neill examined material science and arithmetic at Swarthmore College. As a youngster he had talked about the potential outcomes of people in space with his folks, and in school he delighted in chipping away at rocket conditions. Be that as it may, he didn't see space science as a possibility for a lifelong way in material science, picking rather to seek after high-vitality physical science. He graduated with Phi Beta Kappa respects in 1950. O'Neill played out his alumni learns at Cornell University with the assistance of an Atomic Energy Commission partnership, and was granted a Ph.D. in material science in 1954. 

O'Neill wedded Sylvia Turlington, additionally a Swarthmore graduate, in June 1950. They had a child, Roger, and two little girls, Janet and Eleanor, before their marriage finished in separation in 1966. 

One of O'Neill's most loved exercises was flying. He held instrument affirmations in both controlled and sailplane flight and held the FAI Diamond Badge, a coasting grant. Amid his first crosscountry lightweight flyer trip in April 1973, he was helped on the ground by Renate "Tasha" Steffen. He had met Tasha, who was 21 years more youthful than him, beforehand through the YMCA International Club. They were hitched the day after his flight. They had a child, Edward O'Neill. 

Subsequent to moving on from Cornell, O'Neill acknowledged a situation as an educator at Princeton University. There he began his investigation into high-vitality molecule material science. In 1956, his second year of educating, he distributed a two-page article that conjectured that the particles created by an atom smasher could be put away for a couple of moments in a capacity ring. The put away particles could then be coordinated to slam into another molecule shaft. This would expand the vitality of the molecule impact over the past technique, which coordinated the bar at a fixed target. His thoughts were not promptly acknowledged by the material science network. 

O'Neill turned into an associate educator at Princeton in 1956, and was elevated to relate teacher in 1959. He visited Stanford University in 1957 to meet with Professor Wolfgang K. H. Panofsky. This brought about a coordinated effort among Princeton and Stanford to assemble the Colliding Beam Experiment (CBX). With a US$800,000 allow from the Office of Naval Research, development on the main molecule stockpiling rings started in 1958 at the Stanford High-Energy Physics Laboratory. He made sense of how to catch the particles and, by siphoning the let some circulation into to create a vacuum, store them sufficiently long to investigate them. CBX put away its first pillar on March 28, 1962. O'Neill turned into a full teacher of material science in 1965. 

As a team with Burton Richter, O'Neill played out the first impacting pillar material science try in 1965. In this test, molecule bars from the Stanford Linear Accelerator were gathered in his stockpiling rings and afterward coordinated to crash at a vitality of 600 MeV. At the time, this was the most elevated vitality engaged with a molecule impact. The outcomes demonstrated that the charge of an electron is contained in a volume under 100 attometers over. O'Neill believed his gadget to be able to do just seconds of capacity, at the same time, by making a much more grounded vacuum, others had the capacity to expand this to hours. In 1979, he, with physicist David C. Cheng, composed the alumni level reading material "Rudimentary Particle Physics: An Introduction". He resigned from instructing in 1985, however remained related with Princeton as "teacher emeritus" until his demise. 

O'Neill saw extraordinary potential in the United States space program, particularly the Apollo missions. He connected to the Astronaut Corps after NASA opened it up to regular citizen researchers in 1966. Afterward, when inquired as to why he needed to go on the Moon missions, he stated, "to be alive now and not participate in it appeared to be horrendously nearsighted". He was put through NASA's thorough mental and physical examinations. Amid this time he met Brian O'Leary, additionally a researcher space traveler applicant, who turned into his great companion. O'Leary was chosen for Astronaut Group 6 however O'Neill was definitely not. 

O'Neill wound up inspired by space colonization in 1969 while he was showing first year recruit material science at Princeton University. His understudies were becoming critical about the advantages of science to humankind due to the contention encompassing the Vietnam War. To give them something pertinent to consider, he started utilizing models from the Apollo program as uses of basic material science. O'Neill suggested the conversation starter amid an additional workshop he provided for a couple of his understudies: "Is the outside of a planet extremely the correct spot for an extending innovative progress?" His understudies' exploration persuaded him that the appropriate response was no. 

O'Neill was enlivened by the papers composed by his understudies. He started to work out the subtleties of a program to manufacture self-supporting space living spaces in free space. Among the subtleties was the means by which to give the occupants of a space settlement with an Earth-like condition. His understudies had planned mammoth pressurized structures, spun up to surmised Earth gravity by radial power. With the number of inhabitants in the province living on the inward surface of a circle or chamber, these structures looked like "back to front planets". He found that matching counter-turning chambers would dispense with the need to turn them utilizing rockets. This arrangement has since been known as the "O'Neill barrel". 

Searching for an outlet for his thoughts, O'Neill composed a paper titled "The Colonization of Space", and for a long time endeavored to have it distributed. He submitted it to a few diaries and magazines, including "Logical American" and "Science", just to have it dismissed by the analysts. Amid this time O'Neill gave addresses on space colonization at Hampshire College, Princeton, and different schools. Numerous understudies and staff going to the addresses ended up energetic about the likelihood of living in space. Another outlet for O'Neill to investigate his thoughts was with his youngsters; on strolls in the woods they hypothesized about existence in a space state. His paper at long last showed up in the September 1974 issue of "Material science Today". In it, he contended that building space provinces would take care of a few essential issues: 

He investigated the potential outcomes of flying lightweight flyers inside a space province, finding that the colossal volume could bolster air thermals. He determined that humankind could develop this man-made wilderness to multiple times its populace. The underlying states would be worked at the Earth-Moon and Lagrange focuses. also, are steady focuses in the Solar System where a rocket can keep up its situation without consuming vitality. The paper was generally welcomed, however numerous who might start chip away at the undertaking had just been acquainted with his thoughts before it was even distributed. The paper got a couple of basic reactions. Some doubted the reasonableness of lifting a huge number of individuals into space and his appraisals for the creation yield of introductory provinces. 

While he was trusting that his paper will be distributed, O'Neill sorted out a little two-day gathering in May 1974 at Princeton to talk about the likelihood of colonizing space. The meeting, titled "First Conference on Space Colonization", was subsidized by Stewart Brand's Point Foundation and Princeton University. Among the individuals who went to were Eric Drexler (at the time a green bean at MIT), researcher space explorer Joe Allen (from Astronaut Group 6), Freeman Dyson, and science journalist Walter Sullivan. Delegates from NASA additionally visited and brought evaluations of dispatch costs expected on the arranged Space Shuttle. O'Neill thought of the participants as "a band of brave radicals". Sullivan's article on the gathering was distributed on the first page of "The New York Times" on May 13, 1974. As media inclusion developed, O'Neill was immersed with letters from individuals who were amped up for living in space. To keep in contact with them, O'Neill started keeping a mailing list and began conveying reports on his advancement. A couple of months after the fact he heard Peter Glaser talk about sunlight based power satellites at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center. O'Neill understood that, by structure these satellites, his space states could rapidly recuperate the expense of their development. As per O'Neill, "the significant contrast among this and everything else done in space is the capability of creating a lot of new riches". 

O'Neill held an a lot bigger meeting the next May titled "Princeton University Conference on Space Manufacturing". At this meeting in excess of two dozen speakers displayed papers, including Keith and Carolyn Henson from Tucson, Arizona. 

After the gathering Carolyn Henson organized a gathering among O'Neill and Arizona Congressman Morris Udall. Udall composed a letter of help, which he requested that the Hensons expose, for O'Neill's work. The Hensons incorporated his letter in the primary issue of the L-5 Society bulletin, sent to everybody on O'Neill's mailing list and the individuals who had joined at the gathering. 

In June 1975, O'Neill drove a ten-week investigation of perpetual space natural surroundings at NASA Ames. Amid the examination he was summoned to affirm on July 23 to the House Subcommittee on Space Science and Applications. On January 19, 1976, he additionally showed up before the Senate Subcommittee on Aerospace Technology and National Needs. In an introduction titled "Sun based Power from Satellites", he spread out his case for an Apollo-style program for structure control plants in space. He came back to Ames in June 1976 and 1977 to lead thinks about on space fabricating. In these examinations, NASA created point by point intends to set up bases on the Moon where space-fit laborers would mine the mineral assets expected to assemble space settlements and sun based power satellites. 

Despite the fact that NASA was supporting his work with gifts of up to $500,000 every year, O'Neill wound up disappointed by the administration and legislative issues intrinsic in government-financed inquire about. He suspected that little secretly financed gatherings could create space innovation quicker than government organizations. In 1977, O'Neill and his better half Tasha established the Space Studies Institute, a non-benefit association, at Princeton University. SSI got introductory subsidizing of nearly $100,000 from private givers, and in mid 1978 started to help essential investigation into innovations required for space assembling and settlement. 

One of SSI's first concedes supported the advancement of the mass driver, a gadget initially proposed by O'Neill in 1974. Mass drivers depend on the coilgun configuration, adjusted to quicken a non-attractive article. One application O'Neill proposed for mass drivers was to toss baseball-sized pieces of mineral mined from the outside of the Moon into space. Once in space, the metal could be utilized as crude material for structure space settlements and sun based power satellites. He took a holiday from Princeton to deal with mass drivers at MIT. There he filled in as the Hunsaker Visiting Professor of Aerospace amid the 1976– 77 scholarly year. At MIT, he, Henry H. Kolm, and a gathering of understudy volunteers constructed their first mass driver model. The eight-foot (2.5 m) long model could apply 33 "g" (320 m/s) of quickening to an item embedded into it. With budgetary help from SSI, later models improved this to 1,800 "g" (18,000 m/s), enough speeding up that a mass driver just 520 feet (160 m) long could dispatch material off the outside of the Moon. 

In 1977, O'Neill saw the pinnacle of enthusiasm for space colonization, alongside the distribution of his first book, "". He and his better half were flying between gatherings, meetings, and hearings. On October 9, the CBS program "an hour" ran a fragment about space settlements. Later they broadcast reactions from the watchers, which included one from Senator William Proxmire, administrator of the Senate Subcommittee in charge of NASA's financial plan. His reaction was, "it's the best contention yet to cleave NASA's financing deep down ... I state not a penny for this nutty dream". He effectively dispensed with spending on space colonization inquire about from the financial plan. In 1978, Paul Werbos composed for the L-5 bulletin, "nobody anticipates that Congress should submit us to O'Neill's idea of substantial scale space living spaces; individuals in NASA are practically jumpy about the advertising parts of the thought". When it turned out to be certain that a legislature subsidized colonization exertion was politically unthinkable, prominent help for O'Neill's thoughts began to dissipate. 

Different weights on O'Neill's colonization plan were the surprising expense of access to Earth circle and the declining cost of vitality. Building sun oriented power stations in space was financially appealing when vitality costs spiked amid the 1979 oil emergency. At the point when costs dropped in the mid 1980s, subsidizing for space sun based power investigate evaporated. His arrangement had additionally been founded on NASA's evaluations for the flight rate and dispatch cost of the Space Shuttle, numbers that ended up having been fiercely hopeful. His 1977 book cited a Space Shuttle dispatch cost of $10 million, however in 1981 the sponsored value given to business clients began at $38 million. A 1985 bookkeeping of the full expense of a dispatch in 1985 raised this as high as $180 million for each flight, and later gauges as the Space Shuttle program neared its end in 2011 were a lot higher yet. 

O'Neill was delegated by United States President Ronald Reagan to the National Commission on Space in 1985. The commission, driven by previous NASA head Thomas Paine, recommended that the administration focus on opening the inward Solar System for human settlement inside 50 years. Their report was discharged in May 1986, four months after the Space Shuttle Challenger separated on rising. 

O'Neill's well known science book "" (1977) consolidated anecdotal records of room pilgrims with a clarification of his arrangement to construct space settlements. Its distribution built up him as the representative for the space colonization development. It won the Phi Beta Kappa Award in Science that year, and incited Swarthmore College to concede him a privileged doctorate. "The High Frontier" has been converted into five dialects and stayed in print starting at 2008. 

His 1981 book "" was an activity in futurology. O'Neill described it as a guest to Earth from a space state past Pluto. The book investigated the impacts of innovations he called "drivers of progress" on the coming century. A few advancements he depicted were space provinces, sunlight based power satellites, hostile to maturing drugs, hydrogen-pushed autos, atmosphere control, and underground attractive trains. He left the social structure of the 1980s flawless, accepting that humankind would stay unaltered even as it ventured into the Solar System. Surveys of "2081" were blended. "New York Times" commentator John Noble Wilford found the book "creative energy blending", yet Charles Nicol thought the advancements portrayed were inadmissibly fantastical. 

In his book "The Technology Edge", distributed in 1983, O'Neill expounded on monetary challenge with Japan. He contended that the United States needed to create six businesses to contend: microengineering, apply autonomy, hereditary designing, attractive flight, family airplane, and space science. He likewise suspected that modern improvement was experiencing foolhardy administrators, self-intrigued associations, high assessments, and poor training of Americans. As per commentator Henry Weil, O'Neill's point by point clarifications of developing advancements separated the book from others regarding the matter. 

O'Neill established Geostar Corporation to build up a satellite position assurance framework for which he was conceded a patent in 1982. The framework, essentially planned to follow flying machine, was called Radio Determination Satellite Service (RDSS). In April 1983 Geostar connected to the FCC for a permit to communicate from three satellites, which would cover the whole United States. Geostar propelled GSTAR-2 into geosynchronous circle in 1986. Its transmitter bundle for all time fizzled two months after the fact, so Geostar started trial of RDSS by transmitting from different satellites. With his wellbeing falling flat, O'Neill turned out to be less required with the organization in the meantime it began to keep running into inconvenience. In February 1991 Geostar declared financial insolvency and its licenses were sold to Motorola for the Iridium satellite group of stars venture. Despite the fact that the framework was in the end supplanted by GPS, O'Neill made huge advances in the field of position assurance. 

O'Neill established O'Neill Communications in Princeton in 1986. He presented his Local Area Wireless Networking, or LAWN, framework at the PC Expo in New York in 1989. The LAWN framework enabled two PCs to trade messages over a scope of two or three hundred feet at an expense of about $500 per hub. O'Neill Communications left business in 1993; the LAWN innovation was sold to Omnispread Communications. Starting at 2008, Omnispread kept on selling a variation of O'Neill's LAWN framework. 

On November 18, 1991, O'Neill documented a patent application for a vactrain framework. He called the organization he needed to frame "VSE International", for speed, quiet, and effectiveness. Be that as it may, the idea itself he called "Attractive Flight". The vehicles, rather than running on a couple of tracks, would be raised utilizing electromagnetic power by a solitary track inside a cylinder (perpetual magnets in the track, with variable magnets on the vehicle), and moved by electromagnetic powers through passages. He assessed the trains could achieve rates of up to 2,500 mph (4,000 km/h) — around multiple times quicker than a stream aircraft — if the air was emptied from the passages. To acquire such speeds, the vehicle would quicken for the principal half of the excursion, and afterward decelerate for the second 50% of the outing. The increasing speed was intended to be a limit of around one-portion of the power of gravity. O'Neill wanted to assemble a system of stations associated by these passages, however he kicked the bucket two years before his first patent on it was allowed. 

O'Neill was determined to have leukemia in 1985. He kicked the bucket on April 27, 1992, from complexities of the sickness at the Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City, California. He was made due by his better half Tasha, his ex Sylvia, and his four youngsters. An example of his burned remains was covered in space. The vial containing his fiery debris was appended to a Pegasus XL rocket and propelled into Earth circle on April 21, 1997. It reemerged the air in May 2002. 

O'Neill guided his Space Studies Institute to proceed with their endeavors "until individuals are living and working in space". After his demise, the executives of SSI was passed to his child Roger and associate Freeman Dyson. SSI kept on holding gatherings each other year to unite researchers examining space colonization until 2001, at that point sporadically from there on. 

Henry Kolm proceeded to begin Magplane Technology during the 1990s to build up the attractive transportation innovation that O'Neill had expounded on. In 2007, Magplane showed a working attractive pipeline framework to transport phosphate metal in Florida. The framework kept running at a speed of 40 mph (65 km/h), far slower than the fast trains O'Neill imagined. 

Every one of the three of the authors of the Space Frontier Foundation, an association committed to opening the space wilderness to human settlement, were supporters of O'Neill's thoughts and had worked with him in different limits at the Space Studies Institute. One of them, Rick Tumlinson, portrays three men as models for space support: Wernher von Braun, Gerard K. O'Neill, and Carl Sagan. Von Braun pushed for "ventures that normal individuals can be glad for yet not take an interest in". Sagan needed to investigate the universe from a separation. O'Neill, with his fantastic plan for settlement of the Solar System, accentuated moving standard individuals off the Earth "as a group". 

The National Space Society (NSS) gives the Gerard K. O'Neill Memorial Award for Space Settlement Advocacy to people noted for their commitments in the zone of room settlement. Their commitments can be logical, administrative, and instructive. The honor is a trophy thrown in the state of a Bernal circle. The NSS originally presented the honor in 2007 on lunar business person and previous space traveler Harrison Schmitt. In 2008, it was given to physicist John Marburger. 

In fiction, the hero of Stephen Baxter's "" names his spaceship the "Gerard K. O'Neill." 

As of November, 2013, Gerard O'Neill's papers and work are presently situated in the documents at the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, Steven F. Udvar-Hazy Center. 

O'Neill was conceded six licenses altogether (two after death) in the zones of worldwide position assurance and attractive levitation. 

Books 

Articles 

Recordings 

The Vision of Gerard K. O'Neil 30 min declaration about what common individuals can do about space 

Different references