Albert, Prince Consort 

Ruler Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha (Francis Albert Augustus Charles Emmanuel; 26 August 1819 – 14 December 1861) was the spouse of Queen Victoria. 

He was conceived in the Saxon duchy of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld, to a family associated with a considerable lot of Europe's decision rulers. At 20 years old, he wedded his first cousin, Queen Victoria; they had nine youngsters. At first he felt obliged by his job of ruler associate, which did not bear the cost of him power or obligations. He bit by bit built up a notoriety for supporting open causes, for example, instructive change and the cancelation of subjugation around the world, and was endowed with running the Queen's family, office and domains. He was intensely included with the association of the Great Exhibition of 1851, which was a reverberating achievement. 

Victoria came to depend increasingly more on his help and direction. He helped the improvement of Britain's sacred government by inducing his significant other to be less divided in her dealings with Parliament—in spite of the fact that he effectively couldn't help contradicting the interventionist outside approach sought after amid Lord Palmerston's residency as Foreign Secretary. 

Albert kicked the bucket at the moderately youthful age of 42. Victoria was so crushed at the loss of her better half that she went into a secret government of grieving and sported dark for an amazing remainder. On her demise in 1901, their oldest child prevailing as Edward VII, the main British ruler of the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, named after the ducal house to which Albert had a place. 

Albert was conceived at Schloss Rosenau, close Coburg, Germany, the second child of Ernest III, Duke of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld, and his first spouse, Louise of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg. Albert's future spouse, Victoria, was brought into the world before around the same time with the help of a similar maternity specialist, Charlotte von Siebold. Albert was immersed into the Lutheran Evangelical Church on 19 September 1819 in the Marble Hall at Schloss Rosenau with water taken from the nearby stream, the Itz. His godparents were his fatherly grandma, the Dowager Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld; his maternal granddad, the Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg; the Emperor of Austria; the Duke of Teschen; and Emanuel, Count of Mensdorff-Pouilly. In 1825, Albert's extraordinary uncle, Frederick IV, Duke of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg, passed on. His passing prompted a realignment of Saxon duchies the next year and Albert's dad turned into the principal ruling duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha. 

Albert and his senior sibling, Ernest, spent their childhood in a nearby brotherhood damaged by their folks' violent marriage and possible detachment and separation. After their mom was ousted from court in 1824, she wedded her darling, Alexander von Hanstein, Count of Polzig and Beiersdorf. She apparently never observed her youngsters again, and kicked the bucket of malignant growth at 30 years old in 1831. The next year, their dad wedded his niece, his children's cousin Princess Marie of Württemberg; their marriage was not close, be that as it may, and Marie had nearly nothing—assuming any—sway on her stepchildren's lives. 

The siblings were taught secretly at home by and later concentrated in Brussels, where Adolphe Quetelet was one of their mentors. In the same way as other German sovereigns, Albert went to the University of Bonn, where he contemplated law, political economy, rationality and the historical backdrop of workmanship. He played music and exceeded expectations at game, particularly fencing and riding. His guides at Bonn incorporated the thinker Fichte and the writer Schlegel. 

The possibility of marriage among Albert and his cousin, Victoria, was first archived in a 1821 letter from his fatherly grandma, the Dowager Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld, who said that he was "the pendant to the pretty cousin". By 1836, this thought had likewise emerged in the psyche of their yearning uncle Leopold, who had been King of the Belgians since 1831. As of now, Victoria was the beneficiary hypothetical to the British position of authority. Her dad, Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn, the fourth child of King George III, had kicked the bucket when she was an infant, and her old uncle, King William IV, had no authentic youngsters. Her mom, the Duchess of Kent, was the sister of both Albert's dad—the Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha—and King Leopold. Leopold organized his sister, Victoria's mom, to welcome the Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha and his two children to visit her in May 1836, with the motivation behind gathering Victoria. William IV, be that as it may, disliked any match with the Coburgs, and rather supported the suit of Prince Alexander, second child of the Prince of Orange. Victoria was very much aware of the different wedding plans and basically evaluated a motorcade of qualified rulers. She stated, "[Albert] is incredibly attractive; his hair is about a similar shading as mine; his eyes are substantial and blue, and he has a wonderful nose and a sweet mouth with fine teeth; however the appeal of his face is his appearance, which is generally great." Alexander, then again, she depicted as "plain". 

Victoria kept in touch with her uncle Leopold to express gratitude toward him "for the possibility of "incredible" satisfaction you have added to give me, in the individual of dear Albert ... He has each quality that could be wanted to render me impeccably glad." Although the gatherings did not embrace a formal commitment, both the family and their retainers broadly expected that the match would happen. 

Victoria went to the position of royalty matured eighteen on 20 June 1837. Her letters of the time show enthusiasm for Albert's instruction for the job he would need to play, in spite of the fact that she opposed endeavors to surge her into marriage. In the winter of 1838– 39, the ruler visited Italy, joined by the Coburg family's secret consultant, Baron Stockmar. 

Albert came back to the United Kingdom with Ernest in October 1839 to visit the Queen, with the target of settling the marriage. Albert and Victoria felt common warmth and the Queen proposed to him on 15 October 1839. Victoria's expectation to wed was pronounced formally to the Privy Council on 23 November, and the couple wedded on 10 February 1840 at the Chapel Royal, St James' Palace. Just before the marriage, Albert was naturalized by Act of Parliament, and conceded the style of "Illustrious Highness" by an Order in Council. 

At first Albert was not mainstream with the British open; he was seen to be from a ruined and undistinguished minor state, scarcely bigger than a little English province. The British Prime Minister, Lord Melbourne, prompted the Queen against allowing her significant other the title of "Ruler Consort"; Parliament likewise protested Albert being made a companion—somewhat in view of hostile to German slant and a longing to avoid Albert from any political job. Albert's religious perspectives gave a little measure of contention when the marriage was bantered in Parliament: despite the fact that as an individual from the Lutheran Evangelical Church Albert was a Protestant, the non-Episcopal nature of his congregation was viewed as troubling. Of more prominent concern, nonetheless, was that a portion of Albert's family were Roman Catholic. Melbourne drove a minority government and the restriction exploited the marriage to debilitate his position further. They restricted the ennoblement of Albert and allowed him a littler annuity than past consorts, £30,000 rather than the typical £50,000. Albert guaranteed that he had no need of a British peerage, expressing: "It would nearly be a stage downwards, for as a Duke of Saxony, I feel myself a lot higher than a Duke of York or Kent." For the following seventeen years, Albert was formally titled "HRH Prince Albert" until, on 25 June 1857, Victoria formally allowed him the title Prince Consort. 

The situation in which the ruler was set by his marriage, while one of qualification, likewise offered extensive challenges; in Albert's own words, "I am upbeat and placated; however the trouble in filling my place with the best possible nobility is that I am just the spouse, not the ace in the house." The Queen's family unit was controlled by her previous tutor, Baroness Lehzen. Albert alluded to her as the "House Dragon", and moved to remove the Baroness from her position. 

Inside two months of the marriage, Victoria was pregnant. Albert began to take on open jobs; he progressed toward becoming President of the Society for the Extinction of Slavery (which was as yet lawful in the southern United States and the settlements of France); and helped Victoria secretly with her administration desk work. 

In June 1840, while on an open carriage ride, Albert and the pregnant Victoria were shot at by Edward Oxford, who was later made a decision about crazy. Neither Albert nor Victoria was harmed and Albert was adulated in the papers for his mettle and coolness amid the assault. Albert was increasing open help just as political impact, which showed itself basically when, in August, Parliament passed the Regency Act 1840 to assign him official in case of Victoria's demise before their tyke achieved the period of dominant part. Their first youngster, Victoria, named after her mom, was conceived in November. Eight other youngsters would pursue throughout the following seventeen years. Each of the nine youngsters made due to adulthood, which was noteworthy for the time and which biographer Hermione Hobhouse credited to Albert's "illuminated impact" on the sound running of the nursery. In mid 1841, he effectively expelled the nursery from Lehzen's unavoidable control, and in September 1842, Lehzen left Britain for all time—a lot to Albert's help. 

After the 1841 general decision, Melbourne was supplanted as Prime Minister by Sir Robert Peel, who delegated Albert as administrator of the Royal Commission responsible for rearranging the new Palace of Westminster. The Palace had torched seven years prior, and was being revamped. As a benefactor and buyer of pictures and figure, the commission was set up to advance the expressive arts in Britain. The commission's work was moderate, and the planner, Charles Barry, removed numerous choices from the chiefs' hands by brightening rooms with luxurious decorations that were treated as a major aspect of the engineering. Albert was progressively effective as a private supporter and gatherer. Among his remarkable buys were early German and Italian compositions, for example, Lucas Cranach the Elder's "Apollo and Diana" and Fra Angelico's "St Peter Martyr"— and contemporary pieces from Franz Xaver Winterhalter and Edwin Landseer. , of Dresden, helped Albert in purchasing photos of the most noteworthy quality. 

Albert and Victoria were shot at again on both 29 and 30 May 1842, yet were safe. The guilty party, John Francis, was confined and sentenced to death, in spite of the fact that he was later reprieved. A portion of their initial disagreeability came about due to their firmness and adherence to convention out in the open, however in private the couple were all the more accommodating. In mid 1844, Victoria and Albert were separated out of the blue since their marriage when he came back to Coburg on the passing of his dad. 

By 1844, Albert had figured out how to modernize the illustrious funds and, through different economies, had adequate money to buy Osborne House on the Isle of Wight as a private habitation for their developing family. Throughout the following couple of years a house demonstrated in the style of an Italianate manor was worked to the plans of Albert and Thomas Cubitt. Albert spread out the grounds, and improved the home and ranch. Albert oversaw and improved the other illustrious domains; his model homestead at Windsor was respected by his biographers, and under his stewardship the incomes of the Duchy of Cornwall—the inherited property of the Prince of Wales—consistently expanded. 

Not at all like numerous landowners who affirmed of tyke work and contradicted Peel's cancelation of the Corn Laws, Albert upheld moves to raise stirring ages and free up exchange. In 1846, Albert was reprimanded by Lord George Bentinck when he went to the discussion on the Corn Laws in the House of Commons to give inferred backing to Peel. Amid Peel's prevalence, Albert's position behind, or adjacent to, the honored position turned out to be increasingly clear. He approached all the Queen's papers, was drafting her correspondence and was available when she met her clergymen, or even observed only them in her nonappearance. The representative of the Privy Council, Charles Greville, composed of him: "He is King to all aims and purposes." 

In 1847, Albert was chosen Chancellor of the University of Cambridge after a nearby challenge with the Earl of Powis. Albert utilized his situation as Chancellor to crusade effectively for transformed and progressively current college educational module, growing the subjects instructed past the customary arithmetic and works of art to incorporate present day history and the characteristic sciences. 

That mid year, Victoria and Albert spent a blustery occasion in the west of Scotland at Loch Laggan, yet got notification from their specialist, Sir James Clark, that his child had delighted in dry, bright days more distant east at Balmoral Castle. The occupant of Balmoral, Sir Robert Gordon, kicked the bucket all of a sudden toward the beginning of October, and Albert started arrangements to assume control over the rent from the proprietor, the Earl Fife. In May the next year, Albert rented Balmoral, which he had never visited, and in September 1848 he, his better half and the more seasoned youngsters went there out of the blue. They came to savor the protection it managed. 

Upsets spread all through Europe in 1848 as the consequence of a broad monetary emergency. Consistently, Victoria and Albert grumbled about Foreign Secretary Palmerston's free outside strategy, which they accepted destabilized remote European powers further. Albert was worried for a significant number of his illustrious relatives, various whom were removed. He and Victoria, who brought forth their little girl Louise amid that year, invested some energy far from London in the general wellbeing of Osborne. Despite the fact that there were sporadic showings in England, no viable progressive move made spot, and Albert even increased open praise when he communicated paternalistic, yet good natured and generous, sees. In a discourse to the Society for the Improvement of the Condition of the Laboring Classes, of which he was President, he communicated his "compassion and enthusiasm for that class of our locale who have the majority of the drudge and least of the delights in this world". It was the "obligation of the individuals who, under the gifts of Divine Providence, appreciate station, riches, and training" to help those less blessed than themselves. 

A man of dynamic and moderately liberal thoughts, Albert not just driven changes in college instruction, welfare, the regal funds and servitude, he had an uncommon enthusiasm for applying science and workmanship to the assembling business. The Great Exhibition of 1851 emerged from the yearly displays of the Society of Arts, of which Albert was President from 1843, and owed the vast majority of its prosperity to his endeavors to advance it. Albert filled in as leader of the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, and needed to battle for each phase of the venture. In the House of Lords, Lord Brougham blasted against the proposition to hold the presentation in Hyde Park. Adversaries of the show forecasted that remote mavericks and revolutionists would invade England, subvert the ethics of the general population, and decimate their confidence. Albert thought such talk ludicrous and discreetly endured, trusting dependably that British assembling would profit by introduction to the best results of remote nations. 

The Queen opened the presentation in an uncommonly planned and fabricated glass building known as the Crystal Palace on 1 May 1851. It demonstrated a gigantic achievement. An overflow of £180,000 was utilized to buy land in South Kensington on which to set up instructive and social establishments—including the Natural History Museum, Science Museum, Imperial College London and what might later be named the Royal Albert Hall and the Victoria and Albert Museum. The zone was alluded to as "Albertopolis" by cynics. 

In 1852, John Camden Neild, an unpredictable grumpy person, left Victoria a sudden inheritance, which Albert used to get the freehold of Balmoral. Not surprisingly, he left on a broad program of enhancements. That year, he was delegated to a few of the workplaces left empty by the passing of the Duke of Wellington, including the authority of Trinity House and the colonelcy of the Grenadier Guards. With Wellington's passing, Albert had the capacity to propose and battle for modernisation of the military, which was long late. Believing that the military was unready for war, and that Christian principle was desirable over Islamic standard, Albert directed a discretionary answer for strife between the Russian and Ottoman domains. Palmerston was progressively aggressive, and favored an arrangement that would anticipate further Russian development. Palmerston was moved out of the bureau in December 1853, yet at about a similar time a Russian armada assaulted the Ottoman armada at grapple at Sinop. The London press portrayed the assault as a criminal slaughter, and Palmerston's ubiquity flooded as Albert's fell. Inside about fourteen days, Palmerston was re-designated as a priest. As open shock at the Russian activity proceeded, false bits of gossip circled that Albert had been captured for injustice and was being held detainee in the Tower of London. 

By March 1854, Britain and Russia were involved in the Crimean War. Albert concocted a ground breaking strategy for winning the war by laying attack to Sevastopol while starving Russia monetarily, which turned into the Allied methodology after the Tsar chose to battle an absolutely guarded war. Early British idealism before long blurred as the press announced that British troops were not well prepared and blundered by matured commanders utilizing outdated strategies and procedure. The contention delayed as the Russians were as ineffectively arranged as their adversaries. The Prime Minister, Lord Aberdeen, surrendered and Palmerston succeeded him. An arranged settlement in the long run put a conclusion to the war with the Treaty of Paris. Amid the war, Albert orchestrated the marriage of his fourteen-year-old girl, Victoria, to Prince Frederick William of Prussia, however Albert postponed the marriage until Victoria was seventeen. Albert trusted that his little girl and child in-law would be a changing impact in the broadening however preservationist Prussian state. 

Albert advanced numerous open instructive establishments. Essentially at gatherings regarding these he discussed the requirement for better tutoring. A gathering of his addresses was distributed in 1857. Perceived as a supporter of training and mechanical advancement, he was welcome to talk at logical gatherings, for example, the noteworthy location he conveyed as leader of the British Association for the Advancement of Science when it met at Aberdeen in 1859. His embrace of science met with administrative resistance; he and Palmerston fruitlessly prescribed a knighthood for Charles Darwin, after the production of "On the Origin of Species", which was restricted by the Bishop of Oxford. 

Albert kept on dedicating himself to the instruction of his family and the administration of the regal family unit. His youngsters' tutor, Lady Lyttelton, thought him curiously kind and persistent, and portrayed him participating in family recreations with energy. He felt acutely the flight of his oldest little girl for Prussia when she wedded her life partner toward the start of 1858, and was disillusioned that his oldest child, the Prince of Wales, did not react well to the serious instructive program that Albert had intended for him. At seven years old, the Prince of Wales was required to take six hours of guidance, including an hour of German and an hour of French each day. At the point when the Prince of Wales fizzled at his exercises, Albert caned him. Whipping was basic at the time, and was not thought unduly unforgiving. Albert's biographer Roger Fulford composed that the connections between the relatives were "well disposed, loving and normal ... there is no proof either in the Royal Archives or in the printed specialists to legitimize the conviction that the relations between the Prince and his oldest child were other than profoundly loving." Philip Magnus wrote in his life story of Albert's oldest child that Albert "endeavored to regard his youngsters as equivalents; and they had the capacity to enter his solidness and hold since they understood intuitively that he adored them as well as that he appreciated and required their conversation." 

In August 1859, Albert fell genuinely sick with stomach spasms. He had an inadvertent brush with death amid an outing to Coburg in the pre-winter of 1860, when he was driving alone in a carriage drawn by four steeds that all of a sudden blasted. As the steeds kept on dashing toward a stationary wagon holding up at a railroad crossing, Albert hopped for his life from the carriage. One of the ponies was murdered in the crash, and Albert was gravely shaken, however his solitary physical wounds were cuts and wounds. He trusted in his sibling and oldest little girl that he had detected his time had come. 

In March 1861, Victoria's mom and Albert's auntie, the Duchess of Kent, kicked the bucket and Victoria was sadness stricken; Albert took on a large portion of the Queen's obligations, regardless of proceeding to endure with endless stomach inconvenience. The last open occasion he managed was the opening of the Royal Horticultural Gardens on 5 June 1861. In August, Victoria and Albert visited the Curragh Camp, Ireland, where the Prince of Wales was doing armed force administration. At the Curragh, the Prince of Wales was presented, by his individual officers, to Nellie Clifden, an Irish on-screen character. 

By November, Victoria and Albert had come back to Windsor, and the Prince of Wales had come back to Cambridge, where he was an understudy. Two of Albert's young cousins, siblings King Pedro V of Portugal and Prince Ferdinand, kicked the bucket of typhoid fever inside 5 days of one another toward the beginning of November. Over this news, Albert was educated that tattle was spreading in respectable men's clubs and the outside press that the Prince of Wales was as yet included with Nellie Clifden. Albert and Victoria were frightened by their child's tactlessness, and dreaded shakedown, embarrassment or pregnancy. In spite of the fact that Albert was sick and at a low ebb, he headed out to Cambridge to see the Prince of Wales on 25 November to examine his child's careless issue. In his last weeks Albert experienced torments in his back and legs. 

At the point when the Trent Affair—the coercive expulsion of Confederate agents from a British ship by Union powers amid the American Civil War—compromised war between the United States and Britain, Albert was gravely sick however mediated to relax the British strategic reaction. 

On 9 December, one of Albert's specialists, William Jenner, analyzed typhoid fever. Albert passed on at 10:50 p.m. on 14 December 1861 in the Blue Room at Windsor Castle, within the sight of the Queen and five of their nine youngsters. The contemporary determination was typhoid fever, however current essayists have called attention to that Albert's continuous stomach torment, abandoning him sick for no less than two years before his demise, may demonstrate that an interminable ailment, for example, Crohn's infection, renal disappointment, or stomach disease, was the reason for death. 

The Queen's misery was overpowering, and the lukewarm emotions the open had felt already for Albert were supplanted by compassion. The bereaved Victoria never recuperated from Albert's demise; she went into a secret government of grieving and sported dark for a mind-blowing remainder. Albert's rooms in the entirety of his homes were kept as they had been, even with heated water acquired the morning and cloth and towels changed every day. Such practices were normal in the places of the exceptionally rich. Victoria pulled back from open life and her withdrawal disintegrated a portion of Albert's work in endeavoring to re-display the government as a national foundation setting a good, if not political, precedent. Albert is credited with presenting the rule that the British regal family ought to stay above legislative issues. Prior to his marriage to Victoria, she upheld the Whigs; for instance, right off the bat in her rule Victoria figured out how to ruin the arrangement of a Tory government by Sir Robert Peel by declining to acknowledge substitutions which Peel needed to make among her women in-pausing. 

Albert's body was incidentally buried in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle. A year after his passing his remaining parts were kept at Frogmore Mausoleum, which stayed inadequate until 1871. The stone coffin, in which both he and the Queen were in the long run laid, was cut from the biggest square of rock that had ever been quarried in Britain. In spite of Albert's solicitation that no likenesses of him ought to be raised, numerous open landmarks were raised everywhere throughout the nation and over the British Empire. The most striking are the Royal Albert Hall and the Albert Memorial in London. The plenty of remembrances raised to Albert turned out to be great to the point that Charles Dickens told a companion that he looked for a "difficult to reach cavern" to escape from them. 

Places and items named after Albert extend from Lake Albert in Africa to the city of Prince Albert, Saskatchewan, to the Albert Medal introduced by the Royal Society of Arts. Four regiments of the British Army were named after him: eleventh (Prince Albert's Own) Hussars; Prince Albert's Light Infantry; Prince Albert's Own Leicestershire Regiment of Yeomanry Cavalry, and The Prince Consort's Own Rifle Brigade. He and Queen Victoria demonstrated a distinct fascination for the foundation and advancement of Aldershot in Hampshire as an army town during the 1850s. They had a wooden Royal Pavilion worked there in which they would frequently remain when going to surveys of the military. Albert built up and enriched the Prince Consort's Library at Aldershot, which still exists today. 

Histories distributed after his demise were regularly substantial on commendation. Theodore Martin's five-volume "perfect work of art" was approved and managed by Queen Victoria, and her impact appears in its pages. By the by, it is a precise and comprehensive record. Lytton Strachey's "Ruler Victoria" (1921) was progressively basic, however it was disparaged to a limited extent by mid-twentieth-century biographers, for example, Hector Bolitho and Roger Fulford, who (in contrast to Strachey) approached Victoria's diary and letters. Misconceptions about Prince Albert, for example, the case that he acquainted Christmas trees with Britain—are expelled by researchers. Ongoing biographers, for example, Stanley Weintraub depict Albert as a figure in an appalling sentiment who passed on too early and was grieved by his sweetheart for a lifetime. In the 2009 motion picture "The Young Victoria", Albert, played by Rupert Friend, is made into a courageous character; in the fictionalized delineation of the 1840 shooting, he is struck by a projectile—something that did not occur, all things considered. 

In Britain, Albert was styled "His Serene Highness Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha" in the months prior to his marriage, until conceded the style of "Illustrious Highness" on 6 February 1840. He was given the title of Prince Consort on 25 June 1857. 

English 

Outside 

Upon his marriage to Queen Victoria in 1840, Prince Albert got an individual concede of arms, being the imperial crest of the United Kingdom differenced by a white three-point mark with a red cross in the inside, quartered with his familial arms of Saxony. They are blazoned: "Quarterly, first and fourth, the Royal Arms, with in general a mark of three Argent accused on the focal point of cross Gules; second and third, Barry of ten Or and Sable, a crown of regret in twist Vert". The arms are surprising, being depicted by S. T. Aveling as a "particular case of quartering differenced arms, [which] isn't as per the tenets of Heraldry, and is in itself a heraldic logical inconsistency." Prior to his marriage Albert utilized the arms of his dad undifferenced, as per German custom. 

Albert's Garter slow down plate shows his arms surmounted by a regal crown with six peaks for the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha; these are from left to right: 1. "A bull's head caboshed Gules furnished and ringed Argent, delegated Or, the edge chequy Gules and Argent" for Mark. 2. "Out of a coronet Or, two wild ox horns Argent, connected to the external edge of five branches fesswise each with three linden leaves Vert" for Thuringia. 3. "Out of a coronet Or, a pyramidal chapeau accused of the arms of Saxony ensigned by a tuft of peacock plumes Proper out of a coronet additionally Or" for Saxony. 4. "A whiskery man in profile couped beneath the shoulders dressed paly Argent and Gules, the pointed coronet also paly ending in a tuft of three peacock quills" for Meissen. 5. "A demi griffin showed Or, winged Sable, nabbed and langued Gules" for Jülich. 6. "Out of a coronet Or, a panache of peacock plumes Proper" for Berg. 

The supporters were the delegated lion of England and the unicorn of Scotland (as in the Royal Arms) accused on the shoulder of a mark as in the arms. Albert's own adage is the German "Treu und Fest" (Loyal and Sure). This maxim was likewise utilized by Prince Albert's Own or the eleventh Hussars. 

Ruler Albert's 42 grandkids included four ruling rulers: King George V of the United Kingdom; Wilhelm II, German Emperor; Ernest Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse; and Charles Edward, Duke of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha, and five consorts of rulers: Queens Maud of Norway, Sophia of Greece, Victoria Eugenie of Spain, Marie of Romania, and Empress Alexandra of Russia. Albert's numerous relatives incorporate sovereignty and respectability all through Europe.