Brook Turnpike 

The Creek Turnpike, additionally assigned State Highway 364 (SH-364), is an expressway standard toll street that lies totally in the U.S. province of Oklahoma. The freeway shapes a halfway expressway around the south and east sides of Tulsa, Oklahoma's second biggest city. The Creek Turnpike's western end is at the Turner Turnpike in Sapulpa, while its northeastern end is at the Will Rogers Turnpike in Fair Oaks; the two closures of the Creek Turnpike interface with Interstate 44 (I-44). En route, the expressway goes through the urban areas of Sapulpa, Jenks, Tulsa, and Broken Arrow, and the provinces of Creek, Tulsa, Wagoner and Rogers. The street is kept up by the Oklahoma Turnpike Authority (OTA), aside from a concise free area imparted to U.S. Highway 64 (US-64) and US-169. This free segment is kept up by the Oklahoma Department of Transportation (ODOT). 

The primary segment of the Creek Turnpike, from US-75 in Jenks to US-64/US-169 in Tulsa, was first approved in 1987, with development starting in 1989. The interstate's development was questionable; property holders along the course of the roadway shaped a gathering called Tulsans Against Turnpikes to battle the expressway in both the court and the media. The interstate was likewise tested on ecological grounds, with effects upon wetlands and jeopardized species being the central concerns. By the by, the thruway opened to traffic in three areas, beginning from the easternmost, through the span of the principal half of 1992. 

Further augmentations to both the east and the west followed in later years following quite a while of false begins under the organizations of two distinct governors. Extension of the thruway was at long last affirmed in 1998. The expansion toward the west, connecting the Creek Turnpike to the Turner Turnpike in Sapulpa, opened December 15, 2000. The augmentation toward the east opened in three sections throughout 2001 and 2002. 

The Creek Turnpike starts at I-44 (Turner Turnpike) exit 217 in the city of Sapulpa. This trade just gives access from eastward I-44 to the Creek Turnpike and from the Creek Turnpike to westward I-44. The interstate keeps running a general southeast way from this end towards the Creek– Tulsa district line, traverse Polecat Creek. After intersection into Tulsa County, the toll street swings to an all the more easterly course. The expressway enters Jenks short of what one mile (roughly 1.6 km) east of the district line. In Jenks, the parkway has an adjusted cloverleaf exchange at US-75; the westward Turnpike to southbound US-75 incline is a directional slope instead of a circle incline. The Creek Turnpike at that point goes through the first of three hindrance toll squares. Close to the exchange with Elm Street (marked as "Peoria– Elm"; Elm Street is named Peoria Avenue outside of Jenks), the roadway spans Polecat Creek once more, before intersection the Arkansas River into Tulsa. 

In Tulsa, the Creek Turnpike has a trade at Memorial Drive, which conveys US-64 south of the toll street. At this trade, Creek Turnpike traffic converges with northbound US-64 onto a free street, shaping the Mingo Valley Expressway. US-169 likewise starts at this trade, traveling north from here toward its opposite end in Virginia, Minnesota. As the Mingo Valley Expressway (conveying US-64/US-169) turns north, the Creek Turnpike ways out to proceed with southeast. The parkway leaves Tulsa, entering Broken Arrow, where it traverses Haikey Creek. The road goes during that time toll court, at that point turns back east. 

In southeast Broken Arrow, the Creek Turnpike crosses the area line into Wagoner County and swings towards the north-upper east. It at that point meets SH-51, trailed by the Muskogee Turnpike (SH-351) close to that roadway's western end. The Creek Turnpike goes through the third and last hindrance toll after reemerging Tulsa. From the toll square, the freeway continues north to finish at the I-44/US-412 exchange, which straddles the Wagoner– Rogers County region line. The segment of the exchange that sits in Rogers County likewise lies in the town of Fair Oaks. The mainline Creek Turnpike turns into the Will Rogers Turnpike as eastward I-44 proceeds onto the roadway. 

Leave numbers are missing along the Creek Turnpike until the 51st Street South trade, which is numbered as leave 28. Leave numbers are posted north of this trade, proceeding until the expressway's end (exits 33A– B). The Creek Turnpike's leave numbering is utilized for the last two exits on the westward Will Rogers Turnpike—the westward just Pine Street leave (exit 35) and the westward I-44 incline (exit 34). 

The sum of the Creek Turnpike has been perceived as vital to the nation's economy, guard, and portability by its incorporation in the National Highway System. In 2011, the most elevated normal yearly every day traffic (AADT) check was 26,900 vehicles eastward and 26,476 vehicles westward between the Yale Avenue and Memorial Drive trades. The most minimal AADT tallies, 4,426 vehicles eastward and 4,463 vehicles westward, were recorded between the eleventh Street trade and the northeastern end. Law authorization along the Creek Turnpike is given by Oklahoma Highway Patrol Troop XE, an uncommon troop relegated to the road. 

As ahead of schedule as the late 1950s, plans for a Tulsa road framework incorporated a course along 96th Street South. The 96th Street hall was open to a greater number of drivers than different hallways further south (more remote far from the urban center), while as yet having low option to proceed costs, practically identical to all the more southerly passages. This made it the perfect course for a south Tulsa road. In 1986, ODOT had plans to construct a sans toll office called the Creek Freeway in the hall as a major aspect of SH-117. 

A south Tulsa freeway was first approved by OTA in 1987, a similar time as three different interstates that would eventually turn into the Cherokee, Chickasaw, and John Kilpatrick expressways. Eleven conceivable routings were investigated before OTA settled on the 96th Street passage as the site of the proposed expressway. On February 16, 1989, OTA sold $558.4 million in income bonds (about $ in dollars) to take care of the expense of every one of the four proposed roads. 

As initially arranged, the Creek Turnpike was to start at US-75 and end at Memorial Drive, for a complete length of . ODOT would then form a $26 million (around $ in dollars) road association from the eastern end of the freeway at Memorial Drive to tie in with the south end of the Mingo Valley Expressway. OTA planned the road to be based on a "most optimized plan of attack", with development to be finished by the end of 1991. The assessed expense to develop this first fragment of the Creek Turnpike was $85 million (about $ in dollars). At first, the interstate was wanted to have a middle with a Jersey hindrance, which would meet least AASHTO prerequisites of . Later plans extended this to a grass middle. Four toll squares were arranged, with one mainline court gathering a fifty-penny toll regardless of what separate was voyage. 

Tulsa civic chairman Rodger Randle's board of trustees on the Creek Turnpike presented a report to OTA on April 13, 1989, mentioning that the office make 47 changes to the expressway. Among the progressions proposed by the city was a move in the course of toward the north between Yale Avenue and Sheridan Road to oblige a scenic route along the two sides of the expressway. The board of trustees additionally prescribed more extensive bridges to oblige future development of surface roads, for example, Delaware Avenue, moving the mainline toll square more distant east to limit sway on the encompassing region, and better consistence with neighborhood flood counteractive action statutes. Furthermore, the report recommended better person on foot get to, including passerby connects on the two sides of the Arkansas River and close Hunter Park, and different walkways and walker burrows. 

OTA promptly concurred that a portion of the more minor changes to the freeway's arrangements could be made, however communicated uncertainty that progressively significant adjustments would be made. A few of the proposed changes, including the scenic route, were featured as significant costs. In any case, OTA consented to assess the city's proposition. Board part (and future Tulsa city hall leader) Dewey F. Bartlett, Jr., said "We are not an unchangeable reality, yet it's a matter of financial matters." Mayor Randle expressed his craving for a composed understanding with respect to the progressions to be drawn up and marked by the city and OTA before ground was broken on the freeway. 

On June 18, 1989, OTA authorities reported that most of the city's proposed revisions to the Creek Turnpike would be consolidated into the plan. The changes included $6 million (about $ in dollars) to the expense of the task. In any case, the overhauled arrangement required the pulverization of just 41 houses, six less than initially arranged. Further adjustments were consulted all through the last 50% of 1989, with OTA and Tulsa achieving a concurrence on December 29. The plans were adjusted to incorporate flood and commotion control arrangements. To meet these necessities, the thruway would be brought down, with certain areas underneath grade. In return, the City of Tulsa consented to pay $1.3 million in yearly support costs until 2020. The arrangement additionally incorporated a land swap, with the city giving OTA land from Hunter Park and getting land along the option to proceed to build recreational trails. 

OTA started recording judgment suits for homes inside the Creek Turnpike's proposed option to proceed on June 30, 1989. Judgment, the procedure by which an administration practices its forces of prominent space, was required for OTA to catch properties fundamental for the task when proprietors denied OTA buyout offers. Offers were opened for Creek Turnpike development extends that November. Contracts for utility movement, evaluating, and waste work were granted at OTA's November 16 meeting. In the mean time, work started on the denounced properties, with temporary workers moving or destroying houses on the influenced parcels from December 1989 to January 1990. 

Waste work was in advancement by late February 1990. Development was in progress on interstate scaffolds by March 1990. While government ecological grants were being verified, the development procedure was deferred; by October 1990, the extension development was just at the point that had been intended to have been finished in May, and evaluating and clearing work still couldn't seem to start. In December 1990, contractual workers on the Creek Turnpike venture were offered "notice to continue", as the licenses had been conceded. At that point, development had just advanced to the point that it should have been at in late July. All things considered, by April 1991, OTA's CEO, Richard Ridings, depicted the undertaking as "moving great" and said "My very own feeling is it's up to the temporary workers. On the off chance that they need to create, it tends to be open before the year's over." 

The principal area of the Creek Turnpike to open was a section from Delaware Avenue to its eastern end at Memorial Drive, which opened to traffic at 7 p.m. on March 13, 1992. Tolls were deferred until 12:01 a.m. on March 16. The following area toward the west, from Elm Street in Jenks to Delaware Avenue, including the Arkansas River connect, opened the evening of April 15. The last leg of the principal fragment of the road, from US-75 to Elm Street, opened around early afternoon on July 30. The Creek Turnpike was at first posted with a speed limit, because of the National Maximum Speed Limit law at that point basically. Traffic levels on the new thruway were about twofold what was normal, with a normal of 9,000 vehicles for each day utilizing the expressway in August 1992; a 1988 gauge anticipated just 3,000 to 5,000 vehicles would utilize the street every day. 

The Creek Turnpike was restricted by zone inhabitants from its origination. Framing a gathering called "Tulsans Against Turnpikes", around 220 residents assembled at a gathering on February 16, 1989, to examine the proposed toll street. Adversaries to the road refered to impeding impacts to their locale and to the earth as their worries. "What I am worried about is that it changes the appearance of south Tulsa. It would never again be a local location," said Tom Taylor, a region occupant. A few inhabitants additionally griped that the proposed interstate would basically serve through traffic, in spite of OTA gauges that south Tulsa occupants would make up 90% of the street's userbase. 

On March 22, 1989, three Will Rogers Turnpike tollbooth orderlies showed up at a Tulsans Against Turnpikes question and answer session to offer help to the resistance development, communicating disappointment with working conditions while keeping an eye on the road. The three specialists likewise gave instances of firsthand involvement with freeway clients that had persuaded them that drivers were not as steady of roads as OTA administrators accepted. OTA reacted to their representatives' comments by featuring an Occupational Safety and Health Administration consider that found that the toll entryway that the three specialists worked at fulfilled all security guidelines. 

In late June 1989, adversaries of the road boycotted neighborhood organizations that were individuals from the Metropolitan Tulsa Chamber of Commerce, which was supportive of the freeway. Some interstate dissidents expelled their names from the client list at Mazzio's Italian Eatery on June 23. On June 24, around forty dissenters picketed the Bank of Oklahoma, and around six shut their records. The CEOs of the two organizations were on the leading group of the Chamber of Commerce. In light of the blacklist, Mayor Randle issued an announcement blaming Tulsans Against Turnpikes for "trying to wage monetary pressure against organizations" and portrayed their strategies as "[working] as a sort of financial coercion to quietness banter", just as "enabling contrasts of feeling to decline into terrorizing against the individuals who have taken open stands disliked with [Tulsans Against Turnpikes]". Randle additionally dropped an arranged gathering with the gathering, declining to meet with them until they stopped the blacklist. A Tulsans Against Turnpikes board part freely answered to the city hall leader's announcement by denying that a blacklist was occurring, expressing that the gathering just prescribed that individuals not work with Mazzio's and Bank of Oklahoma due to their help for the Creek Turnpike venture by means of their action with the Chamber of Commerce. He likewise proposed that Randle was just searching for a reason to stay away from the gathering. 

The ecological gathering Greenpeace wound up included with the restriction development in October 1989. Holding a joint rally with Tulsans Against Turnpikes and a few ecological gatherings at Hunter Park, a Greenpeace representative said on October 20 that the Creek Turnpike's development "will set up Oklahoma as a risky waste dumping ground". Greenpeace's territorial organizer was planned to talk at a territory library around the same time, however his appearance was counterbalanced when the association's transport kept running of fuel. A neighborhood occupant at the Hunter Park gathering was cited as being worried that the road may permit eastern states, for example, New York to dispatch AIDS-sullied cargo through the territory. 

In November 1989, Jenks occupant Gary Medlin and two Jenks city councilmen drafted a letter to OTA mentioning that the organization stop all work on the Creek Turnpike. The letter was endorsed by the Jenks City Council on November 20. The letter likewise incorporated an appeal contrary to the road with more than 1,000 marks. 

A fabulous jury appeal, bearing more than 1,400 marks crosswise over 134 pages, was recorded with the Tulsa County race board by Medlin on November 6, 1989. The request asserted that neighborhood and state authorities disregarded the state's open gatherings, intrigue, and irreconcilable situation laws while arranging the road. The decision board ensured the appeal as meeting the required limit of 1,000 marks on December 15. Work on the expressway proceeded in spite of the examination. Subsequent to meeting for seven days, on January 19, 1990, the fabulous jury established that there was no proof to help the claims and no requirement for further examination. 

A few dissidents depended on illicit intends to show their resistance to the task. In December 1989, trees and growth on censured parts were obliterated trying to keep them from being transplanted via exterior decorators. A field office having a place with M. J. Lee Construction Co., a contractual worker chipping away at the task, was burglarized on March 4, 1990. The culprits stole or pulverized apparatuses and poured oil on arranging reports. After seven days, the fuel lines on overwhelming hardware were cut. The evening of April 26, a few vehicles at a Creek Turnpike worksite having a place with M. J. Lee were vandalized; the vandals crushed windshields and headlights, stole fuel tops, and dumped mud into the fuel tanks. Messages perusing "Demise to OTA", "Passing to [Governor Henry] Bellmon" and "Demise to Bartlett" (who had as of late additionally turned into a Tulsa city councilman) were written in mud in favor of a water truck at the site. The VP of the firm accentuated that the organization alone endured the worst part of the evaluated $10,000 (identical to $ in ) monetary misfortune, not OTA, and offered a $1,000 compensate for data prompting the indictment of the capable party. Development signage was likewise evacuated or concealed with Tulsans Against Turnpikes signs, and review markers were migrated. Tulsans Against Turnpikes openly censured the vandalism, offering an extra $500 remunerate for data. An individual from the gathering's board expressed "We regret this sort of weak, illicit activity. There is no explanation behind some debilitated individual to take out dissatisfactions on the contractor[...]." because of the vandalism, Tulsa police propelled an examination, and OTA expressed that Oklahoma Highway Patrol officers would be on watch in the development territories. On August 11, 1990, a temporary worker landing for work found a vandal endeavoring to break the window of a crane. As the worker moved toward the crane, four individuals fled the scene. The representative had the capacity to confine two of them, both matured eighteen, until police arrived and refered to them for offense malignant naughtiness. 

The Oklahoma Turnpike Authority was absolved from prerequisites to have a government ecological effect contemplate (EIS) led on the Creek Turnpike venture. As a feature of their resistance to the freeway, Tulsans Against Turnpikes tested this right. The gathering declared in April 1989 that if the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. Bureau of Transportation (USDOT), and U.S. Division of Defense (DOD) did not constrain OTA to lead an EIS inside 60 days they would sue the three government organizations. Tulsans Against Turnpikes, joined by a territory mortgage holders' affiliation, John Reidel (a property holder whose property was censured by OTA and had documented past suits as ahead of schedule as the 1950s to stop the road's development), and a few other influenced people, recorded the suit in the U.S. Locale Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma on August 10. Litigants in the suit incorporated the government offices, state transportation and ecological offices, and the city of Tulsa. That November, Tulsans Against Turnpikes recorded a movement mentioning a directive against further work on the interstate. 

On January 27, 1990, U.S. Region Judge Thomas Rutherford Brett expelled seven of the nine cases before him, and on March 24, the offended parties documented a movement to drop the two residual cases with the expectation that the judge would reexamine the cases officially rejected. The offended parties additionally petitioned for a controlling request to stop development exercises. In help of their filings, the expressway adversaries asserted that OTA was illicitly dumping material into conduits. OTA reacted by delivering U.S. Armed force Corps of Engineers (USACE) documentation demonstrating that no illicit release had occurred, and that USACE had not issued any restraining requests because of unlawful movement. OTA contended that the offended parties' solicitations for a controlling request and reexamination of the rejected cases were invalid on the grounds that there was no adjustment in their lawful expert or the realities encompassing the case to warrant such a reevaluation. 

At a conference on May 22, 1990, Judge Brett declared his refusal to reexamine the seven expelled claims, finishing the claim, and led all staying pending movements unsettled. At the consultation, Brett said that the issue at the core of the suit was the interstate's impact on zone occupants. While this was a genuine intrigue, the judge stated, it was not secured by the natural laws under which the offended parties tested the venture. Brett likewise called attention to that the natural inquiries were around then under survey by the suitable government offices. 

Introductory interstate plans included ecological relief highlights to decrease the measure of disturbance the completed street would cause to the nearby condition. In the Jenks territory, OTA wanted to supplant pulverized wetlands with new wetlands of equivalent or more noteworthy size. Greens keepers were relied upon to plant two trees for each one evacuated to construct the street. In March 1990, these plans were increased to give wetlands relief at a rate of three to one, for a sum of new wetlands. Moreover, of field would be permitted to return to its common state to make "committed characteristic progression zones." 

On July 21, 1989, OTA endorsed an agreement to transplant roughly 290 live trees in the way of the interstate to areas along the edge of the option to proceed. There, the trees would fill in as a hindrance between the street and the encompassing properties, covering the street from view and muting the hints of traffic. A Norman arranging firm played out the work, which included thirty months of upkeep, for a complete expense of $288.50 per tree (equal to $ in dollars). 

The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) protested the development of the Creek Turnpike in a letter dated January 30, 1990. FEMA felt that documentation on how the venture would influence the floodplains in the region was missing, keeping nearby experts from mentioning updates to floodplain maps, which were important to keep their networks selected flood protection programs. OTA's lawyer expressed that the imperative data had been given to neighborhood authorities, and it was not OTA's duty to guarantee that they sent the data on to FEMA. 

A Tulsa-zone administrator with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) remarked upon ecological issues relating to the Creek Turnpike in a 19-page letter to the U.S. Armed force Corps of Engineers dated February 9, 1990. USACE was in charge of issuing three fundamental grants (which OTA had connected for on November 6, 1989) that would enable development to proceed, and was required to think about contribution from the administration. In the letter, manager Stephen Forsythe suggested that the licenses be denied and further investigations led into backup ways to go for the expressway and the ecological effect on streets that associated with the freeway. In any case, USACE just had the expert to audit the effects the Creek Turnpike itself made on wetland territories. Senator Bellmon openly reprimanded Forsythe for concentrating on worries past USACE's ward. Bellmon's Transportation Secretary, Neal McCaleb, openly expressed "I think [Forsythe] is out of line[...] and would state so to Mr. Forsythe." Bellmon and McCaleb examined the letter in a private gathering with the Secretary of the Interior, Manuel Lujan, in spite of the fact that Lujan neither remarked nor focused on any activity in regards to the letter. In light of Bellmon's analysis of the letter, Tulsans Against Turnpikes issued an open proclamation, saying "Running behind shut political entryways like that shows the representative is an ecological poser," standing out his announcements from a letter he composed guaranteeing a constituent in Jenks that the venture would be "the most stylishly satisfying and naturally stable office that can be built". 

In a letter sent to OTA in March 1990, USACE recognized issues with the Creek Turnpike venture, for example, changes to Polecat Creek's channel, impacts on the Arkansas River floodplain and levee framework close Jenks, and loss of wetlands. In two different letters sent in May 1990, USACE mentioned adjustments to the undertaking, specifying further worries about demolition of a one of a kind sort of wetland close to the road's arranged convergence with Yale Avenue, OTA's arrangement to briefly deplete Mill Creek Bridge Pond, and crisis access to homes just open by intersection the lake on a wooden scaffold. USACE cautioned that, should the progressions the corps mentioned not be made, the expressway plans may disregard government law, which would result in USACE retaining the important licenses. The corps likewise required "outright affirmation" that new wetlands developed as a feature of the task's moderation endeavors would not be based ashore that was in the past the site of a landfill. On March 29, USACE held a formal review as a component of the grant procedure. The conference had around 500 participants, with more than fifty of them giving five-minute talks against the interstate. One speaker contrasted the roadway's ecological contact with that of the disaster area of the oil tanker "Exxon Valdez". No residents stood up for the venture. 

OTA declared designs to incorporate sound walls at three along the expressway in April 1990. The areas were suggested by a report authorized by OTA, utilizing rules distributed by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA). While another thirteen areas were probably going to have comparative clamor levels as the three locales chose to get obstructions, reduction was not considered at those areas since they didn't meet other criteria, including least populace thickness. Despite the fact that OTA was not required to pursue FHWA rules on the Creek Turnpike since it was anything but a governmentally subsidized undertaking, it selected to do as such in any case. 

Another letter, dated June 21, 1990, was sent by FWS to USACE, detailing that no less than eight inside least terns, a jeopardized species, had been found on a little island in the Arkansas River roughly south of the site of the proposed freeway connect. In spite of the fact that the extension was not yet under development at the time, the foreseen eighteen-month time of scaffold development had the likelihood of meddling with the terns' settling time frame, which keeps running from mid-May to mid-August. FWS was additionally for requiring OTA to set up a full EIS, a procedure that could have taken as long as three years. 

Further postponements on the Creek Turnpike venture seemed inescapable in October 1990, as another territory meeting the government meaning of a wetland was found in the way of the road. OTA authorities did not draw the zone out into the open since they didn't trust it met the criteria to be viewed as a wetland. Disappointment mounted after the discover; bits of gossip surfaced that OTA was thinking about dropping the Creek Turnpike and moving the rest of the assets to expressway extends in the Oklahoma City zone. In a meeting after an OTA meeting, administrator John Kilpatrick was cited as saying "God possibly knows when [the Creek Turnpike will] be finished," portraying the venture as a "complete fiasco" and remarking "On the off chance that we had everything to do over once more, we wouldn't do that venture." OTA was worried about the money related effect of USACE's postponement in issuing the required grants; every day after the arranged opening date that the undertaking ran late included $20,000 (around $ in dollars) to the absolute expense of the task. USACE at long last issued the grant on November 15, over a year after OTA connected for it. 

One stipulation the USACE set on the license, in any case, was that no work in the Arkansas riverbed could occur after May 1 on the off chance that it would meddle with the inside least tern settling period, which was conceivable if the feathered creatures chose settling destinations around the scaffold site. Therefore, OTA attempted to finish the scaffold as fast as conceivable to keep away from the likelihood of suspending the development. By April 1991, work in the riverbed was generally finished, with the rest of the work on the extension representing no danger to the terns. 

The likelihood of broadening the Creek Turnpike past its unique ends at US-75 and Memorial Drive was raised as right on time as 1993. On May 28, 1993, Governor David Walters declared a proposed $3.1 billion (around $ in dollars) road bundle, one piece of which was the augmentation of the Creek Turnpike to the Turner Turnpike toward the west and the Will Rogers Turnpike in the east. Because of dealings between Walters, different administrators, and OTA, the bundle was eventually pared down to $675 million (about $ in dollars); among the cuts was the eastern expansion of the Creek Turnpike. This form of the bundle was affirmed by OTA on August 18, 1994. The bundle was at last killed right around two months after the fact, when the Legislative Bond Oversight Commission casted a ballot 4– 2 to stop the closeout of the bonds related with the undertaking on October 3. Explanations behind resistance to the bundle were differed, including worries over OTA's obligation level, toll expands important to subsidize the bundle, the condition of the security advertise, a government examination looking at past OTA bond deals, absence of subtleties given about the bundle, the measure of the bundle, and the proposed technique by which the bonds would be sold. 

Another Creek Turnpike extension proposition, interfacing it again to the Turner Turnpike in the west, yet just expanding it to the extent the Muskogee Turnpike in the east, was advanced by Walters' successor, Governor Frank Keating, in 1996. This proposition, joined by a proposed expansion to the Kilpatrick Turnpike in Oklahoma City, was to be subsidized by expanding tolls by 10 percent statewide in 1999. Keating's freeway bundle, as well, experienced inconvenience from the Legislative Bond Oversight Commission. The body collectively casted a ballot on July 25, 1996, to delay an up-or-down vote on the activities, which together conveyed a sticker price of $525 million (around $ in dollars), until more data was made accessible to its individuals. Keating proclaimed the bundle dead in light of the commission's activity. 

The Creek Turnpike augmentations reemerged in a 1998 expressway development plan. OTA affirmed a $724 million (about $ in dollars) bond bundle at its gathering on January 9, 1998. This bundle, which conveyed the help of both Governor Keating and authoritative pioneers, incorporated an augmentation of the Creek Turnpike to the Turner and Will Rogers freeways, expansion of the Kilpatrick Turnpike, and another toll street which would turn into the H.E. Bailey Turnpike Norman Spur. The arrangement, which was to be supported by a 15% systemwide toll increment, was affirmed by both the Legislative Bond Oversight Commission and Executive Bond Oversight Commission on January 29, 1998. 

Development of the part of the interstate between the eastern end and the Muskogee Turnpike, known as the Broken Arrow south circle, was planned to start in May 1999 and be finished in January 2001. The area from the Muskogee Turnpike north to the Will Rogers Turnpike was to start development in September 1999 and be finished in January 2002. Not at all like the area of the expressway worked in the mid 1990s, this segment was relied upon to uproot couple of occupants; the city of Broken Arrow had bought a great part of the option to proceed early to protect the hall for the normal road. 

While development of the other two segments of the road kept running as per plan, advance on the Broken Arrow south circle lingered behind. Cost invades because of higher-than-evaluated land obtaining costs caused delays as the venture was modified to set aside some cash. The venture was slowed down further by the May 3, 1999, tornado episode, as utility temporary workers were destroyed off the task to add to support reclamation endeavors in the Oklahoma City region. By August 1999, the south circle was a half year behind timetable. Regardless of the cost-sparing measures, the south circle stayed over spending plan by $16 million (around $ in dollars) in July 2000. The western augmentation was likewise over spending plan; OTA found more than 100 deserted oil wells that should have been topped and extra channeling in the expressway passageway. Spending invades on the western leg of the freeway were $5 million (about $ in dollars) in July 2000. 

The western augmentation was the first to open to traffic. Following a short commitment function gone to by Governor Keating, Transportation Secretary McCaleb, and OTA board part Bartlett, the roadway opened on December 15, 2000. Likewise with the primary segment of the expressway, tolls were postponed for the end of the week; the street was free until early afternoon on December 18. The south circle was opened in two portions. The first, from US-64/US-169 to South Elm Place in Broken Arrow, opened at 3 p.m. August 15, 2001. The new portion remained without toll until 7 a.m. August 20. A blustery September pushed back the opening of the other portion of the south circle by two months. The second 50% of the south circle, from Elm Place to New Orleans Street, opened at 2 p.m. April 15, 2002. The last fragment of the augmentation, associating New Orleans Street and the Muskogee Turnpike to the Will Rogers Turnpike, was planned to open on August 16 of that year. 

Another exchange at Aspen Avenue in Broken Arrow opened on May 18, 2012. The venture was finished three weeks in front of timetable at an expense of $6.137 million, of which $1.75 million was paid by OTA, with the rest originating from the City of Broken Arrow. The new trade was relied upon to draw in retail, feasting, and excitement improvement to the territory around the exchange. 

A development venture that began in May 2012 extended the expressway to six paths aggregate, or three paths toward every path, between US-75 and Memorial Drive. All through the task, speed restricts along the freeway were decreased to . The undertaking was finished in October 2013. 

The Creek Turnpike initially bore no numbered assignment. On March 10, 2014, the Oklahoma Transportation Commission consistently endorsed a movement to apply the SH-364 assignment to the freeway. 

, drivers driving two-pivot vehicles, for example, autos and cruisers, pay tolls of $2.80 in real money, or $2.60 if Pikepass electronic tolling is utilized, to drive the whole length of the Creek Turnpike. Drivers of vehicles with multiple axles, for example, truckers, pay higher tolls; six-pivot vehicles are charged rates of $11.50 ($10.65 with Pikepass). Tolls are gathered at three mainline toll courts along the street, one between the US-75 and Peoria– Elm trades, one west of the Olive Avenue exchange, and one (named as the Creek East square) south of the 31st Street South trade. Extra passages for going past the obstruction tolls are gathered at toll doors situated at each exit; as at the mainline squares, Pikepass clients get a limited rate at these entryways. 

The Creek Turnpike is furnished with open-street tolling for Pikepass clients. The expressway has been totally mechanized since mid 1996; no human toll gatherers are available. Money clients dismantle to one side and store coins into toll bushels. Change machines equipped for changing $1 and $5 greenbacks are accessible, just as machines that produce receipts for clients requiring them.