Maurice Richard 

Joseph Henri Maurice "Rocket" Richard (; ; August 4, 1921 – May 27, 2000) was a Canadian expert ice hockey player who played 18 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Montreal Canadiens. He was the principal player in NHL history to score 50 objectives in a single season, achieving the accomplishment in 50 recreations in 1944– 45, and the first to achieve 500 profession objectives. Richard resigned in 1960 as the class' unsurpassed pioneer in objectives with 544. He won the Hart Trophy as the NHL's most profitable player in 1947, played in 13 All-Star Games and was named to 14 post-season NHL All-Star Teams, eight on the First-Team. In 2017 Richard was named one of the '100 Greatest NHL Players' ever. 

Richard, Elmer Lach and Toe Blake framed the "Turn of phrase", a high-scoring forward line of the 1940s. Richard was an individual from eight Stanley Cup title groups, including an alliance record five straight somewhere in the range of 1956 and 1960; he was the group's chief for the last four. The Hockey Hall of Fame postponed its five-year sitting tight period for qualification and accepted Richard into the lobby in 1961. In 1975 he was drafted into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame. The Canadiens resigned his number, 9, in 1960, and in 1999 gave the Maurice "Rocket" Richard Trophy to the NHL, granted every year to the association's ordinary season driving objective scorer. 

The most established of eight youngsters, Richard rose up out of a neediness stricken family amid the Great Depression. He was at first seen as a delicate player. A series of wounds kept him from joining the Canadian military amid the Second World War. Straightforward and extreme, he was prestigious for his physical and periodically savage style of play. Richard was engaged with a horrendous on-ice episode late in the 1954– 55 season amid which he struck a linesman. NHL President Clarence Campbell suspended him for the rest of the period and playoffs, which accelerated the Richard Riot in Montreal. The mob has taken on a legendary quality in the decades since and is frequently seen as a forerunner to Quebec's Quiet Revolution. Richard was a social symbol among Quebec's francophone populace; his legend is an essential theme in Roch Carrier's short story "The Hockey Sweater", a significant work of Canadian culture. Richard kicked the bucket in 2000 and turned into the first non-government official regarded by the territory of Quebec with a state burial service. 

Joseph Henri Maurice Richard was brought into the world August 4, 1921, in Montreal, Quebec. His folks, Onésime Richard and Alice Laramée, were initially from the Gaspé locale of Quebec, before moving to Montreal, where they settled in the area of Nouveau-Bordeaux. Maurice was the most established of eight youngsters; he had three sisters: Georgette, Rollande and Marguerite; and four siblings: René, Jacques, Henri and Claude. Onésime was a woodworker in terms of professional career, and accepted a position with the Canadian Pacific Railway not long after Maurice was conceived. The Richards battled amid the Great Depression; Onésime lost his activity in 1930 and the family depended on government help until he was re-contracted by the railroad around 1936. 

Richard got his first pair of ice skates when he was four, and grew up skating on neighborhood waterways and a little terrace ice surface his dad made. He didn't play sorted out hockey until he was 14. Rather, Richard built up his aptitudes playing shinny and "hog" – a diversion that required the puck bearer to ward off the puck from others for whatever length of time that conceivable. While he likewise played baseball and was a fighter, hockey was his obsession. After he started playing in sorted out groups, Richard joined a few groups and utilized nom de plumes as "Maurice Rochon" to evade decides that limited players to one group. In one alliance, he drove his group to three successive titles and scored 133 of his group's 144 objectives in the 1938– 39 season. 

At 16, Richard dropped out of school to work with his dad as a mechanical engineer. He selected a specialized school, plan on winning an exchange endorsement. At 18, Richard joined the Verdun Juniors, however as a new kid on the block he saw little ice time in the normal season. He scored four objectives in ten normal season diversions, and included six objectives in four playoff recreations as Verdun won the commonplace title. He was elevated to the Montreal Canadiens' subsidiary in the Quebec Senior Hockey League in 1940, however endured a broken lower leg in his first amusement in the wake of colliding with the sheets and missed the rest of the period. The damage likewise prematurely ended his expectations of joining the Canadian military: he was called to an enlistment focus in mid-1941, yet was esteemed unfit for battle. 

Off the ice, Richard was a tranquil, unassuming youth who talked close to nothing. He met his future spouse Lucille Norchet when he was seventeen, when she was almost fourteen. She was the more youthful sister of one of his colleagues at Bordeaux, and her brilliant, friendly identity supplemented Richard's saved nature. Lucille demonstrated proficient at directing him through preliminaries and frustrations he encountered in both hockey and life. They were locked in when he was 20, and however her folks felt she was excessively youthful, wedded on September 12, 1942, when she was seventeen. 

Having recuperated from his broken lower leg in time for the 1941– 42 season, Richard came back to the QSHL Canadiens, with whom he played 31 recreations and recorded 17 preceding he was again harmed. He endured a broken wrist in the wake of getting to be caught with a defenceman and collided with the net. Richard rejoined the group for the playoffs. The abilities he exhibited in the QSHL, joined with the NHL parent club's loss of players to the war and battles to attract fans because of its poor record and an absence of francophone players, earned Richard a tryout with the Canadiens for the 1942– 43 season. He marked an agreement worth $3,500 for the year and, wearing sweater number 15, made his NHL debut with the group. Richard's first objective was against the New York Rangers on November 8, 1942. 

Damage again sidelined Richard as his tenderfoot season finished after just 16 amusements when he endured a broken leg. The string of broken bones so from the get-go in his profession left onlookers thinking about whether Richard was too delicate to even consider playing at the most abnormal amounts. He made a second endeavor to enroll with the military however was again turned down after x-beams uncovered that his bones had not recuperated appropriately; Richard's lower leg was left for all time twisted, driving him to change his skating style. Mortified by the dismissal, he strengthened his preparation and answered to Montreal's preparation camp for the 1943– 44 season completely solid. The landing of his little girl Huguette incited Richard to change his uniform to number 9 to match her introduction to the world load of nine pounds. 

Staying sound all through the season, Richard showed up in 46 of Montreal's 50 amusements. He drove the Canadiens with 32 objectives and counted 54, third-best in his group. His first full NHL season not just finished the analysis about his capacity to play in the alliance, however settled him as a standout amongst the best youthful players in the group. Mentor Dick Irvin moved him from left wing to right and put him on a forward line with Toe Blake and Elmer Lach. The trio, known as the "Turn of phrase", framed a prevailing scoring unit all through the 1940s. The Canadiens lost just six diversions after October, and proceeded to win the establishment's first Stanley Cup title in 13 years. Richard drove the alliance with 12 playoff objectives, including a five-objective exertion against the Toronto Maple Leafs in a semi-last diversion. He tied Newsy Lalonde's NHL record for objectives in a single playoff diversion (equalled by three players since), which brought about his being named first, second and third star of the amusement. Richard was named a second group All-Star following the season. It was the first of 14 continuous years he was named an association top pick. 

The 1944– 45 NHL season was a record-setting one for Richard. He initially set another imprint for focuses in one amusement when he made five objectives and three aids a 9– 1 triumph over the Detroit Red Wings on December 28, 1944; his eight broke the past record of seven held by three players, and represented 32 years until outperformed in 1976 by Darryl Sittler. Richard accomplished the accomplishment in spite of touching base for the amusement depleted from moving into his new home that evening. He kept scoring at a phenomenal rate, and by February 1945 was drawing nearer Joe Malone's 27-year-old NHL record, set in 1918, of 44 objectives in a single season. Richard broke the record on February 25, 1945, in a 5– 2 triumph over Toronto. Malone was close by to give Richard the puck used to score the 45th objective. 

As Richard moved toward 50 objectives for the season, restriction players turned to progressively vicious endeavors to keep him from scoring. He needed to battle past slices, snares, and even players who hung themselves over his back. Richard went eight recreations without scoring and started Montreal's last customary season amusement, March 18, out and about against the Boston Bruins with 49 objectives. He at last achieved the achievement by scoring with 2:15 staying in the amusement, a 4– 2 Montreal win. He turned into the primary player to score 50 objectives, a record that would represent 21 years (Bobby Hull, 54 objectives in 1966). His sign of 50 objectives in 50 diversions likewise turned into a standard that remaining parts a standout amongst the most praised accomplishments in NHL history, unmatched until 36 years after the fact when Mike Bossy did it in 1981 – the first of just four players to coordinate Richard's 50-in-50, in the over a long time since Richard set the imprint. Richard completed the season with 73 points, seven behind Lach and six in front of Blake, as the Punch line completed first, second and third allied scoring. Richard completed second in the voting in favor of the Hart Trophy as alliance MVP behind Lach. 

Richard's faultfinders contended that his scoring record was the consequence of ability weakening realized by the war; when numerous players returned in 1945– 46, he won his second Stanley Cup with Montreal, however his objective yield was almost divided to 27. Richard again achieved grandiose scoring sums in 1946– 47, driving the alliance with 45 objectives in a 60-diversion season and winning the Hart Trophy as the group's most important player for the main time of his vocation. He completed second or third in the Hart Trophy casting a ballot a further multiple times in his vocation. Adversaries proceeded with their endeavors to drive Richard to outrage or disappointment, as they had learned he could be prodded into removing himself from the diversion by viciously retaliating and battling. One such episode happened in the 1947 Stanley Cup Final when Richard got a match punishment for striking Toronto's Bill Ezinicki over the head with his stick in a diversion two misfortune. Richard was suspended for the third round of the arrangement, which the Maple Leafs won. 

As the ruling most significant player, Richard looked for a salary increase before the 1947– 48 season. General director Frank Selke can't, even after Richard and group skipper Émile Bouchard both sat out the Canadiens' preseason before giving in and coming back to the group when the season started. The Punch line was separated after Blake endured a vocation finishing leg damage. Richard's season additionally finished ahead of schedule as he missed the last rounds of the period because of knee damage. He completed second in group scoring with 53 of every 53 recreations, however Montreal missed the playoffs. In the wake of account just 38 points in 1948– 49, Richard posted a 65-point battle the following season and his 43 objectives drove the NHL for the third time. In 1950– 51, Richard scored 42 objectives, including his 271st vocation objective, making him Montreal's unsurpassed objective pioneer. 

Richard missed more than 20 rounds of the 1951– 52 season because of damage, yet defeated another disease in the playoffs. In the seventh and choosing round of the semi-last against Boston, Richard was checked by Leo Labine and quickly thumped oblivious after he fell and struck his head on Bill Quackenbush's knee. In spite of the fact that obviously entranced, Richard came back to the amusement late in the third time frame after an extensive cut over his eye was sewed up. Canadiens mentor Dick Irvin sent Richard back onto the ice in the last minutes of the challenge, in spite of knowing Richard had endured a blackout. Richard scored the triumphant objective in a 2– 1 triumph that sent Montreal to the 1952 Stanley Cup Final. Following the diversion, a bloodied and still confused Richard was captured shaking the hand of Boston goaltender Jim Henry, who was additionally appearing of wounds from the arrangement and who seemed, by all accounts, to be bowing to Richard following the Montreal player's "oblivious objective". The photo by Roger St. Jean is among the most renowned pictures of Richard. In the last, Montreal lost to Detroit in four straight recreations. 

The 1952– 53 season started with Richard in close quest for Nels Stewart's unsurpassed NHL record of 324 objectives. Richard tied the record in Toronto on October 29, 1952, by scoring two objectives against the Maple Leafs; his accomplishment earned a stirring applause from Montreal's opponent fans. He neglected to score in his following three recreations as furious fans pursued each challenge fully expecting the record-breaking marker. In his fourth attempt, a November 8 amusement against Chicago, Richard scored his 325th objective at the 10:01 sign of the second time frame. As per the "Montreal Gazette", the applause Richard got from his fans "shook the rafters" of the Montreal Forum. He completed the season with group driving sums of 61 points and 28 goals – turning into the primary player in NHL history to score no less than 20 objectives in his initial ten full seasons. Helped by Richard's 7 objectives in 12 playoff recreations, the Canadiens vanquished Boston in the 1953 Stanley Cup Final to catch Montreal's first Stanley Cup title since 1946. 

Richard drove the alliance in objectives for the fourth time in his vocation with 37 in 1953– 54, at that point for a fifth time in 1954– 55 with 38 (imparted to Bernie Geoffrion). He scored his 400th vocation objective on December 18, 1954, against Chicago. 

Restriction players kept on endeavoring to stop Richard through physical terrorizing, and he frequently countered with equivalent power. The circumstance prompted a running quarrel with NHL President Clarence Campbell. Richard had been fined various occasions by Campbell for on-ice episodes and at one point was compelled to post a $1,000 "decent conduct bond" after he reprimanded Campbell in a week by week segment he helped creator for "Samedi-Dimanche". Richard was among numerous in Quebec who trusted that Campbell treated French Canadian players more cruelly than their English partners. The stewing debate ejected after an episode in the Canadiens' March 13, 1955, diversion against Boston, when Hal Laycoe struck Richard in the head with his stick. Richard countered by slicing violently at Laycoe's head, at that point punched linesman Cliff Thompson when the authority endeavored to intercede. Boston police endeavored to capture Richard for attack following the occurrence, however Bruins authorities convinced them to pull back on the guarantee that the NHL would deal with the circumstance. 

Following two days of pondering, Campbell reported that he had suspended Richard – who was driving the NHL's general scoring race at the time – for the rest of the normal season and the playoffs. In English Canada, Campbell was commended for doing what he could to control the whimsical Richard. Obscure to most at the time, Campbell had since a long time ago needed to force a protracted suspension on Richard over his past upheavals. As NHL president be that as it may, Campbell at last offered an explanation to the class' proprietors and they were hesitant to see such serious control forced against one of the alliance's star players by virtue of their incentive in expanding amusement participation. In French Quebec the suspension was seen as a foul play, an unjustifiable discipline given to a Francophone legend by the Anglophone foundation. Richard's supporters responded irately to Campbell: he got a few passing dangers and, after taking his standard seat at the following Canadiens amusement, uncontrollable fans pelted him with vegetables, eggs and different flotsam and jetsam. One fan tossed a nerve gas bomb at Campbell, which brought about the Forum's clearing and the amusement's relinquishment to support Detroit. Fans escaping the field were met by an extensive gathering of demonstrators who had massed outside preceding the amusement's begin. 

The crowd of more than 20,000 individuals formed into a mob. Windows and entryways were crushed at the Forum and encompassing organizations. By the next morning, somewhere in the range of 65 and 70 had been captured. More than 50 stores were plundered and 37 individuals harmed. Harm was assessed at $100,000 ($ in dollars). Richard had likewise gone to the amusement, yet left promptly following the relinquish. Straight to the point Selke endeavored to influence him to come back to attempt to scatter the group, however Richard can't, expecting that he would rather additionally kindle the interests of the crowd. He took to the radio the following day requesting quiet: "Do no more mischief. Get behind the group in the playoffs. I will take my discipline and return one year from now and help the club and the more youthful players to win the Cup." 

The suspension cost Richard the Art Ross Trophy as the main point scorer in the group, which he lost to colleague Geoffrion by one point. Richard never won the point title completing second multiple times in his profession. Montreal fans booed Geoffrion when he outperformed Richard on the last day of the normal season. The fans kept on scoffing Geoffrion into the accompanying season. Montreal achieved the 1955 Stanley Cup Final without Richard, and lost the title arrangement four amusements to three. The thrashing was a severe misfortune for Richard, who attempted to control his annoyance. 

Richard satisfied his guarantee to Canadiens' fans, made in his post-revolt radio location, by driving Montreal to a Stanley Cup title in 1955– 56 – the beginning of a still exceptional 5 continuous Stanley Cup triumphs by one group. The season started with the landing of his young sibling Henri to the Canadiens program. It additionally denoted the arrival of his previous Punch line colleague, Toe Blake, as head mentor. Alongside general administrator Frank Selke, Blake worked with Richard on directing his temper and reacting to the incitement of his adversaries by scoring objectives as opposed to taking part in fisticuffs. Richard completed the season with 38 objectives and 71, second in the group in the two regards to Jean Béliveau's 47 objectives and 88. Richard included 14 out of 10 playoff diversions as Montreal vanquished Detroit to guarantee the Stanley Cup. He scored the second and eventually Cup-securing objective in the fifth and last diversion, a 3– 1 triumph. 

Entering his fifteenth NHL season in 1956– 57, Richard's partners named him chief of the Canadiens, succeeding Émile Bouchard, who had resigned before the season. With 33 objectives and 62 points, Richard again completed second in the group to Béliveau. In the playoffs, he scored the additional time winning objective in the fifth round of the semi-last to wipe out New York, at that point scored four objectives in a 5– 1 triumph over Boston in the primary round of the last on the way to a five-diversion arrangement win and second back to back title for Montreal. 

Richard achieved a noteworthy scoring achievement from the get-go in the 1957– 58 season. Amid the principal time of a 3– 1 triumph over Chicago on October 19, 1957, he turned into the main player in NHL history to score 500 objectives in his profession. As Richard celebrated with his partners, it was reported to the Montreal Forum swarm: "Canadiens' objective, scored by Mr. Hockey himself, Maurice Richard". He played just 28 ordinary season amusements that season, scoring 34, as he missed three months because of a separated Achilles ligament. Returning in time for the playoffs, Richard drove Montreal with 11 objectives and 15 points as the group won its third continuous Stanley Cup. He scored the extra time winning objective in the fifth round of the last against Boston. It was the 6th playoff extra time winning objective of his vocation, and the third amid the finals, both NHL records. 

At 37, Richard was the most seasoned player in the NHL in 1958– 59. He scored 38 points in 42 recreations, however missed a month and a half because of a broken lower leg. Wounds again tormented Richard amid the 1959– 60 season as he missed a month because of a broken cheekbone. Montreal in any case won the Stanley Cup in the two seasons. Richard scored no focuses in four recreations in the 1959 Stanley Cup Final, yet recorded an objective and three aids 1960. The titles were the seventh and eighth of Richard's vocation, and Montreal's five back to back titles remain a record. The 1956– 60 Canadiens rank as one of eight lines perceived by the NHL. 

The playoff objective was Richard's keep going, as on September 15, 1960, he declared his retirement as a player. Richard had answered to Montreal's preparation camp that harvest time, however Selke constrained Richard to end his playing profession, dreading he was gambling genuine damage. In Richard's retirement discourse, he said he had been examining leaving the amusement for a long time, and expressed that at age 39, the diversion had turned out to be unreasonably quick for him. After learning of Richard's retirement, Gordie Howe offered acclaim for his previous opponent: "He beyond any doubt was an illustration card. He acquired the groups that helped pay our wages. Richard unquestionably has been one of the best players in the diversion and we will miss him." 

Richard was nicknamed "the Comet" right off the bat in his profession. At the point when partner Ray Getliffe commented that Richard "went in like a rocket" as he moved toward the restriction objective, Richard was named "The Rocket" by a nearby sportswriter; both Baz O'Meara from the "Montreal Star" and Dink Carroll of the "Montreal Gazette" have been credited for the designation. The moniker depicted Richard's play as far as speed, quality, and assurance. Partner and mentor Toe Blake said the moniker was fitting since "when he would take off, nothing got in his direction that could stop him". Goaltender Jacques Plante proclaimed it a standout amongst the most suitable monikers given to a competitor, taking note of the wild power that frequently appeared in Richard's eyes and contrasting it with "the rocket's red glare" referenced in "The Star-Spangled Banner". Glenn Hall concurred: "What I recollect most about Rocket was his eyes. When he came flying toward you with the puck on his stick, his eyes were altogether lit up, glimmering and shining like a pinball machine. It was alarming." 

The prime of Richard's profession was the period promptly following the Second World War, where fight solidified players came back to the NHL and actualized a "gladiatorial" style that highlighted tough, physical and regularly brutal play. Richard's own temper was scandalous, as represented by his activities that hastened the Richard Riot. 

An unadulterated objective scorer, Richard did not play with artfulness, nor was he known for his passing. One of his colleagues commented that "Maurice wouldn't pass you the salt". Richard drove the NHL in objectives multiple times, yet never in focuses. He was best known for dashing toward the net from the blue line and was similarly skilled at scoring from his forehand or strike. His adventures resuscitated a Montreal Canadiens establishment that had attempted to attract fans the 1930s. Notwithstanding his 14 appearances on a post-season elite player group (eight on the principal group, six on the second), Richard played in 13 back to back NHL All-Star Games somewhere in the range of 1947 and 1959. 

Richard was as yet a functioning player when Gordie Howe surpassed his vocation record for focuses. Howe outperformed Richard's vocation characteristic of 544 objectives in 1963, while the last's record of 50 objectives in a single season represented 20 years until broken by Bobby Hull in 1965. The Montreal Canadiens gave the Maurice "Rocket" Richard Trophy to the NHL in 1999 as an honor introduced every year to the group's driving objective scorer. 

Upon his retirement as a player, Selke offered Richard an occupation as a group diplomat and guaranteed to pay him his full playing pay in the primary year. Subsequent to serving in the situation for a long time, Richard was named a VP of the Canadiens in 1964. He ended up displeased with a job he felt was frail and just privileged, and surrendered one year later. Richard became repelled from the association as his craving to be engaged with the group's tasks was overlooked, and the split extended when the Canadiens constrained Frank Selke to resign in 1965. He in the end would not enable his name to be related with the group. 

As Richard battled both with the need to discover a reason to his post-retirement life and the dread of being overlooked, he joined his name to various undertakings. He went about as a counseling supervisor for a magazine titled "Maurice Richard's Hockey Illustrated", possessed the "544 / 9 Tavern" (named for his profession objective aggregate and sweater number) in Montreal, and was a pitchman for many items, including lager, hair color, vehicle batteries, angling supplies handle and kids' toys. He kept on utilizing his name as a special vehicle for more than 30 years after his retirement. Richard quickly came back to hockey in 1972 as head mentor for the Quebec Nordiques of the World Hockey Association. He kept going just two diversions, a success and a misfortune, before getting himself unfit to deal with the strain of training. Richard accommodated with the Canadiens in 1981 and continued his group represetative job. 

Richard and his better half, Lucille, lived in Montreal where they brought up seven youngsters: Huguette, Maurice Jr., Norman, André, Suzanne, Polo and Jean. They had 14 grandkids. Lucille passed on of disease in 1994, two years after the Richards commended their 50th wedding commemoration. Richard's friend late in his life was Sonia Raymond. 

It was reported in 1998 that Richard was determined to have stomach malignant growth. He passed on May 27, 2000, of respiratory disappointment because of the sickness. Before diversion 1 of the 2000 Stanley Cup Finals between the New Jersey Devils and Dallas Stars, there was a short tribute video featuring the extraordinary minutes and inheritance of Richard's vocation. 

Various distinctions were offered to Richard all through and following his profession: the Canadian Press named him its male competitor of the year on three events, and in 1957, Richard won the Lou Marsh Trophy as Canada's competitor of the year. The Canadiens resigned his sweater number 9 out of 1960, while the Hockey Hall of Fame deferred its five-year holding up period after retirement and accepted him in 1961. That equivalent year, the 5,000-situate Maurice Richard Arena was constructed and named in his respect. 

Upon the production of the Order of Canada in 1967, Richard was named one of the debut individuals and, in 1998, was raised to the position of Companion of the Order of Canada. Canada's Sports Hall of Fame regarded him in 1975, and Richard was given a star on Canada's Walk of Fame in 1999. He was delegated to the Queen's Privy Council for Canada in 1992. 

While he was a prominent player all through Canada, Richard was a symbol inside Quebec. Creator Roch Carrier clarified the enthusiasm Richard evoked from the fans in his 1979 Canadian-exemplary short story "The Hockey Sweater". Bearer composed of how he and his companions all imitated Richard's style and peculiarities: "we were five Maurice Richards against five other Maurice Richards, tossing themselves on the puck. We were ten players all wearing the uniform of the Montréal Canadiens, all with a similar consuming eagerness. We as a whole wore the well known number 9 on our backs." The story's distribution, and consequent adjustment into a National Film Board energized short settled in Richard's picture as a container Canadian symbol. Richard's ubiquity endured late into his life: when presented as a feature of the functions going before the last hockey match-up at the Montreal Forum, Richard was conveyed to tears by Canadiens' fans, who recognized him with a 11-minute overwhelming applause. Upon his demise, the area of Quebec regarded Richard with a state burial service, a first in Quebec for a non-government official. More than 115,000 individuals offered their regards by survey his lying in state at the Molson Center. 

The Richard Riot has accomplished a legendary spot in Canadian old stories. The mob is usually seen as a fierce sign of the discontent Francophones inside Quebec held with their place in to a great extent Anglophone Canada, and a few students of history believe the uproar to be a forerunner to the 1960s Quiet Revolution. In its 40th commemoration review of the Riot, Montreal paper "La Presse" opened with the accompanying entry: "Forty years prior started a standout amongst the most sensational scenes ever of, and of hockey." Richard himself freely expelled his job as an impetus for social or political change. In a 1975 meeting, he said he played with "English young men" and was to a great extent uninformed of the circumstance in French Quebec at the time. 

In an article distributed four days after the mob, writer André Laurendeau was the first to propose that it was an indication of developing patriotism in Quebec. Laurendeau proposed the mob "sold out what lay behind the obvious lack of concern and long-held detachment of French Canadians". Interestingly, in his book "The Rocket: A Cultural History of Maurice Richard", Benoît Melançon question the significance of the uproar, expressing its apparent significance in history developed retroactively with Richard's legend. Melançon stated: "As indicated by this famous account, out of the blue the general population of Quebec went to bat for themselves; particularly English Canada gets a kick out of misguidedly declaring this was the start of the 1960s Quiet Revolution." 

Richard is the subject of the 2005 biopic "The Rocket".