Michael Francis Egan 

Michael Francis Egan (September 29, 1761 – July 22, 1814) was an Irish, later American, prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was conceived in Ireland in 1761, and joined the Franciscan Order at a youthful age. He filled in as a cleric in Rome, Ireland, and Pennsylvania and ended up known as a talented minister. In 1808, Egan was delegated the primary Bishop of Philadelphia, and held that situation until his demise in 1814. Egan's residency as diocesan saw the development of new places of worship and the extension of the Catholic Church participation in his ward, however a lot of his time was devoured by debate with the lay trustees of his master house of prayer, St. Mary's Church in Philadelphia. He kicked the bucket in Philadelphia, most likely of tuberculosis, in 1814. 

Michael Francis Egan was conceived in Ireland on September 29, 1761. The precise area of his introduction to the world is questioned. Early biographers trusted Egan was potentially conceived in Galway; later grant recommends it was Limerick. He joined the Order of Friars Minor (regularly known as the Franciscans) and learned at the Old University of Leuven and Charles University in Prague. Egan got minor requests, subdiaconate, and diaconate at Mechelen, in current Belgium. He was appointed a minister, presumably in Prague, in 1785 or 1786. While concentrating on the landmass, Egan wound up familiar with German. 

Egan progressed quickly to places of duty in the Franciscan request. He was delegated "custos" ("watchman") of the area of Munster in Ireland in March 1787. Soon thereafter, he was additionally delegated "custos" of the Pontifical College at Sant'Isidoro a Capo le Case, the home of Irish Franciscans in Rome. Egan stayed there until 1790, when he came back to Ireland and was delegated "custos" of Ennis. He stayed in Ireland until 1787 or 1788, when he may have made a visit to the United States. Following a few additional years as a minister in Ireland, Egan came (or returned) to the United States in 1802. 

Tolerating a welcome from the Catholics close Lancaster, Pennsylvania, Egan touched base in the United States in January 1802 to fill in as colleague minister to Louis de Barth at Conewago Chapel in Adams County. At the point when the state governing body sat in Lancaster that year, expression of Egan's proclaiming capacities headed out back to Philadelphia, and soon the parishioners of that city's St. Mary's Church appealed to Bishop John Carroll of Baltimore to send Egan to them. (Around then, the Bishop of Baltimore had locale over the whole Catholic Church in the United States.) 

In 1803, Egan wound up one of the ministers of St. Mary's Church at Philadelphia. The move agreed with a yellow fever episode in Philadelphia. Despite the fact that less destructive than Philadelphia's celebrated 1793 flare-up of the malady, there were in any case numerous passings, and Egan managed numerous memorial services that year—St. Mary's had 77 interments among June and November 1803. In 1804, Egan got consent to build up an area of Franciscans in the United States out of the blue, autonomous of the Irish Franciscans who were then managing the American mission. After two years, a parishioner willed Egan some land along the Yellow Creek in Indiana County, for the foundation of a Franciscan church. Because of the request's pledges of destitution, Egan requested that Carroll hold the land in his name. Egan's fantasy was never acknowledged, as he was unfit to draw in Franciscans from Europe to set up the arranged church. 

Egan and the trustees of St. Mary's built up a singing school in 1804, with the objective of improving the nature of the choir there. The next year was devoured by another yellow fever episode, and Egan joined John Rossiter, the minister of another of Philadelphia's four Catholic temples, St. Joseph's, in tending to the wiped out. In 1806, they worked with the parishioners of a third church, Holy Trinity, to establish a halfway house, as the issue of stranded youngsters had been exacerbated by the yellow fever passings. 

The Catholic populace in the United States was developing, and Bishop John Carroll had for quite a while wanted for his immense ward to be partitioned into progressively sensible regions. On April 8, 1808, Pope Pius VII conceded Carroll's solicitation, raising four new finds in the United States and lifting Baltimore to an archdiocese. Among the new observes was the Diocese of Philadelphia, which incorporated the conditions of Pennsylvania and Delaware just as the western and southern pieces of New Jersey. Indeed, even before the see was made, Carroll had resolved to suggest Egan for the post, keeping in touch with Rome that Egan "was genuinely devout, educated, religious, exceptional for his incredible quietude, yet lacking, maybe, in solidness and without extraordinary involvement toward undertakings". 

Because of interruptions brought about by the Napoleonic Wars, the ecclesiastical bull naming Egan did not achieve the United States until 1810. When it arrived, Egan made a trip to St. Subside's Pro-house of God in Baltimore, where he was appointed cleric via Carroll, helped by Benedict Joseph Flaget and Jean-Louis de Cheverus, who had been designated to ministerial offices however had not yet been blessed. Egan picked St. Mary's to fill in as his expert house of prayer in Philadelphia. Indeed, even before Egan's establishment, Philadelphia Catholics started to raise assets to extend the congregation as per its new conspicuousness in the bishopric. After their appointments, the new ministers arranged a board of the American church initiative for the not so distant future; actually, they didn't meet until 1829, long after Egan's demise. 

Egan's height to the episcopate exacerbated a current clash in the American church: the disagreement regarding trusteeism. In Europe, the Church possessed property and legitimately controlled its areas through the pastorate. In the United States, be that as it may, early Catholic chapels were regularly established by laymen who obtained the property and raised the congregation structures. The laypeople as needs be requested some authority over the organization of the ward, even after the landing of ministry from Europe who, as Egan, held the conventional perspective on area association. The question likewise had patriot components to it, as the vigorously German area of Holy Trinity disdained the inconvenience of an Irish diocesan rather than one of their own. At the point when Holy Trinity's minister left for another task in Maryland in 1811, the trustees there were bothered at Egan's brief arrangement of an Irish cleric, Patrick Kenny, to lead the area, until a German minister could be discovered (a German cleric, Francis Roloff, was alloted the next year). 

Egan's very own examination into the issue demonstrated that the trustees had passed on St. Mary's Church to the past minister, Robert Harding, and afterward to his beneficiaries, however the trustees did not think about that property exchange to have stifled their job in the congregation's administration. By 1811, Egan's compounding wellbeing made him acknowledge the help of two clerics at St. Mary's, James Harold and his nephew, William Vincent Harold. Egan and the trustees turned out to be additionally involved in a question about administrative pay rates, a circumstance conceivably aggravated by the decrease in delivery salary in the port city brought about by the flare-up of the War of 1812. Egan likewise came to trust the Harolds were exacerbating things by taking professional ministry positions that were more extraordinary than Egan's own and by the more youthful Harold's plotting to be named Egan's coadjutor cleric. He spoke to the trustees for trade off, and offered to bring his cousin (additionally a cleric) over from Ireland to supplant the senior Harold. By 1813, Egan and the trustees had accommodated and together set out to evacuate the Harolds, who consented to leave soon thereafter and migrate to England. 

In spite of the fact that the fundamental objections among priest and trustees were settled, some compensation debate waited into 1813. The conditions at St. Mary's compounded in 1814 with the decision of new trustees who were more in struggle with Egan than the past ones. Somewhere else in the bishopric, Egan was progressively fruitful. In around 1811, he made his most broad appearance of his bishopric, going as far west as Pittsburgh subsequent to halting in Lancaster and Conewago. He kept on raising assets for the Catholic halfway house and opened another ward, Sacred Heart, in Trenton, New Jersey, in 1813, getting the all out number of holy places the bishopric to sixteen. 

Egan's wellbeing kept on declining, and he kicked the bucket on July 22, 1814. While nineteenth century writers recommend that it "might be said in all fact that Bishop Egan kicked the bucket of a broken heart", current biographers trust his wellbeing inconveniences all the more intently taken after tuberculosis. Egan was covered in St. Mary's churchyard. In 1869, after the development of the Cathedral Basilica of Saints Peter and Paul on Logan Square, his remaining parts were expelled there and reburied in a grave alongside those of his successor in the see of Philadelphia, Henry Conwell. Conwell-Egan Catholic High School in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania, is named to pay tribute to Egan and his successor.