Harry McNish 

Henry McNish (11 September 187424 September 1930), regularly alluded to as Harry McNeish or by the moniker Chippy, was the woodworker on Sir Ernest Shackleton's Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition of 1914– 1917. He was in charge of a significant part of the work that guaranteed the team's survival after their ship, the "Perseverance", was wrecked when it ended up caught in pack ice in the Weddell Sea. He adjusted the little pontoon, "James Caird", that permitted Shackleton and five men (counting McNish) to make a voyage of many miles to bring help for the remainder of the group. 

After the undertaking he came back to work in the Merchant Navy and in the long run emigrated to New Zealand, where he took a shot at the docks in Wellington until weakness constrained his retirement. He passed on dejected in the Ohiro Benevolent Home in Wellington. 

Harry "Chippy" McNish was conceived in 1874 in the previous Lyons Lane close to the present site of the library in Port Glasgow, Renfrewshire, Scotland. He was a piece of a huge family, being the third of eleven youngsters destined to John and Mary Jane (née Wade) McNish. His dad was an understudy shoemaker. McNish held solid communist perspectives, was an individual from the United Free Church of Scotland and despised awful language. He wedded multiple times: in 1895 to Jessie Smith, who kicked the bucket in February 1898; in 1898 to Ellen Timothy, who passed on in December 1904; lastly to Lizzie Littlejohn in 1907. 

There is some disarray with regards to the right spelling of his name. He is differently alluded to as McNish, McNeish, and in Alexander Macklin's journal of the campaign, MacNish. The McNeish spelling is normal, remarkably in Shackleton's and Frank Worsley's records of the endeavor and on McNish's gravestone, yet McNish is likewise generally utilized, and gives off an impression of being the right form. On a marked duplicate of the undertaking photograph his mark shows up as "H. MacNish", yet his spelling is as a rule quirky, as uncovered in the journal he kept all through the endeavor. There likewise is an inquiry with respect to McNish's epithet. "Chippy" was a conventional epithet for a shipwright; both this and the shorter "Chips" (as in wood chips from carpentry) appear to have been utilized. 

The point of the Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition was to be the first to cross the Antarctic mainland from one side to the next. McNish was obviously pulled in by Shackleton's commercial for the endeavor (in spite of the fact that there are questions with respect to whether the ad at any point showed up): 

McNish, at 40, was one of the most established individuals from the group of the "Perseverance" (Shackleton however was seven months more established). He experienced heaps and stiffness in his legs. He was viewed as to some degree odd and foul, yet in addition exceptionally regarded as a woodworker—Frank Worsley, the skipper of the "Continuance", alludes to him as an "astonishing shipwright". The pipe-smoking Scot was, be that as it may, the main man of the team that Shackleton was "not absolutely sure of". His Scots inflection was portrayed as grating like "frayed link wire". 

Amid the underlying phase of the voyage to Antarctica from Buenos Aires, he was kept occupied with various routine assignments. He dealt with the pram dinghy "Nancy Endurance"; made a little dresser for Shackleton; example racks for the researcher, Robert Clark; instrument cases for Leonard Hussey, the meteorologist; and set up wind screens to secure the helmsman. He developed a bogus deck, reaching out from the stern to the outline space to cover the additional coal that the ship had accepted. He additionally went about as the ship's hairdresser. As the ship pushed into the pack ice in the Weddell Sea it turned out to be progressively hard to explore. McNish developed a six-foot wooden semaphore on the scaffold to empower the exploring officer to give the helmsman bearings, and assembled a little stage over the stern to enable the propeller to be watched so as to keep it clear of the substantial ice. 

At the point when the ship ended up caught in pack ice his obligations extended to developing improvised lodging, and, when it turned out to be certain that the ship was damned, to changing the sledges for the voyage over the ice to untamed water. He fabricated the quarters where the group took their dinners (nicknamed "The Ritz") and work spaces where the men could rest. These were altogether initiated too; McNish shared "The Sailors' Rest" with Alfred Cheetham, the Third Officer. Helped by the group, he built pet hotels for the puppies on the upper deck. Once "Perseverance" wound up caught, and the group were going through the days on the ice, McNish raised goalposts and football turned into an every day apparatus for the men. To breathe easy at night, McNish joined Frank Wild, Tom Crean, James McIlroy, Worsley and Shackleton playing poker in the wardroom. 

The weight from the ice caused "Continuance" to begin to take on water. To keep the ship from flooding McNish constructed a cofferdam, caulking it with portions of covers and nailing strips over the creases, representing hours up to his abdomen in solidifying water as he worked. He couldn't keep the weight from the ice pounding the ship however and was sufficiently experienced to realize when to quit attempting. When the ship had been decimated he was placed accountable for safeguarding the stores from what had been "The Ritz". With McNish in control it took just two or three hours to open the deck sufficiently far to recover a decent amount of arrangements. 

Amid his watch one night while the group were stayed outdoors on the ice, a little piece of the ice floe split away and he was just protected because of the brisk mediation of the men of the following watch who tossed him a line enabling him to bounce back to security. Shackleton detailed that McNish smoothly referenced his close call the following day after further splits showed up in the ice. Mrs Chippy, the feline McNish had expedited board, must be shot after the loss of the "Perseverance", as it was evident he would not endure the cruel conditions. McNish obviously never pardoned Shackleton for giving the request. 

McNish proposed assembling a littler art from the destruction of the ship, however was overruled, with Shackleton rather choosing to head over the ice to vast water pulling the ship's three rafts. McNish had been experiencing with heaps and yearning to go home nearly before the voyage had started, and once the ship was lost his disappointment started to develop. He vented his sentiments in his journal, focusing on his tent-mates' language: 

In incredible agony while pulling sledges over the ice, McNish quickly revolted, declining to proceed in the saddle and dissenting to Frank Worsley that since the "Perseverance" had been pulverized the team was never again under any commitment to pursue orders. Records shift with respect to how Shackleton took care of this: some report he took steps to shoot McNish; others that he read him the ship's articles, clarifying that the team were still under commitment until they achieved port. McNish's declaration would have regularly been right: obligation to the ace (and pay) typically ceased when a ship was lost, however the articles the group had marked for the "Perseverance" had an exceptional condition embedded in which the team concurred "to play out any obligation ready, in the water crafts, or on the shore as coordinated by the ace and proprietor". Beside this, McNish truly had no real option except to go along: he couldn't endure alone and couldn't proceed with the remainder of the gathering except if he obeyed orders. In the end, Shackleton chose that the endeavor to pull the vessels had been a mix-up, and chose that the main arrangement was to hang tight for the development of the ice to convey the gathering to untamed water. 

As provisions dwindled the gathering became hungry. McNish records that he smoked himself wiped out attempting to mitigate the aches of appetite and despite the fact that he thought the shooting of the mutts horrendously pitiful, he was glad to eat the meat they gave expressing "Their substance tastes a treat. It is a major treat for us in the wake of being so long on seal meat." 

At the point when the ice at last conveyed the camp to the edge of the pack ice, Shackleton chose that the three water crafts, the "James Caird", "Stancomb Wills", and "Dudley Docker", should make at first for Elephant Island. McNish had arranged the vessels as well as can be expected for a long adventure in the untamed sea, developing their sides to give them a higher leeway from the water. 

On the ocean voyage to Elephant Island, McNish was in the "James Caird" with Shackleton and Frank Wild. As they moved toward the island, Wild, who had been at the tiller for 24 hours in a row, was near breakdown, so Shackleton requested McNish to assuage him. McNish was not in a greatly improved state himself and, regardless of the horrible conditions, he nodded off after thirty minutes. The vessel swung around and an immense wave soaked him. This was sufficient to wake him, however Shackleton, seeing McNish too was depleted, requested him to be soothed. 

After the team had made it to Elephant Island, Shackleton chose to take a little group and make for South Georgia, where there was a plausibility that they would discover teams from the whaling boats to help impact a salvage for the remainder of the men. McNish was called upon by Shackleton to make the "James Caird" fit for sailing for the long voyage and was chosen as a feature of the group, conceivably in light of the fact that Shackleton feared the impact he would have on assurance whenever abandoned with different men. As far as concerns him, McNish appeared to be glad to go; he was disinterested by the island and the odds of survival for the men overwintering there: 

McNish utilized the pole of one more of the vessels, the "Stancomb Wills", to fortify the bottom and develop the little 22 foot (6.7 m) long watercraft, so it would withstand the oceans amid the 800 mile (1480 km) trip. He caulked it utilizing a blend of seal blood and flour, and, utilizing wood and nails taken from pressing cases and the sprinters of the sledges, he manufactured an alternative edge which was then secured with canvas. Shackleton was stressed the vessel "bore a solid similarity to arrange landscape", just giving the presence of durability. He later conceded that the team couldn't have survived the voyage without it. 

When propelling the watercraft McNish and John Vincent were tossed from the deck into the ocean. Albeit doused, both were safe, and figured out how to trade some garments with the Elephant Island party before the "James Caird" set off. The temperament on board was light and McNish recorded in his journal on 24 April 1916: 

The inclination did not last however: conditions on board the little art amid the trek were horrible, with the team continually splashed and cold. McNish inspired Shackleton with his capacity to shoulder up under the strain (more so than the more youthful Vincent, who fallen from weariness and cold). The six men split into two watches of four hours: three of the men would deal with the watercraft while the other three lay underneath the canvas decking endeavoring to rest. McNish imparted a watch to Shackleton and Crean. Every one of the men whined of torments in their legs and, on the fourth outing from Elephant Island, McNish all of a sudden sat down and expelled his boots, uncovering his legs and feet were white and puffy with the early indications of channel foot. On observing the province of McNish's feet Shackleton requested every one of the men to evacuate their boots. 

The group of the "James Caird" achieved South Georgia on 10 May 1916, 15 days in the wake of setting out from Elephant Island. They arrived in Cave Cove on King Haakon Bay; it was on the wrong side of the island, however it was a help for every one of them to make land; McNish wrote in his journal: 

They discovered gooney bird chicks and seals to eat, however in spite of the overall solace of the island contrasted with the little pontoon, they still earnestly expected to achieve the whaling station at Husvik on the opposite side of the island to bring help for the men on Elephant Island. Unmistakably McNish and Vincent couldn't proceed, so Shackleton left them being taken care of by Timothy McCarthy stayed outdoors in the upturned "James Caird", and with Worsley and Crean made the perilous stumble over the mountains. McNish took screws from the "James Caird" and appended them to the boots of the men making the adventure to enable them to hold the ice. He likewise formed a rough sledge from driftwood he found on the shoreline, however it ended up being down to earth. At the point when Shackleton's gathering set off on 18 May 1916, McNish went with them for a couple of hundred yards yet he was unfit to go any further. He shook hands with every one of the men, wished them good karma and after that Shackleton sent him back. Placing McNish in direction of the rest of the men, Shackleton charged him to hang tight for help and if none had dropped before the finish of winter to endeavor to sail toward the east coast. When Shackleton's gathering had crossed the mountains and landed in Husvik, he sent Worsley with one of the whaler's boats, "Samson", to get McNish and different men. In the wake of seeing the anorexic and drawn McNish on his landing in the whaling station, Shackleton recorded that he felt that the salvage possessed come just in energy for him. 

Whatever the genuine story of the insubordination on the ice, neither Worsley nor McNish ever referenced the occurrence recorded as a hard copy. Shackleton precluded it completely from "South", his record of the endeavor, and alluded to it just extraneously in his journal: "Everybody functioning admirably with the exception of the craftsman. I will always remember him in this season of strain and stress". The occasion was recorded in the ship's log, yet the log section was struck amid the ocean voyage in the "James Caird", Shackleton being inspired by the craftsman's show of "coarseness and soul". In any case, McNish's name showed up on the rundown of the four men not suggested for the Polar Medal in the letter sent by Shackleton on his arrival. Macklin thought the disavowal of the decoration unjustified: 

Macklin trusted that Shackleton may have been impacted in his choice by Worsley who imparted a shared ill will to McNish, and had went with Shackleton once again from Antarctica. Individuals from the Scott Polar Research Institute, New Zealand Antarctic Society and Caroline Alexander, the creator of "Continuance", have condemned Shackleton's forswearing of the honor to McNish, and there is a progressing effort to have him granted the decoration after death. 

After the undertaking McNish came back to the Merchant Navy, chipping away at different boats. He frequently griped that his bones forever yearned because of the conditions amid the voyage in the "James Caird"; he would purportedly once in a while won't shake hands due to the agony. He separated Lizzie Littlejohn on 2 March 1918, by which time he had just met his new accomplice, Agnes Martindale. McNish had a child named Tom and Martindale had a little girl named Nancy. In spite of the fact that she is referenced much of the time in his journal, it shows up McNish was not Nancy's dad. 

He went through 23 years in the Navy altogether amid his life, however in the long run verified an occupation with the New Zealand Shipping Company. Subsequent to making five outings to New Zealand he moved there in 1925, deserting his significant other and the majority of his carpentry instruments. He took a shot at the waterfront in Wellington until his profession was finished by damage. Down and out, he would rest in the wharf sheds under a canvas and depended on month to month accumulations from the dockworkers. He was discovered a spot in the Ohiro Benevolent Home, yet his wellbeing kept on falling apart. 

He kicked the bucket on 24 September 1930 in Wellington Hospital. He was covered in Karori Cemetery, Wellington, on 26 September 1930, with full maritime distinctions; "HMS Dunedin" (which happened to be in port at the time) gave twelve men to the terminating gathering and eight bearers. Be that as it may, his grave stayed plain for just about thirty years; the New Zealand Antarctic Society (NZAC) raised a gravestone on 10 May 1959. In 2001, it was accounted for that the grave was untended and encompassed by weeds, however in 2004, the grave was cleaned and an actual existence estimate bronze figure of McNish's darling feline, Mrs Chippy, was set on his grave by NZAC. His grandson, Tom, trusts this tribute would have implied more to him than getting the Polar Medal. 

In 1958, the British Antarctic Survey named a little island in his respect, McNeish Island, which lies in the ways to deal with King Haakon Bay, South Georgia. The island was renamed McNish Island in 1998 after his introduction to the world authentication was displayed to the United Kingdom Antarctic Place-Names Committee. 

On 18 October 2006, a little, oval divider plaque recognizing his accomplishments was disclosed at the Port Glasgow Library in the place where he grew up, and prior around the same time he was the subject of a presentation at the McLean Museum and Art Gallery, Greenock. His diaries are held in the Alexander Turnbull Library in Wellington, New Zealand. 

a. For the area of McNish's introduction to the world, see map. 

b. There was little uncertainty as to his ability as a shipwright even before he was called upon for the changes to the vessels. He was never observed to take estimations, delivering ideal work by eye. Macklin remarked that all the work he did was top of the line, and even Thomas Orde-Lees, who hated him, hesitantly conceded he was a "specialist wooden ship's man". 

c. "Mrs" Chippy was found to be a male a month after the voyage began, yet at that point the name had stuck. 

d. "Spouse" in this source likely alludes to Agnes Martindale, who was his accomplice however not his significant other. McNish was at that point separated at this point.