USS Siboney (ID-2999) 

USS "Siboney" (ID-2999) was a ship transport for the United States Navy amid World War I. She was the sister ship of yet nor was a piece of a ship class. Propelled as SS "Oriente, she was before long renamed after Siboney, Cuba, an arrival site of United States powers amid the Spanish– American War. After her naval force administration finished, she was SS "Siboney for the New York and Cuba Mail Steamship Co. (normally called the Ward Line). The ship was worked under contract by American Export Lines starting in late 1940. Amid World War II she served the U.S. Armed force as transport USAT "Siboney and as clinic deliver USAHS "Charles A. Stafford. 

As a vehicle amid World War I, "Siboney" made 17 transoceanic voyages for the naval force conveying troops to and from Europe, and had the most brief normal in-port turnaround time of all naval force transports. Amid her launch, her controlling apparatus broke down which brought about an impact between two different troopships in the escort. 

After her World War I administration finished, "Siboney" was come back to the Ward Line and set in New York– Cuba– Spain transoceanic administration; the liner steered into the rocks at Vigo, Spain in September 1920. Regardless of extensive harm, she was fixed and put back in administration. In late 1921, "Siboney" was changed to New York– Cuba– Mexico courses, which were a well known and modest path for Americans to escape Prohibition. In late 1940, she was contracted to American Export Lines to return Americans escaping Europe at the start of World War II, making seven roundtrips from Jersey City, New Jersey, to Lisbon. 

Amid World War II, "Siboney" was ordered by the War Shipping Administration (WSA) and relegated to the War Department as a U.S. Armed force transport. She made a few transoceanic treks and called at ports in Africa, the Middle East, Canada, the Caribbean, and the United Kingdom. Amid a 1944 update, the ship was chosen for change to a medical clinic dispatch. Renamed USAHS "Charles A. Stafford" after a U.S. Armed force specialist slaughtered in real life in Australia, the ship served in both the European and the Pacific Theaters. After the finish of her military administration, the ship was laid up in the National Defense Reserve Fleet in February 1948, and sold for rejecting in 1957. 

SS "Oriente" was a blend load and traveler vessel worked by William Cramp and Sons, Philadelphia, for the Ward Line. In mid-1917 the United States Shipping Board (USSB) seized and got title to all private shipbuilding ventures in advancement, including the still-inadequate "Oriente" and her sister transport "Orizaba". Plans for the two boats were changed for troop conveying obligations. "Oriente" was propelled on 15 August 1917, renamed "Siboney" on 28 February 1918, conveyed to the naval force on 8 April, and authorized that day, Commander A.T. Graham in order. 

"Siboney" cruised from Philadelphia on 16 April as a unit of the Cruiser and Transport Force, and touched base at Newport News two days after the fact to set out her first unforeseen of troops. She withdrew Hampton Roads on 23 April and joined her first escort the next day. On 25 April, her rudder stuck; and, in the following disarray, transports and impacted and needed to come back to New York. On 4 May, the caravan was joined by the combat area escort of eight destroyers and, on 6 May, "Siboney" landed at Brest. Debarking her troops, she cruised the next day and touched base at Hoboken, New Jersey, on 15 May. 

"Siboney" set out her second unexpected of troops at Lambert's Point, Virginia, on 25 May and cruised the next day. The New York area of the caravan joined two days after the fact and the boats entered the battle area on 6 June. In French waters, they were met by , a squadron of minesweepers, an American airship, and two French hydroplanes. "Siboney" touched base in Bordeaux on 8 June and withdrew the next day however remained tied down in the mouth of the Gironde until 13 June, anticipating the tanker "Woonsocket". On 15 June, the guard passed six void rafts from the torpedoed transport . "Siboney" entered the American battle region on 20 June, and the following day protected overcomers of the British vessel, , which had been torpedoed three days beforehand. The vehicle landed at New York on 22 June and tied down in the North River. 

"Siboney" cruised for France on 30 June; in the wake of conveying her troops at Brest on 12 July, she came back to New York on 25 July. She cruised again on 31 July. Before landing at Brest on 12 August, she needed to move a few times to avoid conceivable submarine contacts. She landed at New York on 22 August and was allowed a fourteen day fix period. 

On 4 September, "Siboney" cruised from New York on her fifth intersection and touched base at Saint-Nazaire nine days after the fact. On 15 September, she set out various injured troops and left Saint-Nazaire that day, in any case, because of overwhelming submarine movement, swung at grapple for a few days before her escort cruised. She landed on 29 September at New York. On her 6th eastbound intersection, somewhere in the range of 6 and 15 October, a flu plague broke out among the troops, slaughtering various fighters. Cruising from Brest on 16 October, the vehicle came back to New York on 24 October. 

"Siboney" had just left troops for her next voyage when, on 3 November, she was requested to land them. She cruised the next day with a military brigadier general and his staff, and a maritime draft of 500 men. She touched base at Saint-Nazaire on the 12 November, soon after the declaration of the Armistice, and was met by a cheering group. 

"Siboney" at that point started her peacetime mission of returning American veterans from Europe to the United States. Subsequent to leaving 513 injured men at Saint-Nazaire, she moved to Brest on the fifteenth and took on 600 additional travelers. She cruised that day under escort and achieved New York on 24 November. Amid the following ten months, "Siboney" made ten increasingly round outings between the United States and France, returning over 3,000 troops per trip when completely stacked. On one such return trip in August 1919, "Siboney" conveyed Admiral Henry T. Mayo and Congressman Thomas S. Head servant home from France. 

"Siboney" came back to New York on 2 September at the finish of her seventeenth outing, having gone over and transported roughly 55,000 military travelers to and from French ports. As per the Statistical Department of the U.S. Naval force, "Siboney" had the briefest normal in-port turnaround time out of 37 U.S. Naval force transports utilized amid World War I. The ship finished 17 round excursions and had a normal pivot time of just shy of 30 days per trip, very nearly ten days shorter than the normal of 39.8 days. 

On 10 September at Hoboken, "Siboney" was decommissioned and swung over to the War Department, who restored the ship to the Ward Line, her unique proprietors. 

After her reacquisition, the Ward Line set SS "Siboney" in transoceanic administration on a New York to Havana, Tenerife, Bilbao, Santander, and Vigo course. On 9 September 1920, the ship steered into the rocks in the harbor at Vigo. Starting endeavors to re-glide her were fruitless, however by late October, "Siboney" had been sufficiently fixed to make it to Shields. In spite of significant harm, "Siboney" was refitted and set in administration again and, by March 1921, the Ward Line was publicizing entry to Spain by means of Havana on board her. The Ward Line, be that as it may, deserted the New York– Cuba– Spain administration later in 1921 because of an absence of travelers. 

By November 1921, "Siboney" was set in New York– Cuba– Mexico administration, where business flourished, to a limited extent on account of Prohibition in the United States. Ward Line travels to Havana were one of the snappiest and most economical approaches to what one creator called "liquor advanced get-aways". A run of the mill course from this timespan would cruise from New York and call at Nassau, Havana, Progreso, Veracruz, and Tampico, skipping Nassau on the arrival. Denial additionally had a more straightforward impact on "Siboney" and her group. On 27 June 1922, "Siboney" — naturally came back from Havana with a heap of pineapples — was struck by United States Customs Service assessors who caught 300 bottles of snuck alcohol ready. In December 1923, four engine compartment specialists were captured when police wound up suspicious of a man who had evidently quite recently conveyed a supply of liquor to the docked ship. 

"Siboney" experienced a noteworthy refit in 1924 amid which time she was supplanted on her courses by SS "Yucatán", once the North German Lloyd deliver "Prinz Waldemar". In the wake of coming back to support for the Ward Line, "Siboney" was the first to hand-off messages from Miami about the seriousness of the Great Miami Hurricane when she go there soon after the tempest hit in September 1926. 

On 18 February 1928, "Siboney" slammed and sank the coal flatboat "Seneca" off Ambrose Light amid a snowstorm; the freight ship had been chopped down in 1915 from SS "Seneca", adventitiously, a previous Ward Line dispatch. Misfortune proceeded for "Siboney" on 5 January 1929, when she smashed and sank the Bauer Towing Company pull "Phillip Hoffman" off the Battery, murdering the pull's specialist. 

"Siboney" proceeded with her equivalent courses into the 1930s, and by 1933 normal keeps running for "Siboney" were from New York to Havana, Progreso, and Veracruz and back, excluding Progreso on the arrival. On one such return trip from Veracruz and Havana in April 1935, a traveler had $5,000 worth of precious stone and platinum adornments stolen while ready. By 1935, numerous advertising debacles for the Ward Line — the flame and sinking of off New Jersey in 1934 and the establishing of and the sinking of "Mohawk" in the months that pursued — caused the "Ward Line" name to be dropped for the "Cuba Mail Line" moniker. By 1939, "Siboney", still on the New York– Cuba– Mexico course, brandished another paint plan of "dove dark" frame and dark channels with white markings to mirror this adjustment in name. In late 1940, be that as it may, the battling Cuba Mail Line sanctioned "Siboney" to American Export Lines which utilized her on Jersey City– Lisbon administration. Amid her American Export administration, one of her travelers to the U.S. was French pilot and essayist Antoine de Saint Exupéry, when he moved in January 1941 to Asharoken, New York after Germany's peace negotiation with France. 

On 12 April 1941 at 13:30, out of Lisbon, the ship — painted with an expansive American banner and "American Export" lettering on each side — was hailed by "two submarine chasers flying British ensigns" that discharged shots over "Siboney"s bow, one of which landed not exactly far from the ship. As indicated by "Siboney"s skipper, Wenzel Habel, the two boats were British corvette types checked "K-25" and "K-125" — which may have been s and . In the wake of addressing inquiries from "K-25" yelled by means of amplifier, "Siboney" was permitted to continue her course. Habel documented a challenge with British authorities when "Siboney" docked at Bermuda. 

At the finish of her seventh and last voyage for American Export, "Siboney" was put under time sanction for obligation as an Army transport. After a hurried equipping, the redesignated USAT "Siboney" was given something to do transporting troops. Situated in New York, she influenced excursions to all over the Atlantic and into the Caribbean, and, before the finish of 1941, had called at Bermuda, San Juan, Trinidad, St. John's, Charleston, Newport News, Cristóbal, Jamaica, and Panama. 

December 1941 saw "Siboney" leave from New York to Trinidad and on to Cape Town, at that point cruising up the east shore of Africa to Basra, Iraq, and Bandar Shahpur, Iran. The ship came back to Cape Town through Aden and experienced routine heater fixes there, before coming back to New York in April 1942. In the wake of experiencing six weeks of fixes at Bethlehem Steel Company, the vehicle cruised for Halifax, Iceland, and the Clyde, Scotland, in late May, coming back to New York in July. Another trek to England and back followed in September 1942. 

On 1 July 1942 the ship had been gained by the War Shipping Administration (WSA) under a bareboat sanction changing over the Army's time contract to a sub bareboat sanction. On 9 August 1943 WSA acquired the ship with the Army's bareboat sanction proceeded. 

Toward the beginning of December 1942 "Siboney" left for Newfoundland yet put into Halifax for two months of drydocking and fixes after she crashed into SS "City of Kimberly". In the wake of coming back to New York in February 1943, she made a few transoceanic runs, calling at Casablanca, Oran, Gibraltar, Clyde, Durban, Rio de Janeiro, Trinidad, and Cuba throughout the following 11 months. "Siboney" came back to New York for significant fixes and reboilering at Bethlehem Steel Co. In January 1944, while experiencing this work, the ship was chosen for transformation to an emergency clinic send. 

The ship was renamed USAHS "Charles A. Stafford" after Captain Charles A. Stafford of the U.S. Armed force Medical Corps, who was murdered amid the air assault on Broome, Western Australia, while partaking in the clearing of Java on 3 March 1942. With her change total in September 1944, the "Stafford", outfitted with new boilers, a solitary stack instead of her unique two, and different upgrades, moved to her new homeport of Charleston. From that port the ship made month to month hurries to the United Kingdom and back until May 1945, intruding on the example once for an outing to Gibraltar and Marseilles. Steaming to New York at the finish of her last transoceanic run, "Charles A. Stafford" was redesignd for obligation in the South Pacific. 

With the modifications complete, the veteran ship — presently homeported at Los Angeles — cruised in August 1945 for Cristobál and on to Honolulu, Manila, Biak, Leyte, and Mindoro. Subsequent to coming back to Los Angeles in October, the "Stafford" cruised for Honolulu, Manila, and Eniwetok and back. 

In the wake of cruising to her new homeport of New York by means of the Panama Canal amid February 1946, "Charles A. Stafford" continued her North Atlantic rushes to the UK. 

On 30 August 1946 the Army exchanged the ship to the Maritime Commission. On 16 February 1948 the ship was set in the James River Reserve Fleet. Kept on hold under her unique name of "Siboney", the ship was sold by the Maritime Administration on 2 January 1957 for $286,125 to Bethlehem Steel for rejecting.