Burger's Daughter 

Burger's Daughter is a political and recorded novel by the South African Nobel Prize in Literature-champ Nadine Gordimer, first distributed in the United Kingdom in June 1979 by Jonathan Cape. The book was required to be restricted in South Africa, and a month after distribution in London the import and clearance of the book in South Africa was disallowed by the Publications Control Board. After three months, the Publications Appeal Board toppled the forbidding and the confinements were lifted. 

"Burger's Daughter" subtleties a gathering of white enemy of politically-sanctioned racial segregation activists in South Africa trying to oust the South African government. It is set in the mid-1970s, and pursues the life of Rosa, the title character, as she deals with her dad Lionel Burger's heritage as a dissident in the South African Communist Party (SACP). The viewpoint moves between Rosa's inner monolog (regularly coordinated towards her dad or her sweetheart Conrad), and the omniscient storyteller. The tale is established in the historical backdrop of the counter politically-sanctioned racial segregation battle and references to real occasions and individuals from that period, including Nelson Mandela and the 1976 Soweto uprising. 

Gordimer herself was associated with South African battle governmental issues, and she knew huge numbers of the activists, including Bram Fischer, Mandela's injustice preliminary protection legal advisor. She displayed the Burger family in the novel freely on Fischer's family, and portrayed "Burger's Daughter" as "a coded tribute" to Fischer. While restricted in South Africa, a duplicate of the book was carried into Mandela's jail cell on Robben Island, and he announced that he "had a favorable opinion of it". 

The epic was commonly generally welcomed by commentators. An analyst for "The New York Times" said that "Burger's Daughter" is Gordimer's "most political and most moving novel", and a survey in "The New York Review of Books" depicted the style of composing as "exquisite", "exacting" and having a place with a "developed high society". A pundit in "The Hudson Review" had blended sentiments about the book, saying that it "gives hardly any joy in the perusing however which one is satisfied to have perused in any case". "Burger's Daughter" won the Central News Agency Literary Award in 1980. 

The tale starts in Johannesburg, South Africa in 1974 amid politically-sanctioned racial segregation. Rosa is 26, and her dad, Lionel Burger, a white Afrikaner enemy of politically-sanctioned racial segregation lobbyist, has passed on in jail in the wake of serving three years of a lifelong incarceration for injustice. When she was 14, her mom, Cathy Burger, additionally kicked the bucket in jail. Rosa had experienced childhood in a family that effectively bolstered the topple of the politically-sanctioned racial segregation government, and the house they lived in opened its ways to anybody supporting the battle, paying little respect to shading. Living with them was "Baasie" (minimal supervisor), a dark kid Rosa's age the Burgers had "embraced" when his dad had kicked the bucket in jail. Baasie and Rosa grew up as sibling and sister. Rosa's folks were individuals from the banned South African Communist Party (SACP), and had been captured a few times when she was a tyke. At the point when Rosa was nine, she was sent to remain with her dad's family; Baasie was sent somewhere else, and she lost contact with him. 

With the Burger's home presently unfilled, Rosa offers it and moves in with Conrad, an understudy who had become a close acquaintence with her amid her dad's preliminary. Conrad interrogates her concerning her job in the Burger family and inquires as to why she generally did what she was told. Later Rosa leaves Conrad and moves into a level without anyone else and fills in as a physiotherapist. In 1975 Rosa goes to a gathering of a companion in Soweto, and it is there that she hears a dark college understudy expelling all whites' assistance as insignificant, saying that whites can't realize what blacks need, and that blacks will free themselves. In spite of being marked a Communist and under reconnaissance by the experts, Rosa figures out how to get a visa, and travels to Nice in France to go through a while with Katya, her dad's first spouse. There she meets Bernard Chabalier, a meeting scholarly from Paris. They become darlings and he influences her to come back with him to Paris. 

Prior to joining Bernard in Paris, Rosa remains in a level in London for a little while. Since she has no expectation of regarding the understanding of her identification, which was to come back to South Africa inside a year, she transparently presents herself as Burger's girl. This draws in the consideration of the media and she goes to a few political occasions. At one such occasion, Rosa sees Baasie, however when she attempts to converse with him, he begins condemning her for not knowing his genuine name (Zwelinzima Vulindlela). He says that there is nothing unique about her dad having kicked the bucket in jail the same number of dark dads have additionally passed on there, and includes that he needn't bother with her assistance. Rosa is crushed by her beloved companion's frightful comments, and defeat with blame, she deserts her arrangements of going into outcast in France and comes back to South Africa. 

Back home she continues her activity as a physiotherapist in Soweto. At that point in June 1976 Soweto younger students begin challenging about their second rate training and being educated in Afrikaans. They go out of control, which incorporates slaughtering white welfare specialists. The police ruthlessly put down the uprising, bringing about many passings. In October 1977, numerous associations and individuals incredulous of the white government are restricted, and in November 1977 Rosa Burger is confined. Her attorney, who likewise spoken to her dad, anticipates that charges should be brought against her of promoting the points of the prohibited SACP and African National Congress (ANC), and of supporting and abetting the understudies' revolt. 

In a 1980 meeting, Gordimer expressed that she was entranced by the job of "white no-nonsense Leftists" in South Africa, and that she had since quite a while ago visualized the thought for "Burger's Daughter". Enlivened by crafted by Bram Fischer, she distributed an article about him in 1961 entitled "For what reason Did Bram Fischer Choose to Go to Jail?" Fischer was the Afrikaner promoter and Communist who was Nelson Mandela's safeguard attorney amid his 1956 Treason Trial and his 1965 Rivonia Trial. As a companion of huge numbers of the extremist families, including Fischer's, Gordimer realized these families' youngsters were "politically prepped" for the battle, and were instructed that "the battle started things out" and they came next. She demonstrated the Burger family in the novel freely on Fischer's family, and Lionel Burger on Fischer himself. While Gordimer never said the book was about Fischer, she described it as "a coded tribute" to him. Before presenting the original copy to her distributer, Gordimer offered it to Fischer's girl, Ilse Wilson ("née" Fischer) to peruse, saying that, as a result of associations individuals may make to her family, she needed her to see it first. At the point when Wilson restored the original copy to Gordimer, she told the essayist, "You have caught the existence that was our own." After Gordimer's passing in July 2014, Wilson composed that Gordimer "had the remarkable capacity to depict a circumstance and catch the lives of individuals she was not really a piece of." 

Gordimer's praise to Fischer stretches out to utilizing portions from his works and open articulations in the book. Lionel Burger's conspiracy preliminary discourse from the dock is taken from the discourse Fischer gave at his own preliminary in 1966. Fischer was the pioneer of the restricted SACP who was given a lifelong incarceration for facilitating the points of socialism and trick to topple the legislature. Citing individuals like Fischer was not allowed in South Africa. Every one of Gordimer's statements from prohibited sources in "Burger's Daughter" are unattributed, and furthermore incorporate works of Joe Slovo, an individual from the SACP and the banned ANC, and a flyer composed and disseminated by the Soweto Students Representative Council amid the Soweto uprising. 

Gordimer herself ended up associated with South African battle governmental issues after the capture of a companion, Bettie du Toit, in 1960 for exchange unionist exercises and being an individual from the SACP. Similarly as Rosa Burger in the novel visits family in jail, so Gordimer visited her companion. Later in 1986, Gordimer gave proof at the Delmas Treason Trial in help of 22 ANC individuals blamed for injustice. She was an individual from the ANC while it was as yet an unlawful association in South Africa, and shrouded a few ANC pioneers in her very own home to enable them to dodge capture by the security powers. 

The motivation for "Burger's Daughter" came when Gordimer was holding on to visit a political prisoner in jail, and among different guests she saw a school young lady, the little girl of an extremist she knew. She pondered what this tyke was considering and what family commitments were making her remain there. The epic opens with a similar scene: a 14-year-old Rosa Burger holding up outside a jail to visit her kept mother. Gordimer said that youngsters like these, whose extremist guardians were much of the time captured and kept, occasionally needed to oversee whole families all alone, and it probably changed their lives totally. She expressed that it was these youngsters who urged her to compose the book. 

"Burger's Daughter" took Gordimer four years to compose, beginning from a bunch of what she called "extremely sketchy notes", "half sentences" and "little grabs of discourse". Gathering data for the novel was troublesome on the grounds that at the time little was thought about South African socialists. Gordimer depended on furtive books and records given to her by comrades, and her very own encounters of living in South Africa. When she got moving, she stated, composing the book turned into a "natural procedure". The Soweto revolts in 1976 occurred while she was dealing with the book, and she changed the plot to fuse the uprising. Gordimer clarified that "Rosa would have returned to South Africa; that was unavoidable", however "[t]here would have been an alternate consummation". Amid those four years she likewise composed two true to life articles to take parts from dealing with the novel. 

Gordimer commented that, something beyond a tale about white socialists in South Africa, "Burger's Daughter" is about "duty" and what she as an essayist does to "understand life". After Mandela and Fischer were condemned in the mid-1960s, Gordimer thought about going into outcast, however she altered her opinion and later reviewed "I wouldn't be acknowledged as I was here, even in the most exceedingly awful occasions and despite the fact that I'm white". Similarly as Rosa battles to discover her place as a white in the counter politically-sanctioned racial segregation freedom development did as well, Gordimer. In a meeting in 1980, she said that "when we have past the politically-sanctioned racial segregation circumstance—there's a gigantic issue for whites, except if whites are permitted in by blacks, and except if we can put forth out a defense for our being acknowledged and we can produce a typical culture together, whites will be peripheral". 

Gordimer realized that "Burger's Daughter" would be prohibited in South Africa. After the book was distributed in London by Jonathan Cape in June 1979, duplicates were dispatched to South Africa, and on 5 July 1979 the book "was" prohibited from import and deal in South Africa. The reasons given by the Publications Control Board included "proliferating Communist assessments", "making a psychosis of upset and resistance", and "making a few unbridled assaults against the expert depended with the support of lawfulness and the security of the state". 

In October 1979 the Publications Appeal Board, on the proposal of a board of scholarly specialists and a state security pro, overruled the restricting of "Burger's Daughter". The state security master announced the book represented no risk to the security of South Africa, and the abstract specialists had blamed the oversight board "of predisposition, partiality, and artistic ineptitude", and that "[i]t has not perused precisely, it has seriously twisted by citing broadly outside of any relevant connection to the subject at hand, it has not considered the work as a scholarly work has the right to be considered, and it has legitimately, and by suggestion, spread the writer [sic]." Notwithstanding the unbanning, the administrator of the Appeal Board told a press correspondent, "Don't purchase [the book]—it does not merit purchasing. In all respects gravely written ... This is likewise why we in the long run passed it." The Appeal Board depicted the book as "uneven" in its assault on whites and the South African Government, and finished up, "As a result ... the impact of the book will be counterproductive as opposed to incendiary." 

Gordimer's reaction to the novel's unbanning was, "I was not interested in the feelings of the first oversight board of trustees who neither read nor comprehended the book legitimately in any case, and to those of the council of artistic specialists who made this disclosure, since both are a piece of the restriction framework." She ascribed the unbanning to her universal stature and the "genuine consideration" the book had gotten abroad. Various unmistakable creators and artistic associations had challenged the prohibiting, including Iris Murdoch, Heinrich Böll, Paul Theroux, John Fowles, Frank Kermode, The Association of American Publishers and International PEN. Gordimer protested the unbanning of the book since she felt the legislature was attempting mollify her with "exceptional treatment", and said that something very similar would not have happened had she been dark. In any case, she described the activity as "something of a point of reference for different journalists" in light of the fact that in the book she had distributed a duplicate of a real handout composed and conveyed by understudies in the 1976 Soweto uprising, which the experts had restricted. She said that comparable "transgressions" later on would be troublesome for the controls to clasp down on. 

While "Burger's Daughter" was as yet prohibited in South Africa, a duplicate was snuck into Nelson Mandela's jail cell on Robben Island, and later a message was conveyed saying that he "had a favorable opinion of it". Gordimer stated, "That implies more to me than some other sentiment it could have picked up." Mandela likewise mentioned a gathering with her, and she connected a few times to visit him on the Island, yet was declined each time. She was, be that as it may, at the jail doors hanging tight for him when he was discharged in 1990, and she was among the primary he needed to converse with. In 2007 Gordimer sent Mandela a recorded duplicate of "Burger's Daughter" to "supplant the 'detained' duplicate", and in it she expressed gratitude toward him for his assessment of the book, and for "untiringly driving the battle". 

To voice her objection to the prohibiting and unbanning of the book, Gordimer distributed "The end result for Burger's Daughter or How South African Censorship Works", a book of articles composed by her and others. It was distributed in Johannesburg in 1980 by Taurus, a little underground distributing house set up in the late-1970s to print hostile to politically-sanctioned racial segregation writing and other material South African distributers would maintain a strategic distance from because of a paranoid fear of control. Its productions were commonly appropriated secretly or sent to bookshops to be given to clients allowed to abstain from drawing in the consideration of the South African experts. 

"The end result for Burger's Daughter" has two articles by Gordimer and one by University of the Witwatersrand law teacher John Dugard. Gordimer's articles record the production history and destiny of "Burger's Daughter", and react to the Publications Control Board's purposes behind forbidding the book. Dugard's exposition inspects control in South Africa inside the nation's lawful structure. Additionally incorporated into the book is the Director of Publications' dispatch expressing its purposes behind prohibiting the book, and the explanations behind lifting the boycott three months after the fact by the Publications Appeal Board. 

"Burger's Daughter" was first distributed in the United Kingdom, in hardcover, in June 1979 by Jonathan Cape, and October that year in the United States, likewise in hardcover, by Viking Press. The principal soft cover release was distributed in the United Kingdom in November 1980 by Penguin Books. An unedited 12-hour-51-minute sound tape version, described by Nadia May, was discharged in the United States in July 1993 by Blackstone Audio. 

"Burger's Daughter" has been converted into a few different dialects since its first production in English in 1979: 

The story method of "Burger's Daughter" shifts back and forth between Rosa Burger's inner monologs and the mysterious storyteller, whom Gordimer calls "Rosa's cognizant examination, her thinking way to deal with her life and to this nation, and ... my investigation as an essayist of what she doesn't know notwithstanding when she "considers" she's discovering". Abdul R. JanMohamed, educator of English and African American Literature at Emory University, considers this difference in context an "elaborate bifurcation", which enables the peruser to see Rosa from various perspectives, rendering her an intricate character who is loaded with inconsistencies. The two accounts, the abstract and the goal perspectives, supplement one another. JanMohamed clarifies that while the goal, third-individual story is genuine and nonpartisan, the emotional first-individual account, Rosa's voice, is extraordinary and individual. Rosa's monologs are coordinated towards Conrad, her darling, in the initial segment of the story, her dad's previous spouse, Katya, while Rosa is in France, and her dad after she comes back to South Africa. Since her envisioned crowd is constantly thoughtful and never questions her, Rosa's admissions are straightforward and open. 

As per scholastic Robin Ellen Visel, Rosa is a confounded individual, with jobs push on her by her folks, which smothers her own objectives and wants. Gordimer clarified how she developed the book's account structure to pass on this battle and clarify Rosa: "[T]he thought came to me of Rosa addressing herself as others see her and whether what they see is the thing that she truly is. Furthermore, that formed into another expressive inquiry—in case you're going to tell the book in the principal individual, to whom are you talking?" This prompted Gordimer making Conrad and Katya for Rosa to use as sounding sheets to address and account for herself. 

Irene Kacandes, teacher of German Studies and Comparative Literature at Dartmouth College, calls Rosa's inner monologs punctuations, or "intrapsychic seeing", in which "a character observers to the self about the character's own involvement". Kacandes brings up that Rosa trusts she would not have the capacity to disguise anything in the event that she realized somebody was tuning in. In a punctuation routed to Conrad, Rosa comments, "On the off chance that you realized I was conversing with you I wouldn't probably talk". But since Rosa isn't vocalizing her monologs, nobody can hear her, and she can continue with her self-investigation unhindered. Kacandes says "Rosa envisions a questioner and after that possesses that place herself." 

Gordimer utilizes citation dashes to accentuate her exchange in "Burger's Daughter" rather than conventional quotes. She told a questioner in 1980 that perusers have griped this occasionally makes it hard to distinguish the speaker, yet she included "I couldn't care less. I just can't stand he-said/she-said any longer. What's more, on the off chance that I can't make perusers "know" who's talking from the manner of speaking, the manners of expression, well, at that point I've fizzled." 

<poem> 

Here and there he was not sleeping when he gave off an impression of being. — What was your tune?— — Song?— Squatting on the floor tidying up pieces of bark and broken leaf.— You were singing.— — What? Was I?— She had filled a gouged Benares metal pot with loquat branches.— For the delight of living.— She hoped to check whether he were ridiculing her. — I didn't have the foggiest idea.— — But you never questioned it for a minute. Your family.— She didn't swing to him that profile of security with which he was accustomed to meeting. — Suppose not.— 

</poem> 

Visel says that the utilization of dashes for discourse "passes on the feeling of discussion set inside the stream of memory" and "is consistent with the feeling of Rosa talking basically to herself, speakers and audience members in her discussions being dead or inaccessible." 

A few observers have arranged "Burger's Daughter" as a political and chronicled novel. In their book "Communist Cultures East and West: A Post-Cold War Reassessment", M. Keith Booker and Dubravka Juraga call Gordimer's work one of the "agent instances of African chronicled books", saying that it is an "exceptional commitment with the historical backdrop of politically-sanctioned racial segregation in South Africa". Scholarly Robert Boyers calls it "a standout amongst the best political books of our period", and a chronicled novel due to its "review respect to previous eras". Gordimer herself depicted "Burger's Daughter" as "an authentic investigate", and a political novel, which she characterizes as a work that "elucidates the impacts of governmental issues on human lives and, in contrast to a political tract, does not spread a philosophy". 

Visel calls the novel "fictionalized history" that shadows the historical backdrop of hostile to politically-sanctioned racial segregation activism in South Africa, from 1946 and the African Mine Workers' Strike (Lionel and Cathy's marriage), to 1977 and the clampdown on nonconformists (Rosa's detainment). Other prominent occasions incorporate the coming to intensity of the National Party in 1948 (Rosa's time of birth), the Treason Trial of Nelson Mandela and others in 1956, the Sharpeville slaughter in 1960, and the Soweto uprising in 1976 (Rosa's arrival to South Africa). Dominic Head writes in his book "Nadine Gordimer" that in "Burger's Daughter" "the life of ... Rosa ... keeps running in parallel with the historical backdrop of present day South Africa". 

A few commentators have called "Burger's Daughter" a "Bildungsroman", or story about growing up, in spite of the fact that not the conventional ones which, as indicated by Susan Gardner in her exposition "As yet Waiting for the Great Feminist Novel", are commanded by male heroes. While Gordimer was not a women's activist writer and "Burger's Daughter" is certifiably not a women's activist novel, Gardner recommends that the book has "a perceivable lady concerned subtext", making it "inconceivable for women's activists to expel or overlook". She says it has "a potential women's activist mindfulness" that is "clouded by increasingly customary male centric composition codes". Yelin composes that after the passing of Rosa's mom, the announcement "As of now she had taken on her mom's job in the family, giving adoring help to her dad" represents "the proceeding with authority of middle class man centric belief system" in the novel. Yelin recommends that this irregularity is in charge of Rosa's battle, the "inconsistency between woman's rights (Rosa's freedom as a lady) and the battle for equity in South Africa". 

Gordimer says Rosa's job in the public arena is engraved on her since early on by her lobbyist guardians, and she experiences childhood in the shadow of her dad's political heritage. Researcher Carol P. Bog Lockett composes that everybody considers Rosa to be Lionel Burger's little girl with obligations and duties to her dad, and not Rosa the person. In satisfying these desires, she precludes herself a personality from claiming her own. JanMohamed says it is just when Conrad urges her to look past her self-forfeits that Rosa begins analyzing the contentions throughout her life, in particular her duty to help other people versus her craving for a private life. While trying to determine these contentions, Rosa considers swinging to blacks, yet she is careful about this in light of the fact that, as indicated by the book's mysterious storyteller, white South Africans will in general use blacks as a way "of seeing exotic reclamation, as sentimental people do, or of seeing feelings of trepidation, as racialists do". JanMohamed takes note of that Rosa's dad was a sentimental who set up real companionships with blacks to beat his "erotic reclamation", however she is uncertain of where she stands. Visel says that Rosa's solitary method to free herself from these duties to her family and the upset is to "imperfection" and go to France. John Cooke, in his paper "Going out", takes note of that "By putting her deserting in such distinct terms, Gordimer owns her most grounded expression of the need, whatever the outcome, of a youngster to guarantee her very own actual existence". 

A significant number of Gordimer's works have investigated the effect of politically-sanctioned racial segregation on people in South Africa. Writer and author George Packer composes that, as in a few of her books, a topic in "Burger's Daughter" is of racially separated social orders in which good natured whites startlingly experience a side of dark life they didn't think about. Scholarly commentator Carolyn Turgeon says that while Lionel had the capacity to work with dark activists in the ANC, Rosa finds that with the ascent of the Black Consciousness Movement, numerous youthful blacks will in general view white nonconformists as unimportant in their battle for freedom. Rosa observes this direct tuning in to the dark college understudy in Soweto (Duma Dhladhla) and, later, in London, her cherished companion "Baasie" (Zwelinzima Vulindlela), who both expel her dad as irrelevant. 

Creator and scholarly Louise Yelin says that Gordimer's books regularly include white South Africans contradicted to politically-sanctioned racial segregation and prejudice who endeavor to discover their place in a multiracial society. Gordimer proposed choices for whites in a 1959 exposition "Where Do Whites Fit In?", yet the ascent of Black Consciousness during the 1970s scrutinized whites' contribution in the freedom battle. Stephen Clingman has proposed in "The Novels of Nadine Gordimer: History from the Inside" that "Burger's Daughter" is Gordimer's reaction to the Black Consciousness Movement and an examination concerning a "job for whites with regards to Soweto and after". 

Gordimer wrote in an exposition in "The end result for Burger's Daughter" that "The topic of my novel is human clash between the longing to carry on with an individual, private life, and the adversary guarantee of social obligation to one's kindred men". Dominic Head says that Gordimer's books regularly try different things with the connection of "open and private domains", and that "Burger's Daughter" "speaks to one of the tops in this experimentation". Boyers noticed that the subject of "open and private", and the connection between them, is adjusted in the book "in order to benefit neither one not the other". 

As indicated by Packer, another basic subject in Gordimer's books is the decisions conventional individuals who live in severe routines are compelled to make. Artistic pundits Turgeon and Carli Coetzee clarify that when she understands that whites are not constantly greet in the counter politically-sanctioned racial segregation freedom developments, Rosa renounces her dad's battle and leaves the nation. Bog Lockett says that piece of Rosa's battle is fashioning her own personality, and this choice to oppose her dead dad is a striking advance, in spite of the fact that she returns later to South Africa to turn into a submitted extremist and at last a political detainee. However, as indicated by Coetzee, what Rosa accomplishes is the thing that her dad never could: to have her very own real existence while as yet remaining politically dedicated. 

"Burger's Daughter" was commonly generally welcomed by commentators. Anthony Sampson, a British essayist, writer and previous supervisor of "Drum", a magazine in Johannesburg during the 1950s, wrote in "The New York Times" this is Gordimer's "most political and most moving novel". He said that its "political validness" set in the "recorded foundation of genuine individuals" makes it "cruelly sensible", and included that the mixing of individuals, scenes and legislative issues help one to remember the incomparable Russian pre-progressive books. In "The New York Review of Books", Irish legislator, author and student of history Conor Cruise O'Brien contrasted Gordimer's composition with that of Russian writer Ivan Turgenev, and depicted "Burger's Daughter" as "rich" and "picky" and having a place with a "developed high society". He said this style isn't inconsistent with the topic of the story since Rosa Burger, girl of a progressive, trusts herself to be a "blue-blood of the transformation". 

Tess Lemmon writing in the "New Internationalist" magazine called "Burger's Daughter" "ostensibly [Gordimer's] best novel", and complimented her on her characterisation, scrupulousness, and capacity to mix "the individual and the political". Lemmon noticed that the book's "unobtrusive, expressive composition" carries the peruser into the characters' brains, which "is an exciting yet awkward spot to be". In an audit of Gordimer's 1980 story accumulation, "A Soldier's Embrace" in "The New York Times Book Review", American writer and pundit A. G. Mojtabai expressed that in spite of the vexed occasions Gordimer survived at the time she stated "Burger's Daughter", she stayed "stifled" and "calm", and despite the fact that she "barely raise[d] her voice", it still "reverberate[d] over a full scope of feeling". 

In a survey of the book in "World Literature Today", Sheila Roberts said that Gordimer's blend of first-and third-individual account is "an intriguing gadget" which is "sublimely taken care of" by the writer. She remarked that it enables the peruser to get inside Rosa, and after that progression back and watch her from a separation. Roberts portrayed Gordimer's treatment of Rosa's bind, proceeding with the job her dad had given her as opposed to surrendering the battle and getting herself, as "amazingly moving and important". In "The Sewanee Review" Bruce King composed that "Burger's Daughter" is an "extensive, luxuriously perplexing, thickly finished novel". He said that it "fill[s] with unresolvable incongruities and confusions" as Gordimer investigates the issues looked by her characters in the South African political scene. 

American author Joseph Epstein had blended sentiments about the book. He wrote in "The Hudson Review" that it is a novel that "gives hardly any delight in the perusing yet which one is satisfied to have perused regardless". Epstein grumbled about it being "a forceful moderate read" with "off the imprint" portrayals and "expressive infelicities". He felt that enormous subjects some of the time "ease a writer of the weights of amenity of style". Epstein said that perusing the book resembles "taking a gander at a mosaic close up, tile by tile", and that the comprehensive view just develops close to the end. Yet, he complimented Gordimer in transit in which she disentangles Rosa's destiny, saying that it is "a tribute to her specialty". 

In spite of being restricted in South Africa, "Burger's Daughter" won the 1980 Central News Agency (CNA) Literary Award, a conspicuous artistic honor in that nation. In 1991 Gordimer was granted the Nobel Prize in Literature for her works of "serious quickness" and "amazingly muddled individual and social connections in her condition". Amid the honor function discourse by Sture Allén, Permanent Secretary of the Swedish Academy, "Burger's Daughter" was refered to as one of Gordimer's books in which "aestheticness and profound quality circuit". 

In 2001 the novel was named one of South Africa's main 10 books in "The Guardian" in the United Kingdom by writer Gillian Slovo, little girl of South African enemy of politically-sanctioned racial segregation activists Joe Slovo and Ruth First. Following Gordimer's passing in 2014, "The Guardian" and "Time" magazine put "Burger's Daughter" in their rundown of the best five Gordimer books. Indian author Neel Mukherjee included "Burger's Daughter" in his 2015 "top 10 books about progressives", likewise distributed in "The Guardian".