1991 Atlantic storm season 

The 1991 Atlantic typhoon season was the principal season since 1984 in which no storms created from tropical waves, which are the hotspot for most North Atlantic tropical twisters. The typhoon season authoritatively started on June 1, and finished on November 30. It was minimal dynamic in four years because of higher than regular breeze shear over the Atlantic Ocean. The principal storm, Ana, created on July 2 off the southeast United States and disseminated without causing noteworthy impacts. Two other hurricanes in the season – Danny and Erika – did not fundamentally influence land. Danny scattered east of the Lesser Antilles, and Erika went through the Azores before getting to be extratropical. Likewise, there were four non-creating tropical discouragements. The second melancholy of the period hit Mexico with huge going with downpours. 

The most noteworthy tempest of the period was Hurricane Bob, which at the time was among the ten costliest United States tropical storms. In the wake of brushing the Outer Banks of North Carolina and Long Island in New York, the tropical storm made landfall on Rhode Island. It caused $1.5 billion in harm (1991 USD), for the most part in Massachusetts, and 17 fatalities. The most grounded sea tempest of the period was Claudette, which achieved top breezes of 135 mph (215 km/h) close Bermuda. It go close to the island however did not bring on any harm. Hurricane Fabian was the main typhoon to move over or close Cuba or Florida, creating overwhelming precipitation however no harm. Typhoon Grace, the last named tempest of the period, gave the vitality that prompted the advancement of an amazing nor'easter known as the Perfect Storm. Starting from an extratropical storm, the Perfect Storm strengthened while pushing westbound toward New England, leaving $200 million in harm and causing beach front harm from Puerto Rico to Florida and northward through Canada. It later changed into a tropical storm over the Gulf Stream, at last disseminating over Nova Scotia on November 2. 

Prior to the beginning of the period, sea tempest master William M. Dim discharged his figure for the year's movement, a yearly practice that he started in 1984. Toward the beginning of April, Gray foreseen a "mellow" season with less than ten typhoons, of which under six would move toward becoming storms. Soon thereafter, the Weather Research Center conjecture ten named tempests and six tropical storms, of which five would end up serious sea tempests while three would hit the United States. Toward the beginning of June, Gray discharged a refreshed report that anticipated the development of eight typhoons, four tropical storms, and one noteworthy sea tempest. The reconsidered June all out was exceptionally near the genuine season movement, except for anticipating one less serious sea tempest. In any case, a later update in August inaccurately foreseen less movement, when Gray anticipated seven tempests and three tropical storms. 

In general movement in 1991 was beneath ordinary. This was in part because of diminished tropical cyclogenesis from African tropical waves, which are troughs that move over the sea with related convection. In many seasons, most of tempests create from tropical waves. Of the period's twelve tropical twisters, just five began from tropical waves; also, just three of the eight typhoons were from tropical waves, and none had the qualities of a Cape Verde-type sea tempest. From late April to late November, there were 73 tropical waves that left the west shore of Africa. The complete was higher than normal, albeit a large number of them were inadequately characterized and had little rainstorm movement. The waves crossed the Atlantic Ocean further south than ordinary, commonly not ending up convectively dynamic until moving crosswise over northern South America. Cyclogenesis was likewise stifled by higher than ordinary breeze shear, just as low precipitation sums over the Sahel. There were additionally no hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico for just the third time in the twentieth century, after 1927 and 1962. The season delivered twelve tropical melancholies, which was the most minimal in five years. The eight typhoons was the least sum in four years. Four of the tempests formed into sea tempests, despite the fact that without precedent for over 24 years, none of the typhoons began from tropical waves. 

The season's movement was reflected with a low total collected violent wind vitality (ACE) rating of 36. Pro is, comprehensively, a proportion of the intensity of the typhoon increased by the period of time it existed, so storms that keep going quite a while, just as especially solid sea tempests, have high ACEs. Expert is determined for full warnings on tropical frameworks at or surpassing 34 knots (39 mph, 63 km/h) or typhoon quality. Albeit authoritatively, subtropical typhoons are rejected from the aggregate, the figure above incorporates periods when storms were in a subtropical stage. 

The principal tempest of the period was Ana, which began from a cool center low that endured east of Jacksonville, Florida by June 25. With an anticyclone situated over Florida, the framework moved in a clockwise movement around an anticyclone situated over Florida. The chilly center low bit by bit created to the surface, and on June 29, a low weight territory shaped inside a surface trough over the Bahamas. It moved westbound crosswise over southern Florida, dropping substantial precipitation along its way. Punta Gorda recorded a statewide pinnacle of precipitation. The low moved northwestward and later bended northeastward, leaving into the Atlantic Ocean close Saint Augustine by right off the bat July 2. In spite of the fact that it was at first scattered as it moved seaward, the convection immediately created in association, and by 1800 UTC that day it had formed into Tropical Depression One about 85 mi (135 km) south of Charleston, South Carolina. 

As the sadness moved northeastward parallel toward the southeast United States coastline, it dropped light precipitation, despite the fact that parts of Virginia recorded more than 5 inches (130 mm). Late on July 3, a float revealed continued breezes of 38 mph (61 km/h) over a time of eight and a half minutes. Therefore, the National Hurricane Center updated the dejection to Tropical Storm Ana. The tempest quickened east-northeastward toward a slowed down frontal zone, entering a region of expanded breeze shear. In spite of unfriendly conditions, Ana fortified marginally, achieving crest winds of 50 mph (85 km/h). Moving over cooler waters and associating with the frontal zone, the dissemination ended up expansive as the rainstorms lessened. On July 5, Ana moved toward becoming extratropical (non-tropical) in the northern Atlantic Ocean about 680 mi (1,090 km) toward the south of Cape Race. 

A tropical wave rose off the shore of Africa on June 20, and no critical advancement happened until it wound up Tropical Depression Two in the western Gulf of Mexico on July 5. On its first warning, a hurricane watch was issued for from Baffin Bay, Texas southward to Tampico, Tamaulipas. Nearing the bank of Mexico, the wretchedness achieved its pinnacle power with winds of 35 mph (55 km/h) and a base weight of . Neglecting to heighten further, Tropical Depression Two made landfall close La Pesca, Tamaulipas, Mexico on July 6. The National Hurricane Center issued the last warning on July 7, in spite of the fact that the flow continued until July 9 southwest of Texas. The melancholy had just minor effects in Mexico and Texas, other than precipitation. Precipitation was heaviest in San Luis Potosí, where the precipitation topped at 17.47 in (444 mm) in Tamazunchale, Mexico. 

Sea tempest Bob began from a rotting cold front, forming into a tropical discouragement at an early stage August 16 close to the Bahamas. It delivered a region of sorted out convection, and the sorrow escalated into Tropical Storm Bob generally 18 hours subsequent to framing. It slowly sorted out over the Gulf Stream, and dependent on reports from the Hurricane Hunters, Bob achieved tropical storm status on August 17. Presently, the tropical storm started to turn towards the north-upper east in light of a subtropical edge over the Atlantic and the trough over the southeastern United States. After further escalation off the Carolinas, Bob achieved crest winds of 115 mph (185 km/h) toward the east of Virginia on August 19, making it a noteworthy typhoon. Fundamentally cooler ocean surface temperatures brought about debilitating. In the wake of brushing Long Island, the focal point of Bob moved over Block Island, Rhode Island. About 40 minutes later it struck Newport, Rhode Island with winds of 100 mph (155 km/h), making it a Category 2 tropical storm. It quickly debilitated to hurricane force while traveling through the rest of New England, hitting Rockport, Maine at an early stage August 20. Subsequent to intersection New Brunswick, Bob progressed toward becoming extratropical in the Gulf of St. Lawrence and kept going an additional nine days before dispersing west of Portugal. 

The typhoon previously influenced the Carolinas, bringing forth four affirmed and nine unverified tornadoes in North Carolina. One individual each passed on in North and South Carolina, and about 10% of houses in the Outer Banks continued minor rooftop harm. As the tempest climbed the coast, substantial downpour fell on the western side of the middle. High breezes left 300,000 people without power on Long Island. In neighboring Connecticut, solid breezes brought down trees over the locale, with harm heaviest in the southeastern part close to the coast. Harm was heaviest as Bob made its last landfall, with wind whirlwinds (168 km/h) wrote about Block Island, Rhode Island. The storm delivered broad shoreline disintegration which decimated seaside streets in the state. Financial harm was most noteworthy in Massachusetts, and along Bob's way through southeastern New England over 60% of individuals were left without power. High tides and solid breezes demolished water crafts and houses along the Massachusetts coastline. The heaviest precipitation from the typhoon fell at the Portland International Jetport in Maine, where fell amid its entry. Over the United States, harm totaled $1.5 billion (1991 USD), incorporating over $1 billion in Massachusetts. The high harm absolute made Bob among the ten costliest U.S. sea tempests at the time. Furthermore, there were 15 fatalities in the nation. In Canada, high waves murdered two individuals. In Fredericton, New Brunswick, typhoon constrain winds brought down trees and electrical cables. 

One of only a handful couple of overwhelming tropical influxes of the period rose up out of the western shore of Africa with a huge region of convection in late August. On August 24 it formed into a tropical wretchedness close Cape Verde. Upon first shaping, the despondency had a round region of convection close to the inside. It was at first efficient, yet the misery was not expected to increase because of minor water temperatures; tropical tornados for the most part require warm waters to create. By August 25, the framework lost a lot of its profound convection, and on August 26 the despondency scattered toward the west-southwest of the Cape Verde islands. 

Around a similar time as the past framework disseminated, another tropical wave got off the shore of Africa on August 26. On August 28 it framed into a tropical sorrow about southwest of Cape Verde. After building up, the dejection had a little territory of convection with a winding rainband, and the NHC foreseen moderate reinforcing to hurricane status. With an edge toward the north, the melancholy kept up a general westbound track. Eventually, the despondency neglected to sort out fundamentally. By August 29, it had a wide and inadequately sorted out course with just dispersed convection. Because of cool water temperatures, the framework was unfit to keep up profound convection, and on August 31 the sorrow declined into a tropical wave about 400 miles (645 km) east of the Lesser Antilles. 

The sources of Claudette were non-tropical, creating on September 4 about 650 mi (1,000 km) southeast of Bermuda from an upper-level unsettling influence. Following its arrangement, it grew gradually while moving southwestward, and on September 5 it increased into Tropical Storm Claudette. Conditions were good for improvement, with low wind shear and a huge anticyclone giving surge, or the outward wind stream from a tempest. On September 6 at 0600 UTC, Claudette accomplished typhoon status. It experienced quick escalation, and right off the bat September 7 a surveillance flight detailed that Claudette accomplished serious storm status with winds of . In view of satellite appraisals, Hurricane Claudette accomplished its pinnacle power with winds of 130 mph (215 km/h) and a base weight . 

In the wake of topping, Claudette started relentless debilitating. Around that time, a sea tempest watch was issued for the island of Bermuda, which was later moved up to a notice. The tropical storm swung toward the northwest, passing east of Bermuda as a Category 1 sea tempest on September 8. Winds on the island crested at , with blasts to , and waves came to up to 8 ft (2.43 m) in stature. By September 10, Claudette debilitated to typhoon status as it quickened eastbound. The following day it crumbled further to tropical discouragement status, and the following day Claudette progressed toward becoming extratropical toward the southwest of the Azores. It endured two more days until disseminating over the Azores. 

A standout amongst the most fiery tropical rushes of the period (which additionally prompted the arrangement of Hurricane Jimena in the eastern Pacific) was first seen in western Africa on September 2. After three days it rose up out of the coast at Dakar, moving into the tropical Atlantic Ocean with rainbands around its convection. By from the get-go September 7, the framework sorted out into Tropical Depression Seven about south-southwest of Cape Verde. After building up, the misery had a wide flow, situated in a domain for the most part good for escalation. With a solid edge toward the north, the sadness followed relentlessly westbound. In the wake of residual a tropical discouragement for about 36 hours, the framework turned out to be better composed and grown all around characterized banding highlights. In view of satellite power assesses, the NHC updated it to Tropical Storm Danny on September 8. 

After turning into a hurricane, just moderate fortifying was estimate, because of the nearness of an upper-level trough to its west. The tempest at last achieved pinnacle winds of 50 mph (85 km/h), which it kept up for about 36 hours. On September 10 it accomplished its hierarchical most extreme in the wake of building up a focal thick cloudy. Soon thereafter, an upper-level low expanded breeze shear over the tempest, which uncovered the course from the profound convection. As Danny moved toward the Lesser Antilles, it debilitated to tropical discouragement status on September 11. Soon thereafter, a Hurricane Hunters flight was unfit to find a shut course, which demonstrated that Danny deteriorated into a tropical wave about east of the Lesser Antilles. The remainders followed toward the northwest and later toward the north before being consumed by a frontal framework. 

The starting points of Tropical Storm Erika were from a tropical wave that left the shoreline of Africa on September 2. It moved northwestward, going through Cape Verde the next day. The framework had the vast majority of the tempests along the southern part of the wave as it kept up a substantial low-level course. Tempests started creating on September 7, and the framework sorted out into Tropical Depression Eight the next day about 920 mi (1480 km) upper east of the Lesser Antilles; in the meantime, it was situated about halfway between Hurricane Claudette and Tropical Storm Danny. At first the middle was hard to situate on satellite symbolism, yet regardless of the nearness with Claudette, conditions were commonly great for strengthening. By late on September 9, the dejection had turned out to be greatly improved composed, and dependent on satellite gauges the NHC overhauled it to Tropical Storm Erika. 

After turning into a hurricane, Erika started a movement toward the upper east. There was introductory vulnerability whether Erika or adjacent Claudette would turn into the overwhelming framework through their association. On September 10, the tempest built up a focal thick cloudy as it accomplished its pinnacle winds of 60 mph (95 km/h). It quickened east-northeastward toward the Azores along the northern outskirts of an edge, quickly associating with Claudette. By September 11, the convection had reduced, leaving the middle uncovered as Erika experienced extratropical change. Presently it went through the Azores, striking São Miguel Island. Adjacent Santa Maria Island announced typhoon drive twists with blasts to 67 mph (107 km/h), provoking the conclusion of the landing strip for a few hours. On September 12, Erika debilitated to a tropical sadness before finishing the progress into an extratropical violent wind. It dispersed soon thereafter. 

Hurricane Fabian created on October 15 in the western Caribbean from the connection of a virus front and a tropical wave. At first the tempest was scattered, with its most grounded breezes found fundamentally east of the inside. An eastbound moving upper-level trough bestowed an upper east movement just as troublesome breeze shear. In the wake of achieving crest winds of 45 mph (75 km/h), Fabian crossed the Isle of Youth before intersection western Cuba. There, it dropped overwhelming precipitation, incorporating into a six-hour time span in one area. By at an early stage October 16, the middle was getting to be hard to situate as Fabian traveled through the Florida Straits. It passed only southeast of the Florida coastline, provoking the conclusion of two state stops and dropping of precipitation in Conch Key. Impacts were insignificant, with winds blasting to 32 mph (52 km/h) in Key West. The tempest later traveled through the Bahamas and progressed toward becoming extratropical as it cooperated with a moving toward front. 

A tropical wave got off the shore of Africa on October 19. Moving westbound, it built up a feeble flow on October 23. Notwithstanding the nearness of solid shear, the framework was moved up to a tropical sorrow at 2200 UTC on October 24 about 1100 miles (1775 km) east of the Lesser Antilles. This depended on a rating of 1.5 on the Dvorak strategy, which is a technique for evaluating the force of tropical typhoons by means of satellite. At the season of improvement, the sorrow had a little zone of convection close and east of the inside, and because of the breeze shear it was never expected to increase. By October 25, the flow had progressed toward becoming separated from the convection. The dejection dispersed not long after without influencing land. 

On October 23 a mid-level low framed south of Bermuda. By two days after the fact it had turned into a surface low, and on October 26 it formed into a subtropical tempest. The framework was marked all things considered because of the underlying absence of profound convection over the inside, albeit following an expansion in tempests the NHC renamed it as Tropical Storm Grace late on October 27. At that point, the tempest had executed a way for the most part toward the northwest. Elegance kept on strengthening and compose, and dependent on Hurricane Hunter reports the tempest was moved up to a tropical storm at an early stage October 28. Presently, Grace swung forcefully toward the east because of the impact of a quickly escalating extratropical tornado off the New England coast. An eye created in the focal point of Grace, regardless of shallow convection. 

As the sea tempest quickened eastbound, it achieved a pinnacle power of 100 mph (155 km/h) on October 29. The fast movement caused an asymmetry in the breeze field, and the inside passed around south of Bermuda without fundamentally influencing the island. A quickly moving toward virus front assimilated Grace on October 29, contributing dampness to the creating extratropical storm that was in the long run known as the Perfect Storm. As a tropical tornado, Grace delivered squally conditions crosswise over Bermuda, yet no harm was accounted for. The sea tempest produced extensive swells along the East Coast of the United States, causing minor shoreline disintegration. 

The causes of the Perfect Storm were from a region of low weight that created off Atlantic Canada on October 28. It moved southward and westbound as an extratropical violent wind because of an edge to its north, and achieved its pinnacle power. The tempest lashed the East Coast of the United States with high waves and beach front flooding, before swinging toward the southwest and debilitating. Moving over hotter waters, the framework progressed into a subtropical violent wind before turning into a hurricane. It executed a circle off the Mid-Atlantic states and moved in the direction of the upper east. On November 1 the framework developed into an undeniable typhoon with pinnacle winds of . The tropical framework debilitated, striking Nova Scotia as a hurricane before scattering. 

Harm totaled over $200 million (1991 USD) and the loss of life was thirteen. The greater part of the harm happened while the tempest was extratropical, after waves up to struck the coastline from Canada to Florida and southeastward to Puerto Rico. In Massachusetts, where harm was heaviest, over 100 homes were annihilated or seriously harmed. Toward the north, more than 100 homes were influenced in Maine, including the country estate of George H.W. Shrubbery, the president at the time. More than 38,000 people were left without power, and along the coast high waves immersed streets and structures. In segments of New England, harm was more regrettable than had happened from Hurricane Bob two months earlier. In any case, beside tidal flooding along streams, the tempest's belongings were fundamentally along the coastline. A float off the bank of Nova Scotia announced a wave tallness of 100.7 ft (30.7 m), the most astounding at any point recorded in the area's seaward waters. Amidst the tempest, the "Andrea Gail" sunk, killing its group of six, which later propelled the book just as the motion picture "The Perfect Storm". Off the shore of New York, a Coast Guard helicopter came up short on fuel and slammed, and albeit four individuals from its team were protected, one was executed. Two individuals kicked the bucket after their watercraft sank off Staten Island. High waves cleared an individual to their demise in both Rhode Island and Puerto Rico, and someone else was brushed off an extension in New York. The tropical violent wind that shaped late in the tempest's length caused little effect, restricted to control blackouts and smooth streets; one individual was slaughtered in Newfoundland from a car crash identified with the tempest. 

The rundown underneath demonstrates the names that showed up on the tropical twister naming rundown in the Atlantic bowl in 1991. Despite the fact that the Perfect Storm later advanced into a typhoon, in which could have been named "Henri", the National Hurricane Center left it anonymous because of the overwhelming harm and media enthusiasm for the forerunner extratropical storm. It later got the name the "Immaculate Storm" after a discussion between Boston National Weather Service forecaster Robert Case and creator Sebastian Junger. The names not resigned from this rundown in 1991 showed up again on the naming rundown for the 1997 season. This is a similar rundown utilized for the 1985 season, except for the names Erika and Grace, which supplanted the names Elena and Gloria after the 1985 season, and were utilized without precedent for 1991. Names that were not appointed are set apart in . 

At their gathering in the spring of 1992, the World Meteorological Organization resigned the name Bob from the rundown above because of its high effect. The name that supplanted it on the naming rundown for the 1997 season was Bill. 

This is a table of the majority of the tempests that have framed in the 1991 Atlantic tropical storm season. It incorporates their span, names, landfall(s) – signified by strong area names – harms, and passing aggregates. Passings in brackets are extra and backhanded (a case of a circuitous demise would be an auto collision), however were as yet identified with that storm. Harm and passings incorporate sums while the tempest was extratropical, a wave, or a low, and the majority of the harm figures are in 1991 USD.