She Shoulda Said No! 

She Shoulda Said No! (otherwise called Wild Weed; The Devil's Weed; Marijuana, the Devil's Weed; and The Story of Lila Leeds and Her Exposé of the Marijuana Racket) is a 1949 abuse film that follows in the soul of profound quality stories, for example, the 1936 movies "Reefer Madness" and "Marihuana". Coordinated by Sam Newfield (utilizing the nom de plume "Scott") and featuring Lila Leeds, it was initially delivered to exploit the capture of Leeds and Robert Mitchum on a charge of maryjane scheme. 

The film was issued under numerous titles; it attempted to discover a wholesaler until film moderator Kroger Babb got the rights, reissuing it as "The Story of Lila Leeds and Her Exposé of the Marijuana Racket". Its relative achievement came simply after the limited time notices were revamped and a story manufactured that the film was being exhibited related to the United States Treasury. 

Leeds' character is "Anne Lester", a youthful vagrant endeavoring to pay for her sibling's school instruction. In the wake of meeting Markey, a street pharmacist, Anne starts to trust that she should smoke cannabis to fit in with her companions. She at that point goes to a "casual get-together", where she attempts the medication out of the blue. She is unaffected by the underlying investigation, and loses her dread of medications as she keeps on utilizing it eagerly. 

Anne's medication use results in the loss of a considerable lot of her restraints, and the film demonstrates her activities impaired, including scenes suggesting sexual indiscrimination. As the film advances, she is terminated from her activity and starts selling drugs for Markey. Her sibling hangs himself when he learns of her new activity, and she is captured and given a voyage through the different mental wards and prisons in which tranquilize clients end up. At long last, following 50 days in prison, she is discharged, tidied up and prepared to participate with the experts in regards to Markey. 

The film itself is semi-personal, its story following what Leeds herself experienced. The film was enlivened by the very broadcasted capture of motion picture stars Robert Mitchum and Leeds for maryjane ownership. On September 1, 1948, the performing artists, alongside two others, were captured in the wake of being found smoking pot at the home of Leeds in the early morning, and were accused of the crime of opiates ownership. Leeds was condemned to sixty days in jail and set on post trial supervision for a long time. 

Upon her discharge, Leeds attempted to look for some kind of employment in Hollywood, and marked on to star in "Wild Weed". Amid attention for the film in 1949, Leeds, who had been 20 at the season of the capture, said that showing up in the image would shield other individuals her age from attempting drugs, however in 1952 she trusted in "Collier's" that she "just had one offer… which was an undeniable endeavor to gain by the Mitchum case reputation. I took it. I was bankrupt." The film picked up endorsement from the Federal Bureau of Narcotics to utilize the medication references, a standard practice at the time despite the fact that the Bureau had no capacity to blue pencil the movies. The film utilized its plot to push a considerable lot of the convictions of the time: that medicate utilizing youth would swing to wrongdoing and the hypothesis of "cannabis as a portal sedate". The last was a main contention for medication denial amid the time, and a contention that Leeds herself made, in light of her own history with maryjane and heroin. 

By means of Franklin Productions, Kay recorded the generation in six days, a typical event given that most movies of the period were shot with a speedy turnaround. Aha Productions at first circulated the film, yet it attempted to discover a group of people until Kroger Babb's Hallmark Productions obtained the rights for dispersion. Babb at first promoted the film under the title "The Story of Lila Leeds and Her Exposé of the Marijuana Racket", yet neglected to make progress with that title and in the long run transformed it to ""She Shoulda Said 'No'!"". He pushed the erotic nature of Leeds with new special photos and another slogan: "How Bad Can a Good Girl Get... without losing her goodness or respect???", while sending letters to nearby networks dishonestly asserting that the United States Treasury Department entreated Hallmark to discharge the film "in however many towns and urban areas as would be prudent in the most limited conceivable period of time" as an open administration. The square-up misleadingly expressed that the makers wished to "openly recognize the magnificent collaboration of the Nation's opiate specialists and Government divisions, who supported in different ways the accomplishment of this generation… . In the event that its introduction spares yet one young lady or kid from turning into a 'moron monster' – at that point its story has been well told." 

Babb, who picked up reputation for his different promoting tricks, once in a while had Leeds show up and give addresses at showings of the film. Babb regularly reserved the motion picture as a midnight introduction two times every week in a similar town; David F. Friedman, who might later utilize the film in his very own twofold billings, ascribed the appropriation plan to a film that was so low in quality that Babb needed to trade out and move to his next stop as quick as could be expected under the circumstances. 

As per Friedman, Babb's introductions of the film got more cash-flow than some other film a similar performance center would exhibit over a run of the mill film's full reserving. While genuine dollar figures are not accessible due to the idea of the class (which was known for poor record keeping and whimsical appropriation rehearses), the general money related achievement of ""She Shoulda Said 'No'!"" incited makers, in 1951, to import a comparative film from Argentina titled "The Marihuana Story". That film, about a specialist who goes covert into the universe of medication addicts to find out about his better half's passing just to wind up dependent on weed himself, was not as fruitful as other misuse style endeavors as the open was progressively worried about medication use by more youthful individuals. 

""She Shoulda Said 'No'!"" was not generally welcomed fundamentally upon its underlying discharge, with "The New York Times" saying, "Never did bad habit appear to be so without charm." Production and appropriation of medication films moderated significantly following the film's kept running until Frank Sinatra's "The Man with the Golden Arm" constrained changes to the Production Code, which was a studio-based framework which managed different parts of frightful substance in movies. 

The film accomplished some consideration because of its B motion picture status throughout the years, being highlighted in various film assemblages while proceeding to concentrate on the prurient material as a selling point. In 1993, a VHS form was discharged as a component of "David Friedman's Roadshow Rarities", the twenty-ninth volume in the Something Weird video arrangement. Alpha Video Distributors discharged the film on DVD in 2006. 

Printed matter 

Sites