SMS Posen 

SMS "Posen" was one of four ships in the , the main battleships worked for the German Imperial Navy ("Kaiserliche Marine"). The ship was set down at the Germaniawerft shipyard in Kiel on 11 June 1907, propelled on 13 December 1908, and authorized into the High Seas Fleet on 31 May 1910. She was furnished with a principle battery of twelve firearms in six twin turrets in a strange hexagonal course of action. 

The ship presented with her three sister ships for most of World War I. She saw broad administration in the North Sea, where she participated in a few armada forays. These finished in the Battle of Jutland on 31 May – 1 June 1916, where "Posen" was vigorously occupied with night-battling against British light powers. In the perplexity, the ship unintentionally smashed the light cruiser , which endured genuine harm and was left later in the night. 

The ship likewise led a few arrangements to the Baltic Sea against the Russian Navy. In the first of these, "Posen" upheld a German maritime attack in the Battle of the Gulf of Riga. The ship was sent back to the Baltic in 1918 to help the White Finns in the Finnish Civil War. Toward the finish of the war, "Posen" stayed in Germany while most of the armada was interned in Scapa Flow. In 1919, after the abandoning of the German armada in Scapa Flow, she was surrendered to the British as a substitution for the boats that had been sunk. She was then sent to transport breakers in the Netherlands and rejected in 1922. 

"Posen" was long, wide, and had a draft of . She uprooted with a standard burden, and completely loaded. The ship had a group of 40 officers and 968 enlisted men. "Posen" held three-shafted triple extension motors with coal-terminated boilers rather than further developed turbine motors. Her drive framework was evaluated at and gave a top speed of . She had a cruising range of at a speed of . This sort of apparatus was picked in line with both Admiral Alfred von Tirpitz and the Navy's development office; the last expressed in 1905 that the "utilization of turbines in overwhelming warships does not prescribe itself." This choice depended entirely on expense: at the time, Parsons held a restraining infrastructure on steam turbines and required a 1 million gold imprint sovereignty charge for each turbine motor. German firms were not prepared to start creation of turbines on an extensive scale until 1910. 

"Posen" conveyed twelve SK L/45 firearms in a strange hexagonal arrangement. Her optional deadly implement comprised of twelve SK L/45 weapons and sixteen SK L/45 firearms, which were all mounted in casemates. Later in her profession, two of the 8.8 cm weapons were supplanted with high-edge Flak mountings of a similar gauge for guard against flying machine. The ship was likewise furnished with six submerged torpedo tubes. One cylinder was mounted in the bow, another in the stern, and two on each broadside, on either finishes of the torpedo bulkhead. The ship's belt shield was thick in the focal segment of the body, and the heavily clad deck was thick. The primary battery turrets had thick sides, and the conning tower was ensured with of reinforcement plating. 

"Posen" was requested under the temporary name "Artificial Baden", as a substitution for the , one of the older s. She was set down on 11 June 1907 at the Germaniawerft shipyard in Kiel. Likewise with her sister , development continued under supreme mystery; separations of officers watched the shipyard and furthermore protected contractual workers that provided structure materials, for example, Krupp. The ship was propelled 18 months after the fact, on 12 December 1908. Wilhelm August Hans von Waldow-Reitzenstein gave a discourse at her starting, and "Posen" was initiated by Johanna von Radolin, the spouse of Hugo Fürst von Radolin, a German ambassador who hailed from the ship's namesake region. Starting preliminaries were led through April 1910, trailed by conclusive fitting-out in May. The ship was charged into the armada on 31 May. Ocean preliminaries were directed subsequently and finished by 27 August. Altogether, her development cost the German government 36,920,000 marks. 

In the wake of finishing her preliminaries in August 1910, "Posen" left Kiel for Wilhelmshaven, where she touched base on 7 September. As the German Imperial Navy had incessant deficiencies of prepared mariners, huge numbers of the group were then appointed to different boats. These crewmembers were supplanted with faculty from the old pre-man of war , which was decommissioned on 20 September. After their appointing, every one of the four "Nassau"- class ships filled in as a unit, the II Division of I Battle Squadron, with "Posen" as the lead. 

"Posen" took an interest in a few preparing practices with the remainder of the armada before the flare-up of war. In late 1910 the armada led a preparation journey into the Baltic Sea. The next year the armada led moves in May; the yearly summer voyage to Norway followed in July. The armada took part in another round of armada practices in the Baltic in September, trailed by another set toward the year's end. The following year pursued a comparable example, however the late spring journey to Norway was hindered by the Agadir emergency; subsequently, the late spring voyage just went into the Baltic. The September practices were led off Helgoland in the North Sea; another winter journey into the Baltic pursued toward the year's end. The preparation plan came back to typical for 1913 and 1914, and the mid year travels again went to Norway. For the 1914 voyage, the armada withdrew for Norwegian waters on 14 July, nearly two weeks after the death of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo. The likelihood of war cut the journey off; "Posen" and the remainder of the armada were back in Wilhelmshaven by 29 July. 

At midnight on 4 August, the United Kingdom proclaimed war on Germany. "Posen" and the remainder of the armada led a few advances into the North Sea to help Rear Admiral Franz von Hipper's I Scouting Group battlecruisers. The battlecruisers assaulted British waterfront towns trying to draw out bits of the Grand Fleet where they could be wrecked by the High Seas Fleet. The primary such task was the attack on Scarborough, Hartlepool and Whitby on 15– 16 December 1914. On the night of 15 December, the German fight armada of 12 gunboats—including "Posen" and her three sisters—and eight pre-gunboats came to inside of a confined squadron of six British ships. Encounters between the opponent destroyer screens in the haziness persuaded the German armada officer, Admiral Friedrich von Ingenohl, that he was looked with the Grand Fleet, presently sent in its fight arrangement. Compelled from Kaiser Wilhelm II to abstain from taking a chance with the armada superfluously, von Ingenohl severed the commitment and turned the battlefleet back toward Germany. 

In August, an uncommon unit from the German armada endeavored to clear the Russian-held Gulf of Riga so as to help the German Army, which was arranging an attack on Riga. To do as such, the German organizers expected to drive off or demolish the Russian maritime powers in the Gulf, which incorporated the pre-man of war vessel and some littler gunboats and destroyers. The German fight armada was joined by a few mine-fighting vessels. These boats were entrusted with clearing Russian minefields and laying their very own progression minefields in the northern access to the bay, to keep Russian maritime fortifications from achieving the territory. The gathered German flotilla included "Posen" and her three sister delivers, the four s, the battlecruisers , and , and a few pre-gunboats, working under the direction of von Hipper, presently a Vice Admiral. The eight warships were to give spread to the powers connecting with the Russian flotilla. The primary endeavor on 8 August was fruitless, as it had taken too long to even consider clearing the Russian minefields to enable the minelayer to lay her very own minefield. 

On 16 August 1915, "Posen" and "Nassau" drove a second endeavor to rupture the protections of the bay, with "Posen" as Admiral Schmidt's leader. The two gunboats were joined by 4 light cruisers and 31 torpedo pontoons. On the principal day of the attack the Germans got through the Russian powers, yet two German light art—the minesweeper and the destroyer — were sunk. "Posen" and "Nassau" connected with a couple of Russian gunboats, and . "Sivuch" was sunk that day and "Korietz" was seriously harmed; the ship figured out how to limp away however must be left the next day. On the seventeenth, "Posen" and "Nassau" connected with "Slava" at long range; they scored three hits on the Russian ship and constrained her to come back to port. By 19 August, the Russian minefields had been cleared and the flotilla entered the Gulf. Reports of Allied submarines in the region incited the Germans to cancel the task the next day. Chief of naval operations Hipper later commented, "To keep profitable boats for an impressive time in a constrained territory in which adversary submarines were progressively dynamic, with the comparing danger of harm and misfortune, was to enjoy a bet out of all extent to the preferred standpoint to be gotten from the control of the Gulf "previously" the catch of Riga from the land side." truth be told, the battlecruiser "Moltke" had been torpedoed that morning. On 21 August, Schmidt had his banner pulled down from "Posen" and disbanded the uncommon unit. 

Before the finish of August "Posen" and the remainder of the High Seas Fleet had come back to their safe havens in the North Sea. The following activity led was a scope into the North Sea on 11– 12 September, however it finished with no activity. Another armada fight pursued on 23– 24 October without experiencing any British powers. On 4 March 1916, "Posen", "Nassau", "Westfalen", and "Von der Tann" steamed out to the Amrumbank to get the assistant cruiser , which was coming back from an assaulting mission. 

Another uneventful development into the North Sea occurred on 21– 22 April. A siege mission pursued two days after the fact; "Posen" joined the warship support for Hipper's battlecruisers while they assaulted Yarmouth and Lowestoft on 24– 25 April. Amid this activity, the battlecruiser "Seydlitz" was harmed by a British mine and needed to come back to port rashly. Because of the poor perceivability, the activity was before long canceled, leaving the British armada no opportunity to catch the plunderers. 

Chief of naval operations Reinhard Scheer, who had succeeded Admirals von Ingenohl and Hugo von Pohl as the armada officer, quickly arranged another assault on the British coast. The harm to "Seydlitz" and condenser inconvenience on a few of the III Battle Squadron gunboats deferred the arrangement until the finish of May. The German battlefleet left the Jade at 03:30 on 31 May. "Posen" was doled out to the II Division of the I Battle Squadron as the leader of Rear Admiral W. Engelhardt. "Posen" was the principal send in the division, in front of her three sisters. The II Division was the last unit of gunboats in the armada; they were trailed by just the old pre-gunboats of the II Battle Squadron. 

Somewhere in the range of 17:48 and 17:52, "Posen" and ten other German warships drew in the British second Light Cruiser Squadron, however the range and poor perceivability forestalled compelling flame. Presently, two British destroyers—and — went under serious flame from the German line. "Posen" discharged at "Nestor" with both her primary battery and optional weapons. At 18:35, "Nestor" detonated and sank under the joined flame of eight warships. By 20:15, the German armada had confronted the Grand Fleet for a second time and was compelled to dismiss; in doing as such, the request of the German line was turned around. "Posen" was presently the fourth ship in the line, toward the back of her three sisters. 

At around 21:20, "Posen" and her sister ships were locked in by the battlecruisers of the third Battlecruiser Squadron. "Posen" was the main ship on the I Battle Squadron to have the capacity to make out an objective, which ended up being the battlecruisers and . "Posen" opened discharge at 21:28 at a scope of ; she scored one hit on "Princess Royal" at 21:32 and straddled "Unyielding" a few times, encompassing her with a salvo of shells, before stopping shoot at 21:35. 

At about 00:30, the main units of the German line experienced British destroyers and cruisers. A vicious firefight at short proximity resulted; the main German warships, including "Posen", opened flame on a few British warships. In the perplexity, the light cruiser went through the German line straightforwardly before "Posen" and was slammed. "Posen" was flawless, yet both of "Elbing"s motor rooms were overwhelmed and the ship stopped. Over two hours after the fact, "Elbing" detected a few moving toward British destroyers, and her commander gave the request to abandon the ship. 

In a matter of seconds before 01:00, the German line connected with a flotilla of British destroyers. "Posen" detected the destroyers , and at short proximity; she opened flame on the initial two boats at reaches between , genuinely harming "Porpoise". "Fortune" rapidly sank enduring an onslaught from "Posen" and a few different war vessels, however not before terminating two torpedoes which "Posen" needed to avoid. At 01:25, "Westfalen" enlightened the destroyer and opened flame; "Posen" joined her presently and revealed a few hits at scopes of . 

Regardless of the savagery of the night battling, the High Seas Fleet punched through the British destroyer powers and achieved Horns Reef by 04:00 on 1 June. The German armada came to Wilhelmshaven a couple of hours after the fact, where "Posen" and a few different warships from the I Battle Squadron took up guarded positions in the external roadstead. Throughout the fight, the ship had shot fifty-three 28 cm shells, sixty-four 15 cm rounds, and thirty-two 8.8 cm shells. The ship and her team rose up out of the fight totally sound by adversary fire. 

Starting in June 1917, Wilhelm von Krosigk filled in as the ship's boss; he held this situation until the finish of the war in November 1918. 

In February 1918, the German naval force chose to send an undertaking to Finland to help German armed force units to be sent there. The Finns were occupied with a common war; the White Finns looked for a traditionalist government free from the impact of the recently made Soviet Union, while the Red Guards favored Soviet-style socialism. On 23 February, two of "Posen"s sister ships—"Westfalen" and "Rheinland"— were appointed as the center of the "Sonderverband Ostsee" (Special Unit Baltic Sea). The two boats set out the fourteenth Jäger Battalion. They left for the Åland Islands on the next morning. Åland was to be a forward working base, from which the port of Hanko would be verified. From Hanko, the German endeavor would strike the capital of Helsingfors. The team achieved the Åland Islands on 5 March, where they experienced the Swedish waterfront safeguard ships , and . Exchanges followed, which brought about the arrival of the German troops on Åland on 7 March; "Westfalen" at that point came back to Danzig, where "Posen" was positioned. 

On 31 March "Posen" and "Westfalen" left Danzig; the boats landed at Russarö, which was the external barrier for Hanko, by 3 April. The German armed force rapidly took the port. The team at that point continued to Helsingfors; on 11 April the ship go into the harbor at Helsingfors and handled the troopers. This incorporated a separation from the ship which was landed two days after the fact on 13 April. Amid the activity, "Posen"s group endured four men murdered and twelve injured. From 18 to 20 April, "Posen" helped with the endeavors to free "Rheinland", which had been grounded. After two days, "Posen" struck an indented wreck in Helsingfors harbor, which caused minor harm. On 30 April the ship was confined from the "Sonderverband Ostsee". The ship came back to Germany, coming to Kiel by 3 May, where she entered drydock. Fix work kept going until 5 May. 

On 11 August 1918, "Posen", "Westfalen", , and sortied from Wilhelmshaven to help torpedo pontoons on watch off Terschelling. On 2 October, "Posen" moved out into the external roadsteads of the Jade to give spread to the returning U-water crafts of the Flanders Flotilla. "Posen" was to have partaken in the last armada activity of the war, got ready for 30 October. The task was planned to dispense however much harm as could reasonably be expected on the British naval force, so as to hold a superior haggling position for Germany, whatever the expense to the armada. War-tired mariners mutinied, which prompted the activity being dropped. While trying to stifle the spread of mutinous opinions, Admiral Hipper arranged the armada scattered. "Posen" and different boats of the I Battle Squadron were conveyed into the roadstead on 3 November, at that point came back to Wilhelmshaven on 6 November. 

On 11 November 1918, the Armistice produced results; as indicated by its terms, eleven war vessels and five battlecruisers were to be interned in Scapa Flow for the span of exchanges for the harmony settlement. "Posen" was not among the boats interned, and she was rather decommissioned on 16 December. The boats in Scapa Flow were left by their teams on 21 June 1919 to keep them from being seized by the Allies. Accordingly, "Posen" and different ships that stayed in Germany were seized as substitutions for the boats that had been lost. On 5 November, "Posen" was stricken from the German naval force rundown to be given over to Great Britain. The ship was exchanged on 13 May 1920; on 1 November 1920, she was driven shorewards at Hawkcraig, Fife, Scotland. The British hence sold "Posen" to transport breakers in the Netherlands. She was separated in Dordrecht in 1922.