Witold Pilecki 

Witold Pilecki (13 May 190125 May 1948; ; codenames "Roman Jezierski, Tomasz Serafiński, Druh, Witold") was a Polish mounted force officer, insight operator, and opposition pioneer. He filled in as a "Rotmistrz" (chief) with the Polish Army in the Polish– Soviet War, Second Polish Republic, and World War II. He was likewise a fellow benefactor of the Secret Polish Army ("Tajna Armia Polska"), an obstruction assemble in German-involved Poland, and later an individual from the underground Home Army ("Armia Krajowa"). He was the creator of Witold's Report, the main far reaching Allied insight report on Auschwitz death camp and the Holocaust. He was a Roman Catholic. 

Amid World War II, Pilecki volunteered for a Polish opposition activity that included being detained in the Auschwitz inhumane imprisonment so as to accumulate insight and later getaway. While in the camp, he composed an opposition development and educated the Western Allies of Nazi Germany's Auschwitz outrages as ahead of schedule as 1941. He got away from the camp in 1943 after about 2½ long periods of detainment. He participated as a soldier in the Warsaw Uprising in August– October 1944. He stayed faithful to the London-based Polish government in a state of banishment after the Communist takeover of Poland, and he was captured for surveillance in 1947 by the Stalinist mystery police (Urząd Bezpieczeństwa) on charges of working for "outside colonialism", a doublespeak for British Intelligence. He was executed after a show preliminary in 1948. Data was stifled about his adventures and destiny until 1989 by the Communist routine in Poland. 

Pilecki is considered as "one of the best wartime saints" as a result of his endeavors. Poland's Chief Rabbi Michael Schudrich writes in "The Auschwitz Volunteer: Beyond Bravery": "When God made the individual, God had as a primary concern that we should all resemble Captain Witold Pilecki, of favored memory." British student of history Norman Davies states: "If there was an Allied legend who had the right to be recollected and commended, this was an individual with few friends." Polish minister Ryszard Schnepf depicted Pilecki as a "jewel among Poland's saints" and "the most astounding case of Polish enthusiasm" at the recognition occasion of International Holocaust Remembrance Day held in the US Holocaust Memorial Museum on 27 January 2013. 

Witold Pilecki was conceived on 13 May 1901 in the town of Olonets, Karelia, in the Russian Empire. He was a relative of a blue-blooded family (szlachta) initially from the Grodno Region. His granddad, Józef Pilecki h. Leliwa, was an individual from the Polish landed upper class and a committed Polish patriot. He had been a supporter of the secessionist January Uprising of 1863– 1864. Following the ruthless annihilation of the uprising by Russian powers, Józef Pilecki, as most Polish nobles who upheld the disobedience, had his title renounced; his home close Lida and his different properties were appropriated by the Russian government. He was likewise sentenced to oust in Siberia for a long time. After his discharge he and his family were coercively resettled by Tsarist experts to the remote domain of Karelia. The family was disallowed from living outside this region for the following 30 years and its individuals were bound by law to be utilized just by the Russian state. 

Witold's dad, Julian Pilecki, was prepared as a forester in Saint Petersburg and joined the Russian common administration, accepting a situation as a senior reviewer with the Board of National Forests in Karelia. He would inevitably settle in the town of Olonets where he wedded Ludwika Pilecki née Osiecimska. Witold Pilecki was the fourth of the couple's five kids. In 1910, Ludwika and the youngsters left Karelia and moved toward the Northwestern Krai. In the wake of being joined by their dad the family settled in Wilno (presently: Vilnius, Lithuania), where Pilecki finished elementary school and turned into an individual from the mystery ZHP Scouts association. Amid the First World War, Wilno was involved by the German Army on 5 September 1915 and was joined into Ober Ost, the German military organization. Pilecki and his family fled to Mogilev, Byelorussia. In 1916 Pilecki moved to the Russian city of Oryol, where he went to exercise center and established a nearby part of the ZHP gathering. 

In 1918, after the flare-up of the Russian Revolution and the annihilation of the Central Powers in World War I, Pilecki came back to Wilno (presently part of the recently autonomous Polish Second Republic) and joined a ZHP Scout segment of the Lithuanian and Belarusian Self-Defense Militia, a paramilitary arrangement lined up with the White development under General Władysław Wejtko. The volunteer army incapacitated the withdrawing German troops and took up positions to guard the city from an approaching assault by the Soviet Red Army. Be that as it may, Wilno tumbled to Bolshevik powers on 5 January 1919, and Pilecki and his unit depended on fanatic fighting behind Soviet lines. He and his companions at that point withdrew to Białystok where Pilecki enrolled as a "szeregowy" (private) in Poland's recently settled volunteer armed force. He participated in the Polish-Soviet War of 1919– 1921, serving under Captain Jerzy Dąbrowski. He battled in the Kiev Offensive (1920) and as a feature of a rangers unit safeguarding the city of Grodno. On 5 August 1920, Pilecki joined the 211th Uhlan Regiment and battled in the vital Battle of Warsaw and in the Rudniki Forest ("Puszcza Rudnicka"). Pilecki later participated in the freedom of Wilno and quickly served in the progressing Polish-Lithuanian War as an individual from the October 1920 Żeligowski insubordination. He was twice granted the Krzyż Walecznych (Cross of Valor) for courage. 

Following the finish of Polish-Soviet War in March 1921 Pilecki was exchanged to the military stores. He was elevated to the position of "plutonowy" (corporal) and was assigned as a non-charged officer. He proceeded to finish his auxiliary instruction ("matura") later that equivalent year. In 1922 Pilecki quickly went to the University of Poznań where he considered horticulture. He before long came back to Wilno and enlisted with the Faculty of Fine Arts at Stefan Batory University. Pilecki was compelled to desert his examinations in 1924 because of both money related issues and the declining soundness of his dad. He stayed dynamic in the military as an individual from the military saves and filled in as a military teacher in Nowe Święcice. Pilecki later experienced officer-preparing at the Cavalry Reserve Officers' Training School in Grudziądz. Following his graduation Pilecki was doled out to the 26th Lancer Regiment in July 1925 with the position of "Chorąży" (ensign). Pilecki would be elevated to "Podporucznik" (second lieutenant) the next year. 

In September 1926 Pilecki turned into the proprietor of his family's familial bequest, , in the Lida region of the Nowogródek Voivodeship. Pilecki remade and modernized the property's villa, which had been annihilated amid World War I. On 7 April 1931, he wedded Maria Pilecka née Ostrowska (19066 February 2002), a nearby teacher initially from Kupa (Narach, as of now Belarus). They had two youngsters, conceived in Wilno: Andrzej (16 January 1932) and Zofia (14 March 1933). Pilecki and his family would later take up habitation at Sukurcze. Pilecki built up a notoriety for being a network chief, a conspicuous social specialist and novice painter. He was additionally an energetic promoter of rustic advancement, establishing an agrarian helpful, heading the nearby flame unit and furthermore filling in as director of a neighborhood milk-handling plant worked in the locale. In 1932 Pilecki set up a mounted force preparing school in Lida. Right away thereafter he was selected administrator of the recently settled first Lidsky Squadron, a position he would hold until 1937, when this unit was consumed into the Polish nineteenth Infantry Division. In 1938, Pilecki got the Silver Cross of Merit for his locale activism and his social work. 

Pilecki was prepared as a rangers unit leader on 26 August 1939. He was appointed to the nineteenth Infantry Division under General Józef Kwaciszewski, some portion of the Polish Army Prusy, and his unit participated in overwhelming battling against the propelling Germans amid the attack of Poland. The detachment was totally demolished after a conflict with the German powers on 10 September, and it pulled back toward the southeast toward Lwów (presently L'viv in Ukraine) and the Romanian bridgehead. It was joined into the 41st Infantry Division, in which Pilecki filled in as divisional second-in-order under Major Jan Włodarkiewicz. He and his men devastated seven German tanks, shot down one flying machine, and pulverized two more on the ground. 

On 17 September, the Soviet Union attacked eastern Poland following the Molotov– Ribbentrop Pact. The Polish government formally surrendered to Nazi Germany on 27 September 1939, however Pilecki and a large number of his men kept battling as partisans. His division was disbanded on 17 October, with parts of it surrendering to the foe. Pilecki remained in isolation in Warsaw with his authority Major Włodarkiewicz. On 9 November 1939, the two men established the Secret Polish Army ("Tajna Armia Polska", TAP), one of the main underground associations in Poland. Pilecki ended up hierarchical administrator of TAP as it extended to cover Warsaw, Siedlce, Radom, Lublin, and other significant urban areas of focal Poland. 

By 1940, TAP had roughly 8,000 men, 20 automatic rifles, and a few enemy of tank rifles. To keep up his spread, Pilecki filled in as a director of a makeup storage facility. Afterward, TAP was joined into the Union for Armed Struggle ("Związek Walki Zbrojnej"), later renamed the Home Army ("Armia Krajowa", AK). Inside the AK, TAP components turned into the center of the "Wachlarz" unit. 

In 1940, Pilecki displayed an arrangement to his bosses to enter Germany's Auschwitz inhumane imprisonment at Oświęcim to accumulate knowledge on the camp from within and sort out detainee obstruction. Little was thought about how the Germans ran the camp, and it was believed to be an internment camp or substantial jail as opposed to a concentration camp. His bosses affirmed the arrangement and furnished him with a bogus personality card for the sake of "Tomasz Serafiński". He went out amid a Warsaw road roundup on 19 September 1940 and was gotten by the Germans alongside 2,000 regular people, including Wladyslaw Bartoszewski. He was kept for two days in the Light Horse Guards Barracks, where detainees endured beatings with elastic truncheons, at that point sent to Auschwitz where he was alloted prisoner number 4859. Amid his detainment, Pilecki was advanced by the Home Army to the position of "Porucznik" (first lieutenant). 

Pilecki composed the underground Union of Military Organizations (ZOW) at Auschwitz while working in different kommandos and enduring pneumonia. Numerous littler underground associations at Auschwitz inevitably converged with ZOW. ZOW's assignments were to improve prisoner confidence, give news from outside, circulate additional nourishment and dress to individuals, set up insight systems, and train separations to assume control over the camp in case of an alleviation assault by the Home Army, arms airdrops, or an airborne arriving by the Polish first Independent Parachute Brigade situated in Britain. 

ZOW furnished the Polish underground with significant data about the camp; they sent reports to Warsaw from October 1940, and the reports were sent by means of the Polish protection from the British government in London starting in March 1941. In 1942, Pilecki's opposition development was additionally communicating subtleties on the quantity of entries and passings in the camp and the prisoners' conditions utilizing a radio transmitter that was worked by camp detainees. The mystery radio station was worked more than seven months utilizing pirated parts; it was communicating from the camp until the pre-winter of 1942, when it was destroyed by Pilecki's men after worries that the Germans may find its area in view of "one of our colleagues' enormous mouth". 

These reports were an important wellspring of insight on Auschwitz for the Western Allies. Pilecki trusted that either the Allies would drop arms or troops into the camp, or that the Home Army would sort out a strike on it from outside. In the interim, the Camp Gestapo under SS-Untersturmfuhrer Maximilian Grabner tried harder to uncover ZOW individuals, murdering a significant number of them. Pilecki chose to break out of the camp with the desire for persuading Home Army pioneers by and by that a salvage endeavor was a substantial alternative. He was alloted to a night move at a camp bread shop outside the fence, and he and two companions overwhelmed a gatekeeper, cut the telephone line, and got away the evening of 26/27 April 1943, taking with them archives stolen from the Germans. 

Following a few days as a criminal Pilecki reached units of the Home Army. On 25 August 1943, Pilecki achieved Warsaw and was connected to Section II (insight and counter-knowledge) of the Home Army's territorial home office. In the wake of losing a few agents inspecting the region of Auschwitz, including the Cichociemny Stefan Jasieński, it was chosen that the Home Army needed adequate solidarity to free the camp without Allied help. Pilecki's nitty gritty report ("Raport Witolda" – Witold's Report) evaluated that "By March 1943 the quantity of individuals gassed on landing achieved 1.5 million", which was amazingly exact considering post-war gauges recommend 1.1 million individuals passed on in Auschwitz amid the war. 

On 11 November 1943, Pilecki was elevated to "Rotmistrz" (mounted force skipper) and joined a mystery hostile to socialist association, NIE (in Polish: "NO or NIEpodległość – INdependence"), framed as a surreptitious unit inside the Home Army with the objective of getting ready opposition against a conceivable Soviet occupation. The Soviet Red Army, in spite of being inside assaulting separation of the camp, demonstrated no enthusiasm for a joint exertion with the Home Army and the ZOW to free it. Until he ended up engaged with the Warsaw Uprising, Pilecki stayed accountable for planning ZOW and AK exercises and gave what constrained help he had the capacity to offer to ZOW. 

At the point when the Warsaw Uprising broke out on 1 August 1944, Pilecki volunteered for administration with Kedyw's Chrobry II Battalion. At first, Pilecki filled in as a typical warrior in the northern downtown area, without uncovering his real position to his bosses. Afterward, after numerous officers were killed in the wild battling that happened amid the beginning of the uprising, Pilecki unveiled his actual character to his bosses and acknowledged order of the first "Warszawianka" Company situated in Śródmieście in downtown Warsaw. Pilecki battled under the nom de guerre "Skipper Roman". 

After the capitulation of the uprising, Pilecki concealed a reserve of weapons in a private condo and surrendered to the Wehrmacht on 5 October 1944. He was sent to Germany and detained at Stalag VIII-B, a wartime captive camp close Lamsdorf, Silesia. He was later exchanged to Oflag VII-An in Murnau, Bavaria where he was in the long run freed by troops of the US twelfth Armored Division on 28 April 1945. 

In July 1945 he left Murnau and was reassigned to the military knowledge division of the Polish II Corps under General Władysław Anders in Ancona, Italy. While positioned there Pilecki started composing a monograph on his encounters at Auschwitz. 

In October 1945, as relations between the Polish government in a state of banishment and the Soviet-upheld routine of Boleslaw Bierut decayed, Pilecki was requested by General Anders and his knowledge boss, Lt. Colonel , to come back to Poland and report on the common military and political circumstance under Soviet-occupation. 

Pilecki touched base in Warsaw in December 1945 and continued to start arranging an insight gathering system, which incorporated a few wartime partners from Auschwitz and the Secret Polish Army (TAP). 

To keep up his spread character, Pilecki lived under different accepted names and changed employments as often as possible. He would fill in as an adornments sales rep, a jug name painter and as night administrator of a development stockroom. In any case, Pilecki was educated in July 1946 that his genuine character had been revealed by the MBP. He was requested to leave the nation, however he wouldn't do as such. 

In April 1947, he started freely gathering proof of Soviet abominations submitted in Poland amid the 1939– 1941 occupation just as proof of the unlawful capture and arraignment of Home Army veterans and ex-individuals from the Polish Armed Forces in the West, which frequently brought about execution or detainment. 

Pilecki was captured by specialists of the Ministry of Public Security on 8 May 1947, and he was more than once tormented before going to preliminary. The examination of his exercises was directed by Colonel Roman Romkowski. He was cross examined by Col. Józef Różański and lieutenants S. Łyszkowski, W. Krawczyński, J. Kroszel, T. Słowianek, Eugeniusz Chimczak, and S. Alaborski—men who were notorious for their viciousness. Be that as it may, Pilecki looked to secure different detainees and uncovered no delicate data. 

A show preliminary occurred on 3 March 1948, and declaration against Pilecki was introduced by future Polish head administrator Józef Cyrankiewicz, himself an Auschwitz survivor. Pilecki was accused of illicit outskirt crossing, utilization of produced archives, not enrolling with the military, conveying unlawful arms, secret activities for General Władysław Anders, surveillance for "remote dominion" (British insight), and wanting to kill a few authorities of the Ministry of Public Security of Poland. Pilecki denied the death charges, just as secret activities, in spite of the fact that he confessed to passing data to the second Polish Corps, of which he viewed himself as an officer and along these lines asserted that he was not infringing upon any laws. He conceded to different charges. He was condemned to death on 15 May with three of his companions, and he was executed with a shot to the back of the head at the Mokotów Prison in Warsaw on 25 May 1948 by Staff Sergeant Piotr Śmietański (who was nicknamed "The Butcher of Mokotow Prison" by the detainees). 

Pilecki's place of entombment has never been observed however is believed to be some place inside Warsaw's Powązki Cemetery. After the fall of Communism in Poland, a cenotaph was raised in his memory at Ostrowa Mazowiecka Cemetery. In 2012, Powązki Cemetery was halfway uncovered with an end goal to discover his remaining parts. 

Pilecki's show preliminary and execution was a piece of a more extensive battle of suppression against previous Home Army individuals and others associated with the Polish government estranged abroad in London. In 2003, examiner Czesław Łapiński and a few others engaged with the preliminary were accused of complicity in Pilecki's homicide. Boss indictment witness Józef Cyrankiewicz was at that point dead, and Łapiński kicked the bucket in 2004 preceding the preliminary was finished up. 

Pilecki and all others condemned in the show preliminary were restored on 1 October 1990. He was granted the Order of Polonia Restituta in 1995, and he got the Order of the White Eagle in 2006, the most astounding Polish beautification. On 6 September 2013, he was elevated to Colonel by the Minister of National Defense. 

Movies about Pilecki incorporate "Śmierć rotmistrza Pileckiego" (The Death of Captain Pilecki, 2006) featuring Marek Probosz, "Pilecki" (2015) featuring Mateusz Bieryt, and the documentaries "Against the Odds: Resistance in Nazi Concentration Camps" (2004) and "Legends of War: Poland" (2014) created by Sky Vision for the History Channel UK. Various books have been expounded on him, and his thorough 1945 report on his covert mission at Auschwitz was distributed in English in 2012 under the title "The Auschwitz Volunteer: Beyond Bravery". "The New York Times" called it "a verifiable archive of the best significance". 

Book reference