Hoysala writing 

Hoysala writing is the substantial collection of writing in the Kannada and Sanskrit dialects delivered by the Hoysala Empire (1025– 1343) in what is currently southern India. The domain was built up by Nripa Kama II, came into political noticeable quality amid the standard of King Vishnuvardhana (1108– 1152), and declined step by step after its thrashing by the Khalji tradition trespassers in 1311. 

Kannada writing amid this period comprised of works identifying with the socio-religious advancements of the Jain and Veerashaiva beliefs, and to a lesser degree that of the Vaishnava confidence. The soonest outstanding brahmin essayists in Kannada were from the Hoysala court. While the majority of the cultured printed generation was in Kannada, a critical corpus of devout Vaishnava writing identifying with "Dvaita" (dualistic) logic was composed by the famous logician Madhvacharya in Sanskrit. 

Composing Kannada writing in local meters was first advanced by the court artists. These meters were the "sangatya", arrangements sung to the backup of a melodic instrument; "shatpadi", six-line sections; "ragale", expressive sytheses in clear refrain; and "tripadi", three-line stanzas. In any case, Jain journalists kept on utilizing the customary "champu", made out of composition and refrain. Vital abstract commitments in Kannada were made by court writers as well as by aristocrats, authorities, priests, religious zealots and holy people related with cloisters. 

Starting with the 12th century, essential socio-political changes occurred in the Deccan, south of the Krishna stream. Amid this period, the Hoysalas, local Kannadigas from the Malnad area (slope nation in present day Karnataka) were on the ascendant as a political power. They are referred to have existed as chieftains from the mid-10th century when they separated themselves as subordinates of the Western Chalukyas of Kalyani. In 1116, Hoysala King Vishnuvardhana vanquished the Cholas of Tanjore and attached Gangavadi (portions of current southern Karnataka), in this way bringing the locale back under local guideline. In the next decades, with the fading of the Chalukya control, the Hoysalas announced freedom and developed into a standout amongst the most dominant decision groups of southern India. Therefore, writing in Kannada, the nearby language, prospered in the Hoysala domain. This writing can be extensively subdivided as pursues: works overwhelmed by the subjects of Jain compositions, differentiating works by Veerashaiva authors not having a place with the vachana wonderful convention, counters to Shaiva compositions from Jain scholars, early brahminical works (Vaishnava), works from the introduction of the Bhakti (reverential) development in the Kannada-talking locale, works on common themes, and the primary compositions in local meters ("ragale", "sangatya" and "shatpadi"). 

As in prior hundreds of years, Jain creators expounded on tirthankars (holy people), sovereigns and different personages essential to the Jain religion. Jain variants of the Hindu sagas, for example, the Ramayana and Bhagavata (stories of Hindu god Krishna) were likewise composed. As indicated by R. Narasimhacharya, a prominent researcher on Kannada writing, more Jain essayists wrote in Kannada than in some other Dravidian language amid the "Augustan age" of Kannada writing, from the most punctual known attempts to the 12th century. The Veerashaiva scholars, aficionados of the Hindu god Shiva, expounded on his 25 frames in their compositions of Shaivism. Vaishnava creators composed medicines of the Hindu stories, the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and the Bhagavata. Splitting far from the old Jain custom of utilizing the "champu" structure for composing Kannada writing, Harihara wrote lyrics in the "ragale" meter in "Siva-ganada-ragalegalu" (1160). His nephew Raghavanka built up the "shatpadi" convention by composing an exceptional rendition of the account of King Harishchandra in "Harishchandra Kavya" (1200). Sisumayana presented the "sangatya" meter in his "Anjanacharita" and "Tripuradahana" (1235). Be that as it may, a few researchers kept on utilizing Sanskritic sorts, for example, "champu" ("Ramachandra Charitapurana"), "shataka" (100 refrain pieces, "Pampa sataka") and "ashtaka" (eight line stanza arrangements, "Mudige ashtaka"). 

The careful beginnings of the haridasa development in the Kannada-talking area have been questioned. Belur Keshavadasa, a prominent "Harikatha" researcher, asserted in his book "Karnataka Bhaktavijaya" that the development was enlivened by holy person Achalananda Dasa of Turvekere (in the cutting edge Tumkur locale) in the 9th century. Be that as it may, neither the language utilized in Achalananda Dasa's structures nor the revelation of a piece with the nom de plume "Achalanada Vitthala", which specifies the thirteenth century logician Madhvacharya, loans backing to the ninth century hypothesis. Naraharitirtha (1281), one of soonest educates of Madhvacharya, is along these lines considered the most punctual haridasa to compose Vaishnava arrangements in Kannada. Common points were well known and included treatises on verse ("Sringararatnakara") and works on regular sciences ("Rattasutra"), arithmetic ("Vyavaharaganita"), fiction ("Lilavati"), sentence structure ("Shabdamanidarpana"), talk ("Udayadityalankara") and others. 

Imperative commitments were made by some unmistakable artistic families. One Jain family created a few creators, including Mallikarjuna, the prominent anthologist (1245); his brother by marriage Janna (1209), the court writer of King Veera Ballala II; Mallikarjuna's child Keshiraja (1260), considered by D. R. Nagaraj, a researcher on scholarly societies ever, to be the best scholar of Kannada punctuation; and Sumanobana, who was in the court of King Narasimha I and was the maternal granddad of Keshiraja. Harihara (1160) and his nephew Raghavanka (1200), writers who set the pattern for utilizing local meters, originated from a Shaiva family (aficionados of the god Shiva). 

The help of the Hoysala rulers for the Kannada language was solid, and this is seen even in their epigraphs, frequently written in cleaned and wonderful language, as opposed to composition, with representations of botanical plans in the edges. Notwithstanding the Hoysala support, illustrious help was appreciated by Kannada artists and essayists amid this period in the courts of neighboring kingdoms of the western Deccan. The Western Chalukyas, the Southern Kalachuris, the Seuna Yadavas of Devagiri and the Silharas of Kolhapur are a portion of the decision families who excitedly utilized Kannada in engravings and advanced its writing. 

Authors bilingual in Kannada and Telugu picked up fame which caused association between the two dialects, a pattern that proceeded into present day times. The Veerashiva group of the Kannada language was made an interpretation of or adjusted into Telugu from this timeframe. Palkuriki Somanatha (1195), an aficionado of social reformer Basavanna, is the most outstanding of these bilingual writers. The Chola chieftain Nannechoda (c. 1150) utilized numerous Kannada words in his Telugu works. After the decay of the Hoysala realm, the Vijayanagara domain rulers further bolstered scholars in the two dialects. In 1369, roused by Palkuriki Somanatha, Bhima Kavi interpreted the Telugu "Basavapurana" to Kannada, and King Deva Raya II (c. 1425) had Chamarasa's milestone stating "Prabhulingalile" converted into Telugu and Tamil. Numerous Veerashaiva journalists in the court of the seventeenth century Kingdom of Mysore were multilingual in Kannada, Telugu and Sanskrit while the Srivaishnava (a faction of Vaishnavism) Kannada essayists of the court were in rivalry with the Telugu and Sanskrit authors. 

Data from contemporary records with respect to a few essayists from this period whose works are viewed as lost include: Maghanandi (plausible writer of "Rama Kathe" and master of Kamalabhava of 1235), Srutakirti (master of Aggala, and writer of "Raghava Pandaviya" and perhaps a "Jina-stuti", 1170), Sambha Varma (referenced by Nagavarma of 1145), Vira Nandi ("Chandraprabha Kavyamala", 1175), Dharani Pandita ("Bijjala raya Charita" and "Varangana Charita"), Amrita Nandi ("Dhanvantari Nighantu"), Vidyanatha ("Prataparudriya"), Ganeshvara ("Sahitya Sanjivana"), Harabhakta, a Veerashaiva vagabond ("Vedabhashya", 1300), and Siva Kavi (writer of "Basava Purana" in 1330). 

Amid the mid twelfth century authority of the Hoysalas, the rulers of the administration engaged royal aspirations. Ruler Vishnuvardhana needed to perform Vedic penances befitting a sovereign, and outperform his overlords, the Western Chalukyas, in military and building accomplishments. This prompted his change from Jainism to Vaishnavism. Around a similar time, the notable scholar Ramanujacharya looked for asylum from the Cholas in Hoysala region and promoted the Sri Vaishnava confidence, an order of Hindu Vaishnavism. In spite of the fact that Jains kept on commanding socially in what is presently the southern Karnataka district for some time, these social changes would later add to the decay of Jain artistic yield. The developing political clout of the Hoysalas pulled in numerous versifiers and researchers to their court, who thusly composed panegyrics on their supporters. 

Nagachandra, a researcher and the manufacturer of the Mallinatha Jinalaya (a Jain sanctuary out of appreciation for the 19th Jain tirthankar, Mallinatha, in Bijapur, Karnataka), expressed "Mallinathapurana" (1105), a record of the development of the spirit of the Jain holy person. As per a few antiquarians, King Veera Ballala I was his benefactor. Afterward, he composed his "perfect work of art", a Jain adaptation of the Hindu epic Ramayana called "Ramachandra Charitapurana" (or "Pampa Ramayana"). Written in the conventional "champu" meter and in the "Pauma charia" custom of Vimalasuri, it is the most punctual surviving variant of the epic in the Kannada language. The work contains 16 sections and strays essentially from the first epic by Valmiki. Nagachandra speaks to King Ravana, the antagonist of the Hindu epic, as a terrible legend, who in a snapshot of shortcoming submits the transgression of kidnapping Sita (spouse of the Hindu god Rama) however is in the end sanitized by her commitment to Rama. In a further deviation, Rama's unwavering sibling Lakshmana (rather than Rama) executes Ravana in the last fight. In the long run, Rama takes "jaina-diksha" (changes over to "Digambara priest"), turns into a parsimonious and achieves "nirvana" (edification). Considered a corresponding work to the "Pampa Bharatha" of Adikavi Pampa (941, a Jain variant of the epic Mahabharata), the work earned Nagachandra the honorific "Abhinava Pampa" ("new Pampa"). Just in the Kannada language do Jain adaptations exist of the Hindu legends, the Mahabharata and Ramayana, notwithstanding their brahminical form. 

Kanti (1108), known for her mind and cleverness, was one of the most punctual female artists of the Kannada language and a contemporary of Nagachandra, with whom she enjoyed discussions and repartees. Rajaditya, a local of either Puvinabage or Raibhag (the cutting edge Belgaum region), was in the Hoysala court amid the times of King Veera Ballala I and King Vishnuvardhana. He wrote in simple refrain on number juggling and other scientific points and is credited with three of the most punctual compositions on science in the Kannada language: "Vyavaharaganita", "Kshetraganita" and "Lilavati". Udayaditya, a Chola sovereign, wrote a piece on talk called "Udayadityalankara" (1150). It depended on Dandin's Sanskrit "Kavyadarsa". 

Harihara (or Harisvara, 1160), who originated from a group of "karnikas" (bookkeepers) in Hampi, was one of the most punctual Veerashaiva scholars who was not part of the "Vachana" lovely convention. He is viewed as a standout amongst the most powerful Kannada artists of the Hoysala period. A non-conventionalist, he has been classified "artist of artists" and an "artist for the majority". Kannada verse changed course in light of his endeavors, and he was a motivation for ages of writers to pursue. Awed by his initial works, Kereya Padmarasa, the court writer of King Narasimha I, acquainted him with the lord, who turned into Harihara's benefactor. An ace of numerous meters, he composed the "Girijakalyana" ("Marriage of the mountain conceived goddess – Parvati") in the Kalidasa custom, utilizing the "champu" style to recount to a 10-section story prompting the marriage of the god Shiva and Parvati. As per an account, Harihara was so against praising natural humans that he struck his protégé Raghavanka for expounding on King Harishchandra in the milestone work "Harishchandra Kavya" (c. 1200). Harihara is credited with building up the local "ragale" meter. The soonest wonderful biographer in the Kannada language, he composed an account of Basavanna called "Basavarajadevara ragale", which gives fascinating insights concerning the hero while not continually fitting in with mainstream views of the time. Credited to him is a gathering of 100 poems called the "Nambiyanana ragale" (likewise called "Shivaganada ragale" or "Saranacharitamanasa" – "The heavenly pool of the lives of the lovers") after the holy person Nambiyana. In the "sataka" meter he composed the "Pampa sataka", and in the "ashtaka" meter, the "Mudige ashtaka" in around 1200. 

Celebrated among Vaishnava journalists and the primary brahmin essayist (of the Smartha order) of notoriety, Rudrabhatta stated "Jagannatha Vijaya" (1180) in a style thought about a change among old and medieval Kannada. Chandramouli, a pastor in the court of King Veera Ballala II, was his supporter. The composition, in "champu" meter, is about the life of the god Krishna. Prompting the god's battle with Banasura, it depends on a prior composition, "Vishnupurana". 

Nemichandra, court writer of King Veera Ballala II and the Silhara King Lakshmana of Kholapur, stated "Lilavati Prabandham" (1170), the soonest accessible genuine fiction (and subsequently a novel) in Kannada, with a suggestive bowed. Written in the "champu" meter, with the antiquated town Banavasi as the foundation, it portrays the romantic tale of a Kadamba ruler and a princess who in the end wed subsequent to confronting numerous impediments. The story depends on a c. 610 Sanskrit unique called "Vasavadatta" by Subhandu. His other work, "Neminathapurana", incomplete because of his passing (and thus called "Ardhanemi" or "inadequate Nemi"), subtleties the life of the 22nd Jain tirthankar Neminatha while treating the life of the god Krishna from a Jain point. 

Palkuriki Somanatha, a local of present day Karnataka or Andhra Pradesh, is viewed as one of the preeminent multi-lingual Shaiva (or Shiva-following) artists of the twelfth and thirteenth hundreds of years. History specialists are partitioned about the time and spot of his introduction to the world and demise and his unique confidence. He was skilled in the Sanskrit, Telugu and Kannada dialects. He was an enthusiast of Basavanna (the author of the Veerashaiva development), and every one of his compositions proliferate that confidence. It is commonly acknowledged that he was brought into the world a brahmin and later received the Shaiva confidence, albeit as indicated by the researcher Bandaru Tammayya he was brought into the world a "Jangama" (adherent of the Shaiva confidence). His season of birth has been distinguished as either the 12th century or late 13th century. In Kannada, his most imperative compositions are "Silasampadane", "Sahasragananama" and "Pancharatna". His notable sonnets, written in the "ragale" meter, are "Basava ragale", "Basavadhya ragale" and "Sadguru ragale". He is known to have lowered numerous Vaishnava artists in discussions. 

Other surely understood identities from the 12th century incorporated a few Jain scholars. These incorporate Aggala, who composed "Chandraprabhapurana" (1189), a record of the life of the eighth Jain tirthankar Chandraprabha; Sujanottamsa, who composed a laudatory on Gomateshwara of Shravanabelagola; and Vritta Vilasa, who wrote "Sastra sara" and "Dharmaparikshe" (1160). The last was Vilasa's variant of the Sanskrit unique of a similar name composed by Amitagati c. 1014. In this "champu" composing, the creator portrays the tale of two Kshatriya princess who went to Benares and uncovered the indecencies of the divine beings after discourses with the brahmins there. The creator addresses the believability of Hanuman (the Hindu monkey god) and the Vanaras (monkey-like humanoids in the Hindu epic Ramayana). Albeit questionable, the work sheds helpful data on contemporary religious convictions. Kereya Padmarasa, a Veerashaiva artist belittled by King Narasimha I, expressed "Dikshabodhe" in the "ragale" meter in 1165. He would later turn into the hero of a personal work called "Padmarajapurana" composed by his relative Padmanaka in c. 1400. The brahmin artist Deva Kavi created a sentiment piece called "Kusumavali" (1200), and brahmin writer Kavi Kama (12th century) composed a treatise called "Sringara-ratnakara" on the "rasa" (season) of poetical assumption. Sumanobana (1170) was a writer grammarian and the "Katakacharya" ("military educator") under King Narasimha I. He was likewise a minister in Devagiri, the Seuna Yadava capital. 

Harihara's nephew and protégé, the sensational writer Raghavanka of Hampi, whose style is contrasted with that of tenth century artist Ranna, was the first to set up the "shatpadi" meter in Kannada writing in the epic "Harishchandra Kavya" (1200). As indicated by L. S. Seshagiri Rao, it is trusted that in no other language has the narrative of King Harishchandra been translated along these lines. The composing is a unique in convention and motivation that completely builds up the capability of the "shatpadi" meter. The portrayal has numerous important elegiac stanzas, for example, the grieving of Chandramati over the demise of her young child Lohitashva from snake chomp. The very composition that made Raghavanka well known was dismissed by his master, Harihara. His other surely understood compositions, holding fast to severe Shaiva standards and written to pacify his master, are the "Siddharama charitra" (or "Siddharama Purana"), an overwhelming complex commendation of the humane twelfth century Veerashaiva holy person, Siddharama of Sonnalige; the "Somanatha charitra", an advocate work that portrays the life of holy person Somayya (or Adaiah) of Puligere (present day Lakshmeshwar), his embarrassment by a Jain young lady and his retribution; the "Viresvara charita", a sensational story of the visually impaired fierceness of a Shaiva warrior, Virabhadra; the "Hariharamahatva", a record of the life of Harisvara of Hampi; and "Sarabha charitra". The last two works of art are viewed as lost. 

In 1209, the Jain researcher, serve, manufacturer of sanctuaries and armed force authority Janna composed, among different works of art, "Yashodhara Charite", an interesting arrangement of stories in 310 verses managing sadomasochism, transmigration of the spirit, enthusiasm gone amiss and preventative ethics for human lead. The composition, albeit enlivened by Vadiraja's Sanskrit exemplary of a similar name, is noted for its unique elucidation, symbolism and style. In one story, the artist recounts the fascination of a man for his companion's significant other. Having executed his companion, the man steals the spouse, who bites the dust of sadness. Defeat by atonement, he consumes himself on the burial service fire of the lady. The accounts of fascination achieve a pinnacle when Janna expounds on the fascination of Amrutamati, the ruler, to the revolting mahout Ashtavakra, who satisfies the ruler with kicks and whip lashes. This story has provoked the enthusiasm of current scientists. To pay tribute to this work, Janna got the title "Kavichakravarthi" ("Emperor among artists") from his supporter, King Veera Ballala II. His other exemplary, "Anathanatha Purana" (1230), is a record of the life of the 14th tirthankar Ananthanatha. 

Andayya, taking a non-traditionalist way that was never rehashed in Kannada writing, expressed "Madana Vijaya" ("Triumph of cupid", 1217– 1235) utilizing just unadulterated Kannada words ("desya") and naturalized Sanskrit words ("tadbhava") and thoroughly maintaining a strategic distance from absorbed Sanskrit words ("tatsamas"). This is seen by some as a counter intended to demonstrate that composition Kannada writing without obtained Sanskrit words was conceivable. The lyric portrays the account of the moon being detained by the god Shiva in his dwelling place the Himalayas. In his displeasure, Kama (Cupid, the lord of affection, additionally called Manmata) attacked Shiva with his bolts just to be reviled by Shiva and isolated from his adored. Kama at that point imagined to free himself of Shiva's revile. The work likewise passes by different names, for example, "Sobagina Suggi" ("Harvest of Beauty"), "Kavane Gella" ("Cupid's Conquest") and "Kabbigara-kava" ("Poets protector"). Kama has an imperative spot in Jain works even before Andayya. The likelihood that this composing was one more inconspicuous weapon in the escalating strife between the prevailing Jains and the Veerashaivas, whose prevalence was on the ascent, isn't lost on students of history. 

Mallikarjuna, a Jain parsimonious, accumulated a treasury of sonnets called "Suktisudharnava" ("Gems from the artists") in 1245 in the court of King Vira Someshwara. Some intriguing perceptions have been made by researchers about this critical endeavor. While the compilation itself gives knowledge into idyllic tastes of that period (and subsequently qualifies as a "past filled with Kannada writing"), it additionally plays out the capacity of a "control for artists", an emphatic technique for crossing over any barrier between elegant scholarly intellectuals and society verse. Being a guide for "proficient savvy people", the work, consistent with its inclination, regularly incorporates ballads lauding rulers and eminence however totally disregarding sonnets of the twelfth century vachana standard (Veerashaiva society writing). In any case, the choice of ballads incorporates commitments from Harihara, the non-traditionalist Veerashaiva essayist. This proposes a trade off by which the creator endeavors to incorporate the "rebels". 

Other outstanding scholars of the mid 13th century were Bhanduvarma, writer of "Harivamsabhyudaya" and "Jiva sambhodana" (1200), the last bearing on ethics and renunciation, and composed tending to the spirit; Balachandra Kavi Kandarpa, the writer of the Belgaum fortification engraving who professed to be "ace of four dialects"; Maghanandycharya, the writer of a terminated discourse on the Jain religious work "Sastrasara Samuccaya-tiku" (1209) for which there are references, and the accessible critique called "padarthasara" giving a total clarification of Sanskrit and Prakrit legitimate references; Hastimalla, who stated "Purvapurana"; Chandrama, writer of "Karkala Gomateshvara charite", and Sisumayana, who presented another type of piece called "sangatya" in 1232. He composed a figurative lyric called "Tripuradahana" ("Burning of the triple fortification") and "Anjanacharita". The last work was roused by Ravisena's Sanskrit "Padma charitra". Somaraja, a Veerashaiva researcher, composed a tribute of Udbhata, the leader of Gersoppa, and called it "Sringarasara" (or "Udbhatakavya", 1222). Other Jain scholars were Parsva Pandita, creator of "Paravanathapurana", and Gunavarma II, the creator of the narrative of the ninth Jain tirthankar Pushpadanta called "Pushpadanta purana" (both were belittled by the Ratta rulers of Saundatti). Polalva Dandanatha, an officer, serve, and the manufacturer of the Harihareshwara sanctuary in Harihar, stated "Haricharitra" in 1224. He was belittled by King Veera Ballala II and his successor, King Vira Narasimha II. Puligere Somanatha wrote a book on ethics called "Somesvarasataka". 

Keshiraja was a remarkable essayist and grammarian of the 13th century. He originated from a group of acclaimed artist journalists. Albeit five of Keshiraja's compositions are not recognizable, his most suffering work on Kannada punctuation, "Shabdamanidarpana" ("Mirror of Word Jewels", 1260), is accessible and vouches for his academic intuition and abstract taste. Consistent with his desire that his composition on sentence structure should "keep going as long as the sun, the moon, the seas and the Meru mountain endured", "Shabdamanidarpana" is mainstream even today and is viewed as a standard expert on old Kannada language structure. It is endorsed as a course reading for understudies of alumni and post-graduate examinations in the Kannada language. Despite the fact that Keshiraja pursued the model of Sanskrit language structure (of the Katantra school) and that of prior compositions on Kannada punctuation (by King Amoghavarsha I of the 9th century and grammarian Nagavarma II of 1145), his work has inventiveness. Keshiraja's lost compositions are "Cholapalaka Charitam", "Sri Chitramale", "Shubhadraharana", "Prabodhachandra" and "Kiratam" (or "Kiratarjuniyam"). 

A noteworthy improvement of this period that would profoundly affect Kannada writing even into the cutting edge age was the introduction of the Haridasa ("workers of Hari or Vishnu") development. This reverential development, albeit reminiscent somehow or another of the Veerashaiva development of the 12th century (which delivered Vachana verse and instructed dedication to the god Shiva), was interestingly personally given to the Hindu god Vishnu as the preeminent God. The motivation behind this development was the logic of Madhvacharya of Udupi. Naraharitirtha (1281) is viewed as the principal understood haridasa and writer of Vaishnava reverential melodies in Kannada. Before his enlistment into the Madhva request, he had filled in as a clergyman in the court of Kalinga (current Orissa). The Vaishnava verse anyway vanished for around two centuries after Naraharitirtha's passing before reemerging as a well known type of society writing amid the standard of the Vijayanagara Empire. Just three of Naraharitirtha's organizations are accessible today. 

Different essayists deserving of notice are Mahabala Kavi, the writer of "Neminathapurana" (1254), a record of the 22nd Jain tirthankar Neminatha, and Kumudendu, writer of a Jain adaptation of the epic Ramayana in "shatpadi" meter called "Kumudendu Ramayana" in 1275. The exertion was affected by "Pampa Ramayana" of Nagachandra. Kumara Padmarasa, child of Kereya Padmarasa, composed the "Sananda Charitre" in "shatpadi" meter. Ratta Kavi, a Jain respectable, composed a semi logical piece called "Rattasutra" (or "Rattamala") in 1300. The composition bears on common wonders such downpour, tremors, lightning, planets and signs. A discourse on the "Amara Khosa", thought about helpful to understudies of the language, called "Amara Khosa Vyakhyana" was composed by the Jain essayist Nachiraja (1300). Towards the finish of the Hoysala rule, Nagaraja stated "Punyasrava" in 1331 in "champu" style, a work that portrays the tales of puranic legends in 52 tales and is said to be an interpretation from Sanskrit. 

The Vaishnava development in the Kannada-talking areas discovered energy after the landing of the logician Ramanujacharya (1017– 1137). Escaping conceivable abuse from the Chola King (who was a Shaiva), Ramanujacharya looked for shelter at first in Tondanur and later moved to Melkote. In any case, this occasion had no effect on Vaishnava writing in Hoysala lands around then. Be that as it may, the lessons of Madhvacharya (1238– 1317), propounder of the "Dvaita" rationality, had an immediate effect on Vaishnava writing, in both the Sanskrit and Kannada dialects. This assemblage of works is known as "haridasa sahitya" (haridasa writing). 

Conceived as Vasudeva in Pajaka town close Udupi in 1238, he took in the Vedas and Upanishads under his master Achyutapreksha. He was started into "sanyasa" (parsimony) after which he earned the name Madhvacharya (or Anandatirtha). Afterward, he couldn't help contradicting the perspectives on his master and started to travel India. He effectively bantered with numerous researchers and rationalists amid this time and prevailed upon Naraharitirtha, a clergyman in Kalinga, who might later turn into Madhvacharya's first eminent devotee. Not at all like Adi Shankaracharya (788– 820) who lectured Advaita logic (monism) and Ramanujacharya who propounded Vishishtadvaita theory (qualified monism), Madhvacharya showed the Dvaita reasoning (dualism). 

Madhvacharya showed total dedication to the Hindu god Vishnu, underscoring "Jnanamarga" or the "way of information", and demanded that the way of commitment "can assist a spirit with attaining height" ("Athmonathi"). He was anyway ready to acknowledge dedication to other Hindu divinities also. He composed 37 works in Sanskrit including "Dwadasha Sutra" (in which his dedication to the god Vishnu discovered full articulation), "Gita Bhashya", "Gita Tatparya Nirnaya", "Mahabharata Tatparya Nirnaya", "Bhagavata Tatparya Nirnaya", "Mayavada Khandana" and "Vishnu Tattwa Nirnaya". To proliferate his lessons he built up eight religious communities close Udupi, the Uttaradhi cloister, and the Raghavendra religious community in Mantralayam (in present day Andhra Pradesh) and Nanjanagud (close current Mysore). 

The works of Madhvacharya and Vidyatirtha (creator of "Rudraprshnabhashya") may have been consumed by Sayanacharya, sibling of Vidyaranya, the supporter holy person of the originators of the Vijayanagara realm in the 14th century. Bharatasvamin (who was disparaged by Hoysala King Ramanatha) composed a discourse on "Samaveda", Shadgurusishya composed critique on "Aitareya Brahmana" and "Aranyaka", and Katyayana stated "Sarvanukramani". A group of innate artists whose names have not been distinguished held the title "Vidyachakravarti" (writer laureate) in the Hoysala court. One of them stated "Gadyakarnamrita", a portrayal of the war between Hoysala lord Vira Narasimha II and the Pandyas, in the mid 13th century. His grandson with a similar title, in the court of ruler Veera Ballala III, made a ballad called "Rukminikalyana" in 16 "kandas" (sections) and composed critiques (on poetics) on the "Alankarasarvasva" and "Kavyaprakasa". Kalyani Devi, a sister of Madhvacharya, and Trivikrama, his follower, composed analyses on the Dvaita reasoning. To Trivikrama is attributed a lyric portraying the account of Usha and Aniruddha called "Ushaharana". Narayana Pandita made "Madhwavijaya", "Manimanjari" and a sonnet called "Parijataharana". The Jain essayist Ramachandra Maladhari wrote "Gurupanchasmriti". 

Abstract improvements amid the Hoysala time frame impacted Kannada writing in the hundreds of years to pursue. These improvements advanced people meters which moved the accentuation towards "desi" (local or society) types of writing. With the winding down of Jain abstract yield, rivalry between the Veerashaiva and Vaishnava essayists went to the fore. The Veerashaiva essayist Chamarasa (writer of "Prabhulingalile", 1425) and his Vaishnava rival Kumaravyasa ("Karnata Bharata Kathamanjari", 1450) advanced the "shatpadi" metric convention started by Hoysala artist Raghavanka, in the court of Vijayanagara King Deva Raya II. Lakshmisa, the 16th– seventeenth century author of epic lyrics, proceeded with the custom in the "Jaimini Bharata", a work that has stayed well known even in the cutting edge time frame. The "tripadi" meter, one of the most seasoned in the Kannada language (Kappe Arabhatta engraving of 700), which was utilized by Akka Mahadevi ("Yoganna trividhi", 1160), was promoted in the sixteenth century by the panhandler writer Sarvajna. Indeed, even Jain journalists, who had overwhelmed elegant writing all through the traditional period with their Sanskritic "champu" style, started to utilize local meters. Among them, Ratnakaravarni is renowned for effectively coordinating a component of common delight into parsimony and for treating the point of sensuality with carefulness in a religious epic written in the local "sangatya" meter (a meter started by Hoysala writer Sisumayana), his "showstopper", the "Bharatadesa Vaibhava" (c. 1557). 

In spite of the fact that the Vaishnava cultured compositions in Kannada started with the Hoysala artist Rudrabhatta and the reverential melody kind was started by Naraharitirtha, the Vaishnava development started to apply a solid effect on Kannada writing just from the fifteenth century on. The Vaishnava scholars comprised of two gatherings who appeared to have no cooperation with one another: the Brahmin pundits who commonly composed under the support of sovereignty, and the Bhakti (dedication) journalists (otherwise called haridasas) who assumed no job in elegant issues. The Bhakti scholars took the message of God to the general population as pleasant tunes made utilizing society types, for example, the "kirthane" (a melodic arrangement with hold back, in light of tune and beat), the "suladi" (a sythesis dependent on cadence) and the "ugabhoga" (a piece dependent on song). Kumara Vyasa and Timmanna Kavi were notable among the Brahmin pundits, while Purandara Dasa and Kanaka Dasa were the most eminent of the Bhakti journalists. The rationality of Madhvacharya, which started in the Kannada-talking locale in the thirteenth century, spread past its fringes throughout the following two centuries. The nomad haridasas, best portrayed as spiritualist holy person writers, spread the theory of Madhvacharya in basic Kannada, winning mass intrigue by lecturing dedication to God and lauding the temperances of "jnana" (edification), "bhakti" (commitment) and "vairagya" (separation). 

Vachana verse, created in response to the inflexible rank based Hindu society, achieved its crest in ubiquity among the under-special amid the twelfth century. In spite of the fact that these ballads did not utilize any customary meter or rhyme conspire, they are known to have started from the before "tripadi" metrical structure. The Veerashaivas, who composed this verse, had ascended to powerful positions by the Vijayanagara time frame (fourteenth century). Court pastors and respectability having a place with the confidence, for example, Lakkanna Dandesa and Jakkanarya, composed writing as well as belittled gifted essayists and artists. Veerashaiva anthologists of the fifteenth and sixteenth hundreds of years started to gather Shaiva compositions and vachana lyrics, initially composed on palm leaf original copies. As a result of the obscure idea of the ballads, the anthologists added critiques to them, in this way giving their concealed importance and elusive essentialness. An intriguing part of this anthological work was the interpretation of the Shaiva group into Sanskrit, carrying it into the circle of the Sanskritic ("marga" or standard rather than "desi" or people) social request.