Western Chalukya writing in Kannada 

A huge group of Western Chalukya writing in the Kannada language was created amid the rule of the Western Chalukya Empire (973– 1200 CE) in what is presently southern India. This administration, which led a large portion of the western Deccan in South India is now and again called the Kalyani Chalukya Dynasty after its imperial capital at Kalyani (presently Basavakalyan) and here and there called the Later Chalukya Dynasty for its hypothetical relationship to the sixth century Chalukya tradition of Badami. For a concise period (1162– 1183), the Kalachuris of Kalyani, a tradition of rulers who had before relocated to the Karnataka district from focal India and filled in as vassals for a few ages, misused the developing shortcoming of their overlords and added the Kalyani. Around 1183, the last Chalukya scion, Someshvara IV, toppled the Kalachuris to recapture control of the imperial city. Be that as it may, his endeavors were futile, as other noticeable Chalukya vassals in the Deccan, the Hoysalas, the Kakatiyas and the Seunas demolished the leftovers of the Chalukya control. 

Kannada writing from this period is generally ordered into the phonetic stage called Old-Kannada. It established the greater part of the Chalukya court's literary generation and related generally to works identifying with the socio-religious advancement of the Jain confidence. The most punctual understood scholars having a place with the Shaiva confidence are likewise from this period. Under the support of Kalachuri King Bijjala II, whose head administrator was the notable Kannada artist and social reformer Basavanna, a local type of graceful writing called "Vachana" writing ("lit" "articulation", "saying" or "sentence") multiplied. The beginnings of the "Vachana" beautiful convention in the Kannada-talking district follow back to the mid eleventh century. Kannada writing written in the "champu" meter, made out of exposition and refrain, was promoted by the Chalukyan court artists. Be that as it may, with the appearance of the Veerashaiva ("lit", "valiant aficionados of the god Shiva") religious development in the mid-twelfth century, writers supported the local "tripadi" (three-line section made out of eleven "ganas" or prosodic units), "hadugabba" (tune sonnet) and free stanza meters for their lyrics. 

Vital artistic commitments in Kannada were made not just by court writers, aristocrats, sovereignty, monks and holy people who wrote in the "marga" (standard) style, yet additionally by average people and craftsmans, including shoemakers, weavers, cowherds and shepherds who wrote in the "desi" (society) style. These "Vachana" artists (called "Vachanakaras") changed Kannada writing, dismissing conventional subjects that praised lords and aristocrats, and composing instructive ballads that were nearer to the spoken and sung type of the language. Notwithstanding several male writers, more than thirty female artists have been recorded, some of whom composed alongside their spouses. 

Towards the finish of the tenth century, another Karnataka administration, called the Western Chalukyas, had come to control by toppling the Rashtrakuta Empire of Manyakheta (present day Malkhed in the Gulbarga area, Karnataka). Their most punctual engraving is dated to c. 957 and is credited to a subordinate ruler, Tailapa II of Tardavadi, later to turn into the establishing lord of the realm, in the Bijapur area, Karnataka. An engraving from c. 967 proposes that an ineffective defiance was organized by Chattideva, a nearby lord having a place with the Chalukya family, with the assistance of the Kadamba boss from the sanctuary town Banavasi. These occasions, be that as it may, made ready for Tailapa II to dispatch an effective resistance to the Rashtrakuta King Karka II with the assistance of the Kadamba head of Hangal. 

A century prior to these political improvements, the time of incredible Sanskrit and Prakrit sagas and works of art had arrived at an end. This gainful period had made accessible an immense corpus of writing that could be communicated in the nearby language of Kannada. Kannada, which had prospered both as a language of political talk and writing in the Rashtrakuta court, found eager help from the Chalukya lords. The persuasive Jains, who as per history specialist A.S. Altekar may have contained 30 percent of the populace, not just overwhelmed the social scene of ninth and tenth century Karnataka, but on the other hand were anxious to energize writing in the nearby language. As indicated by Professor S.N. Sen, an examination individual at the Indian chamber of verifiable research, Kannada writing under the Chalukyas came to a "flawlessness of structure". Researchers Sheldon Pollock and Jan Houben have guaranteed that 90 percent of the Chalukyan regal engravings are in Kannada, a virtual relocation of Sanskrit as the language of cultured talk. 

For a couple of hundreds of years after "Kavirajamarga" ("Royal way for artists", c. 850), the most punctual accessible Kannada abstract work, Jain compositions had clung to Sanskritic models that had been perceived by the state as the way for future Kannada journalists, while consigning local idyllic structures (sytheses, for example, "Chattana" and "Bedande") to subordinate status. The stranglehold that the Sanskritic models had over Kannada writing is best exemplified by Ranna's vocabulary "Rannakanda" (990), where local everyday Kannada words had been converted into Sanskrit. This suggested the unadulterated type of the nearby language was not seen as equivalent to Sanskrit, from the cosmopolitan perspective. Kannada works by Jain creators therefore utilized noteworthy Sanskrit-inferred stanzas mixed with writing to laud the excellencies of their supporter rulers, who were regularly contrasted with saints from the Hindu stories. While Adikavi ("Pampa Bharata", 941) looked at his supporter, the feudatory Chalukya King Arikesari, to Pandava sovereign Arjuna, in "Vikramarjuna Vijaya", his form of the Hindu epic Mahabharata, Ranna (983) thought that it was appropriate to think about his benefactor, King Satyashraya, to Pandava ruler Bhima. 

The standard abstract style was to lose ubiquity amid the mid-twelfth century Kalachuri rule, because of the ascent of progressive ideas about the social and social request. The Veerashaivas, acting in challenge, utilized the unadulterated type of Kannada language in their sonnets; additionally, they supported scholars from lower stations to take an interest and totally wiped out topics that had been viewed as formal by the ruler and the religious community. In this manner, written in local meters, in a language near the verbally expressed type of Kannada, the "Vachana" ballads increased mass intrigue. Another religious confidence was in this way spread by the Veerashaivas whose command is known as the "Veerashaiva development" and their informative kind, the "Vachana". While the "Vachana" verse is commonly ordered as a piece of the dish Indian "Bhakti" (reverential) writing, such speculations will in general camouflage the exclusive and hostile to "bhakti" positions taken by many "Vachanakaras". The starting point of the Veerashaiva belief system and the beginnings of their verse is indistinct. As per D.R. Nagaraj, a researcher on artistic societies ever, present day researchers will in general support two wide perspectives: integrationist and indigenist. The integrationists, for example, L. Basavaraju, follow the wellspring of "Vachana" idyllic custom to the Sanskrit Upanishad sacred writings and the Agama precept, however this does not clarify why the development did not bloom before or in the neighboring Telugu-talking district where radical Shaiva factions were known to be dynamic. The indigenists, for example, Chidananda Murthy, M.M. Kalaburgi and G.S. Shivarudrappa, propose a local Karnataka birthplace of the verse, however they are yet to completely clarify its novel nature. 

At about this time, adding to weight from the ubiquity of the "Vachana" ordinance in the northern Kannada-talking area, the prominent Hoysala ruler Vishnuvardhana (1108– 1152) of the southern Kannada-talking district changed over from Jainism to the Hindu organization of Vaishnavism. The prevalence of Ramanujacharya's logic had spread in the Hoysala terrains and Srivaishnavism, a sub-organization of Vaishnavism, was in the ascendant. By the late thirteenth century, the Veerashaiva essayists, who were at this point composing metaphorical engravings and memoirs of renowned "Vachanakaras" of the twelfth century, were in hardened challenge with the Jains. The most punctual endeavors by the Jains to veer far from customary "puranic" (philosophical) subjects of renunciation are found in the works of Hoysala scholars Nemichandra and Andayya. "Lilavati Prabhandam", a novel composed by Nemichandra (1170) on the point of adoration, erotica, and of the triumph of Kamadeva (divine force of affection) over his main adversary Shiva, is the first among such works. It was trailed by "Kabbigara Kava" ("Poets protector", 1215– 1237) by Andayya, additionally a work delineating a war among Kamadeva and the god Shiva. Regardless of these endeavors, the Jain scholarly impact was to retreat in the coming decades and hundreds of years, being consigned for the most part to the beach front Kannada-talking locale. Works of suffering quality were still created by free thinker creators, for example, Ratnakaravarni (1557), however their numbers were less. 

Contemporaneous to these advancements, Nagavarma II composed his Kannada punctuation "Karnataka bhashabhushana" ("Ornament of Karnataka language", 1042 or 1145). An achievement in the historical backdrop of Kannada writing, it merged the language as contender to built up dialects, for example, Sanskrit and Prakrit, bringing the nearby language inside the domain of artistic cosmopolitanism. Composing a Kannada sentence structure in Sanskrit language was fundamental to Nagavarma II, an unobtrusive rejoinder to Sanskritic researchers of the day who may have thought about Kannada as a language of the basic man and its syntax as immature. Notwithstanding the Chalukya support, Kannada artists and essayists of this period were prominent in the courts of neighboring kingdoms of the western Deccan. The Hoysalas, the southern Kalachuris, the Seunas, the Gangas and the Silharas are a portion of the decision families who excitedly utilized Kannada in engravings and advanced its writing. 

The late tenth century was a time of union for the juvenile realm. Establishing King Tailapa II and his successor, King Satyashraya, warred against their neighbors: the Shilharas of south Konkan, the Chaulukyas of Gujarat, the Paramara of focal India and the Chola Dynasty of Tanjore. Unaffected by these political advancements, Kannada writing kept on thriving in the illustrious court. The premier author of this period was Ranna, who was destined to a group of bangle merchants in the town of Mudhol. Ranna is considered by history specialists K.A. Nilakanta Sastri and Sailendra Nath Sen as one of the "three diamonds of Kannada writing" alongside his seniors, Adikavi Pampa and Sri Ponna. Ranna turned into the court writer of King Tailapa II and King Satyashraya. In his initial days, he was likewise disparaged by the notable Ganga serve Chavundaraya. Ranna is well known for expressing "Ajitha purana" (993), which relates the life of the second Jain tirthankar Ajitanatha. Nonetheless, it is in his "artful culmination", the work "Sahasa Bhima Vijaya" ("Victory of intense Bhima", additionally called "Gada Yudda" or "Struggle of Clubs'", 982) that he achieves his peak of lovely beauty while portraying the contention between Pandava Bhima and Kaurava sovereign Duryodhana in his Jain form of the Hindu epic Mahabharata. 

Dissimilar to Pampa who commends Arjuna and Karna in his composition, Ranna praises his supporter King Satyashraya and positively thinks about him to Bhima, whom he crowns toward the finish of the Mahabharata war. He calls Bhima's foe Duryodhana "mahanubhava" ("an extraordinary individual"). The work contains probably the most punctual instances of elegiac sections (called "shoka gita" or "charama gita") in the Kannada language, noted among which is one piece that depicts the unfortunate groan (called "karuna rasa" or "supposition of poignancy") of Duryodhana on observing the killed assortments of his sibling Duhshasana, his indistinguishable companion in euphoria and distress, Karna, and Arjuna's valorous child Abhimanyu. The impact given to the composition, the language, the word usage and the style kept up all through the portrayal has earned Ranna a spot among the most striking creators of Kannada writing. Credited additionally to Ranna is the most punctual accessible lexicon in Kannada language called the "Rannakanda" (990), of which just eleven refrains still exist. His other eminent works were the "Chakeresvaracharita" and the "Parashuramacharitha". As per student of history Suryanath Kamath, the last work, which is presently lost, may have been a tribute of Chavundaraya, whom the artist appreciated. For his artistic commitments, the title "Kavi Chakravathi" ("Emperor among artists") was presented to Ranna by his benefactor ruler. 

Another eminent essayist from the end of the tenth century, Nemichandra, composed the "Kaviraja kunjara" and "Lilavati" (c. 990) with Prince Kavdarpa Deva of Jayantipura (current Banavasi, Karnataka) and Princess Lilavati as the heroes of the last sonnet. Different scholars from the end of the tenth century whose works are presently lost however have been adulated by the Chalukya serve Durgasimha (1031) are Kavitavilasa (disparaged by King Jayasimha II), Madiraja, Chadrabhatta, Kannamayya and Manasija. Engravings, for example, the Kuppatur and Haveri records praise famous essayists, for example, Harivarma (1070) and Narayana Deva separately. 

As indicated by Kannada researcher R. Narasimhacharya, regardless of the generation of some vital mainstream compositions, rehashed Chola intrusions into Kannada arrives in the eleventh century may have unfavorably influenced abstract creation. This circumstance was realized by extreme challenge between the Western Chalukyas and their most despised adversaries, the Cholas of Tanjore. Among eminent compositions, Chandraraja's "Madanatilaka" ("Forehead trimming of energy", 1025), written in the "champu" meter, is the soonest accessible work on erotica in the Kannada language and an adjustment of the Sanskrit "Kamasutra" by Vatsyayana. The portrayal is an exchange between the supporter and his better half in "posakannada", the most current Kannada in use at the time. He was under the support of Machiraja, feudatory of King Jayasimha II (likewise called Jagadekamalla I). Shridharacharya, a Jain Brahmin disparaged by King Someshvara I (additionally called Ahvamalla or Trailokyamalla) demonstrated his capacity to compose on logical subjects in "Jatakatilaka" (1049), the most punctual accessible composition on crystal gazing in Kannada, refering to the Sanskrit cosmologist Aryabhata. His other work is the lost "Chandraprabha Charite", on beauties lettres. 

Chavundaraya II, a Shaiva (Brahmin lover of the god Shiva) by confidence and a protege of King Jayasimha II, stated "Lokopakara" (c. 1025) in the "champu" meter. It is the most punctual accessible reference book in the Kannada language, composed on occasion with a wonderful touch. It includes twelve parts and has discovered fame in later references also. The work is on different subjects, for example, day by day life, space science, soothsaying and anticipating of occasions dependent on the Indian schedule ("panchanga phala"), mold, development of structures ("vastu vichara") and supplies ("udakargala"), signs, divination of water, arrangement of medication from herbs and plants ("vrikshayurveda"), general drug ("vaidya"), perfumery, cookery and toxicology ("vishavaidya"). Referenced in this book is the well known South Indian dish Idli and its readiness by dousing Urad dal (dark gram) in spread milk, granulating it to a fine glue, and blending with flavors and the reasonable water of curd. 

Durgasimha, the "Sandhi Vigrahi" (pastor of war and harmony) of King Jayasimha II composed the notable "Panchatantra" ("The five stratagems", 1031) in "champu" style, putting together it with respect to Gunadhya's Paishachi language unique "Brihatkatha". This tale is the primary adjustment of the first into a vernacular language of India. Containing sixty tales on the whole, thirteen of which are unique, each is outlined by a moral good dependent on a Jain fundamental. Durgasimha likewise wrote the "Karnataka Banachatantra", the most punctual accessible critique in the Kannada language, giving a short analysis on all the Sanskrit sections he cited in the "Panchatantra". Around this time, Jayakirti (c. 1000– 1050), a Kannada language scholar, who believed the principles of prosody to be the equivalent for Sanskrit and Kannada, composed the "Chandonusasana" 

There were other prominent essayists from the last piece of the eleventh century. Shantinatha, disparaged by King Someshvara II, composed the lyric "Sukumaracharita" in c. 1068. Nagavarmacharya, a Brahmin Advaita holy person of Balligavi, who was disparaged by King Udayatidya, a vassal of Chalukya King Someshvara II, expressed "Chandrachudamani sataka" (c. 1070) in the "sataka" (hundred-line stanza) meter. In this centum of refrains, where every end with the expression "Chandrachudamani" as another name of the god Shiva, the creator treats on "viragya" (morals of renunciation). Different essayists whose works are viewed as lost however have been referenced in contemporary compositions are Gunachandra and Gunavarma. Gunachandra, who was respected by King Someshvara II (additionally called Bhuvanaika Malla), expressed "Parsvabhyudaya" and "Maghanadisvara". Gunavarma, who earned the honorific "Bhuvanaika Vira", a title befitting a warrior as opposed to an artist, is referenced by grammarian Keshiraja (c. 1260) as the creator of "Harivamsa". His title distinguishes him with a Ganga sovereign called Udayaditya who was a priest and general under Chalukya King Someshvara II. Different compositions credited to the creator are "Pushpadanta Purana" and "Devachandra Prabha Stotra". 

The twelfth century proclaimed a time of harmony and flourishing. Social and artistic improvements got driving force amid the standard of King Vikramaditya VI, a supporter of the expressive arts. The ruler, who climbed the royal position in 1076 and ruled for a long time involves a pride of spot ever of. His rule denotes the finish of the utilization of "Saka Varsha" (Indian date-book, the "Saka period") in Chalukya engravings and the beginning of "Vikrama Varsha" ("Vikrama time"). His court was embellished with the absolute most surely understood journalists of Kannada and Sanskrit writing. Nayasena, whose works are dated by the researchers D.R. Nagaraj and Sheldon Pollock to the tenth century, and by E.P. Rice and R. Narasimhacharya to c. 1112, composed the "Dharmamritha", a book containing fifteen stories that have a place with the class of tale and story. Understood among these accounts educating about Jain precepts are "Yajnadatta and the mongoose", "Kapalika and the youthful elephant" and "Snake, tiger, monkey and the goldsmith who had fallen in the old well". The composing is one of exceptional self-cross examination where the creator reprimands the convictions of every contemporaneous religion while discrediting the pollution in the first Jain convictions because of outside social impacts, for example, the act of brutal and ridiculous customs and the standing framework. 

Brahmashiva, the court artist of King Vikramaditya VI, earned the title "Kavichakravarti" ("Emperor among artists") from his supporter for his expressing "Samayaparikshe" ("Analysis of the teaching", c. 1125). In this philosophical composition, containing contacts of advocate parody and diversion, the creator looks to demonstrate the temperances of Jainism better than all other contemporary religions. Brahmashiva depicts contemporary life and convictions of the general population of the Kannada-talking locale. He scrutinizes Hinduism and the transformation of a Jain sanctuary initially committed to the Tirthankar Chandrapraba in Kholapur into a Hindu sanctuary exalting the goddess Mahalakshmi. He communicates reservation in regards to the presence of religious cosmopolitanism inside a family unit where relatives pursued various beliefs. The creator is worried about the dissolving ubiquity of Jainism in southern India because of the rising fame of the Veerashaiva development. Sovereign Kirtivarma, a more youthful sibling of King Vikramaditya VI, stated "Govaidya" ("Cattle Medicine"), the most punctual accessible writing in Kannada on veterinary science, which blends drug and enchantment. 

After the demise of Vikramaditya VI, his successors, Someshvara III and Jagadhekamalla II kept on supporting artists and authors. Karnaparya's record of the life of the 22nd tirthankar Neminatha, the "Neminathapurana" (c. 1145) in "champu" meter, incorporates subtleties of the Hindu epic Mahabharata and of the god Krishna from a Jain standpoint. Jagaddala Somanatha's "Karnataka Kalyanakaraka" (1150), an interpretation of the Sanskrit expressing "Kalyanakaraka" by Pujyapada, is the most punctual composition on prescription in Kannada. It recommends a completely veggie lover and non-alcoholic eating routine. 

Among accessible chips away at Kannada language structure, a piece of "Kavirajamarga" (850) shapes the soonest system. The event of the expression "purvacharyar" in certain settings of the composing might be a reference to past grammarians or rhetoricians. In spite of the fact that Nagavarma-II is credited to be the creator of the most punctual comprehensive Kannada language structure, the creator specifies his ancestors, Sankavarma and Nagavarma-I (the surviving "Chhandombudhi", "Sea of Prosody", c. 984) as way producers of Kannada punctuation. Precisely when grammarian Nagavarma-II lived is bantered by history specialists. Until the disclosure of "Vardhamana Puranam" ("Life of Varadhama", c. 1042) written in Kannada by a writer who passes by a similar name, it was comprehensively acknowledged by researchers including E.P. Rice, R. Narasimhacharya and K.A. Nilakanta Sastri that Nagavarma II lived in the mid-twelfth century (1145) and was additionally the "Katakacharya" ("artist laureate") of Chalukya King Jagadhekamalla II. Be that as it may, generally, the Encyclopedia of Indian writing, distributed by the Sahitya Akademi (1988), and researchers D.R. Nagaraj and Sheldon Pollock agree that Nagavarma II lived in the mid-eleventh century and was the writer laureate of Chalukya King Jayasimha II, who had the sobriquet "Jagadekamalla" ("Lord of the world"). 

Regardless of when Nagavarma II lived, it is acknowledged that couple of researchers in the historical backdrop of Kannada writing made critical commitments in the same number of subjects as he did. His compositions on syntax, verse, prosody, and vocabulary are standard experts and their significance to the investigation of the Kannada language is very much recognized. Among his accessible works, the verifiably critical "Kavyavalokana" ("Treatise on the specialty of verse") on sentence structure, poetics and talk is viewed as way breaking and contains every one of the fundamentals of Kannada punctuation. The principal segment of the book is designated "Sabdasmriti" and contains five parts managing euphonic mixes, things, mixes, ostensible subordinates and action words individually. It depends on prior works by the Sanskrit grammarians Dandin and Bhamaha. The "Karnataka Bhashabhushana", a united and comprehensive Kannada sentence structure composed by Nagavarma II in the Sanskrit language, pursues the central system of the Katantra school of Sanskrit syntax. For his commitment to Kannada syntax, Nagavarma II earned the honorific "Sarvavarma" – the name of the prominent Sanskrit grammarian of the Satavahana period. His "Abhidana Vastukosa" ("Treasury of connotations"), a dictionary, gives Kannada counterparts of about eight thousand Sanskrit words and is viewed as an accomplishment which gave Kannada language extensive balance in the realm of Sanskrit abstract strength. Present day Kannada writer Govinda Pai recommended that the writer of "Karnataka Bhashabhushana" was an alternate Nagavarma who had a place with the mid-twelfth century. 

The brilliant ascent of Veerashaivism (a religious order which lectures commitment to the god Shiva, likewise called "Lingayatism") in station ridden twelfth century Karnataka has notable centrality since it included everyday citizens from the lower strata of society, individuals who had up to this point been denied access to even essential training. The substance of the development, additionally found in the subsequent "Vachana" ballads, was the dismissal of sanctuary based custom love and the authority of standard Sanskritic writings and sacred texts. The development empowered a monotheistic faith in the god Shiva which, as per Kannada researcher H.S. Shiva Prakash, is a conceivable impact of the 63 Nayanmars (artists committed to the god Shiva, 5th– tenth century) of the Tamil-talking district. The adherents of the confidence implored not to a customary picture of a God but instead wore a "linga" (image of the god Shiva) on their body. The beginnings of the "Vachana" verse (called "Vachana Sahitya" – "Vachana writing", or "Anubhava Sahitya" – "spiritualist writing" and in some cases "Sharana Sahitya" – "writing of the fans"), a special type of articulation in the Kannada language, can anyway be followed back to the eleventh century. 

Names of three artists from the eleventh century and a portion of their lyrics are accessible. Madara Chennaiah, a shoemaker turned holy person, is considered by H.S. Shiva Prakash as the first "Vachana artist", and was held in high regard by contemporary artists of the twelfth century, including Basavanna. Just ten of Chennaiah's lyrics, communicating his disdain of the position framework in illustrations taken from the shoemakers' exchange, are surviving today. Dohara Kakkaiah is the second writer. A dalit by birth, his six accessible lyrics are confession booth in nature, a topic found in the later sonnets of Basavanna. Devara Dasimaiah (or Jedara Dasimaiah, 1040) is better known on the grounds that a hundred and fifty of his sonnets are accessible. Written in a deft and compact language of maxims and similitudes, his sonnets empower monotheistic faith in the god Shiva. Dasimaiah's better half Duggale qualifies as Kannada's first ladies writer, however just a couple of her ballads are accessible. 

In the mid-twelfth century, the Kalachuris effectively warred against their overlords, the Western Chalukyas, and attached their capital Kalyani. Amid this tempestuous period enduring three decades (1153– 1183), Veerashaivism picked up ubiquity. As indicated by H.S. Shiva Prakash, the Kalachuri time frame is one of the high purposes of medieval Kannada writing. Basavanna (or Basava), a social reformer and the head administrator of Kalachuri King Bijjala II, is for the most part viewed as the motivation behind this development. Allama Prabhu, Chennabasava, Siddharama, Akka Mahadevi, and Kondugoli Keshiraja are other surely understood artists among a few hundred in this unit. 

A focal point of religious talks called "Anubhava Mantapa" ("Hall of experience") in Kalyani turned into the conference where enthusiasts assembled to examine their spiritualist encounters. Here, they communicated their dedication to Shiva in straightforward sonnets called "Vachanas". These were unconstrained expressions of musical, epigrammatical and ironical writing stressing the uselessness of wealth, ceremonies and book learning. A large number of these sonnets are mysterious, however the creators are recognizable by the one of a kind awesome name of the god Shiva that is summoned in the ballad. 

Destined to Brahmin guardians in the town of Basavana Bagewadi, Basavanna (1106– 1167) rejected the "upanayanam" ("custom string service") and left home for Kudalasangama, a sacred spot at the intersection of the Krishna and Ghataprabha streams in Bagalkot locale, Karnataka. As per history specialist P.B. Desai, it was here, amid his tutelage under the holy person Ishanyaguru, that Basavanna had dreams of his life's motivation. The life of Basavanna marks an achievement in the historical backdrop of Karnataka state, India. A transcending identity, his energy and socio-social accomplishments in the domain of harmony and equity of humankind have achieved suffering changes in the public eye. 

Data about his life and accomplishments originate from the numerous Kannada compositions, the most punctual of which were composed soon after his passing. Hoysala artist Harihara's "Basavarajadevara ragale" is the principal known life story on Basavanna. Vijayanagara artist author Bhima Kavi's "Basavapurana" (1369), Singiraja's "Amala Basavacharite" (1500), Vijayanagara serve Lakkanna Dandesa's "Shiva Tatwachintamani" (1425– 1450) are a portion of the vital sources. The foundation of Basavanna's rationality was "work-adore is paradise", the dismissal of simple love of God and the acknowledgment of one's own body as a sanctuary of God. Basavanna unequivocally supported an actual existence of complete duty to work. As a writer, he finds a pride of spot in Kannada writing. His deftly composed lyrics end with "Kudalasangama" which actually signifies "Lord of the conjunction of two waterways", the writer's adaptation of the god Shiva. Around 1,300 such lyrics have endure, and have been portrayed by H.S. Shiva Prakash as expressive, mocking, profoundly thoughtful and self-basic. 

In one humorous ballad, Basavanna criticizes the pietism of a snake charmer and his significant other, who on their approach to discover a lady for their child drop the adventure when they run over an awful sign – another snake charmer and his better half. In spite of the fact that Basavanna himself was a clergyman under the support of the lord, a portion of his sonnets sell out his scorn towards authority and profound dedication to the god Shiva. 

A lyric by Basavanna: 

Allama, otherwise called Allama Prabhu ("lit", "Allama the ace") was a homeless person holy person artist who took to the way of plainness after the troublesome demise of his significant other Kamalate. He was naturally introduced to a group of innate sanctuary entertainers and was himself a specialist on the drum (called "maddale") in Balligavi, a town of extraordinary relic in the Shivamogga region, Karnataka. Meandering around misery stricken by his significant other's demise, he ran over a holy person called Animisayya who started him into parsimony. 

Credited to Allama are 1,321 surviving ballads, every one of which end with "Guhesvara" ("lit", "Ruler of the Cave", a type of the god Shiva), for it is said Allama discovered illumination in a cavern. Allama's obscure lyrics, however loaded with consideration, are known for their parody, joke, condemnation and dismissal of "siddhis" (mysterious forces). H.S. Shiva Prakash thinks about Allama's ballads to the "Koans" in Japanese Zen verse. As per D.R. Nagaraj, Allama's spiritualist ballads are in a classification the majority of their own and don't qualify as "bhakti" sonnets, which are ordinarily portrayed by straightforward commitment. 

While Basavanna's enthusiasm and impact prompted the arrangement and prevalence of the Veerashaiva development in Kalyani, it was Allama who was the undisputed otherworldly specialist directing the get-togethers of the aficionados. Chamarasa, an outstanding fifteenth century Kannada author in the court of Vijayanagara King Deva Raya II stated "Prabhulinga Lile" (1430), a record of the preachings and accomplishments of Allama; it was converted into the Telugu and Tamil dialects at the command of his supporter ruler, and later into the Sanskrit and Marathi dialects. In the story, Allama is viewed as a manifestation of the Hindu god Ganapathi while Ganapathi's mom, Parvati (Shiva's associate), appears as a princess of Banavasi. A remarkable collection called the "Sunyasampadane" ("The accomplishment of nothingness", 1400) was assembled on the life of Allama and gives insights regarding his cooperation with contemporary holy people. A lyric by Allama Prabhu: 

Conspicuous among the in excess of thirty ladies writers was Akka Mahadevi. Destined to a dealer family in the town Udatadi (or Udugani) in the Shivamogga area, and potentially wedded against her desires to a medieval boss called Kausika, she revoked common joys, deciding on a real existence of dedication and parsimony. She is frequently contrasted with other such remarkable female holy person writers of Hinduism as Andal, Lalleswari and Meera Bai, and is viewed as one of the unmistakable female artists of the Kannada language. 

The 430 short lyrics composed by her, in a language that delineates her affection for her celestial sweetheart "Channa Mallikarjuna" ("lit", "Wonderful Mallikarjuna", a name for the god Shiva), and the fifteenth century collection, the "Sunyasampadane", are the principle wellsprings of data about her life. Her verse is described by disdain for physical belongings and separation from common undertakings. A prevalent ballad composed by her depicts the life of a silk worm which turns a case, winds up trapped in the strings, and in the long run bites the dust since it can't remove itself – the silk worm is contrasted with an individual and the silk strings, to common wants. In a lyric of jokes, the artist supplicates that her god, whom she portrays as the "Ruler of fragrant Jasmines", may slice through the case of wants so she may turn out to be free similar to a butterfly. 

Notwithstanding verse, she is credited with two short works, "Mantrogopya" and "Yogangatrividhi", the last written in the local "tripadi" meter, depicting the different phases of profound edification. Custom has it that Akka Mahadevi liked to wear no garments, a type of renunciation which in her own words was the "most magnified profound state". She passed on while still in her twenties in a plantain woods in the sacred city of Srisailam. A lyric by Akka Mahadevi: 

Basavanna's nephew, Chennabasava, is increasingly prevalent as a strategist and a scholar. Aside from composing some outstanding and long "Vachana" lyrics, he composed on yogic encounters in a book called "Mantragopya". He is known to have been the director of the social affairs and the "Mahamane" ("extraordinary house") of Basavanna. Credited to Siddharama, another persuasive lover and a local of Sonnalige (present day Sholapur, Maharashtra), are works in "tripadi" meter and 1,379 surviving ballads (however he has asserted origin of 68,000 lyrics). His lyrics were affected by Basavanna's philosophy and pass on dismissal of visually impaired convictions, the standing framework, and sexual separation. 

Craftsman writers included Molige Maraiah, a wood shaper; Madivala Machayya, a washerman; Ambigere Chowdiah, a ferryman; Madara Dhooliah, a shoemaker; Hendada Mariah, a hard stuff tapper; Turugahi Ramanna, a cowherd; Kannadi Remmitande, a mirror producer; and Revanna Siddha, a shepherd, as yet a couple in a not insignificant rundown of artists. Artists Dakkeya Bommaiah, Bahuroopi Chowdaiah, Kalaketaiah and Nageya Maritande were custom road entertainers and their ballads reflect pictures from their exchange. 

A few ladies artists made essential commitments including: Basavanna's sister Nagalambike and his two spouses, Gangambike and Neelambike, however Neelambike appears to have been the more productive. Some female writers were spouses of male artists in the Veerashaiva gathering. Eminent among them are Satyakka, whose ballads contrast in quality with those of Akka Mahadevi, Kelavve (a dalit writer), whose lyrics disdain at the upper rank individuals, Mahadevi and Lingamma, who composed sonnets in a spiritualist language, Amuge Rayamma and Akkamma, who wrote lyrics on the fraud of religious affectations, Kadire Remavva (a spinner), who utilized an obscure language called "bedagu" in her lyrics, and Muktayakka, who is known for her discussions with the benefactor holy person Allama himself. Different names deserving of notice are Lakkamma, Ketaladevi, Guddavve and a princess called Bontadevi. 

Testing the very center of the rank based society, the Veerashaivas directed a marriage between an upper position Brahmin lady and a lower standing Shudra groom. The subsequent encounter between defiant Veerashaivas and the moderate privileged societies lead to the death of King Bijjala II and the ousting of most enthusiasts, including Basavanna, from Kalyani. The successors of King Bijjala II were powerless, inciting Chalukya Someshvara IV, administering from Annigeri, to endeavor modifying his realm by attacking Kalyani in 1183. In spite of the fact that his attack was fruitful, his general endeavors fizzled and the line was finished by the Seuna rulers who drove Someshvara IV into outcast in Banavasi in 1189. Despite the fact that these fierce occasions made a misfortune the Veerashaiva get-togethers and production of ballads, the development had set roots in the Kannada soil and recovered ubiquity in the fifteenth century under the support of the leaders of the Vijayanagara Empire. 

The post-Chalukya period is described by the notoriety of Shaiva and Vaishnava reverential compositions, however mainstream and elegant points written in local meters kept on prospering. Local meters in vogue were the "shatpadi" (six-line section), the "tripadi", the "ragle" (rhymed couplets) and the "sangatya" (structures intended to be sung to the backup a melodic instrument). By and large, Kannada compositions started to change from "marga" ("formal", due to Sanskritic impact) to "desi" ("vernacular") and become increasingly open to the normal man. 

This change is obvious in the compositions of the Hoysala court writers, some of whom are noted for spearheading works in local meters. The Veerashiava artist Harihara, a standout amongst the most noticeable artists of the medieval period, built up the "ragale" custom with his history of Basavanna ("Basavaraja Devara ragale", 1160), the soonest accessible life story of the social reformer and of the Kannada language also. His nephew Raghavanka built up the "shatpadi" meter in his extraordinary and unique portrayal of the tale of King Harishchandra called "Harishchandra Kavya" (1200). Sisumayana is credited with presenting another organization called "sangatya" (1232) in his metaphorical sonnets "Tripuradahana" ("Burning of the triple post") and "Anjanacharita". Some Jain writers proceeded the "champu" convention, for example, Janna, deified by his expressing "Yashodhara Charite" (1207), an extraordinary arrangement of stories in 310 sections managing sadomasochism and transmigration of the spirit. The most punctual understood Brahmin essayists additionally rose amid the late twelfth century and composed on topics running from Vaishnava confidence (Rudrabhatta's "Jagannatha Vijaya", 1185) to mainstream treatises on poetics (Kavi Kama's "Sringara Ratnakara", on beautiful conclusion and flavor). 

After the fall of the Kalachuri domain, the "Vachana" graceful convention stopped incidentally. Be that as it may, by the fourteenth century, the Veerashaivas who held compelling positions in the Vijayanagara Empire were applying their impact, particularly amid the rule of King Deva Raya II (or Prouda Deva Raya). In spite of the fact that this period isn't as renowned for the expansion of the "Vachana" lyrics as the twelfth century might have been, contemporary journalists embraced the preachings of the holy people and fans of the former time and made them the heroes of their compositions. Having discovered a mobilizing point to spread their confidence, they started a period of discourses, treasurys and histories. Popular among life stories were Bhimakavi's "Basavapurana" (1369), Singiraja's "Mala-Basavapurana" (or "Singirajapurana", 1500) on the life of Basavanna, Chamarasa's "Prabhulingalile" (1425) on the life of Allama Prabhu and Virupaksha Pandita's "Chenna Basavapurana" (1584), a record of Chennabasava. Among a considerable rundown of treasurys, four forms of the "Shunyasampadane" are the most outstanding. The principal rendition, finished in 1400 by Shivaganaprasadi Mahadevaiah, was written as a discourse between the hero, holy person Allama Prabhu, and other understood Veerashaiva enthusiasts. Later forms were incorporated by Halage Arya (1500), Gummalapura Siddhalingayati (1560) and Gulur Siddhaveeranodaya (1570). Expressing "Vachana" ballads was advanced again from the mid-sixteenth century, however Kannada language needed to hold up till the seventeenth century to find its most noteworthy present day artist in this type. Sarvajna ("lit." "The infinitely knowledgeable", sixteenth or seventeenth century), a homeless person writer moralist and social reformer, left a permanent engraving on Kannada writing with his instructive sonnets, numbering around 2,100 altogether. Composed utilizing the straightforward local "tripadi" meter to teach the nation people, these ballads spread an immense scope of points, from rank and religion to financial aspects and organization, from expressions and specialties to family life and wellbeing. Sarvajna's sonnets comprise a portion of Kannada's most well known works. 

Four noted Brahmin authors of the Vijayanagara realm, Kumara Vyasa, Timmanna Kavi, Kumara Valmiki and Chatu Vitthalanata multiplied the "shatpadi" meter in their forms of the Hindu legends. Roused by the "Vachana" authors who utilized the tune exposition medium to compose their sonnets, the Haridasa artists utilized classifications, for example, the "kirthane" (melodic arrangements with two holds back – sythesis dependent on "raga", or tune and "tala", or cadence), the "Suladi" (musicality based) and the "Ugabhoga" (tune based) to pass on their dedication to God. Their commitments toward the south Indian traditional music (Carnatic music) is all around acclaimed, Purandaradasa and Kanakadasa being the most mainstream writers of this framework. Purandaradasa was the most productive Haridasa writer who wrote in the "ragale" meter and furthermore earned the honorific "Karnataka Sangeeta Pitamaha" ("Father of Carnatic music"). Kanakadasa was adaptable in numerous local meters. His "Mohana tarangini" is in the "sangatya" meter, "Nalacharita" and a book of ethics for kids called "Haribhakti-sara" are in the "shatpadi" meter.