Demetrius III Eucaerus 

Demetrius III Theos Philopator Soter Philometor Euergetes Callinicus (, surnamed Eucaerus; somewhere in the range of 125 and 109 BC – after 87 BC) was a Hellenistic Seleucid ruler who ruled as the King of Syria somewhere in the range of 96 and 87 BC. He was a child of Antiochus VIII and, probably, his Egyptian spouse Tryphaena. Demetrius III's initial life was spent in a time of common war between his dad and his uncle Antiochus IX, which finished with the death of Antiochus VIII in 96 BC. After the passing of their dad, Demetrius III assumed responsibility for Damascus while his sibling Seleucus VI arranged for war against Antiochus IX, who involved the Syrian capital Antioch. 

The common war delayed; Seleucus VI disposed of his uncle, whose beneficiary Antiochus X counterattacked and drove Seleucus VI to his demise. At that point the twins Antiochus XI and Philip I, siblings of Demetrius III, endeavored to retaliate for Seleucus VI; it finished with the demise of Antiochus XI and the obstruction of Demetrius III in favor of Philip I in a war against Antiochus X that presumably kept going until 88 BC. In 89 BC, Demetrius III attacked Judaea and pulverized the powers of its ruler, Alexander Jannaeus; his close triumph was stopped by the demise of Antiochus X. Demetrius III hurried to Antioch before Philip I could exploit the power vacuum and reinforce his position in respect to Demetrius III. 

By 87 BC, Demetrius III had the majority of Syria under his position. He endeavored to mollify the general population by advancing the significance of the neighborhood Semitic divine beings, and he may have given Damascus the dynastic name Demetrias. By late 87 BC, Demetrius III assaulted Philip I in the city of Beroea, where Philip I's partners approached the Parthians for help. The associated powers steered Demetrius III and blockaded him in his camp; he was compelled to surrender and spent an amazing remainder in a state of banishment in Parthia. Philip I took Antioch, while Antiochus XII, another sibling of Demetrius III, took Damascus. 

The Seleucid Empire, situated in Syria, broke down in the second century BC because of dynastic quarrels and Egyptian obstruction. A long respectful war made Syria section as fakers from the imperial family battled for the position of authority. This kept going until around 123 BC, when Antiochus VIII gave a level of soundness which went on for 10 years. To keep up a level of harmony, Egypt and Syria endeavored dynastic relational unions, which helped Egypt destabilize Syria by supporting one possibility to the royal position over another. In 125 BC, the Egyptian princess Tryphaena was hitched to Antiochus VIII. Five children were destined to the couple: Seleucus VI, the twins Antiochus XI and Philip I, Demetrius III and Antiochus XII. 

In 113 BC, Antiochus VIII's relative Antiochus IX pronounced himself lord; the kin battled determinedly for 10 years and a half. Antiochus IX murdered Tryphaena in 109 BC. Antiochus VIII was killed in 96 BC; this date is derived from the announcement of the primary century antiquarian Josephus, who composed that Antiochus VIII, who expected the position of royalty in 125 BC, ruled for twenty-nine years, and is authenticated by the third century student of history Porphyry, who gave the Seleucid year (SE) 216 (97/96 BC) for Antiochus VIII's demise. Following the passing of his sibling, Antiochus IX took the Syrian capital, Antioch, while Seleucus VI, built up in Cilicia, arranged for war against his uncle. In present day writing, Seleucus VI is viewed as the oldest child, and Demetrius III is viewed as more youthful than Antiochus XI and Philip I. Be that as it may, nothing is thought about the early existence of Demetrius III, who may have been simply the oldest child, having been conceived whenever between 125 BC and 109 BC. As indicated by Josephus, before expecting the position of royalty, Demetrius III lived in the city of Knidos. 

Antiochus IX did not take Damascus following the passing of his sibling; he was most likely centered around the danger of Seleucus VI and couldn't extra the assets for a control of Damascus. This facilitated Demetrius III's height to the position of authority; he took Damascus in 96 BC. The soonest coins struck for the sake of Demetrius were delivered in Damascus in 216 SE (97/96 BC); just a single Damascene front kick the bucket is known from 216 SE (97/96 BC), showing that Demetrius' rule began late that year, giving him brief period to create more bites the dust. The main old works of writing managing Demetrius III's profession are those of Josephus and the Pesher Nahum, a partisan critique on the Book of Nahum. History specialist Kay Ehling noticed that Josephus' record is a consolidated outline and that the real course of occasions encompassing Demetrius III's seizure of intensity should be reproduced. Hence, translating the numismatic proof is instrumental for the hazardous ordered reproduction of Demetrius III's rule. 

Demetrius ( ) is a Greek name that signifies "having a place with Demeter", the Greek goddess of richness. Seleucid rulers were for the most part named Seleucus and Antiochus; "Demetrius" was utilized by the Antigonid line of Macedonia as an imperial name, and its utilization by the Seleucids, who had Antigonid plummet, likely connoted that they were beneficiaries of the last mentioned. Greek rulers did not utilize regnal numbers, which is a cutting edge practice; rather, they utilized designations to separate themselves from likewise named rulers. Demetrius III's most utilized designations are Theos (divine), Philopator (father adoring) and Soter (guardian angel); the previously mentioned sobriquets seem together on the majority of his Damascene and Antiochene coins. In Cilicia, two designations were utilized related: Philometor (mother-adoring) and Euergetes (advocate). The coins from Seleucia Pieria bear three designations together: the ones showing up on the coins of Cilicia, joined with the sobriquet Callinicus (honorably successful). Theos Philopator Soter served to stress Demetrius III's drop from the line of his granddad Demetrius II who bore the designation Theos; Soter was an appellation of Demetrius III's extraordinary granddad Demetrius I, while Philopator spoke to his commitment to his perished dad Antiochus VIII. With Philometor, Demetrius III likely tried to stress his Ptolemaic regal Egyptian plummet through his mom Tryphaena. 

Eucaerus is a well known epithet utilized by most of present day history specialists to indicate Demetrius III, yet it is a mistranscription of the moniker given by Josephus in his works "The Jewish War" and "Relics of the Jews". The most punctual Greek original copies of Josephus' works contain the moniker Akairos in three spots. Eucaerus showed up as a later advancement, and is validated in the Latin adaptations of the original copies. It was likely a copyist, feeling that Akairos was an oversight and attempting to address it, that prompted the presence of Eucaerus. Eucaerus means "very much coordinated", while Akairos signifies "the inconvenient one". Josephus did not clarify the root of Akairos. Such well known monikers are never found on coins, however are passed on just through antiquated writing; neither Eucaerus or Akairos was utilized by Demetrius III on his coinage. Josephus is the main hotspot for the moniker; in the perspective on history specialists David Levenson and Thomas Martin, Eucaerus ought not be utilized to allude to Demetrius; rather, Akairos, or one of his official appellations ought to be utilized. 

As indicated by Josephus, Tryphaena's sibling Ptolemy IX of Egypt introduced Demetrius III in Damascus following the demise of Antiochus XI Epiphanes in 93 BC; this announcement can't be right as the date given by Josephus negates the numismatic proof from Damascus. Notwithstanding the ordered mistake, a few contentions legitimize the hypothesis of a joint effort between Ptolemy IX and Demetrius III; as per Ehling, the suspicion of the designation Philometor (mother adoring) was intended to feature Demetrius III's connection to his uncle Ptolemy IX. Two primary recreations of Demetrius III's ascent to control exist: 

Demetrius III appears to have been content with leaving the battle against Antiochus IX and his beneficiaries to his numerous siblings; he exploited the bedlam in the north to combine his power in Damascus. Drawing his authenticity from his dad, he showed up on his coinage with an overstated peddled nose in the similarity of Antiochus VIII. Coins from a city named Demetrias, bearing on their turn around a picture of the Tyche of Damascus, are proof that Demetrius III may have refounded Damascus and given it the dynastic name Demetrias. Damascene coins notice the city as "blessed"; it more likely than not been a benefit gave to it by Demetrius III who perhaps at the same time gave the privilege of haven on his capital. 

Seleucid rulers generally delineated Greek divine beings on their coinage, yet Demetrius III managed a contracted domain, where the nearby factions increased more significance as the Seleucids never again controlled a heterogeneous kingdom. Neighborhood factions went under imperial support as Seleucid rulers endeavored to pick up the help of their non-Greek subjects. On his regal silver coins from Damascus, the preeminent Semitic goddess Atargatis showed up on the invert, while metropolitan coins kept on utilizing the representations of customary Greek divinities. The transmit crown, an indication of godliness, was utilized by Demetrius III on a portion of his coins; this can be a sign that he customarily wedded Atargatis. Wedding the incomparable goddess demonstrated that the lord viewed himself as the appearance of Syria's preeminent god and Atargatis' accomplice, Hadad. The training was begun at an obscure date by Antiochus IV (kicked the bucket 164 BC), the principal ruler to utilize the emanate crown, who picked Hierapolis-Bambyce, Atargatis' most imperative asylum, to ceremonially wed Diana, the appearance of Atargatis in Syria. 

As was run of the mill for a Seleucid ruler, Demetrius III expected to get however a much area as could be expected and tried to grow his spaces in Syria. The city of Gadara was vanquished by Alexander Jannaeus in 100 BC, yet the city liberated itself and returned to the Seleucids after the thrashing of the Judaean lord on account of the Nabataeans, an occasion that occurred in 93 BC at the most recent. Gadara was of incredible key significance for Demetrius III as a noteworthy military center point for activities in the south; controlling it was crucial to the war exertion against the Judaeans. 

In 95 BC, Seleucus VI entered Antioch in the wake of crushing and murdering Antiochus IX, whose child Antiochus X fled to Aradus and pronounced himself lord. In 94 BC, Seleucus VI was driven out of the capital by Antiochus X; the previous got away to the Cilician city of Mopsuestia where he died amid a nearby uprising. Antiochus XI and Philip I retaliated for Seleucus VI, and Antiochus XI drove Antiochus X out of the capital in 93 BC. Antiochus X had the capacity to recapture the city and execute Antiochus XI that year. In the spring of 93 BC, Demetrius III walked in help of his sibling Philip I; Demetrius III may have walked north before to help Antiochus XI in his last fight. 

As per Josephus, Demetrius III and Philip I pursued a savage war against Antiochus X; the language of Josephus demonstrates that Antiochus X was in a protective position as opposed to arranging huge crusades against his cousins. In 220 SE (93/92 BC), no coins were delivered for Demetrius III in Damascus; this could imply that he lost authority over the city. It is conceivable that either the Judaeans or the Nabataeans exploited Demetrius III's takeoff to support his sibling and involved the city; the King recovered Damascus in 221 SE (92/91 BC). Antiochus X's date of death is obscure; customary grant, with no proof, gives the year 92 BC, at that point has Demetrius assuming responsibility for Antioch and decision it for a long time until his destruction in 87 BC. Those customary dates are difficult to legitimize; utilizing a strategy dependent on evaluating the yearly bite the dust use normal rate (the Esty equation), Hoover proposed the year 224 SE (89/88 BC) for the finish of Antiochus X's rule. It is evaluated that just a single to three kicks the bucket were utilized by Demetrius III for his Antiochene coins, a number too little to even consider justifying a five-year-long reign in Antioch; no artistic sources determine the year 92 BC as the date of Demetrius III's control of Antioch, and none of his Antiochene coins bear a date. 

Following the annihilation of Alexander Jannaeus on account of the Nabataeans, Judaea was gotten in a common war between the ruler and a religious gathering called the Pharisees. As indicated by Josephus, Alexander Jannaeus' adversaries convinced Demetrius III to attack Judaea as it would be vanquished effectively inferable from the common war. Josephus gave two records with respect to the numerical quality of Demetrius III; in "Ancient pieces of the Jews", the Syrian ruler had 3,000 mounted force and 40,000 infantry. In the Jewish War, Demetrius III directed 3,000 rangers and 14,000 infantry. The last number is progressively legitimate; the number given in "Artifacts of the Jews" could be a mistake by a copyist. 

The date of the battle is hazy in Josephus' record. 88 BC is customarily viewed as the date of Demetrius III's Judaean battle, yet numismatic proof demonstrates that coin creation expanded greatly in Damascus in 222 SE (91/90 BC) and 223 SE (90/89 BC). This expansion demonstrates that Demetrius was verifying the fundamental assets for his crusade, making 89 BC more probable as the date of the intrusion. The political circumstance in Syria in 89 BC helped Demetrius III start his intrusion of Judaea; Antiochus X was in Antioch while Damascus was solidly in the hands of Demetrius III and there is no sign of a war with his sibling Philip I. 

The thought processes of Demetrius III are not determined in Josephus' record; the history specialist gives the feeling that Demetrius III helped the Pharisees for nothing out of pocket, which is difficult to acknowledge. The Syrian lord's assistance more likely than not been adapted on political concessions by the Jewish agitators. Proof for Demetrius III's thought processes is given by the Pesher Nahum, which peruses: "[Interpreted, this worries Deme]trius ruler of Greece who looked for, on the guidance of the individuals who look for smooth things, to enter Jerusalem"; the scholastic accord distinguishes "Demetrius lord of Greece" with Demetrius III. The rationale driving Demetrius III to assault Judaea probably won't have had anything to do with the call of the Pharisees. On the off chance that Alexander Jannaeus exploited Demetrius' nonappearance in 93 BC to wrest control of Damascus, at that point the intrusion was likely in reprisal against Judaea. It is additionally conceivable that Demetrius needed to exploit Judaea's HR in the battle against his adversaries to the Syrian honored position. At long last, the Syrian lords, including Demetrius III's dad, never completely acknowledged the autonomy of Judaea and engaged designs to reconquer it; the crusade of Demetrius III can be found in this unique circumstance. 

Demetrius III was the first Seleucid ruler to set foot in Judaea since Antiochus VII (kicked the bucket 129 BC); as indicated by Josephus, the Syrian lord accompanied his military to the region of Shechem (close Nablus), which he picked as the site for his camp. Alexander Jannaeus walked to meet his adversary; Demetrius III endeavored to induce Alexander Jannaeus' soldiers of fortune to surrender as they were Greeks like him, yet the troops did not answer his call. Following this fizzled endeavor, the two lords occupied with fight; Demetrius III lost numerous troops yet annihilated Alexander Jannaeus' hired soldiers and picked up triumph. The Judaean ruler fled to the adjacent mountains and as indicated by Josephus, when the 6,000 Judaean revolts in Demetrius III's positions saw this, they felt feel sorry for their lord and left Demetrius to join Alexander Jannaeus. Now, Demetrius III pulled back to Syria. 

The record of Josephus demonstrates that Demetrius III finished his Judaean battle since his Jewish partners abandoned him, however this is difficult to acknowledge; Josephus presumably expanded the quantities of Judaeans in the Syrian armed force, and Demetrius III still had enough officers to take up arms in Syria after he left Judaea. All things considered, occasions in Syria constrained Demetrius III to finish up his intrusion of Judaea. Presumably in 88 BC, Antiochus X kicked the bucket while battling the Parthians, and this more likely than not constrained Demetrius III to surge north and fill the power vacuum before Philip I. Demetrius III may have expected that his sibling would turn on him and endeavor to take Damascus for himself; in the event that it was not for the demise of Antiochus X, Demetrius III would most likely have vanquished Judaea. 

As indicated by Josephus, following the finish of his Judaean battle, Demetrius III walked on Philip I. Amid this contention, which is datable to 225 SE (88/87 BC), officers from Antioch were referenced without precedent for the positions of Demetrius III, demonstrating that he assumed responsibility for the Syrian capital in this year. No bronze coinage was printed for the sake of Demetrius III in Antioch as the city started issuing its very own metro bronze coins in 221 SE (92/91 BC); Demetrius III issued silver coins in the Syrian capital as silver coinage remained an imperial right. The majority of the kingdom went under the specialist of Demetrius III; his coins were printed in Antioch, Damascus, Seleucia Pieria and Tarsus. 

As indicated by Josephus, Demetrius III assaulted his sibling in Beroea with a multitude of 10,000 infantry and 1,000 mounted force. Philip I's partner, Straton, the despot of the city, approached Aziz, an Arab phylarch (inborn pioneer), and the Parthian representative Mithridates Sinaces for help; the partners' arrow based weaponry drove Demetrius III to seek shelter in his camp, where he was blockaded and in the end surrendered after thirst negatively affected his men. 

The time of Demetrius III's thrashing is doubtlessly 87 BC; the date of Demetrius III's last coin from Damascus is 225 SE (88/87 BC). As per Josephus, Demetrius III was caught and sent to Parthia, where he was treated by the Parthian ruler with "amazing privilege" until he kicked the bucket of disease. Josephus composed that the Parthian lord was named Mithradates, likely . Demetrius III was most likely childless; in Damascus, he was prevailing by Antiochus XII, whose first coin was stamped in 226 SE (87/86 BC), showing a quick progression. Philip I discharged any hostage who was a native of Antioch, a stage that more likely than not slid his entrance into Antioch, which occurred not long after the catch of Demetrius III.