Eric Brewer 

Eric Peter Brewer (conceived April 17, 1979) is a Canadian previous expert ice hockey defenceman who played sixteen seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL), last fitting up for the Toronto Maple Leafs. He is a NHL All-Star and Olympic gold medalist. 

He started his vocation as a recognized junior ice hockey player, named toward the Western Hockey League (WHL) West Second All-Star Team and the Western Conference program for the 1998 WHL All-Star Game (in spite of the fact that he missed the amusement because of damage). Drafted in the first round, fifth by and large by the New York Islanders in the 1997 NHL Entry Draft, Brewer has spent pieces of his sixteen-year NHL vocation with the Islanders, the Edmonton Oilers, the St. Louis Blues, Tampa Bay Lightning, Anaheim Ducks and Maple Leafs, and captained the Blues for a long time. He has likewise fit up for the Prince George Cougars of the WHL and the Lowell Lock Monsters of the American Hockey League (AHL). In 1999, Brewer was chosen for the Prince George Cougars' unequaled group in a Canadian Hockey League advancement. 

Brewer has spoken to Canada at eight International Ice Hockey Federation-authorized occasions, winning three Ice Hockey World Championships gold decorations and one World Cup of Hockey gold award. He won his Olympic gold decoration amid the 2002 Winter Olympics. For this achievement, he was drafted into the BC Sports Hall of Fame with his British Columbian colleagues in 2003. 

Brewer was conceived on April 17, 1979, in Vernon, British Columbia, to Anna and Frank Brewer. He was brought up in Ashcroft, British Columbia, and started playing ice hockey in the Ashcroft Minor Hockey program. When he was fourteen, his family moved to Kamloops, British Columbia, where he went to junior and senior secondary school. Brewer exceeded expectations with the Kamloops Bantam AAA Jardine Blazers of the British Columbia Amateur Hockey Association (BCAHA). In 1995, Brewer was presented to BCAHA Best Ever, a program intended to discover and create players and mentors for play in global challenge. As a youthful hockey player, Brewer admired NHL stars Scott Niedermayer and Jeremy Roenick as good examples. 

In mid-2004, Brewer wedded Rebecca Flann, whom he met while playing junior hockey with the Prince George Cougars; they live in Vancouver, British Columbia. Brewer's sister, Kristi, played for the University of British Columbia Thunderbirds ladies' ice hockey group. Eric and Rebecca have two little girls. 

Brewer is engaged with various altruistic associations. Amid the 2004– 05 NHL lockout, Brewer took an interest in a few philanthropy hockey match-ups, playing in the four-diversion Ryan Smyth and Friends All-Star Charity Tour, the three-amusement Brad May and Friends Hockey Challenge, just as the Our Game to Give philanthropy hockey match-up held at Ivor Wynne Stadium in Hamilton, Ontario. Amid off-seasons, Brewer has taken an interest in various philanthropy golf competitions, including the Burn Fund Golf Tournament in Prince George and the Recchi-Doan Charity Classic in Kamloops. 

Brewer was drafted in the 6th round, 81st generally speaking, by the Prince George Cougars in the 1994 WHL Bantam Draft. Subsequent to being drafted, he played one last season with the Jardine Blazers, recording 38 in just forty amusements. The next year, Brewer started his WHL vocation with the Cougars, playing 63 amusements in the 1995– 96 season. Brewer completed his new kid on the block WHL season with fourteen, including four objectives, and was named Cougars' Rookie of the Year. 

In his sophomore season, Brewer turned into a pioneer on the Cougars' blue line. He was named to play for Team Orr in the 1997 CHL Top Prospects Game in February 1997 at Maple Leaf Gardens. He multiplied his point aggregate from the past season, completing with 29 out of 71 diversions played. Brewer pursued his customary season by helping the Cougars go on a playoff run. In the wake of securing the last spot in the West Division with a losing record, the Cougars crushed the main seed Portland Winter Hawks in the gathering quarterfinals and the third-positioned Spokane Chiefs in the meeting elimination rounds before at long last losing to the second-positioned Seattle Thunderbirds in the Western Conference last. Brewer completed this keep running with six points in the Cougars' fifteen amusements. 

Brewer's last season with Prince George was his best, factually, in the WHL. Subsequent to speaking to Canada at the 1998 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, he was named toward the Western Conference group for the WHL All-Star Game in Regina, Saskatchewan, which he missed, just as a great part of the period, because of damage. In any case, Brewer completed the year with 33 points in just 34 recreations, an almost one point-per-amusement normal, and was named to the WHL West Second All-Star Team. Brewer was the most noteworthy positioned defenceman at 6th generally among North American skaters heading into the 1997 NHL Entry Draft. He was drafted fifth by and large by the New York Islanders in June 1997. 

A little more than a year in the wake of being drafted, Brewer marked his first expert contract with his draft group, the New York Islanders, in August 1998. Entering the NHL, Brewer was viewed as a future Norris Trophy applicant, and thus, his agreement was a section level three-year, $2.775-million arrangement supplemented by a $1-million marking reward, the most noteworthy base pay accessible for a new kid on the block. Brewer made his NHL debut on October 10, 1998, against the Pittsburgh Penguins, and on November 5, Brewer scored his first profession objective against the Carolina Hurricanes' Trevor Kidd. All through his new kid on the block season, Brewer was viewed as an indispensable piece of the Islanders' resistance, and, alongside Zdeno Chára, Kenny Jönsson and Roberto Luongo, was viewed as distant by the board at the 1999 NHL exchange due date. Brewer completed his new kid on the block season with eleven of every 63 recreations. 

In the wake of playing only three rounds of the 1999– 2000 NHL season, Brewer was doled out to the Islanders' AHL associate, the Lowell Lock Monsters. It was theorized that the purpose for this move was sluggishness by Brewer, who was sidelined amid the last thirty minutes by head mentor Butch Goring in the wake of losing a race for the puck against Mike Knuble in the Islanders' October 11, 1999, misfortune to the New York Rangers. Brewer additionally took a terrible punishment before in the diversion, putting the Islanders down two men. Following a fourteen day, five-diversion stretch with the Lock Monsters, Brewer was along these lines reviewed by the Islanders. Subsequent to playing 26 recreations with the Islanders in which he just recorded two helps, Brewer was reassigned to the Lock Monsters on January 8, 2000, for the rest of the period. Soon after joining the Lock Monsters, Brewer endured a sprained knee and missed the following more than two months of the period. Brewer proceeded to play 25 diversions for the Lock Monsters, recording two objectives and two helps. He likewise partook in his first expert playoffs, as the Lock Monsters cleared the Saint John Flames in three diversions in the first round, before being cleared themselves in four amusements in the Eastern Conference elimination rounds by the Providence Bruins. 

At the 2000 NHL Entry Draft, the Islanders exchanged Brewer, Josh Green and their second round determination (Brad Winchester) in a similar draft to the Edmonton Oilers for Roman Hamrlík. Albeit shocked to be exchanged, Brewer was energized at the possibility of playing for the Oilers, who considered Brewer to be a best four defenceman. In any case, Brewer's Oiler profession started on a harsh note as he endured a wounded left hip and tailbone in his first diversion with the group. Brewer missed the following four recreations before coming back to the lineup. Brewer scored his first objective as an Oiler on November 7, 2000, against the New York Rangers. Brewer completed his first Oiler season with vocation highs in objectives, helps and focuses, just as the best in addition to/less evaluating on the Oilers group, an in addition to 15. Further, Brewer picked up his first NHL playoff experience, a quarterfinal arrangement versus the Dallas Stars. Brewer had six, yet the Oilers were wiped out four diversions to two by the Stars. 

The Oilers re-marked Brewer, who was a free operator, to a one-year, $907,500 contract in August 2001. In his second season with the Oilers, Brewer was allocated to play against the contradicting groups' best hostile players by Oilers head mentor Craig MacTavish. Brewer started to play more minutes in recreations, ordinarily putting among the NHL pioneers in normal minutes played per diversion. With this improved job in the group, Brewer completed his season with new vocation highs in helps and focuses for the second back to back season, and coordinated his profession high in objectives. In spite of the fact that his single year contract terminated, his job on the Oilers had turned out to be increasingly critical and Brewer anticipated an expansive raise for his third season with the Oilers. 

After a long holdout that endured until the start of Oilers preparing camp, Brewer at last marked a two-year, $4-million contract in September 2002. At the half of the 2002– 03 NHL season, Brewer was named to play in his first NHL All-Star Game, dressing for the Western Conference in the fifty-third version of the amusement. He completed with profession highs for helps and focuses and set a lifelong high for objectives for the third back to back season. He showed up in his second NHL playoffs, another quarterfinal arrangement against the Dallas Stars in which the Oilers were by and by disposed of four amusements to two. Brewer completed the playoffs with four in the Oilers' six diversions. 

In his fourth season with the Oilers, Brewer proceeded with his job as a top defenceman. On November 22, 2003, Brewer was among the members in the memorable 2003 Heritage Classic ice hockey match-up versus the Montreal Canadiens at Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton. Brewer scored the Oilers first objective of the diversion in a 4– 3 misfortune before a then record horde of 57,167. Later in the season, in a diversion on January 29, 2004, versus the Chicago Blackhawks, Brewer recorded his one-hundredth vocation point. Since his group relied upon Brewer to play against the contradicting groups' best hostile players, he completed the season with a normal time on ice of 24:39, positioning fourteenth in the association. In the last year of his two-year contract, Brewer completed the season with his point aggregates coordinating those from his 2001– 02 NHL season, a slight tumble from his profession highs set in his third season with the Oilers. 

With the Oilers reluctant to pay what he was expecting, Brewer chose to go to pay discretion to get another agreement. In any case, on August 4, 2004, Brewer marked a one-year, $2.65 million contract with the Oilers, staying away from his intervention hearing set for just a couple of days after the fact. Brewer was unfit to play out his new contract because of the 2004– 05 NHL lockout. 

In August 2005, after the lockout, the Oilers exchanged Brewer, Jeff Woywitka and Doug Lynch to the St. Louis Blues in return for defenceman Chris Pronger. At the season of the exchange, Brewer was a confined free specialist, so on August 15, 2005, Brewer acknowledged the Blues' passing offer, marking a one-year, $2-million contract. Brewer's first season with the Blues was an especially poor one. Subsequent to playing the initial 18 rounds of the period, Brewer isolated his shoulder on November 16, 2005, in a 2– 0 triumph over the Columbus Blue Jackets. Brewer missed ten amusements before being actuated from the harmed save list, coming back to the St. Louis line-up for a diversion on December 17, 2005, against the Philadelphia Flyers. Not exactly a month later, in a diversion on January 13, 2006, against the Atlanta Thrashers, Brewer crashed into the Thrashers' inside Karl Stewart, and disjoined his left shoulder, which finished his season. In only 32 amusements, Brewer completed his season with nine points, including six objectives, two short of his vocation best of eight set in the 2002– 04 season. In spite of his constrained play, the Blues re-marked Brewer to a one-year, $2.014 million contract for the 2006– 07 season. 

Brewer's second season with the Blues started as a mistake. By the primary portion of December 2006, Brewer had just amassed six points and an or more less appraising of – 11, frequently alluded to as "the most exceedingly bad player on the ice" by both the media and Blues fans alike. Brewer was frequently associated with exchange gossipy tidbits, as he was set to turn into an unhindered free operator following the finish of the period. Brewer trusted his execution was the consequence of having just played in 32 NHL diversions since the 2003– 04 season. Nonetheless, after the terminating of head mentor Mike Kitchen on December 11, 2006, Brewer started playing much better under new head mentor, Andy Murray. Throughout the following nineteen diversions, Brewer changed his – 11 into a +2 and turned into an essential piece of the Blues' barrier. His turnaround was compensated on February 24, 2007, when, instead of being exchanged as was recently reputed, Brewer marked a four-year, $17-million contract expansion with the Blues. Brewer proceeded with his turnaround through the finish of the period, completing the year with six objectives and 23 helps for 29, tying his vocation high for focuses set in the 2002– 03 season and setting another profession high for helps. 

In his third season with the Blues, Brewer kept on doing great under Andy Murray. Brewer advanced into one of the best two-path defencemen in the NHL, with correlations being made among him and previous first in general draft pick Chris Phillips of the Ottawa Senators. His play and initiative capacities were perceived, when on February 8, 2008, Brewer was named as the nineteenth skipper ever of St. Louis Blues, filling the opportunity made when previous Blues chief Dallas Drake had his agreement purchased out after the 2006– 07 season. On February 17, 2008, in a diversion against the Columbus Blue Jackets, Brewer set a lifelong high for focuses in an amusement with four, all helps, obscuring his past profession high of three points set on January 16, 2007. Brewer completed the season with just a single objective in his 77 recreations played, his most reduced objective aggregate since the 1999– 2000 season, despite the fact that he included 21 helps, three shy of a lifelong high. Toward the culmination of the period, Brewer experienced reconstructive medical procedure on his correct shoulder to fix harm endured in a battle in the Blues' season opening diversion against the Phoenix Coyotes on October 4, 2007. 

On February 18, 2011, Brewer was exchanged to the Tampa Bay Lightning for Brock Beukeboom and Tampa Bay's third-round determination in the 2011 NHL Entry Draft. In 22 amusements with Tampa Bay, he indented an objective and a help. He additionally drove the Lightning in normal ice time per amusement, with 21:34. Toward the finish of the 2010– 11 season, Brewer recorded a profession high nine objectives and furthermore amassed 81 punishment minutes, useful for the second-most astounding aggregate of his NHL vocation. He likewise showed up in a profession high 18 post-season challenges with the Lightning in the 2011 playoffs, enlisting three objectives and 17 points, helping the Bolts in their first playoff appearance in four seasons. Amid the 2011 playoffs, he set a vocation high with three in Game 2 of the Eastern Conference Quarter-finals against the Pittsburgh Penguins and positioned third among all post-season skaters with 51 blocked shots. On June 24, 2011, Brewer marked a four-year, $15.4 million contract augmentation with the Lightning. 

On November 28, 2014, while in the last year of his agreement with the Lightning, Brewer was exchanged to the Anaheim Ducks in return for a third-round pick in the 2015 NHL Entry Draft. At the time, Brewer had showed up in 17 recreations with the Lightning amid the 2014– 15 NHL season and had four helps on the year. He completed his vocation with the Lightning having played in 246 amusements and scored ten objectives and 46 helps. The following night, Brewer played in his first amusement with the Ducks, recording 15:07 in ice time in a 6– 4 misfortune to the San Jose Sharks. On December 3, 2014, in the wake of playing in just two recreations for the Ducks, the group reported that Brewer was relied upon to miss four-to about a month and a half in the wake of breaking a bone in his foot from a blocked shot. Brewer came back to the Ducks lineup two months after the fact on February 3, 2015 against the Carolina Hurricanes and scored his first objective for Anaheim on February 8, 2015 against his previous partners in a 5– 3 misfortune to the Tampa Bay Lightning. 

On March 2, 2015, the 2015 NHL exchange due date, the Ducks exchanged Brewer and a fifth-round pick in the 2016 NHL Entry Draft to the Toronto Maple Leafs in return for defenceman Korbinian Holzer, finishing a short nine amusement vocation with the Anaheim Ducks. Brewer's first diversion as an individual from the Maple Leafs went ahead March 5, 2015 against the Tampa Bay Lighting. On March 21, 2015, Brewer turned into the 300th NHL player to play in 1,000 profession recreations in a 5– 3 misfortune to the Ottawa Senators. After two days, the Maple Leafs regarded Brewer's accomplishment with a service before their diversion against the Minnesota Wild, at which they gave him a silver stick, and Rolex watch, and a $10,000 beneficent gift in his name. He scored his first objective with the club two recreations later, the amusement winning additional time objective in a 4– 3 triumph over the Ottawa Senators on March 28, 2015. In the wake of missing the playoffs with the Maple Leafs, Brewer completed the 2014– 15 NHL season with two objectives and three aids eighteen recreations with the Maple Leafs. Through his whole 2014– 15 NHL season with the Lighting, Ducks, and Maple Leafs, Brewer scored three objectives and eight aids 44 amusements played, the least diversions played of his profession since his damage tormented 2008– 09 NHL season with the St. Louis Blues. 

In front of the 2015– 16 NHL season, Brewer was not re-marked by the Maple Leafs and turned into an unlimited free operator on July 1, 2015. He spent the late spring preparing with expectations of marking a NHL contract, however acknowledged by mid-August that he was probably not going to discover a group inspired by his administrations, and decided not to broaden his profession by playing in Europe. 

All through his vocation, Brewer has spoken to Canada at different global ice hockey competitions. He initially contended universally as an individual from Team Pacific Canada at the 1995 World U-17 Hockey Challenge in Moncton, New Brunswick. After three years, he spoke to Canada all in all as an individual from the national junior group at the 1998 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships, where he was named a substitute commander. This was the competition in which Canada had its most noticeably awful consistently appearing, eighth-place wrap up a misfortune to Kazakhstan, giving Brewer a heartless welcome to IIHF universal ice hockey. Albeit qualified for the 1999 version of a similar competition, Brewer was unfit to play due to NHL responsibilities with the New York Islanders. 

Brewer made his presentation with the Canadian national men's group on April 24, 2001, when he joined Canada for the 2001 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships in Nuremberg, Cologne, and Hanover, Germany. Soon thereafter, on July 24, 2001, Brewer was welcome to the introduction camp for the Canadian group for the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah. After five months, on December 12, 2001, Brewer was named to the last Canadian program for the competition. In the opening round of the competition against Sweden, Brewer scored Canada's second objective of the diversion in a 5– 2 misfortune, while in the semi-finals of the competition, Brewer scored the amusement winning objective against Belarus in a 7– 1 triumph, sending Canada to the gold decoration diversion against the host United States. Canada would proceed to vanquish the Americans by a score of 5– 2, winning their first Olympic gold award in fifty years. 

Soon after his Olympic experience, Brewer was named to the Canadian list for the 2002 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships in Gothenburg, Karlstad and Jönköping, Sweden, his second back to back Ice Hockey World Championships. He spoke to Canada by and by the next year, when on April 22, 2003, Brewer was named to the Canadian program for the 2003 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships. In the competition quarterfinals versus Germany, Brewer scored the amusement winning objective 37 seconds into additional time to give Canada a 3– 2 triumph. Canada would proceed to win their first Ice Hockey World Championships gold award since the 1997 competition, overcoming Sweden 3– 2 in extra time in the last. Brewer indeed took part for Canada at the 2004 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships, his fourth sequential Ice Hockey World Championships, where he helped Canada win its second back to back title in the wake of vanquishing Sweden 5– 3 in the gold decoration amusement. 

On May 15, 2004, Brewer was named to the Canadian program for the 2004 World Cup of Hockey. In the elimination round of the competition, Brewer scored Canada's first objective of the diversion in 4– 3 additional time triumph against the Czech Republic. Group Canada would proceed to win the competition on home ice in Toronto, overcoming Finland 3– 2 in the last. Just shy of one year following his World Cup appearance, Brewer was named to the introduction camp for the Canadian group at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy held from August 15– 20, 2005, in Vancouver and Kelowna, British Columbia. Following the camp, on October 18, 2005, Brewer was named to the starter 81-man Canadian program for the competition. Be that as it may, when the last program was declared on December 21, 2005, Brewer was not among the 26 players recorded. Therefore, it would be almost three years before Brewer would next suit up for his nation, when on April 3, 2007, Brewer was among the initial five players named to play for Canada at the 2007 IIHF World Championship in Moscow and Mytishchi, Russia. For the competition, Brewer was named as the group's solitary perpetual interchange skipper and helped the group to its third gold decoration at the competition in the previous five years.