Jørgen Jensen (warrior) 

Jørgen Christian Jensen, (15 January 1891 – 31 May 1922) was a Danish-brought into the world Australian beneficiary of the Victoria Cross, the most astounding honor for bravery in fight that could be granted to an individual from the Australian military around then. Jensen emigrated to Australia in 1909, turning into a British subject at Adelaide, South Australia, in 1914. A mariner and worker before World War I, he enrolled in the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) in March 1915, presenting with the tenth Battalion amid the last phases of the Gallipoli crusade. After the Australian power pulled back to Egypt, Jensen was exchanged to the recently framed 50th Battalion, and cruised for France with the unit in June 1916. On the Western Front, he was injured amid the force's first genuine activity, the Battle of Mouquet Farm in August, and just came back to his unit in late January 1917. On 2 April, his force assaulted the Hindenburg Outpost Line at Noreuil, where his activities prompting the catch of more than fifty German fighters brought about the honor of the Victoria Cross. 

In June 1917, the 50th Battalion was associated with the Battle of Messines; the next month, Jensen, presently a corporal, was presented on a preparation unit in the United Kingdom. He came back to his force in October, and was elevated to impermanent sergeant in November. In March 1918, the German Spring Offensive was propelled, and Jensen battled with his contingent at Dernancourt and Villers-Bretonneux. Soon after the Second Battle of Villers-Bretonneux, Jensen was on watch when he gotten a serious head wound, and was emptied to the United Kingdom, at that point repatriated to Australia, where he was released in Adelaide toward the finish of the war. He filled in as a marine store seller and wedded in 1921, however passed on the next year. 

Jørgen Christian Jensen was conceived on 15 January 1891 in Løgstør, Denmark, the child of Jørgen Christian Jensen and Christiane Sørensen, who was clearly otherwise called Jensen. Sørensen was a single parent who worked in agribusiness. His initial life was troublesome, however he was a decent understudy, and entered the angling business. In 1908, matured 17, he made a trip to the United Kingdom before emigrating to Australia. He cruised to Melbourne in March 1909, at that point moved to Morgan, South Australia, and later Port Pirie, working separately as a mariner on stream steamers on the Murray River, and as a worker. He was naturalized as a British subject in Adelaide on 7 September 1914. 

On 23 March 1915, Jensen enrolled as a private in the Australian Imperial Force (AIF) for administration in World War I; he was distributed to the sixth fortifications to the tenth Battalion. His support draft left on HMAT "Borda" at Outer Harbor on 23 June, and joined the legion at Gallipoli, Turkey, on 4 August. When Jensen arrived, almost 50% of the unit had been emptied debilitated with loose bowels. For the rest of the Gallipoli battle, the tenth Battalion turned through different positions in the line safeguarding the foothold until pulled back to Lemnos in November. Jensen stayed with his unit all through, aside from seven days in September– October that he spent in medical clinic. The brigade left for Egypt in late November and went through the following four months preparing and aiding the safeguard of the Suez Canal. While in Egypt, the force was part into two, one half framing the core of the new 50th Battalion, which was a piece of the thirteenth Brigade, fourth Division. In April 1916, Jensen and a few other tenth Battalion men were exchanged to the 50th Battalion; soon thereafter Jensen was charged for not being in his tent at tattoo. On 5 June the force left for France, touching base in Marseilles six days after the fact. The unit at that point entrained for the Western Front, entering the channels out of the blue on 28 June close Fleurbaix. 

The 50th Battalion saw its first genuine activity amid the Battle of Mouquet Farm in mid-August 1916. Amid the fight, the 50th Battalion endured 414 losses, to a great extent from the substantial German ordnance siege. On 14 August, Jensen had joined the setback records, hit in the left shoulder by a bit of shrapnel. He was cleared to the UK and admitted to Graylingwell War Hospital in Chichester, West Sussex. While in the UK, he was accused of progressively disciplinary infractions in September, December and January, on one event being condemned to 28 days field discipline for missing the troop train to come back to France, and on another serving 12 days confinement for being missing without leave. He didn't rejoin his unit until 28 January 1917. 

The 50th Battalion kept on turning through forefront, backing and hold positions, and experienced preparing in back zones. The force was additionally engaged with seeking after the Germans as they pulled back to the Hindenburg Line of strongholds. On 2 April, the thirteenth Brigade assaulted the Hindenburg Outpost Line at Noreuil. The assault comprised of the 51st Battalion assaulting the town from the north, and the 50th Battalion from the south. Amid this strike, which was gone before by a feeble big guns flood, the 50th Battalion endured unprecedented troubles, and the middle organization, to which Jensen had a place, was compelled to isolate a gathering of men furnished with an expansive number of hand projectiles (at that point known as bombs) to manage a firmly blockaded German post that was holding out between their organization and the one to their right side. Jensen was an individual from this gathering. His activities amid the decrease of this post brought about a suggestion for the Victoria Cross, the most astounding honor for courage in fight that could be granted to an individual from the Australian military around then. He was aided his activities by Private William Quinlan O'Connor and four others. The proposal read: 

Amid the attack on Noreuil, Jensen likewise liberated Australian detainees, and aided the "cleaning up" of German obstruction in the town itself when he caught a German officer or non-appointed officer, who brought up which fabricating the flame was originating from. The 50th Battalion endured 360 setbacks, including 95 dead, and caught 70 Germans, about every one of whom were taken by Jensen and his gathering. O'Connor was granted the Distinguished Conduct Medal as far as it matters for him in catching the German post. On 4 April, Jensen was elevated to spear corporal. His honor of the Victoria Cross showed up in "The London Gazette" on 8 June, by which time the 50th Battalion was engaged with the Battle of Messines, enduring 149 setbacks. In the wake of being alleviated, the legion proceeded with its revolution through bleeding edge, backing and save positions. 

In July 1917, Jensen was incidentally elevated to corporal and exchanged to the thirteenth Training Battalion at Codford in the UK as an educator. While there he was engaged by Danish inhabitants of Kingston upon Hull. After another disciplinary encroachment, he came back to France, rejoining his contingent on 6 October. He was incidentally elevated to sergeant toward the beginning of November, and the brigade experienced the winter of 1917– 18 turning through the bleeding edge. In late March 1918, the regiment left its rest region and alongside numerous other Australian units was immediately conveyed to meet the German Spring Offensive south of the River Ancre. On 5 April, the contingent took up positions at Dernancourt and there added to the annihilation of the "biggest German assault mounted against Australian troops amid the war" amid the Second Battle of Dernancourt. 

The battling at Dernancourt was trailed by a move to the Villers-Bretonneux segment, where, on 25 April, the legion was a piece of the Second Battle of Villers-Bretonneux that drove the Germans from that town, at an expense to the legion of 254 setbacks. On 5 May, Jensen was on watch close Villers-Bretonneux when he was shot in the head. Seriously injured, he was admitted to emergency clinic in France, and on 18 May was cleared to the UK, where he was admitted to the Richmond Military Hospital in Surrey. 

Jensen returned to the position of corporal on being emptied. Following two weeks' leave, he was repatriated to Australia alongside nine other Victoria Cross beneficiaries in August 1918, to partake in an enlisting effort on the welcome of Prime Minister Billy Hughes. He landed in Adelaide on 11 October, and was released from the AIF on 2 December. He was evaluated to be somewhat handicapped, and got a little annuity. For his administration amid the war, just as his Victoria Cross he was issued the 1914– 15 Star, British War Medal and Victory Medal. 

After his release, Jensen worked for a brief timeframe as a barman in Truro, at that point as a marine store vendor in Adelaide. He wedded Katy Herman ( Arthur), a divorced person, at the Adelaide Registry Office on 13 July 1921. Their marriage was vigorously influenced by his wartime encounters. In April 1922, a photo of Jensen and his steed drawn truck, with "J. C. Jensen V.C." painted as an afterthought, was distributed on the first page of "The Sunday Times" paper in Sydney; the inscription noticed that he utilized a few men in his business. On 28 May, Jensen was admitted to the Adelaide Hospital, and kicked the bucket of clog of the lungs three days after the fact, matured 31. 

On 2 June, his coffin was carried on a steed attracted firearm carriage toward the West Terrace Cemetery, trailed by many previous individuals from the 50th Battalion, and he was covered with full military distinctions in the AIF area of the burial ground. It was accounted for as "a standout amongst the most amazing burial services which have gone through the entryways of the West Terrace Cemetery", and "presumably one of the biggest military memorial services at any point held in Adelaide". The minister at the administration said that Jensen was, "unassuming dependably... ever prepared to develop the fortitude of others, without addressing his own achievements". His decoration set, including his Victoria Cross, was given by a relative to the Australian War Memorial in 1987 at a service gone to by Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, and is shown in the Hall of Valor of the commemoration. In 2006, a remembrance to Jensen was revealed in Løgstør by the Australian envoy to Denmark, and a book about him was distributed in Denmark around the same time. Every year wreaths are set at the commemoration in memory of Jensen, and in 2014 a wreath was put by the Australian diplomat, Damien Miller.