766th Independent Infantry Regiment (North Korea) 

The 766th Independent Infantry Regiment () was a light infantry unit of North Korea's Korean People's Army (KPA) that existed quickly amid the Korean War. It was headquartered in Hoeryong, North Korea, and was otherwise called the 766th Unit (). Prepared broadly in land and/or water capable fighting and whimsical fighting, the 766th Regiment was viewed as an extraordinary powers commando unit. The regiment was prepared to direct attacks via ocean and after that to lead other North Korean units on hostile tasks, to invade behind adversary lines and to disturb foe supplies and interchanges. 

Initiated in 1949, the regiment prepared for over a year prior to the flare-up of the war on June 25, 1950. On that day, half of the regiment drove North Korean powers against South Korean troops via land and ocean, driving them back following a few days of battling. Throughout the following a month and a half the regiment progressed gradually down the Korean Peninsula, going about as a forward unit of the North Korean armed force. Experiencing an absence of provisions and mounting losses, the regiment was focused on the Battle of Pusan Perimeter as a component of a push to constrain United Nations (UN) troops out of Korea. 

The regiment saw its last activity at the Battle of P'ohang-dong, battling ineffectively to take the town from U.N. troops. Racked by U.N. maritime and aviation based armed forces and experiencing broad misfortunes constant battling, the regiment was compelled to withdraw from the P'ohang-dong war zone. It moved north, joining a grouping of other KPA units, before being disbanded and assimilated into the KPA's twelfth Division. 

Upon creation, the 766th Unit was intended to differ in size, comprising of various littler units fit for acting alone. Inevitably, it was strengthened to the measure of a full regiment, with 3,000 men similarly disseminated crosswise over six legions (numbered first through sixth). It was made legitimately subordinate to the KPA Army home office and put under the direction of Senior Colonel Oh Jin Woo, who might order the unit for its whole presence. Each of the 500 men of the third Battalion were lost just before the war began when their vehicle was sunk while assaulting Pusan harbor by the Republic of Korea Navy. For the rest of its reality the regiment was trimmed somewhere around misfortunes until it numbered close to 1,500 men and couldn't marshal multiple forces. 

Amid the getting ready for the intrusion of South Korea in the years prior to the war, the North Korean administration started to make vast quantities of commando and uncommon powers units to send south. These units subverted South Korean expert previously and amid the war with dread battles, harm and prompting uprisings in ROK military units. Many commandos were sent to South Korea in this design, and before the finish of the war up to 3,000 of them had been prepared and equipped. Amid this time, North Korean administration likewise requested the formation of huge customary units to go about as development powers for the real attack. The 766th Unit was framed in April 1949 at the Third Military Academy in Hoeryong, North Korea. The institute was uncommonly intended to prepare commandos, and the 766th was initially intended to administer North Korean light infantry officer units. Throughout the following year, the 766th Unit got broad preparing in eccentric fighting and land and/or water capable fighting. Amid this time, the unit was extended in size to 3,000 men in six contingents. 

Before the start of the war in June 1950, the 766th finished preparing and was moved to the front at Yangyang to help the KPA's fifth Division. The North Korean arrangement was to direct land and/or water capable arrivals in Chongdongjin and Imwonjin on the eastern coast utilizing the 766th Regiment, related to the 549th Unit. These land and/or water capable arrivals would pester the back territory of the Republic of Korea Army, giving supporting assaults to the arranged frontal assault by the KPA's II Corps legitimately from the north. The 766th was in position by June 23 and arranged for the assault. The unit was moved to the ports of Wonsan and Kansong and stacked into boats. With the 3,000 men in the 766th, another 3,000 in the 549th, and 11,000 men in the KPA's fifth Division, the 17,000 North Korean troops dwarfed the Republic of Korea Army's (ROK) eighth Division's 6,866 by a proportion of 2.1 to 1. The blend of the frontal assault and the arrivals were relied upon to pulverize the ROK division and keep fortifications from moving in to help it. 

The regiment was part into three gatherings for the assault. Three forces went about as points for the fifth Division ashore while two additional units led the arrivals in Imwonjin. This 2,500 man constrain reassembled and after that drove the North Korean units south. Meanwhile, the third Battalion, 766th Regiment was withdrawn and sent determined to penetrate Pusan. Combined with extra help, it framed the 600-man 588th Unit. 588th Unit was entrusted with striking Pusan harbor, decimating imperative offices to make it unimaginable for UN powers to arrive troops there. Be that as it may, the troop transport conveying the 588th Unit was found and sunk by United Nations dispatches outside Pusan harbor the morning of June 25, devastating the third Battalion. 

Around 04:00 on June 25, the KPA's fifth Division started its first assaults on the ROK tenth Regiment's forward positions. After three hours, the 766th Regiment's two units arrived at the town of Imwonjin, utilizing engine and sail vessels to arrive troops and marshaling South Korean townspeople to help with setting up provisions. The two contingents isolated; one headed into the T'aeback Mountains and the second propelled north toward Samcheok. Now, the ROK eighth Division, under overwhelming assault from the front and mindful of assaults in the back, critically mentioned fortifications. It was denied these fortifications, as ROK higher officers educated the division authority that the ROK Army was under substantial assault over the whole of the 38th parallel and had no fortifications to save. 

The ROK 21st Regiment, eighth Division's southernmost unit, moved to counter the land and/or water capable assault. The regiment's first Battalion moved from Bukp'yong into the Okgye territory and trapped forward components of the 766th related to neighborhood police and state army powers. They had the capacity to drive back the 766th Regiment's northern development. Be that as it may, somewhere around one of the 766th Regiment's legions massed at Bamjae, blocking one of the eighth Division's primary supply courses. ROK troops marshaled a non military personnel state army to help battle the North Koreans, which was just reasonably successful. The beset ROK eighth Division was compelled to pull back under overpowering assaults and breakdowns in correspondence on July 27. With the retreat of the ROK sixth Division, the whole ROK eastern flank was constrained back. The 766th Regiment had been fruitful in setting up a bridgehead and upsetting interchanges in the underlying assault. 

With the ROK armed force in retreat, the 766th Regiment, 549th Unit, and KPA's fifth Divisions all progressed consistently south along the eastern streets without experiencing much obstruction. Over the whole front the North Korean Army had effectively directed the South Koreans and was pushing them south. The 766th Regiment went about as a development drive, endeavoring to invade further inland as it traveled through the hilly eastern locale of the nation. The rough landscape of the eastern districts of Korea, poor correspondence gear, and problematic resupply lines upset the South Korean opposition. The North Koreans utilized this further bolstering their good fortune in progressing yet they started to encounter similar issues themselves. The fifth Division and the two different units started propelling south gradually and mindfully, sending solid surveillance parties into the mountains to guarantee they would not be undermined from the back. In any case, this progressively mindful development started to give the South Koreans important time to develop further south. By June 28, the 766th had invaded into Taebaek-san from Uljin and was pushing toward Ilwolsan, Yongyang and Cheongsong so as to square interchanges among Daegu and Busan, where United States Army powers were arriving trying to help the falling ROK Army. 

The ROK 23rd Regiment of the ROK third Division was moved to obstruct the development of the three units at Uljin. The ROK powers mounted a progression of deferring activities against the fundamental North Korean power, which was altogether scattered all through the rocky area and unfit to marshal its staggering quality. The ROK regiment was accordingly ready to hold up the North Korean development until July 5. On July 10, the 766th isolated from the fifth Division and met a development gathering of North Korean regular people in Uljin who had been sent to set up government in the territory. From here, the 766th scattered in little gatherings into the mountains. On July 13 it came to Pyonghae-ri, north of Yongdok. 

Throughout the following week the 766th Regiment and the KPA's fifth Division proceeded in a moderate development south as it met expanding South Korean obstruction. Joined Nations air support started to build, moderating the development further. The power kept on possessing the eastern flank, and by July 24 it was progressing from the Chongsong-Andong locale and drawing closer Pohang. On its flank was the KPA's twelfth Division. Advancement ended as UN ethereal and maritime barrage made development increasingly troublesome. In the meantime the North Korean units' supply lines were extended meager and started to separate, constraining them to recruit South Korean regular folks to convey supplies. 

On July 17, the KPA's fifth Division entered Yongdok, taking the city absent much opposition before furious UN air assaults caused the division overwhelming misfortunes. In any case, it had the capacity to encompass the ROK third Division in the city. At this point, the fifth Division and the 766th Regiment had been decreased to a consolidated quality of 7,500 men to the ROK third Divisions' 6,469. The 766th massed its power again to help the fifth Division in encompassing and blockading the ROK third Division, which was caught in the city. The third Division, meanwhile, was requested to stay in the city to defer the North Koreans to the extent that this would be possible. It was in the long run cleared via ocean in the wake of deferring North Korean powers for a significant time. The tough landscape of the mountains kept the North Korean powers from leading the wrapping moves they had utilized so successfully against different troops, and their points of interest in numbers and hardware had been invalidated in the battle. 

By July 28, the division was as yet entangled in this battle and the 766th skirted it and advanced toward Chinbo on the left flank of the city. Anyway the 766th had endured huge misfortunes at Yongdok, with significant misfortunes because of American and British maritime cannons fire. When it touched base in the territory, it met heavier obstruction from South Korean police and state army working in defensively covered vehicles. With air support, they offered the heaviest opposition the unit had confronted so far. With the help of just a single of the fifth Division's regiments, the 766th was unfit to support its development, and needed to pull back by the 29th. Development from the ROK Capital Division kept the 766th Regiment from invading further into the mountains. ROK rangers and regular citizen police at that point started disengaged counteroffensives against the 766th. These powers included uncommon counter-guerrilla units focusing on the 766th and countering its strategies. South Korean troops ended the development of the North Koreans again around the month's end on account of expanded fortifications and bolster nearer to the Pusan Perimeter coordinations arrange. 

On August 5, the KPA's twelfth Division pushed back the ROK Capital Division in the Ch'ongsong-Kigye territory, and connected up with components of the 766th which had invaded the region of Pohyunsan. Unopposed, they started to get ready to assault P'ohang to verify section into the UN's recently settled Pusan Perimeter. The Regiment was requested to start an assault as a team with the KPA's fifth Division. The Korean People's Army arranged concurrent offensives over the whole Perimeter, including a flanking move by the 766th and the fifth Division to wrap UN troops and drive them back to Pusan. The 766th was not strengthened; North Korean organizers proposed it to move inconspicuous around the UN lines while most of the UN and North Korean troops were secured battling around Taegu and the Naktong Bulge. 

At this point, in any case, North Korean coordinations had been extended as far as possible, and resupply turned out to be progressively troublesome. By the start of August, the North Korean units working in the zone were getting next to zero nourishment and ammo supply, rather depending on caught UN weapons and scrounging for what they could discover. They were additionally depleted from over a month of progressing, however spirit stayed high among the 766th troops. The 766th Regiment had some expertise in assaulting UN supply lines, and adequately mounted little problematic assaults against UN focuses to prepare themselves. 

At sunrise on August 11, one 300-man contingent of the 766th Regiment entered the town of P'ohang, making a condition of alert among its people. The town was just ensured by a little power of South Korean Navy, Air Force and Army work force including the back gatekeeper of the ROK third Division. The South Korean powers drew in the 766th powers around the town's center school with little arms fire until early afternoon. By then, North Korean defensively covered vehicles moved in to strengthen the 766th troops and drove the South Koreans out of the town. 

The town was deliberately essential since it was one of only a handful few direct courses through the mountains and into the Gyeongsang plain. It additionally drove legitimately to the land courses being utilized by the UN to strengthen Taegu. After knowing about the fall of P'ohang, UN Eighth United States Army authority Lieutenant General Walton Walker promptly requested maritime and air barrage of the town. He additionally requested ROK and US powers to verify locales around the town to anticipate further development of the North Korean troops. Inside a couple of hours, the town was being impacted by cannons driving the Regiment's development power to pull back. The 766th's powers congregated and battled in the slopes around the town. They joined components of the KPA's fifth Division, and did not enter P'ohang until night. 

UN powers reacted to the danger with overpowering numbers. An extensive power of South Korean troops, assigned Task Force P'ohang, was massed and sent into P'ohang-dong to connect with the 766th Regiment and the fifth Division. ROK troops assaulted toward An'gang-ni toward the east, constraining the KPA's twelfth Division into a full retreat. Compromised with enclosure, the KPA's fifth Division and 766th Regiment were requested into full retreat on August 17. At this point, the 766th had been diminished to 1,500 men, a large portion of its unique quality. 

Depleted and out of provisions, the 766th Regiment moved to Pihak-san, a mountain north of Kigye, to join the broke KPA's twelfth Division. The twelfth Division was decreased to 1,500 men in the battling, and 2,000 armed force substitutions and South Korean recruits were brought to recharge the division. The 766th Regiment was additionally requested to blend its outstanding troops into the drained KPA's twelfth Division. Upon the culmination of the merger with the twelfth Division on August 19, 1950, the 766th Regiment stopped to exist. It had prepared for near 14 months preceding the war however battled for under two.