Badnjak (Serbian) 

The badnjak (Cyrillic: бадњак, ), likewise called veseljak (весељак, , truly "good humored one" in Serbian), is a tree limb or youthful tree brought into the house and put on the flame on the night of Christmas Eve, a focal convention in Serbian Christmas festivities. The tree from which the badnjak is cut, ideally a youthful and straight Austrian oak, is formally felled at an opportune time the morning of Christmas Eve. The felling, arrangement, acquiring, and laying on the flame, are encompassed by expand ceremonies, with numerous local varieties. The copying of the log is joined by petitions that the coming year brings nourishment, satisfaction, love, karma, and wealth. The log consumes on all through Christmas Day, when the principal guest hits it with a poker or a branch to make sparkles fly, while longing that the family's satisfaction and flourishing be as copious as the flashes. As most Serbs today live in towns and urban communities, the badnjak is regularly emblematically spoken to by a bunch of oak twigs with darker leaves appended, with which the house is beautified on Christmas Eve. 

Since the mid 20th century, the Serbian badnjak convention has additionally been commended all the more freely. Prior to World War I, fighters of the Kingdom of Serbia built up the custom of laying a badnjak on a flame in their sleeping quarters. In the succeeding Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the military badnjak function was additionally explained and institutionalized in armed force administration guidelines, however the custom finished at the episode of World War II. Since the mid 1990s, the Serbian Orthodox Church has, together with nearby networks, sorted out open festivals on Christmas Eve in which the badnjak assumes a focal job. Parishioners happily slice the sapling to be utilized as the badnjak and take it to their congregation, where it is sanctified by a cleric before it is formally set on a flame worked in the churchyard. 

The merry fuel of the badnjak remembers the flame that—as indicated by Serbian people convention—the shepherds of Bethlehem worked in the cavern where Jesus Christ was conceived, to warm the Baby Jesus and his mom for the duration of the night. The badnjak may likewise be viewed as an image of the cross whereupon Christ was executed, the glow of its flame symbolizing the salvation which, in the Christian conviction, the torturous killing made feasible for humankind. Researchers view the custom as acquired from the old Slavic religion. They decipher the badnjak as a manifestation of the soul of vegetation, and as a heavenly nature who bites the dust by copying to be renewed, to whom penances and petitions were offered for the fruitfulness of fields, the wellbeing and joy of the family. The consuming symbolized daylight, verifying the vitalizing intensity of the sun in the coming year. Other South Slavic people groups have comparable conventions, and the custom that a family carries a sign into the house and consumes it on Christmas Eve has additionally been recorded in different pieces of Europe. 

Customarily, the badnjak service starts on Christmas Eve, yet there are numerous local varieties encompassing the subtleties. Promptly toward the beginning of the day the leader of every family, normally joined by a few male relatives, chooses and fells the tree from which a log will be cut for their family unit. The gathering declares its takeoff by discharging weapons or little celebratory mortars called "prangija". The Turkey oak is the most prominent types of tree chose in many areas, however different oaks are likewise picked. Beech, pear, quince, hornbeam, and plum trees are utilized in eastern Serbia, albeit less much of the time than oak trees. In certain regions of Montenegrin Littoral where oaks don't develop, olives, cove shrubs, elms, or strawberry trees are utilized. Youthful, straight, and whole examples are favored. The badnjak might be increasingly esteemed on the off chance that it is felled stealthily in another person's instead of in one's own woods. 

For the most part, every family unit sets one up badnjak, albeit more are cut in certain districts. Contingent upon the nearby custom, Montenegrin Serbs may fell two, three, a discretionary number more prominent than two, or the number equivalent to the male individuals from family in addition to one. The last implies that every one of the guys has a log related with him, with the thickest log speaking to the head of family and the most slender connected to the family's success. In the event that there is just a single man in the family unit, three as opposed to two logs are readied. The logs might be cut from various types of tree. In parts of the Bay of Kotor, every family unit gets ready four arrangements of badnjaks, as they are scorched there on Christmas Eve, yet additionally on the eves of New Years Day, Epiphany, and the Feast of Saint Sava. 

In Grbalj, south-west of Kotor, the quantity of the logs is equivalent to the quantity of individuals in the family unit. A terebinth is chopped down for the badnjak related with the lady of the house, called the "badnjačica" (), meaning she-badnjak. A similar term is additionally utilized in different zones where just a couple of oak logs is cut, in which case "badnjačica" alludes to the littler of the two. In Resava, the "badnjačica" is set up from an Italian oak, and the badnjak from a Turkey oak. In Zagarač, focal Montenegro, both of the logs might be cut from a similar tree in the event that it is tall enough, the "badnjačica" at that point originating from the upper, more slender piece of the storage compartment. The pair is in certain areas joined by a third log called the "badnjačić"— badnjak the kid. Albeit youthful and dainty trees are normally utilized for the badnjak, in northern Dalmatia's district of Bukovica two generally thick logs with breadths of 30 to 50 centimeters (12 to 20 inches) are readied, in addition to one more slender log (called trinity). In different zones dry oak branches are gathered from the beginning, utilized rather than a log. 

At the point when the head of family unit finds an appropriate tree, he remains before it confronting east. In the wake of tossing grain at the tree, he welcomes it with the words "Great morning and cheerful Christmas Eve to you", makes the Sign of the Cross, says a supplication, and kisses the tree. He may likewise disclose to the badnjak why it will be cut: "I have come to you to take to my home, to be my steadfast assistant to each advancement and improvement, in the house, in the pen, in the field, and in each spot." He at that point cuts it slantwise on its eastern side, utilizing a hatchet. A few men put gloves on before they begin to cut the tree, and from that point on never contact the badnjak with their uncovered hands. The tree should tumble toward the east, unhindered by encompassing trees. It must not be left half-cut, as then it will revile the place of the man. In certain districts, if the tree isn't chopped down after the third blow of the hatchet, at that point it must be pulled and turned until its trunk breaks. The subsequent badnjak has a purported "whiskers", the piece of the storage compartment at which it severed from the base of the tree. In Šumadija, half of a roundabout portion of bread is left on the stump, the other half being eaten in transit back home. In Zagarač, the stump is secured with greenery or dry leaves, and it will be visited again in spring: the stump growing through the spread is a sign of good karma and success. 

The principal chip from the tree is brought home and put where thriving is particularly wanted, for example, next to the bee sanctuaries, in the hen perch, or between milk bowls in the dairy room, with the expectation that the coming year's kaymak will clump to frame thick layers in the bowls. It might likewise be put underneath some dough puncher's yeast, with the goal that the success of the family unit may develop like yeast. In Semberija, a bit of the fragment is placed in the batter for the česnica, a round portion of bread arranged extraordinarily for Christmas supper. This is done "due to honey bees", as the reason is customarily named. 

The highest point of the felled tree is expelled, leaving the badnjak of such a length, that enables it to be carried on a man's shoulder, up to about long. Its branches might be cut off, or not, contingent upon the nearby custom. Once in the home, each badnjak is inclined vertically against the house adjacent to the passageway entryway. In Montenegrin Littoral, each ought to be embellished with leaved cove shrub, olive, juniper, and rosemary twigs, which are fixing to the storage compartment's top, center, and base with ivy or red smooth or woolen strings. In parts of eastern Serbia and Kosovo the badnjak is enveloped by a man's shirt. 

In west Serbia's district of Rađevina, focused on the town of Krupanj, the badnjak arranged for every family unit is cut into three logs, the most essential of which is the "dozemak"— the log that originates from the piece of the storage compartment that developed closest to the ground. In Resava, Levač, Temnić, and Jadar of Serbia, just as in Ozren and Romanija of Bosnia, the badnjak is cut into three logs related individually with the men, the ladies, and the youngsters. 

At night, a man of the family brings their badnjak into the house. In the event that there is more than one badnjak, the thickest of them is viewed as the fundamental one, and is gotten first. Venturing over the edge, right foot first, the man welcomes his accumulated family with the words "Great night and glad Christmas Eve to you." The lady of the house welcomes him back, saying "May God give you prosperity, and may you have good karma", or "Good karma to you, and together with you for a long time to come [may we be]", or comparable, before tossing grain from a sifter at the man and the badnjak he conveys. In the faction of Kuči, the lady contacts the "facial hair" of the primary badnjak with an entire portion of bread. In Montenegro, two ladies holding lit candles stand one on either side of the house entryway as the badnjaks are conveyed in. 

After going into the house the man approaches the chimney, called "ognjište" ()— the hearth of an "ognjište" is like a pit fire, in that it has no vertical encompass. He lays the badnjak down on the flame and moves it somewhat forward, to call flourishing for the family. Some other logs are gotten by different guys and laid on the flame parallel or opposite to the first. In a family with the convention of consuming the badnjak and "badnjačica", they are laid one over the other; the guys then kiss the previous, and the females the last mentioned. In Bukovica the two thicker logs are set one next to the other, and the more slender one (trinity) is set in parallel on top. In nineteenth century Herzegovina, families with huge houses would stack their logs onto three or four sets of bulls, which were then driven into the house. The logs were emptied and laid on the flame, and the bulls driven out through the indirect access. 

Following the badnjak has been gotten, or preceding in certain spots, an armful of straw is spread over the floor. The straw is generally gotten with similar welcome and tossing of grain as the badnjak. The individual spreading it might mimic a hen cackling to call her chicks, ""Kvo", "kvo", "kvo"", with the family's youngsters mirroring chicks, ""Piju", "piju", "piju"", while they pick at the straw. In Čečava, northern Bosnia, the youngsters at that point rests on the straw, before shutting their eyes and picking a stalk with their lips: the tyke that picked the longest stalk will as far as anyone knows be the most fortunate in the next year. In the Bay of Kotor, the function is joined by the words ""Kuda slama, tuda slava""— "Whither straw, thither festivity." A typical custom is to disperse a bunch of walnuts over the straw. It will be gathered and removed from the house on the morning of the second day after Christmas. A portion of the straw might be put aside and utilized in apotropaic practices in the coming year. 

The thicker end of the log, the end that was closest to the tree's foundations, may have an exceptional importance. In Montenegro it is known as the leader of the badnjak; the primary log is laid on the flame with its head pointing east. In focal Serbia the badnjak is laid with its thicker end standing out from the "ognjište". The family unit's shepherds would kiss over it to guarantee a plenitude of sheep in the coming year. In Gruža it is covered with nectar which is then licked by kids. Along the edge of "ognjište" where the thicker end is arranged, the family may put a plowshare, a round portion of bread, a glove loaded up with wheat, sugar, or a sifter containing grain, nectar, cakes, wine, salt, prunes, walnuts, and apples. The cut surface of the thicker end is in Čečava kissed by all the relatives after the badnjak is laid on the flame. 

The leader of the family unit takes a container of wine and pours some on the badnjak; in certain locales, he may strew wheat grains over the logs. He at that point proposes a toast: "Concede, O God, that there be wellbeing and happiness in this home, our grain and grapevines yield well, that kids be brought into the world beneficial to us, that our property increment in the field, pen, and animal dwellingplace!" or, "Hail, badnjak, veseljak! I give you wheat and wine, and you give me each beneficial thing and harmony!" or comparable. The name "veseljak", truly "happy one", is utilized alongside "badnjak" in certain zones. The head drinks a draft of wine from the container, after which it is passed to different individuals from family unit. In the tribe of Kuči, wine is poured on the "facial hair" of the badnjak, and afterward a young lady sits for a minute on the log—for the prosperity of the dairy cattle. Christmas Eve supper pursues, which customarily incorporates a round portion of unleavened bread, beans, fish, walnuts, nectar, and red wine. The bread isn't cut with a blade, yet broken with hands. 

The badnjak ought not be bounced over or trodden upon, and blowing on its flame is stayed away from. It ought not be moved when going to consume, in case the log break at the spot most devoured by the flame, which is generally most grounded at the focal point of the chimney; the division of the log ought to be a consequence of the flame as it were. None of the relatives should nod off before the log parts, generally some of them may bite the dust in the coming year, all of a sudden. 

The minute when the badnjak consumes might be set apart with celebrations, for example, the log being kissed by the head of family, and wine being poured over it joined by toasts. A reward might be given to the relative who was the first to see the occasion, and in the past the men would head outside and shoot their weapons in festivity. There is an extraordinary action word "preveseliti" utilized rather than the basic "pregoreti" to express "to consume" when alluding to the badnjak, which has a similar root as the thing "veseljak". When the log has consumed, a few families let the flame go out, while in others the men keep watch in movements amid the night to keep the badnjak consuming. 

Once the badnjak has consumed, the thicker end is regularly removed from the flame and utilized by the neighborhood custom. It might be conveyed the apiaries, smothered, and put between the parts of a youthful plum or apple tree. The men may make crosses from it and put them under the roof, on the fields, glades, vineyards, and apiaries, with the goal that the coming year might be upbeat and productive. It might likewise be put aside for next Christmas Eve, to be set on the flame preceding the new badnjak, as an image of progression. In Kosovo, a piece of the badnjak is safeguarded and consumed again on New Years Day and Epiphany. 

The badnjak consumes Christmas Day, regardless of whether revived or continued consuming from the Eve. The primary visit the family gets that day is viewed as imperative, similar to New Years Day first-balance in the British Isles. The family may pick somebody, for the most part a youthful male, to be their first guest, known as a "polaznik", before the landing of whom no untouchable is permitted to go into the house. At an opportune time the morning of Christmas Day he ventures into the house, right foot first, and welcomes the family with "Christ is Born", to which they answer "Really He is Born." The "polaznik" at that point approaches the "ognjište" and more than once hits the consuming log with a poker or a branch to make flashes fly. In the meantime he expresses a desire that the satisfaction and thriving of the family be as rich as the sparkles: 

The wording of this well-wishing may differ, however its expectation is dependably the equivalent, to summon joy and success. The "polaznik" will at that point toss a coin into the flame before being given a round portion of bread, the customary present for the "polaznik", typically joined by some other present. The custom to utilize a household creature as a "polaznik" was kept in certain districts until the main portion of the 20th century. In Rađevina, the leader of the family would lead a sheep into the house, place it between the "ognjište" and himself, and articulate the desires while hitting the badnjak with a branch cut from it, before saying: "We passed one flame, we are not terrified of another." His significant other would then kiss him over the sheep subsequent to stating "may the ewes kiss the sheep as we kiss one another." 

Coals of the badnjak might be utilized for divination in Jadar. The quantity of these equivalent to the entirety of grain and domesticated animals sorts developed by the family are taken out from the "ognjište" and put on the česnica. Every one of the sorts is related with its own ash on that portion. The sort whose coal holds its gleam longer than the others ought to be the most gainful in the coming year. The log starting without anyone else's input foretells a rich gather of nectar. Cooled coals of the badnjak might be set between the parts of natural product trees; the youthful trees might be furnished additionally with twigs from the badnjak. Its powder might be spread over the fields and blended with grub. A portion of the fiery debris might be put aside to be taken with water as a solution for cerebral pain. There are likewise various other provincial practices associated with the badnjak. 

These antiquated conventions have present day, decreased renditions. Present day houses ordinarily have no "ognjište" on which to consume a badnjak, however it might be emblematically spoken to by a few oak twigs, some of which are scorched in a wood-consuming kitchen stove and the others put close to it. A few people slash the badnjak into shorter logs so they can be put into the hearth and consumed. The most common custom, be that as it may, is to put a bunch of oak twigs, with their dark colored leaves still joined, in whichever area in the home the family feels is suitable. This bunch is additionally called the badnjak, and it is typically kept in the home until next Christmas Eve. For the comfort of those living in towns and urban communities, such little badnjaks can be purchased at commercial centers or disseminated in houses of worship. In a typical course of action, the group of oak twigs is bound together with twigs of European Cornel and a few stalks of straw. 

The laying of a badnjak on the flame was viewed as the least a Serbian family could do to demonstrate their dedication to Serbian convention. In Petar II Petrović-Njegoš's lyric "The Mountain Wreath", the plot of which happens in eighteenth century Montenegro, Voivode Batrić urges changes over to Islam to come back to Christianity and Serbdom: "[...] Lay the Serbian Christmas-log [badnjak] on the flame, paint the Easter eggs different hues, see with consideration the Lent and Christmas fasts. With respect to the rest, do what your heart wants!" Petrović-Njegoš depicts the occasion air that encompasses the consuming the expressions of Abbot Stefan, one of the mains characters of "The Mountain Wreath": 

The badnjak function, initially performed just inside the family, turned into a progressively open festival. A uniquely created before World War I in the Kingdom of Serbia to lay the badnjak on a flame worked in military sleeping enclosure, so the fighters positioned there over Christmas could partake in the occasion air. In the succeeding Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the military badnjak function was institutionalized in armed force administration guidelines. On Christmas Eve, under the direction of an uncommonly named officer, the delegates of military units of an army shaped a bubbly parade on ponies, went with music. Individuals from natives' affiliations and different regular folks of the battalion town typically joined the parade as it continued to the closest wood to gather the badnjak. They felled a set number of trees, devoted individually to the Royal Palace, the military direction of the town, the particular directions of units of the army, its most established officer, and its officers' get together house. The parade conveyed the trees to the military quarters, in whose yard an open flame was constructed. The army authority at that point set the trees ritualistically on the flame, and gave a proper location. 

Increasingly more state establishments, private firms, associations, and clubs joined the parade every year, and the occasion started to assume the personality of an open occasion. Amid the 1930s, the laying of badnjak on the flame turned into a court custom. It was performed, within the sight of the regal family, by delegates of the military in the Royal Palace's live with a chimney. Toward the finish of the 1930s in certain pieces of Yugoslavia, particularly Vojvodina and Montenegro, the military badnjak service was performed not in the encampment yard but rather in a square in the army town. An open flame was worked, on which the badnjak was put by an Orthodox minister within the sight of troopers and natives. This convention, symbolizing the solidarity of state, church, and individuals, was finished by the episode of World War II. 

Yugoslavia's communist government smothered or debilitated open religious festivals until the mid 1990s. From that point forward, the Serbian Orthodox Church has, together with neighborhood networks, sorted out open festivals on Christmas Eve. There are normally three components to such festivals: the planning, the custom, and the party. The arrangement comprises of chopping down the oak sapling to be utilized as the badnjak, taking it to the congregation yard, and planning drink and nourishment for the collected parishioners. The custom incorporates Vespers, setting the badnjak on the open flame worked in the congregation yard, favoring or sanctifying the badnjak, and a suitable program with tunes and presentations. In certain wards they manufacture the flame on which to consume the badnjak not in the congregation yard but rather at some other appropriate area in their town or town. The party comprises of get-together around the flame and mingling. Every specific festival has its own particular qualities in any case, mirroring the customs of the neighborhood network. 

The undertaking to chop down the badnjak is the essential action in the readiness part of the festival. It very well may be performed by an individual, however it is generally an aggregate demonstration joined by a merry parade that may incorporate carriages and horsemen. After the tree to be utilized as the badnjak is chopped down, it is decorated with straw, strips, oranges, apples, and once in a while with the Serbian banner. In certain areas more than one badnjak is utilized in the festival, and an alternate tree is felled for each. Regularly groups of leaved oak twigs are set up to be circulated to the assembly accumulated at the congregation. Each badnjak is happily taken to the congregation entryway, frequently transported on carriages. The badnjak might be taken into the churchyard with no service, or it might be trailed by a parade, similar to the case in parts of Republika Srpska and the Bay of Kotor. 

The custom is the focal piece of the festival. Vespers change from spot to put as for the season of the start of the administration, its length and structure. The laying of badnjak on the flame typically comes after the administration, and is finished by a minister or by a regarded parishioner. Prior to the consuming, the tree might be processionally conveyed the congregation. On account of more than one badnjak, the trees are put in the state of a cross. The collected enthusiasts toss then into the flame their twig clusters, each speaking to a little badnjak. The sanctification or gift is performed by a cleric: he strews wheat grains over the badnjak, censes it while singing the Troparion of the Nativity, and as he articulates petitions, he pours wine and spreads nectar on it. Rather than applying wine and nectar, blessed water might be sprinkled on the tree by plunging a group of basil into a bowl with the water. This ceremony is for the most part performed after the putting on the flame, despite the fact that it might occur previously, in which case the sanctification might be performed in the congregation itself or in its yard. 

After the custom the cleric conveys a short message, trailed by the congregation choir singing Christmas melodies; sonnets that acclaim the Nativity of Jesus Christ might be recounted. In Montenegro, decasyllable Serbian stories are sung to a backup played on the gusle, a customary Serbian bowed string instrument. The festival closes with parishioners accumulated around the flame, presented with cooked rakia, wine, or tea, and the nourishment permitted amid the Nativity Fast. Parishioners may pick a twig from the badnjak and assume it home to position before their symbol, or at another fitting area. 

Albeit Serbian open religious festivals, as those of different people groups, were debilitated in Socialist Yugoslavia until the mid 1990s, they proceeded among Serbian Americans. The open badnjak function was held in Serbian Orthodox areas in the United States amid that period, as it is today. 

The source of the badnjak is clarified by the occasions encompassing the Nativity of Jesus Christ. As indicated by the Gospel of Luke , Mary Theotokos brought forth Christ at Bethlehem, enclosed him by materials and laid him in a trough. By Holy Tradition, the trough was situated in a cavern close to that town. A heavenly attendant of the Lord appeared to a gathering of shepherds who were keeping watch over their herd by night in that area, and revealed to them that the Savior was conceived at Bethlehem. They went there and found the child lying in the trough, as the holy messenger portrayed to them. By people custom, the shepherds conveyed kindling to the cavern and fabricated a flame to warm the infant Christ and his mom for the duration of the night. The consuming of the badnjak remembers this occasion. 

While favoring the badnjak, a few ministers serenade the accompanying petition: "O Lord Jesus Christ, our God, who planted the Tree of Life in heaven with the goal that it may give to us unceasing blessedness, favor additionally now this tree which is an image of Thy cross and the Tree of Life in heaven, and which helps us to remember Thy sacred birth and of the logs which the shepherds of Bethlehem fueled to warm themselves when they came to venerate Thee, the awesome baby, and in this way prefigured Thy salvation-bearing cross." 

Researchers view the badnjak traditions as practices acquired from the old Slavic religion. In the pre-Christian religion of the Serbs, as appeared Serbian researcher Veselin Čajkanović, there were trees seen as residences of spirits or divinities. Čajkanović contends that there were additionally trees seen as divinities "essentially". He considers the badnjak as a persuading precedent regarding the last mentioned. Welcome, petitions, and forfeits, for example, grain, wine, and nectar are offered to him (the name "badnjak" is of manly sexual orientation in Serbian); he is reliably treated not as a tree but rather as an individual. 

German researcher and folklorist Wilhelm Mannhardt holds that the log spoke to a manifestation of the soul of vegetation. The penances offered to the badnjak were intended to ensure the fruitfulness of fields, the wellbeing and satisfaction of the family. Its consuming symbolized daylight, and was expected to verify the vitalizing intensity of the sun in the following year. The lighting of the log could be viewed as a combination of tree love and flame revere, bore witness to in Slavic traditions; e.g., Istrians encouraged the logs lit on St. John's Day by sprinkling wheat upon them. Čajkanović describes the pre-Christian badnjak as a holiness who bites the dust by consuming to be reawakened, contrasting it in this regard and Attis, Osiris, Adonis, and Sandan. He likewise suggests that the crosses produced using the thicker end of the log may have begun from icons speaking to divinities tantamount with the Roman Lares, the cruciform having created from a human state of the symbols. The badnjak is ideally cut from an oak, which was the most regarded tree in the old Slavic religion, related with the incomparable god Perun. 

Prehistorian Sir Arthur Evans was a visitor in a Serbian highlander family in the area of Krivošije, Montenegrin Littoral. Dissecting the practices, he reasoned that the badnjak traditions were associated with progenitor revere. The lighting of the sign on the "ognjište" could be viewed as a serious yearly reviving of the hallowed hearth fire, viewed as the focal point of the family life and the seat of the precursors. The conviction that familial spirits abide in the household hearth was bore witness to among Slavic and different people groups. Flame revere in the old Slavic religion was for the most part changed into the faction of local flame, and in this way united with predecessor venerate. A hint of penance to the flame is the coin tossed into it by the "polaznik" after the custom of making sparkles fly from the badnjak. 

Flame from the local hearth was by no means given out of the house on Christmas Eve, not even to a neighbor whose fire had gone out. The purpose behind this restriction, as indicated by Čajkanović, was the conviction that the Eve is the point at which the familial spirits, watchmen of the family's satisfaction and flourishing, are particularly dynamic in this world. Christmas Eve supper is a dining experience arranged in their respect, and they join the family at it. They assemble on the straw spread over the floor, and on the hearth. These spirits could be expelled from the family if any bit of their flame were removed by an outcast. In individuals' words, flame ought not be given in case the karma be detracted from the house, or for better yields, or as a result of honey bees. Alluding to the last clarification, Čajkanović contends that, in the old religion of the Serbs, the honey bees were viewed as unadulterated and sacrosanct creepy crawlies, in whom genealogical spirits could abide. A similar clarification, "in light of honey bees", is additionally given for the previously mentioned custom of putting a bit of the badnjak's first chip in the mixture for the česnica. 

Russian philologist Vladimir Toporov has recommended that the felling of the badnjak was initially a reenactment of the legendary battle in which "Mladi Božić" ("youthful god") slew his dad "Stari Badnjak" ("old Badnjak"). "Božić", the modest type of the thing "lowland", which means god, is likewise the Serbian for "Christmas". The characters of "Stari Badnjak" and "Mladi Božić" are found in old Serbian Christmas tunes, where they are not expressly alluded to as dad and child, and no battle between them is referenced. By Toporov, the previous embodied the most recent day of the Old Year, the peak of the intensity of Chaos, and the last represented the principal day of the New Year, the start of restoration of Cosmic Order. He respects "Stari Badnjak" and "Mladi Božić" as beginning from individually the mythical beast and the winged serpent slayer of the Proto-Indo-European folklore. "Stari Badnjak" would be identified with both the Vedic snake "Ahi Budhnya" ("the Dragon of the Deep") executed by Indra, and the Greek mythical beast Python murdered by Apollo. The words "badnjak", "budhnya", and "python" come from the Proto-Indo-European root *"bhudh-", meaning base, establishment, profundities, and related thoughts. 

As per Russian philologist and mythographer Boris Uspensky, "Stari Badnjak" and "Mladi Božić" have analogs in East Slavic convention—Nikola's Dad and Nikola. The name Nikola is a well known reference to Saint Nicholas of Myra, whose feast falls nineteen days before Christmas, on 6 December, his "father" being praised the day preceding. Nikola is depicted in East Slavic legends as tolerant and defensive towards the ordinary citizens, benefactor of creatures and horticulture, associated with wealth, bounty, and ripeness. Uspensky contends that this holy person took on characteristics of the serpentine god Volos, whose faction was extremely solid among East Slavs before Christianization. He was the foe of the awful thunder-god Perun, who is for this situation reflected in Nikola's Dad. 

The idea of a squabble among Nikola and his "father" is available in various legends. The association between the father– child sets of "Stari Badnjak"– "Mladi Božić" and Nikola's Dad– Nikola is confirmed by the way that, in numerous East Slavic locales, rehearses trademark for Christmas have been exchanged to the Feast of Saint Nicholas. There is, be that as it may, a reversal in the correlation between these two sets. In the previous pair, the primary stems from the legendary mythical beast, and the second from the winged serpent warrior, while in the last pair it is the other way around. This reversal clarifies, by Uspensky, the way that in certain zones Nikola's Dad is commended on the day after his child's dining experience, instead of on its eve. In that way, the "mythical beast" (Nikola) precedes the "monster warrior" (Nikola's Dad), similar to the case with "Stari Badnjak" and "Mladi Božić". 

Serbian ethnologist Petar Vlahović has suggested that the thing "badnjak" and the related descriptor "badnji" (attributive "Christmas Eve") are gotten from the foundation of the action word "bdeti" ("to be wakeful"), alluding to a custom of remaining conscious during that time before Christmas Day. A similar derivation of the descriptive word "badnji" has likewise been proposed by Vuk Stefanović Karadžić, nineteenth century Serbian philologist, systematizer of oral writing, and ethnographer. 

The custom that a family gravely carries a sign into the house and lights it on the hearth on Christmas Eve has been recorded in different pieces of Europe. In England, a Yule log used to be merrily aroused on the residential hearth so "that sweet karma may come while the log is a-teending", as depicted by seventeenth century artist Robert Herrick. In France, the log had diverse local names: "chalendal", "calignaou", "tréfoir", and "tréfouet". In Provence, it must be cut from an organic product tree; it was gotten by the entire family while they sang a tune appealing to God for gift on the house, that the ladies may bear kids, the caretaker goats kids, and the ewes sheep, and that their grain and wine may flourish. Before the log was set on the flame, the most youthful youngster in the family poured wine on it. Logs were reverentially laid on the household fire on Christmas Eve in different pieces of Italy; in Tuscany, Christmas is designated "Festa di Ceppo", actually "dining experience of log". In the Val di Chiana, the offspring of the family were blindfolded and told to beat the consuming log with tongs. Hints of Christmas-log traditions can likewise be found in Germany and Scandinavia. In Thuringia the family put a "Christklotz" (Christ log) on the flame before hitting the sack, with the goal that it may consume the night. 

In Croatian convention, objects of two unique sorts are alluded to as "badnjak". The principal type incorporates leaved branches cut from Turkey oaks or hazel trees, up to long with whatever number catkins as could be expected under the circumstances. Such a branch used to be set on Christmas Eve morning over the house entryway, under the overhang, or on the rooftop, and had a stylish job. The other sort incorporates logs cut for the most part from oak trunks. At night the family used to ceremonially carry three such logs into the house and consume them on the hearth. These practices are never again performed, yet in certain spots a changed type of badnjak is utilized: a cross is cut into the bark of bits of kindling which are singed in kitchen stoves on Christmas Eve. In Bulgaria, the most youthful man of the family goes on the Eve into a backwoods to chop down an oak, elm, or pear tree, which will be utilized as the "badnik" (бъдник). After the man carries it into the house, an opening is exhausted in one end of the "badnik" and loaded up with wine, cooking oil, and incense. The opening is stopped, and that finish of the log is wrapped with a white material fabric before the "badnik" is happily scorched on the hearth. 

In Greece, a substantial log was lit on the hearth on Christmas Eve and continued consuming the Twelve Days of Christmas. This was done as an insurance against the evil spirits called "Kallikantzaroi", accepted to rise up out of their caves during the evening amid that period to assault individuals and harm their property. The flame and smoke from the log was thought to keep the "Kallikantzaroi" from going into the house down the smokestack. The custom consuming of logs on the Eve was likewise done in Albania. At the point when the "buzm", as the log was called there, was going to be brought into the house, an individual from the family would go out into the yard, yell the name of the family unit's head, and announce that the "buzm" was coming and bringing a wide range of scrumptious things. The leader of the family would react by saying "You are welcome!" and the "buzm" would be formally gotten, welcomed by the family and treated with incredible regard. The log would be put on the hearth, and frequently a critical piece of all nourishment and drink in the house would be put on the log and consumed together with it. 

Čajkanović (1994) records the accompanying ethnographic productions (in Serbian) for more subtleties on the badnjak: 

Photos of Christmas Eve festivities in 2009: 

Video: