Last Fantasy XII 

The amusement happens in the anecdotal place that is known for Ivalice, where the realms of Archadia and Rozarria are pursuing a perpetual war. Dalmasca, a little kingdom, is gotten between the warring countries. At the point when Dalmasca is added by Archadia, its princess, Ashe, makes an opposition development. Amid the battle, she meets Vaan, a youthful swashbuckler who longs for turning into a sky privateer in direction of a carrier. They are immediately joined by a band of partners; together, they rally against the oppression of the Archadian Empire. 

"Last Fantasy XII" got basic recognition, gaining various Game of the Year grants. As of November 2009, the diversion sold more than six million duplicates worldwide on PlayStation 2. A continuation, "", was discharged for the Nintendo DS in 2007. A superior quality remaster of the "Universal Zodiac Job System" variant, subtitled "The Zodiac Age", was discharged for the PlayStation 4, Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, and Xbox One. 

All through the amusement, the player straightforwardly controls the on-screen character from a third-individual viewpoint to communicate with individuals, articles, and adversaries. In contrast to past recreations in the arrangement, the player can likewise control the camera with the correct simple stick, taking into account a 360° perspective on the environment. While in towns and urban areas, the player may just observe from the point of view of Vaan, however any character might be controlled in the field. The universe of "Definite Fantasy XII" is rendered to scale with respect to the characters in it; rather than a cartoon of the character meandering around small scale landscape, as found in the before "Conclusive Fantasy" diversions, each zone is spoken to relatively. The player explores the overworld by walking, Chocobo, or via aircraft. Players may spare their amusement to a memory card utilizing spare gems or door precious stones, and may utilize the last to transport between entryway gems. An in-amusement bestiary gives accidental data about the universe of "Conclusive Fantasy XII". 

"Last Fantasy XII" rebuilds the arrangement of acquiring gil, the cash of the "Last Fantasy" diversions; rather than gil, most foes drop "plunder" which can be sold at shops. This ties into another fight repairman which compensates the player with improved plunder for killing a specific kind of adversary on various occasions in succession. Selling diverse sorts of plunder likewise opens a bazaar alternative in shops, which gives things at a lower cost, or things restrictive to the bazaar. 

Barring the enormously multiplayer online pretending amusement "Last Fantasy XI", "Last Fantasy XII" is the principal section in the fundamental "Last Fantasy" arrangement not to incorporate irregular experiences. Rather, adversaries are unmistakable in the overworld and the player may battle or stay away from them. Fights unfurl progressively utilizing the "Dynamic Dimension Battle" (ADB) framework. Fights start when the gathering comes quite close to a forceful adversary, the gathering assaults a foe, or a story occasion starts an encounter. At the point when a character or adversary starts an activity, target lines associate characters to other gathering individuals or foes; distinctive hues speak to the diverse kinds of activity. The player may swap to and issue directions to any of the three characters in the gathering, yet visitor characters are constrained by man-made consciousness (AI). Fight directions are started through a progression of menus, and incorporate Attack, Magicks, Technicks, Mist, Gambits, and Items. The player may switch any dynamic character with a latent character whenever, except if the dynamic character is focused by an assault or capacity. Characters who are thumped out may likewise be substituted. 

Another element in "Conclusive Fantasy XII" is the "gambit" framework, which enables the player to program each character to play out specific directions fighting in light of indicated conditions. Utilizing gambits, the player may set responses to various upgrades for each character. Every gambit comprises of three sections: an objective, an activity, and a need. The objective indicates which partner or adversary to follow up on and the condition for applying the activity. For instance, the objective "Partner: HP < 70%" makes the character focus on any partner whose hit focuses have fallen underneath 70%. The activity is the direction to be performed on the objective. The need figures out which gambit to perform when various gambits are activated. These heuristics manage the characters when acting self-governingly, however player-coordinated directions are constantly given top need. 

In "Conclusive Fantasy XII", a strange wonder known as "Fog" is the key vitality which enables characters to cast calling enchantment and perform "Quickenings". Subsequent to vanquishing an Esper in battle, the player will almost certainly call it to the war zone. Like "Last Fantasy X", the brought animals become dynamic members in fight, instead of the true to life assaults seen in past amusements in the arrangement. In contrast to "Conclusive Fantasy X", notwithstanding, Espers pursue shrouded gambits, instead of the player's immediate direction. The summoner remains a functioning part in the battle, ready to assault and cast bolster enchantment, rather than leaving the gathering or standing inert while the brought animal battles. An Esper will leave the fight if either the summoner or itself is thumped out, its time limit lapses, or it executes its exceptional assault. Some Espers have beginnings in "Definite Fantasy Tactics" and "Last Fantasy Tactics Advance" and others are gotten from the last managers of past "Conclusive Fantasy" recreations, for example, Chaos, the last supervisor of the primary "Last Fantasy", and Zeromus, the last manager of "Definite Fantasy IV". 

"Last Fantasy XII" presents "Quickenings", another Limit Break framework exceptional contrasted with those in past amusements in the arrangement. Characters learn Quickenings by advancing to explicit boards on the License Board. Each character can learn three Quickenings, which are special to that character. Characters may string together Quickenings into substantial combo assaults, called Mist Chains, by means of coordinated catch presses. In the event that a Mist Chain achieves a specific length, a last strike will be started toward the finish of the Quickening cycle, called a Concurrence. 

As in numerous pretending diversions (RPGs), characters "level up" each time they acquire a set number of experience focuses from overcoming adversaries; each dimension picked up expands the character's insights and improves execution in fight. Measurements incorporate hit focuses, the measure of harm a character can get; quality, the intensity of the character's physical assaults; and enchantment, the strength of the character's mystical spells. 

Notwithstanding step up, players may improve their characters by means of the License Board. The License Board is a variety of boards that contain "licenses" which enable a character to play out specific activities. The board is part into two sections; the upper part involves Magick, Technick, Accessory, and Augment (detail increments and other changeless buffs) licenses, and the base part includes generally Weapon and Armor licenses. To utilize a Magick, Technick, or bit of gear, the character must acquire its relating permit by spending the required measure of LP (License Points). LP are earned fighting alongside the experience focuses. Like the Sphere Grid in "Definite Fantasy X", all characters may acquire all licenses on the board; be that as it may, each Quickening and Esper permit may just be actuated by a solitary character. 

"Last Fantasy XII" is set inside the place that is known for Ivalice amid an age when "enchantment was ordinary" and "carriers handled the skies, swarming out the sky". Right now, magicite, an enchantment rich mineral, is regularly utilized in enchantment spells and in fueling aircrafts—a prevalent type of transportation in Ivalice. Ivalice is isolated into three mainlands: Ordalia, Valendia, and Kerwon. Ordalia is situated in the western piece of Ivalice. The Rozarrian Empire makes its home in the immense inland fields of this mainland as its eastern segment is to a great extent desert and "jagd"— untamed areas so wealthy in Mist, the ethereal appearance of magicite, that aircrafts can't work. Valendia is the home of Imperial Archadia, where lavish good countries dab the scene. Vital to the story is Dalmasca, a little kingdom between the two mainlands and domains. Situated amidst the Galtean Peninsula of Ordalia, Dalmasca is encompassed by a scope of desert. The mild atmosphere of Dalmasca contrasts from the virus environs of Kerwon toward the south and the lavish fields of Valendia and Ordalia. Amid this time, Ivalice is plagued by the pending war between the powers of Rozarria and Archadia. Gotten between the two incredible Empires, Dalmasca and various littler countries have just been enslaved by Archadia two years before the amusement starts. 

The six primary playable characters in "Conclusive Fantasy XII" are Vaan, a vivacious vagrant of Rabanastre who longs for turning into a sky privateer; Ashe, a decided princess of Dalmasca who lost her dad and her better half in the Archadian intrusion; Basch, a disfavored knight of Dalmasca accused of injustice for killing the ruler; Balthier, a noble sky privateer who pilots his carrier, the "Strahl"; Fran, Balthier's accomplice and a Viera oust whose learning reaches out to legends and fantasies; and Penelo, Vaan's cherished companion who goes with him on voyages to "watch out for him". 

The Archadian Empire is administered by House Solidor, headed by Emperor Gramis. The head's children are Vayne and Larsa, the previous a military virtuoso and the diversion's fundamental foe, and the last an appealling searcher of harmony. Judge Magisters, upholders of Archadian law, secure House Solidor and execute each direction issued by the decision family. The mechanical wonders of aircrafts and manufactured nethicite—a type of magicite that ingests Mist—are on account of Doctor Cid, an unmistakable scientist from Archadia. The Resistance against Archadia incorporates Dalmascan knight Vossler, a partner of Basch; Marquis Halim Ondore IV, the diversion's storyteller and leader of the skycity Bhujerba; Reddas, a sky privateer situated in the port at Balfonheim; and the Rozarrian Empire, of which Al-Cid Margrace is a ruler of the decision family. The mythos of "Conclusive Fantasy XII" spins around a character known as Dynast-King Raithwall, a man who once joined Ivalice to make the Galtean Alliance in ages past. 

In Dalmasca's capital city of Rabanastre, Princess Ashelia (Ashe) of Dalmasca and Prince Rasler of Nabradia have quite recently marry, as the Archadian Empire attacks the two nations. Rasler is executed in the war, the city of Nabudis is devastated in a solitary blast, and the Dalmascan King Raminas is killed minutes in the wake of marking a settlement of surrender. Marquis Ondore reports that the professional killer was Dalmascan skipper Basch, who has been condemned to death, and that Princess Ashe has ended it all. 

After two years, Vaan, a Rabanastre road urchin, overlooks his companion Penelo's complaints and penetrates the royal residence amid a supper praising the arrangement of Archadian sovereign Vayne Solidor as delegate. In the treasury he finds a bit of magicite, an incredible mystical gem. He is found by Balthier and Fran, a couple of sky privateers searching for the magicite. The three getaway as Dalmascan Resistance powers attack the castle, and in the sewers they meet the Resistance head, Amalia, before being caught by Archadian powers. Kept in the Nalbina prisons, they meet Basch, who was detained yet not slaughtered, and who expresses his twin sibling Gabranth was the one to murder the lord. The four at that point escape together back to Rabanastre. There they find Penelo has been hijacked and taken to the skimming city of Bhujerba by the abundance seeker Ba'Gamnan, who tries to attract Balthier to him. 

In Bhujerba, they meet Lamont, an inquisitive kid who is Vayne's more youthful sibling, Larsa, in mask. In the wake of protecting Penelo from the Lhusu Mines, Larsa welcomes her to remain with him. Basch goes up against the Marquis over his falsehoods, yet the gathering is caught and kept on board the Archadian aircraft "Leviathan", headed by Judge Ghis. On the "Leviathan", the gathering is brought together with Penelo and Amalia, who is uncovered to be Princess Ashe. Ghis takes the magicite, which is uncovered to be an imperial Dalmascan curio, "deifacted nethicite", from Vaan to send to Archadia. The gathering gets away from the carrier, yet as Ashe had intended to utilize the magicite as confirmation that she was the princess, the gathering makes arrangements to gather one more of the bits of nethicite, the Dawn Shard. They do as such, yet are again caught by Ghis; when he attempts to utilize the Dawn Shard in the "Leviathan" as opposed to the "manufacted" (misleadingly made) magicite it typically utilizes, his whole carrier armada is obliterated in a reflection of the pulverization of Nabudis, and the gathering escapes once more. 

The gathering experiences Larsa, who looks for a harmony settlement among Dalmasca and the domain. Persuaded, Ashe and the gathering go to Mt. Bramble Omisace to look for the Gran Kiltias Anastasis, Ivalice's religious chief, and ask his endorsement of her as ruler of Dalmasca. There, they likewise meet Al-Cid Margrace, an individual from the Rozarrian Empire governing family, who is looking to deflect a war among Rozarria and Archadia and is in converses with Larsa. Their arrangements are diminished when Anastasis is slaughtered by Archadia, and soon a short time later the Archadian sovereign Gramis passes on and Vayne rises the position of royalty. 

Subsequent to recovering the Sword of Kings, which can crush nethicite, the gathering voyages to Archadia to recover Larsa, who has been taken. There they find Doctor Cid, who made manufacted magicite, and who guides them to go to Giruvegan as it is the wellspring of nethicite. In Giruvegan, no one but Ashe can enter the last zone, where she experiences the creators of nethicite, the undying Occuria, who "pull the strings of history"; they give her the Treaty Blade to cut new bits of nethicite from the Sun-cryst, the wellspring of all nethicite and its capacity. She discovers that Venat, one of the Occuria, has abandoned to put the "reins of History back in the hands of Man", controlling Vayne and Cid, controlling the previous' objective to overcome Ivalice and become the new Dynast King, and driving the last to make manufacted magicite to decrease the overall intensity of the Occuria. Archadia's extension crusade was a front to catch the current shards of nethicite. 

Ashe and the gathering voyage to Pharos tower, the area of the Sun-cryst, where she chooses not to deliver her retribution by following the Occuria's desires, however rather crush the Sun-cryst. The gathering routs Gabranth, who uncovers that he executed King Raminas, and afterward the gathering additionally vanquishes Cid, before crushing the precious stone. The gathering later gains from Al-Cid that the Dalmascan Resistance, driven by Ondore, is going to battle Archadia in Rabanastre, yet the Archadian powers currently incorporate the Sky Fortress "Bahamut", controlled by the Mist discharged by the annihilation of the Sun-Cryst. They invade the "Bahamut", and discover Larsa endeavoring to deter his sibling Vayne from his arrangements for war without much of any result. They rout Vayne and Venat, and Ashe and Larsa report the finish of the contention to the front line. Larsa turns into the Archadian ruler and Ashe the Queen of Dalmasca; Basch replaces his sibling Gabranth as Larsa's defender; Vaan and Penelo fly a carrier to meet Balthier and Fran for another experience. 

Improvement for "Definite Fantasy XII" started in December 2000 and was going by "Conclusive Fantasy Tactics" executive Yasumi Matsuno and "Last Fantasy IX" chief Hiroyuki Ito. Matsuno gave the first idea and plot yet was compelled to retire from his jobs halfway through generation because of wellbeing concerns. The group was rebuilt as an outcome: the new directorial team comprised of Ito and Hiroshi Minagawa, while Akitoshi Kawazu of "Adventure" arrangement acclaim turned into the amusement's official maker. Arrangement maker Hironobu Sakaguchi was frustrated by Matsuno's takeoff and declined to play the diversion past its presentation. 

The craving to move far from arbitrary experiences was available since the start of advancement. This longing powered the advancement of the Active Dimension Battle framework so players could flawlessly move from fight to investigation. The gambit framework was considered at an early stage as an approach to encourage this change. Fight framework planner Hiroshi Tomomatsu states that it steadily moved far from a mind boggling and inflexible recipe to the more adaptable structure found in the last form of the amusement. Ito drew motivation for gambits from plays in American football where each colleague has a particular occupation to do dependent on the conditions and wanted result. With respect to the permit framework, he clarified that requiring "licenses" to play out specific activities was a characteristic augmentation of the unbending organized society of Archadia, as embodied by its Judges. 

At the beginning periods of advancement, Minagawa uncovered that various thoughts and highlights were made arrangements for the amusement, however were dropped from the last stages because of specific requirements and equipment impediments. A portion of these incorporated the capacity for a second player to join in the interactivity, empowering a two-player mode. Another thought that was given a lot of thought was the capacity to enroll non-player characters to participate in the horde chases. Because of the specialized confinements of the comfort and different number of characters joining the conflict, the improvement stage took longer than anticipated, causing delays. 

Structure motivation originated from a blend of medieval Mediterranean nations as exhibited by the engineering styles found all through Ivalice alongside a large number of the races populating the locale. The craftsmanship group, driven by workmanship chiefs Hideo Minaba and Isamu Kamikokuryō, visited Turkey, which impacted the amusement's Mediterranean-style setting. The engineers additionally utilized styles and deco from different sources incorporating territories in India and New York City. Of note is the utilization of Sanskrit in the city of Bhujerba. Expressions, for example, "svagatam" (welcome) and titles like "parijanah" (manage) are lifted legitimately from Sanskrit. Minaba makes reference to that the group endeavored to bring out Arabic culture in the structure of the amusement. War is a conspicuous topic of the amusement and the designers expressed that the cutscene fights are impacted by Ancient Rome. At the point when requested to remark on the fan perception of "Star Wars" likenesses, Minaba answered that in spite of the fact that he was an aficionado of the arrangement, it was not really an impact to the diversion's structures. It has likewise been noticed that the similitudes start from "The Hidden Fortress", the 1958 Akira Kurosawa film that enlivened "Star Wars". 

Basch was at first intended to be the primary hero of the story, yet the center was in the long run moved to Vaan and Penelo when the two characters were made later being developed. The improvement group clarified that their past amusement, "Vagrant Story", which highlighted a "resilient man in his prime" as the hero had been ineffective and disliked; the change with respect to "Conclusive Fantasy XII" from a "major and extreme" hero to a more youthful, young one was along these lines chosen in the wake of focusing on socioeconomics were considered. With the throwing of performing artist Kouhei Takeda for the voice acting and movement catch, Vaan turned out to be not so much ladylike but rather more "dynamic, peppy splendid and positive". Remarks were made about the similitude between fundamental character planner and foundation structure administrator Akihiko Yoshida's manifestations and those of Tetsuya Nomura, another Square Enix character fashioner. Yoshida feels this association is started by the style of shading utilized by the two craftsmen, which includes a shading consistency between the characters and the conditions. The fashioners expressed that non-human characters and races include a conspicuous job in the amusement, which was affected by an enthusiasm for history among the designers. 

Miwa Shoda composed a storyline for the diversion prefaced based on the cutscenes and world setting that had just been done when she joined the group. Situation author Daisuke Watanabe thusly fleshed out Shoda's plot into a content. Amid the English limitation process, Alexander O. Smith, who had recently dealt with "Vagrant Story" and "Last Fantasy X", went about as maker and interpreter. While as yet protecting the significance behind the Japanese content, Smith settled on the choice to utilize distinctive tongues of English to duplicate the local contrasts in articulation found in the Japanese rendition. He additionally endeavored to remove the diversion from the "level peruses" found in other named work by throwing voice on-screen characters who had involvement in theater work. As far as general changes, the limitation group presented widescreen 16:9 proportion support and reinserted scenes that were let well enough alone for the first Japanese adaptation for political reasons and to protect an "All Ages" CERO rating. 

On November 15, 2005, a playable demo of the amusement was sent with the North American arrival of "Winged serpent Quest VIII". To honor the arrival of "Definite Fantasy XII", playable demos of the English form were accessible at DigitalLife's Gaming Pavilion in New York City on October 11, 2006, multi day named ""Final Fantasy XII" Gamer's Day". Moreover, Square Enix allowed fans to cosplay as characters from "Definite Fantasy XII". Every individual was approached to indicate Square Enix three photographs of his or her outfit for an opportunity to win an outing to New York and take an interest in the "Last Fantasy XII" Gamer's Day occasion. 

"Last Fantasy XII" when held the Guinness World Record for longest improvement period in a computer game creation, with an aggregate of five years, crossing from 2001 until its discharge in 2006. At a "Last Fantasy XII" "after death" at MIT in March 2009, Hiroshi Minagawa referenced that quite a while of generation were committed to the formation of custom devices utilized for the advancement of the amusement. It was additionally recorded as eighth on the Guinness top 50 rounds ever in 2009. 

Hitoshi Sakimoto made and orchestrated most out of the amusement's soundtrack, with Hayato Matsuo and Masaharu Iwata making seven and two tracks individually. Nobuo Uematsu, following his takeoff from Square Enix in 2004, just contributed the closure melody, "Kiss Me Good-Bye". Sakimoto experienced trouble emulating Uematsu's example, however he chose to make a one of a kind soundtrack in his own specific manner. "Kiss Me Good-Bye" was performed in both English and Japanese by Angela Aki. Aki's style of playing the console while singing helped Uematsu to remember his youth icon, Elton John, which was one reason he picked her. The English form of the tune was included in both the Japanese and North American variants of the amusement. Notwithstanding the signature melody, musician Taro Hakase co-created, organized, and played out the amusement's closure credits topic, "Symphonic Poem "Expectation"", alongside Yuji Toriyama. 

Two limited time soundtracks were discharged before the first soundtrack, "Symphonic Poem "Expectation"" and "The Best of the Final Fantasy XII Soundtrack", on March 1 and 15, 2006, individually. The previous contains all the music utilized in the amusement's trailer performed by Taro Hakase, including "Symphonic Poem "Expectation"". The first soundtrack itself was discharged in Japan on May 31, 2006. It comprises of 4 CDs with 100 tracks, and incorporates special tracks not in the last form of the diversion. The CD single for "Kiss Me Good-Bye" was discharged on the March 15, 2006. A restricted version was additionally discharged, highlighting a DVD containing the music video for "Kiss Me Good-Bye". Tofu Records has discharged a shortened rendition of the first soundtrack, which contains 31 tunes, including "Kiss Me Good-Bye". 

On March 16, 2006, Sony Computer Entertainment Japan discharged a unique "Last Fantasy XII" bundle, which contained a PlayStation 2 amusement framework, the "Last Fantasy XII" diversion, a standard DualShock controller, and a vertical reassure stand. The Japanese outsider maker Hori additionally discharged "Last Fantasy XII" memory cards upon the arrival of the amusement's discharge; stickers of "Conclusive Fantasy XII" characters are incorporated. Diversion fringe producer Logicool (Logitech's Japanese branch) discharged an uncommon release "Last Fantasy XII" controller around the same time. Suntory created "Last Fantasy XII Potion"— a beverage containing such fixings as regal jam, chamomile, sage, thyme, and marjoram. The beverages turned out to be economically accessible in Japan on March 7, 2006. Suntory additionally discharged a "Last Fantasy XII" Premium Box, which accompanied a "Last Fantasy XII" authority's card. The Potion was a restricted release item and is never again accessible. "Last Fantasy XII" was likewise adjusted into a manga by Gin Amou. Square Enix distributed the arrangement in an aggregate of five "tankōbon" volumes from December 22, 2006 to August 22, 2009. 

Studio BentStuff distributed three Ultimania books: "Last Fantasy XII Battle Ultimania" and the "Last Fantasy XII Scenario Ultimania" on June 16, 2006, and "Last Fantasy XII Ultimania Ω" on November 24, 2006. The "Fight Ultimania" gives a depiction and investigation of the new fight framework and its segments, and engineer interviews. The "Situation Ultimania" portrays the primary situations in the diversion, profiles on the characters and territories in Ivalice, engineer meetings, and subtleties on every area. The last guide, the "Ultimania Ω", incorporates voice on-screen character meets, the total story of "Definite Fantasy XII" including extra character profiles, an accumulation of works of art and representations, the total play control, and a novella composed by Benny Matsuyama, creator of "Hoshi wo Meguru Otome" from the "Last Fantasy VII Ultimania Ω Guide". Another Ultimania release, the "Last Fantasy XII International Zodiac Job System Ultimania", was discharged on September 6, 2007, as a manual for the International Zodiac adaptation of the amusement. On December 18, 2012 the amusement was re-discharged as a feature of the "Last Fantasy 25th Anniversary Ultimate Box" Japanese bundle. 

For the North American discharge, an "Authority's Edition" was accessible through GameStop and EB Games. This version incorporates the first diversion bundled in a metallic case alongside a unique reward circle, which contains "Last Fantasy XII" engineer meets, a craftsmanship exhibition, U.S. also, Japanese trailers, and a featurette, "History of "Definite Fantasy"", which gives a short outline of "Conclusive Fantasy" amusements. On January 26, 2007, Square Enix Product Blog uncovered full-shading Gabranth, Ashe, Balthier, and Vaan figures. 

"Last Fantasy XII" sold in excess of 1,764,000 duplicates in its first week in Japan, nearly leveling with the offers of "Conclusive Fantasy X" in its first week. A Square Enix meeting report expressed that "Last Fantasy XII" sold more than 2.38 million duplicates in Japan in the two weeks since its March 16, 2006 discharge. In North America, "Last Fantasy XII" dispatched around 1.5 million duplicates in its first week. It was the fourth top of the line PlayStation 2 round of 2006 around the world. As of March 2007, the amusement had transported over 5.2 million duplicates around the world. By November 2009, more than 6 million duplicates of the amusement were sold worldwide on PlayStation 2. As of October 2017, The PlayStation 4 remaster delivered more than one million duplicates around the world. 

As per audit aggregator Metacritic, "Last Fantasy XII" got "all inclusive approval". On March 16, 2006, it turned into the 6th diversion to get an ideal score from the Japanese gaming magazine "Famitsu", making it the principal "Last Fantasy" amusement, first Hiroyuki Ito amusement, and just PlayStation 2 amusement to do as such. It is likewise the second Yasumi Matsuno diversion to earn an ideal score, the first being "Vagrant Story". The amusement was lauded for its designs, situations, diversion framework, and the freshness it conveyed to the "Last Fantasy" arrangement. It was lauded for its consistent advances between full movement video portions and the in-amusement motor, and was casted a ballot number one for Best Art Style on IGN's week by week Top Ten. "Newtype USA" named "Last Fantasy XII" its "Round of the Month" for November 2006, applauded the ongoing interaction, illustrations, and story, and called it "the best RPG to have been discharged for any Sony stage". 

In spite of the fact that GameSpot praised the gambit and permit frameworks as an inventive and top to bottom route for the player to control the characters, it censured them for being excessively confounded and hard to change in accordance with, particularly for more up to date players of the arrangement. The commentator likewise scrutinized the occasionally monotonous forward and backward travel. Then again, GameSpot took specific note of the "superb" voice cast. IGN adulated the diversion's rich storyline and aesthetic heading, appeared through its "sheer profundity of character". It likewise mollified analysis that the gambit framework would "let the amusement play itself", countering that gambits don't work without a player. In any case, IGN composed that while "still incredibly solid", "Last Fantasy XII" has one of the arrangement's more fragile soundtracks. 

Official maker Akitoshi Kawazu was satisfied by "Famitsu's" evaluating however conceded that he thought the amusement was not impeccable; he felt that the storyline did not meet a few fans' desires. Kawazu communicated his disappointment and second thoughts in regards to the storyline, refering to imaginative contrasts between the PlayOnline and "Last Fantasy Tactics" individuals from the advancement group. 

"Last Fantasy XII" was named best PlayStation 2 amusement and best RPG by various computer game diaries and sites, including GameSpot, GameSpy and IGN. Both "Edge" and "Famitsu" granted it Game of the Year 2006. The Japan Game Awards 2006 respected "Last Fantasy XII" with their "Amazing Award" and "Grant for Excellence" and the PlayStation Awards 2006 gave the "Twofold Platinum Prize". It was chosen for the rundown "Top 100 New Japanese Styles", a rundown of "items and administrations starting in Japan to fill in as a characteristic of greatness". "Last Fantasy XII" additionally gotten designations in such classifications as best RPG, story, craftsmanship heading, character structure and unique melodic score at the Interactive Achievement Awards, Game Developers Choice Awards, BAFTA Video Games Awards, Spike Video Game Awards, and the Satellite Awards. 

An extended variant of the diversion, "Last Fantasy XII International Zodiac Job System", was discharged in Japan on August 10, 2007. It incorporates twelve permit sheets (rather than the first diversion's one), each relating to an alternate Zodiac sign and employment. The player can control visitor characters and request, and hold L1 to twofold the diversion's running pace. There is additionally "Another Game+" choice, "Another Game-(less)" choice (in which characters don't pick up involvement), and a "Preliminary Mode" in which the player chases beasts in 100 unique maps to pick up things and cash. The diversion likewise incorporates the western adaptation's English voices and widescreen 16:9 help, and a reward DVD. 

A spin-off", ", was discharged for the Nintendo DS in 2007. It happens one year after the occasions of "Conclusive Fantasy XII" and pursues the undertakings of Vaan. The diversion is one of four in the "Ivalice Alliance" arrangement, which likewise incorporates "Universal Zodiac Job System". 

"Fortification", a turn off activity amusement created by Grin, was to have been a "diversion with an epic scale both in story and generation esteems" that occurred in Ivalice following the occasions of "Revenant Wings". Square Enix dropped the venture following a half year of advancement. 

In July 2017, Square Enix discharged "Last Fantasy XII: The Zodiac Age," a top notch remaster of the Japanese-just "Worldwide Zodiac Job System" for the PlayStation 4. It includes trophy support, a remastered soundtrack with a couple of new tracks, and improved specialized execution. "The Zodiac Age" was selected for "Best Remake/Remaster" getting it done of 2017 Awards, and won "Best Remaster" at "Amusement Informer"s Best of 2017 Awards and 2017 RPG of the Year Awards. The remaster likewise gotten positive surveys. 

A variant for Windows was discharged by means of Steam on February 1, 2018. The port included help for higher showcase goals and 60 outlines for every second rendering, alternatives to switch between three unique variants of the soundtrack, and prompt access to the post-amusement modes. Adaptations for the Nintendo Switch and Xbox One, ported by Virtuos, are both intended to be discharged on April 30, 2019.