White-necked rockfowl 

The white-necked rockfowl ("Picathartes gymnocephalus") is a medium-sized flying creature in the family Picathartidae, with a long neck and tail. Otherwise called the white-necked picathartes, this passerine is principally found in rough forested regions at higher elevations in West Africa from Guinea to Ghana. Its conveyance is inconsistent, with populaces regularly being secluded from one another. The rockfowl regularly lives close streams and inselbergs. It has no perceived subspecies, however some trust that it shapes a superspecies with the dim necked rockfowl. The white-necked rockfowl has grayish-dark upperparts and white underparts. Its uncommonly long, dull darker tail is utilized for equalization, and its thighs are strong. The head is almost featherless, with the uncovered skin being brilliant yellow aside from two substantial, round dark patches found simply behind the eyes. Despite the fact that the flying creature is typically quiet, a few calls are known. 

These rockfowl feed principally on creepy crawlies, however guardians feed little frogs to their young. One encouraging system includes following "Dorylus" armed force subterranean insect swarms, benefiting from creepy crawlies flushed by the ants. Rockfowl travel through the timberland principally through a progression of bounces and limits or short flights in low vegetation. This species once in a while flies for long separations. The white-necked rockfowl is monogamous and sets home either alone or in the region of different sets, here and there in states with upwards of eight homes. These homes are developed out of mud framed into a profound container and are based on shake surfaces, ordinarily in caverns. Two eggs are laid two times per year. Despite the fact that the flying creatures breed in settlements, child murder is genuinely regular in this species, with rockfowl endeavoring to execute the youthful of different sets. Nestlings develop in about a month. This flying creature is seemingly perpetual. 

This species is named Vulnerable as its diminishing and divided populaces are compromised by natural surroundings decimation. Preservation endeavors are in progress in parts of its range as natural surroundings security, training endeavors, and new laws. A portion of the indigenous people groups of Sierra Leone believed the species to be a defender of the home of their hereditary spirits. This rockfowl is viewed as a standout amongst Africa's most attractive winged animals by birders and is an image of ecotourism over its range. 

This species was first depicted by Coenraad Jacob Temminck in 1825 from an example gathered on the Guinean coast. He distributed his depiction in the second volume of "Nouveau recueil de planches coloriées d'oiseaux" and portrayed it as "Corvus gymnocephalus", putting it in the crow family "Corvus". The species name is gotten from the Ancient Greek words "gymnos" "bare", and "kephalē" "head". In any case, just three years after the fact the winged creature was expelled from the family "Corvus" by René Primevère Lesson and set in its very own class, "Picathartes", as it didn't share qualities regular to individuals from "Corvus, for example, a feathered head. This nonexclusive name originates from a mix of the Latin genera "pica" for "jaybird" and "cathartes" for "vulture". Since its underlying portrayal, the picathartes have been set in excess of five unique families, including those of crows (Corvidae), starlings (Sturnidae), Old World flycatchers (Muscicapidae), babblers (Timaliidae) and Old World songbirds (Sylviidae). Today the white-necked rockfowl and its nearby relative the dark necked rockfowl are accepted to contain a one of a kind family, Picathartidae. It has likewise been recommended however not for the most part acknowledged that the two rockfowl speak to the leftovers of an old winged creature request. Ongoing DNA examination has demonstrated that Picathartidae and its nearest relatives, southern Africa's rockjumpers and southeast Asia's rail-babbler, structure a clade. The investigation recommends that the rockfowl split from the normal precursor of their clade 44 million years prior. It is trusted that the predecessor of this clade began in Australia and spread to Africa. In spite of the fact that the white-necked rockfowl has no subspecies, it is accepted to frame a superspecies with the dark necked rockfowl, with plumage and facial example being the essential contrasts between the two species. 

Basic names utilized for this species incorporate white-necked rockfowl, white-necked picathartes, yellow-headed picathartes, uncovered headed rockfowl, and the less every now and again utilized white-necked bare crow. Rockfowl is a reference to the animal types' propensity for structure mud settles on shake surfaces and surrenders. Picathartes alludes to the species' logical name. Bare crow is a reference to its featherless head and to some degree crow-like appearance, particularly its nose. 

This rockfowl measures around long, with its eminently long tail contributing about . Grown-up rockfowl show minimal sexual dimorphism in plumage and the genders can't be differentiated by appearance. On the grown-up, the head, barring the jawline and throat, is totally uncovered of plumes aside from a meager layer of fluff on the temple. The head's skin is brilliant yellow with the exception of two extensive, round patches of dark skin found simply behind the eye and containing the ear; just a slight, wide fix of yellow skin on the crown keeps the two dark patches from associating. The dark fix has a raised edge and has all the earmarks of being an unmistakable piece of the face. The eyelid and eyering are a slight line of dark encompassing the flying creature's extensive, dim darker eyes. The mouth is vigorous, lopsidedly substantial, and dark. This bill can be viewed as crow-like, is observably decurved in the upper mandible, and is about long. The fledgling's jawline and throat are canvassed in a slim layer of white plumes, and the neck is long and thin. The scruff is likewise canvassed in white quills, while the hindneck is about exposed, uncovering the orange-yellow skin. The upper mantle is a strong dark, converging into a grayish-dark lower mantle. The rockfowl's thighs are extremely solid and help its somewhat earthly way of life. The back, rear end, and undertail are a pale blue dim, while the tail is a dull dark colored and rose fit as a fiddle. The reasonably estimated wings are likewise a dim dark colored. The underparts are a rich white and show up their creamiest in the upper bosom. In diminish light the white-necked rockfowl can seem, by all accounts, to be exclusively dark above and white underneath. The legs are blue and generally long. In general the plumage seems, by all accounts, to be smooth with long quills. The grown-up weighs . 

The settling is brought into the world exposed with dim darker skin above and translucent pink skin beneath, dazzle, and with an orange-red expand. Following a couple of days, the expand changes to a splendid yellow-orange. In the wake of bring forth, the head's skin is all yellow without the dark patches of the grown-up; these are increased about seven days before leaving the home. A juvenile rockfowl after its fourth week is fundamentally the same as the grown-up, however its underparts are creamier and silkier than those of the grown-up, its neck has less plumes, and the yellow on the head is paler. Most recognizably, its tail is altogether shorter than that of the grown-up. 

Albeit various calls have been recorded, the white-necked rockfowl is typically a quiet fowl. Its call has been contrasted with the clacks of a chicken, with cackles of "chuk-chuk-chuk" or "choop-choop-choop" being made at a consistent rate of eight notes like clockwork. This call normally goes on for somewhere around a moment. It has been proposed that this call might be a legitimate tune, yet more research is required to decide whether this is precise. The rockfowl's caution call, one of its progressively visit sounds, has been portrayed as a nonstop, low-pitched, throaty prattle like "ow, ow, ow". Grown-ups and adolescents have additionally been known to deliver a long-drawn "owooh" call note. Also, juveniles can give a noisy, trembling second-long whistle as a contact call. 

This species is just found in West Africa from Guinea to Ghana. It is locally regular in southeastern Guinea, and is across the board in Sierra Leone with the exception of the north and northwest, and in Liberia aside from the north and upper east. In Côte d'Ivoire the species is right now limited to zones close to the Guinean and Liberian fringe. The fledgling likewise lives in Ghana, where it is both neighborhood and unprecedented in the south focal pieces of the country. The white-necked rockfowl's complete range covers roughly . Be that as it may, the species happens in low populace densities in patches over this expansive range. The species does not move, however it disperses broadly after the rearing season. 

This rockfowl lives on soak inclines in both essential and develop auxiliary timberlands. These timberlands are regularly shrouded in rocks and are found in sloping marsh zones up to . The white-necked rockfowl regularly lives close streaming streams and waterways with the goal that it approaches wet mud for home development. Provinces are commonly found inside of a stream. The species additionally appears to demonstrate an inclination for living close inselbergs. Rockfowl are once in a while observed in incompletely cleared timberlands and close urban areas, yet this seems, by all accounts, to be anomalous. Late studies have appeared surrendered rockfowl homes are bound to be in or close auxiliary timberland. 

This picathartes regularly keeps low in the vegetation or on the ground close to its settling grounds. It moves rapidly through its forested environment essentially through a progression of jumps and limits, trailed by an interruption before continuing its developments. It utilizes its tail for equalization while navigating the woodland. The rockfowl likewise flies at a low elevation for short separations among vines and trees, and it once in a while flies for long separations. This species can vanish from sight into a mass of creepers or rocks. It is prepared to do high bounces, here and there hopping off the cavern floor to its home while just halfway utilizing its wings. 

It was once believed that the rockfowl once in a while adventures a long way from its reproducing grounds; be that as it may, new information recommends that the species has an a lot more extensive territory than recently suspected. Rockfowl have been known to keep perching on their homes for a period following the rearing season. These flying creatures are regularly singular or in sets, however once in a while they live in gatherings of three to five flying creatures. Ordinarily, they quietly sidestep any uncommon developments in their woods. In any case, if these winged animals realize that they have been located, they can turn out to be very curious and every so often approach onlookers. One of the rockfowl's showcases involves a few of the winged animals in a settlement shaping a free circle. Individual rockfowl keep running at one another, constraining the moved toward winged creature to withdraw marginally before pursuing either the feathered creature that charged it or another in the circle. At interims amid this presentation a rockfowl inclines forward on a branch, tucking its head between its legs and half-spreading its wings, along these lines uncovering its crown to the next rockfowl. It is trusted that this conduct demonstrates the plan of the rockfowl to perch in a gathering, however ongoing proof proposes that the presentation could be engaged with reproducing. To scratch its head, the fowl lifts its foot over its wing. This species is seemingly perpetual. 

The white-necked rockfowl searches crosswise over slants on overgrown, creeper-shrouded stones and in trees canvassed in lianas and hanging greeneries. It every so often rummages by bouncing crosswise over sand by a stream or even in the stream, as confirm by crab stays in the rockfowl's droppings. While searching on the ground, the rockfowl gets leaves with its bill and hurls them aside. It encourages in blended species bunches in front of swarms of "Dorylus" ants with alethes, bristlebills, and Finsch's rufous thrushes, picking off creepy crawlies flushed by the ants, generally off the ground. The rockfowl has likewise been watched bouncing from the beginning grabbing prey midair. 

The eating routine is various and summed up, empowering the white-necked rockfowl to have a level of versatility in gathering sustenance. This rockfowl basically eats creepy crawlies, including larval cockroaches, tettigoniid grasshoppers, earwigs, ants from the genera "Pachycondyla" and "Dorylus", click scarabs from the class "Psephus", and termites. Other than creepy crawlies, it has been watched eating millipedes, centipedes, snails, worms, and every so often little frogs and reptiles. When nourishing its nestlings, the rockfowl essentially gathers night crawlers, little frogs, and reptiles, with the vertebrates framing a large portion of the biomass sustained to the youthful. Also, rockfowl are at times observed eating plant material, regularly from angiosperms or greeneries. 

The White-necked rockfowl breeds essentially in caverns and matches home either alone or as a major aspect of a little state. While its romance conduct is obscure, the species is monogamous and subsequently does not breed with rockfowl other than its mate regardless of prior recommendations that it reproduced agreeably. The White-necked rockfowl has two reproducing seasons consistently, however the planning of the rearing seasons is dictated by the area of the winged animals and the planning of the wet season, with settling happening just when the wet season and averaging 127 days separated. The rockfowl reuses its home, and regularly fixes it two to about two months preceding laying eggs. Guinean winged animals breed from July to January, while those in Sierra Leone breed from November to February and from April to October. In Liberia, rearing happens from September to December and from March to July. Ghana's rockfowl breed from March to June and September to November. Rearing caverns are generally abandoned while the rockfowl are not reproducing, so expanded use by the rockfowl is viewed as a first indication of rearing. Settling settlements normal two to five homes, albeit one state had forty homes. Notwithstanding reproducing fowls, some of the time non-rearing rockfowl are available. These winged creatures every so often endeavor child murder to access prime settling locales or mates. Feathered creatures in these states frequently pursue each other in circles, even through the treetops, an uncommon goal for this species. 

Curiously for a rainforest-abiding fledgling, the white-necked rockfowl manufactures a home out of mud with changing measures of plant strands blended in. Mud is gathered from adjacent waterways and streams and is formed into a solid, thick-walled, and profound container connected to the cavern divider or rooftop, a precipice, or a vast stone roughly over the ground. These stones must be inclined inwards to furnish the home with insurance from the downpour. Phloem filaments and roots from plants line within the glass. The white-necked rockfowl's settling caverns regularly are populated by wasps, and the wasp settles long are frequently discovered inserted in the rockfowl's homes. It is trusted that so as to manufacture their home on the smooth cavern dividers, rockfowl utilize the homes of the wasps as a core to work around. Bluff homes are constantly worked at a separation from adjacent plants. The two winged creatures chip away at the development of the home, with jobs exchanging as one flying creature gathers the materials while different shapes them into the home. The mud is some of the time gulped and spewed before use. While almost all rockfowl homes are found in caverns or on bluffs, there are records of settling happening on a riverbank and on a fallen tree trunk. Homes are commonly developed at any rate separated, however one settlement had six homes abutting one another. Homes additionally differ generally in size, however they normal to be long, wide, and profound. It used to be trusted that each pair fabricates two homes, one for reproducing and one for perching; be that as it may, ongoing studies have discovered no proof of this, with all homes in the state being utilized for rearing. 

One to two eggs, normally two, are laid in each home multi day or two separated. The eggs weigh about and have a normal size of . The eggs are a rich white with dull dark colored blotches spread over the egg however in higher thickness close to the bigger end. Hatching, which starts after the main egg is laid, goes on for 23 to 28 days. The guardians alternate brooding their eggs. Incubating commonly takes no less than 12 hours. The newborn child rockfowl's eyes open following nine to eleven days, while quills start to grow seven days in the wake of incubating. After the youthful bring forth, sustenance is conveyed to them right around multiple times 60 minutes. To encourage its young, the grown-up rockfowl sticks to the side of its home while rippling its wings; a few flying creatures utilize their tails as a prop underneath the home to help bolster themselves. Rockfowl have been known to execute the youthful of other rockfowl, while home predation is done by cobras of the variety "Naja", the Nile screen, sun squirrels, red-chested goshawks, and "Procolobus" monkeys. This leads by and large to just 0.44 nestlings enduring per pair of rockfowl. Because of potential child murder by other rockfowl, guardians ensure their home and horrible battles frequently happen. Uncommon among other feathered creature species, this conduct is predominant in white-necked rockfowl. Not completely comprehended, it is thought to happen for asset rivalry or sexual determination. The youthful leave the home following 23 to 27 days, at which time they look like the grown-up rockfowl yet with a lot shorter tails. The youthful leave the home by remaining on the edge, emanating a piercing whistle, and after that skimming to the cold earth on spread wings where they are met by a grown-up bearing creepy crawlies. Indeed, even subsequent to leaving the home, the youthful profit to perch for it with their folks. 

In the legend of Sierra Leone's indigenous individuals, the frequently peculiar shake developments close which the white-necked rockfowl lives were accepted to house tribal spirits. Its habitation there drove it to be viewed as a gatekeeper of the developments, prompting a level of lingering regard for the species that endures in spite of the convictions that brought forth this regard being for all intents and purposes wiped out. Be that as it may, in certain districts the rockfowl's cryptic propensities and unavailable natural surroundings have implied it was obscure to the neighborhood populace. On the other hand, transient Liberian seekers now and then catch the nestlings for nourishment. Because of this present species' uniqueness it turned into an image for ecotourism and rainforest preservation in the district during the 1990s. The white-necked rockfowl has been portrayed on various postage stamps from Ghana and Sierra Leone. Because of its bizarre appearance and conduct and the trouble in observing the species, this winged animal is considered especially intriguing by birdwatchers. This species is viewed as one of the five most alluring winged creatures in Africa by ornithologists. 

This species likewise helped dispatch Sir David Attenborough's profession in 1954, when he was the maker on the new TV program "Zoo Quest". The show's moderator Jack Lester was required to make a trip to Africa to record endeavors to catch creatures for presentation in zoos, with the focal point of the arrangement being on the white-necked rockfowl. Be that as it may, when he became sick, Attenborough had his spot, which propelled him into the spotlight and beginning his describing vocation. 

This species is viewed as Vulnerable by the IUCN because of its profoundly divided dissemination, waning populace, and natural surroundings devastation. It is viewed as not so much normal but rather more undermined than the firmly related dim necked rockfowl. The fortress of the species is in Sierra Leone and southern Guinea, where the fowl is still locally normal if hard to find. It is assessed that just 2,500 to 10,000 white-necked rockfowl get by, with the populace lessening and spread out over a known 32 destinations; be that as it may, most people concentrating this species trust that the populace is far less than the 10,000 greatest. A considerable lot of its settlements are right now moving toward the base populace estimate important to ensure long haul reasonability against inbreeding. The essential risk is the business demolition of its living space for timber. In spite of the fact that the white-necked rockfowl is fit for withstanding some unsettling influence of the close-by environment, as exhibited by one state getting by after it was totally encompassed by a cocoa estate, living space aggravation is unquestionably bound to adversely affect on rearing achievement. The greater part of the rest of the provinces in Guinea, Sierra Leone, and Côte d'Ivoire are on secured land, while Liberia and Ghana's settlements are for the most part unprotected. To a limited extent to secure this species, Sierra Leone as of late overhauled its insurance of the Gola backwoods by transforming it into its second national park, Gola National Park, and has declared that the nation expects to work with Liberia to frame a trans-national park ensuring the Gola rainforest. As an end-result of lost logging rights, Sierra Leone has remunerated local people with street and school remodels, extra preparing for cops, and development of houses of worship and a mosque. Liberia has additionally communicated a craving to extend its national park framework, which would help ensure the species. In Guinea, the winged animal's woodlands are being logged to give land to rice cultivating to help bolster ranchers moving from the nation's drier north. 

Laws exist in Sierra Leone, Liberia, and Ghana to ensure this species, however requirement is insignificant. Worldwide exchanging of the white-necked rockfowl is directed as the winged animal is presently recorded under CITES Appendix I. Also, in 2004 BirdLife International drafted a worldwide activity intend to give systems to securing this species. This arrangement concentrated on studying the rest of the living space, bringing issues to light among the neighborhood masses, and restricting the proceeded with pulverization of its environment. In 2006, BirdLife International got a US$19,900 give from the Disney Wildlife Conservation Fund to help order this arrangement. Reviews led with this subsidizing have brought about the disclosure of extra populaces in Sierra Leone. Furthermore, superintendents have been prepared to secure Sierra Leone's Western Area Forest Reserve. This arrangement, combined with the winged animal's appearance and unordinary propensities, have driven it to turn into a lead animal categories for living space preservation crosswise over Africa and especially in its upper Guinean woodlands. 

Until 2003, the species was believed to be wiped out in Ghana. A large portion of the Ghanaian destinations from which it is known are dynamic woodland saves, where logging occasionally happens. Outside of the stores, shrub consuming and digging for gold and different metals undermine remaining natural surroundings. Following its rediscovery in Ghana, the Ghana Wildlife Society has started to overview remaining environment and execute preservation techniques. 

During the 1960s, gathering this species for showcase in zoos was a noteworthy risk, and in Liberia specifically this training wrecked a few of the winged animal's provinces. The rockfowl were caught by the indigenous people groups using traps, while seekers in Guinea, who were at that point getting rodents and hyraxes at the fledgling's settling states, once in a while caught rockfowl during the evening. In Côte d'Ivoire examples were here and there gotten by bat-catchers. Most winged creatures gathered from the wild kick the bucket inside 24 hours. In spite of more than 70 white-necked rockfowl being shown in zoos amid the 1970s, hostage rearing was an uncommon event and no steady hostage populaces have been framed. Regardless of this, zoos had constrained achievement and something like one zoo had the capacity to hand-back a white-necked rockfowl. Starting at 2002, no white-necked rockfowl have existed outside of Africa since 1998.