Vital Television Network 

The Paramount Television Network (PTN) was an endeavor by American film organization Paramount Pictures to sort out a TV station in the late 1940s. The organization assembled TV channels KTLA in Los Angeles and WBKB in Chicago; it additionally put US$400,000 in the DuMont Television Network, which worked stations WABD in New York City, WTTG in Washington, D.C., and WDTV in Pittsburgh. Raising debate among Paramount and DuMont concerning ruptures of agreement, organization control, and system rivalry emitted routinely somewhere in the range of 1940 and 1956, and finished in the disassembling of the DuMont Network. TV student of history Timothy White called the conflict between the two organizations "a standout amongst the most terrible and sensational scenes in the early history of the media business." 

The Paramount Television Network publicized a few projects, including the Emmy Award-winning kids' arrangement "Time for Beany". Recorded in Hollywood, the projects were circulated to an impromptu system of stations over the United States. The system consented to association arrangements with in excess of 50 TV channels in 1950; in spite of this, a large portion of Paramount's arrangement were not broadly seen outside the West Coast. The Federal Communications Commission (FCC), which recorded suit against Paramount for hostile to confide in infringement, kept the studio from obtaining extra TV channels. Central officials in the long run abandoned the possibility of a telecom company, and kept on creating arrangement for different systems. In 1995, following four many years of TV creation for different organizations, Paramount reappeared the communicate arrange field when the organization and Chris-Craft Industries propelled the United Paramount Network (UPN), a broadcasting company that worked until 2006. Fundamental's long-lasting TV division is presently possessed by CBS Television Studios, and it has since established a second form of Paramount Television under Viacom proprietorship. 

William Wadsworth Hodkinson established American film enterprise Paramount Pictures in 1914. Well known Players-Lasky Corporation obtained the organization in 1916 and by the 1920s Paramount turned into a key player in Hollywood. The organization established or gained many film creation and display properties; among these were the 2,000-screen theater chain United Paramount Theaters (UPT), newsreel administration Paramount News, the Famous Players theater chain in Canada and activity studio Famous Studios. The organization ended up one of the "enormous five" Hollywood studios. By the 1940s, be that as it may, Paramount was the objective of a few enemy of trust claims by the central government, coming full circle with "U.S. versus Principal Pictures, et al." (1948), which found that Paramount and different studios directed monopolistic practices. Because of this Supreme Court choice, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) constrained Paramount to auction its theater division in 1949. 

As right on time as 1937, administrators at Paramount Pictures were keen on the new vehicle of TV. The next year, Paramount obtained a minority enthusiasm for DuMont Laboratories, a pioneer in early TV innovation established by Dr. Allen B. DuMont. Relations among Paramount and DuMont staff were stressed by 1940, when Paramount, without DuMont, opened Chicago TV slot WBKB and Los Angeles station KTLA. Dr. DuMont asserted that the first 1937 securing proposition necessitated that Paramount would grow its TV advantages "through DuMont". Principal delegate Paul Raibourn denied that any such limitation was ever talked about (a 1953 examination of the first draft report vindicated DuMont on this point). The stock in DuMont, combined with the Chicago and Los Angeles stations, gave Paramount full or halfway responsibility for of the initial nine TV slots in the United States. 

DuMont Laboratories propelled the DuMont Television Network in 1946. Regardless of Paramount's halfway responsibility for, Paramount's two stations never circulated TV programs from DuMont's broadcasting company (except for KTLA, which ran DuMont programs for one year from 1947 to 1948), and went up against DuMont's offshoots in Los Angeles and Chicago. As indicated by creators Auter and Boyd, Paramount's development of KTLA and WBKB and its resulting dispatch of the Paramount Television Network "undercut" DuMont, an organization it had put resources into. 

KTLA started business communicates on January 22, 1947; its first night communicate was facilitated by Bob Hope and included Kirk Douglas, William Bendix, Dorothy Lamour, William Demarest, Ray Milland and Cecil B. DeMille. KTLA was the primary business TV channel to sign on west of the Mississippi River. Albeit different Los Angeles TV channels worked tentatively and in the long run got business licenses, KTLA had a head begin as the first industrially authorized station in Los Angeles. The income stream from ads financed increasingly proficient programming, in this manner producing an expansive viewership; a 1949 gathering of people gauge from the C. E. Hooper organization demonstrated that KTLA was communicating 28 of the best 30 TV arrangement in Los Angeles. The notoriety of KTLA's nearby projects opened up the likelihood that they would end up national hits whenever discharged to different stations the nation over. 

Principal's TV division, Television Productions, Inc., made the Paramount Television Network in 1948. A full-page promotion reporting the recently made system, with KTLA as the lead station, kept running in "Announcement" on May 22 of that year. Shooting of projects occurred at KTLA; a coaxial link interface among KTLA and KFMB-TV in San Diego transmitted a live flag to San Diego watchers. Other TV channels over the United States got Paramount projects through kinescope recording for airing; these shot arrangement enabled stations to "fill in" their timetables amid hours when ABC, NBC, CBS and DuMont were not broadcasting appears, or when station administrators favored Paramount's taped contributions to those of the four systems. Station chiefs at WBKB-TV in Chicago additionally had designs to disperse their own kinescoped programs. 

Foremost administration intended to secure extra claimed and-worked stations ("O&Os"); the organization connected to the FCC for extra stations in San Francisco, Detroit and Boston. Authorities at the FCC, be that as it may, denied Paramount's applications. A couple of years sooner, the government controller had set a five-station top on all TV stations: no system was permitted to claim in excess of five VHF TV channels. Principal was hampered by its minority stake in the DuMont Television Network. Albeit both DuMont and Paramount officials expressed that the organizations were discrete, the FCC decided that Paramount's incomplete responsibility for implied that DuMont and Paramount were in principle parts of a similar organization. Since DuMont claimed three TV slots and Paramount possessed two, the government organization ruled neither one of the networks could obtain extra TV channels. The FCC mentioned that Paramount give up its stake in DuMont, however Paramount cannot. As indicated by TV student of history William Boddy, "Fundamental's checkered enemy of trust history" persuaded the FCC that Paramount controlled DuMont. Both TV stations endured subsequently, with neither one of the companies having the capacity to obtain five O&Os. In the interim, CBS, ABC and NBC had each procured the limit of five stations by the mid-1950s. 

Creator Timothy White has called Paramount's endeavors to dispatch its very own TV administration, which straightforwardly rivaled the DuMont Television Network, an imprudent choice – Paramount as a result was contending with itself. The subsequent sick emotions among Paramount's and DuMont's officials kept on raising all through the mid 1950s, and the resistance frustrated the two substances' system plans. As per White, by 1953, even the open misrepresentation of participation among Paramount and DuMont was gone. 

The Paramount Television Network publicized a few TV arrangement amid its long stretches of tasks. Coming up next is a fractional rundown: 

Different public statements demonstrated that other KTLA arrangement would be offered on the system. There is no sign, in any case, that the accompanying arrangement broadcast outside Los Angeles: 

Paul Raibourn filled in as the leader of Paramount Television Productions. Raibourn was additionally selected VP of Paramount Pictures Corporation, and, because of Paramount's minority enthusiasm for DuMont, was introduced as treasurer of the DuMont Television Network. This arrangement made another purpose of contention among Paramount and DuMont. As indicated by Leonard Goldenson, leader of ABC amid this period, Raibourn "always nitpicked and needled [Allen DuMont] over the littlest consumptions. DuMont got to the heart of the matter where, mentally, he figured he couldn't do anything without Raibourn's endorsement." Raibourn cut DuMont's financial plans when the system ought to have been growing. Goldenson credits Raibourn as one reason ABC in the long run turned into a fruitful, set up broadcasting company while the DuMont arrange fizzled: "the name of the TV amusement is programs. In the event that you won't place cash into projects, you won't succeed." 

Klaus Landsberg, a German outsider, delivered numerous Paramount Television Network arrangement; he likewise filled in as one of the organization's VPs and as KTLA's general chief. Other Paramount officials included George T. Shupert, Paramount Television Productions' program deals official; Burt Balaban, programming official; John Howell, deals official; and Bernard Goodwin, a chief and VP of Paramount Television Productions. 

Amid the 1950s, broadcasting companies in the United States were limited to owning close to five neighborhood VHF TV slots. This framework, which developed from comparative FCC guidelines administering radio, brought about administrators of TV stations shaping coalitions with nearby station proprietors so as to air arrange programs over the U.S. These collusions were systematized in system alliance contracts; Paramount Television Network staff required offshoot station chiefs to sign a system contract regardless of whether the station just broadcast one Paramount program. At its crest in late 1950, the Paramount Television Network was disseminating five TV arrangement seven days to more than 40 associated TV channels. Most Paramount stations were in the United States, yet somewhere around two were Canadian stations. 

Amid this period, American TV programs were either communicated live to nearby TV channels by means of microwave transfer and AT&T's coaxial link administration or were recorded on kinescope and conveyed through the mail to neighborhood stations. The live communicated strategy was costly, however was favored by officials at every one of the four noteworthy U.S. telecom companies (ABC, NBC, CBS and DuMont); in 1954, DuMont alone burned through $3 million on live transmissions. The significant systems sent kinescopes to stations when live transmissions were impractical. "Film systems", which conveyed just prerecorded material, additionally existed; kinescopes were shabby to deliver and cost little to mail. Vital's TV administration was a mixture of the two frameworks, with a live association among KTLA and KFMB-TV in San Diego, and different offshoots broadcasting programs from kinescope chronicles. Principal administrators considered a live association between Los Angeles and San Francisco excessively costly. Exceptionally, Paramount's "The Harry Owens Show" was communicated live in Los Angeles and San Francisco by having the program's entertainers and team drive through plane between the two stations for consecutive exhibitions. 

The table underneath records stations that conveyed Paramount Television Network programs, including the organization's two possessed and-worked stations, KTLA and WBKB. DuMont's three VHF stations, WABD, WTTG and WDTV, which disclosed almost no Paramount programming yet which the FCC ruled were O&Os of a similar substance, likewise show up in this rundown. Likewise included are DuMont's two fleeting UHF licenses: KCTY-TV – which worked for a couple of months, and WHK-TV – which never marked on. Various stations conveyed "Easy chair Detective", "Sandy Dreams" and "Cold Frolics" when those projects broadcast on CBS and ABC. Stations that publicized those projects as a major aspect of an ABC or CBS association are not appeared in the table beneath. 

In May 1951, ABC executive Edward J. Respectable and United Paramount Theaters president Leonard Goldenson declared a proposed merger between their organizations. The arrangement was to consolidate ABC and its five TV channels with United Paramount Theaters, an organization as of late spun off from Paramount Pictures. UPT likewise claimed the system's Chicago station, WBKB; that station would need to be sold all together for the consolidated organization to remain under the five-station top. Since the proposed merger included the closeout of a TV channel, it required the endorsement of the FCC, which opened a meeting on the issue that August. The proposed arrangement was perplexing, and would influence numerous gatherings engaged with TV broadcasting, including Paramount, DuMont, and (CBS officials needed to buy WBKB). Amid the conference, Allen DuMont requested that the FCC compel Paramount to sell a lot of the DuMont Network. He expressed that Paramount in actuality possessed two telecom companies, the PTN and DuMont; the FCC had comparably constrained NBC to auction one of its two radio systems eight years sooner because of worries about multi-organize proprietorship. Foremost administrators, be that as it may, denied consistently having worked a telecom company. Proof exhibited against Paramount included system alliance contracts and ads for the Paramount Television Network from 1951. In spite of Paramount officials' declaration, ads for the Paramount Television Network kept running as late as 1952. 

Following a tiresome 18-month preliminary, the government office permitted the ABC-UPT merger, however never managed on Paramount's fractional responsibility for second system; Paramount was permitted to hold its offers in DuMont. Leo Resnick, hearing inspector for the Commission, presumed that Paramount did not control DuMont, yet the FCC dismissed this segment of Resnick's discoveries, confining Paramount and DuMont to a sum of five stations. The chiefs had not overlooked Paramount's past enemy of trust infringement, and trusted Paramount officials were endeavoring to control TV by working two TV stations. As per White, the FCC's decision "guaranteed that TV broadcasting would be constrained by a similar three organizations that had overwhelmed radio telecom, in this way cultivating an absence of decent variety in both station and system proprietorship". 

The February 1953 merger of ABC and United Paramount Theaters lead to the divestiture of WBKB (presently WBBM-TV), which was sold to CBS. Fundamental held KTLA and connected to the FCC for another station in Boston, yet the development license was never allowed. At this point, Paramount's TV arm was called Paramount TV Productions, Incorporated; Paramount stopped utilizing the PTN name. The organization kept on appropriating programs broadly, in any case, and kept on consenting to arrange association arrangements with nearby TV slots. 

With only one possessed and-worked station, Paramount's program administration never gelled into a genuine broadcasting company; TV students of history, for example, Alex McNeil (1996) consider Paramount projects syndicated as opposed to organize arrangement. While the Paramount arrangement "Hollywood Wrestling" and "Time For Beany" were broadly observed on stations over the United States, most other Paramount TV programs circulated in just a bunch of business sectors (another special case, "Hollywood Reel", publicized in fourteen noteworthy urban communities in 1950). 

Central's incomes were a lot littler than those of a genuine TV station, and step by step Paramount started losing program supports or finished creation on in the past prominent TV arrangement. American Vitamin Corporation, Paramount's backer for both "The Spade Cooley Show" and "Chilly Frolics", pulled its $25,000 week by week sponsorship in October 1951. In June 1953, it was declared that "Time For Beany" and Paramount Television Productions were "considering it daily". Fundamental finished generation of its leader arrangement in October 1953; rival Los Angeles station KTTV and free wholesaler Consolidated Television separately took over creation and conveyance of "Time For Beany". Free merchant Cinema-Vue took over "Hollywood Wrestling". By late 1955, "Bulletin" announced the Paramount Network comprised of only 15 stations airing "Bandstand Revue". "Board" considered this a "kind of" organize. The executives changes at KTLA, combined with low neighborhood appraisals, caused the crossing out of "Bandstand Revue" in October 1956. Klaus Landsberg, who had delivered huge numbers of the arrangement for KTLA, kicked the bucket in September 1956 and the new station administrator made what "Announcement" called "far reaching developments" at the station. 

By the pre-winter of 1955, Hollywood insiders were anticipating that Paramount would dispatch a noteworthy telecom company utilizing KTLA and the DuMont stations as sanctions. Articles detailed that Paramount was looking for TV contents, and was building theaters and studios that matched those of ABC, CBS and NBC. In an emotional move, Paramount's top managerial staff caught control of DuMont Laboratories in a meeting room overthrow in August 1955. Central administrators supplanted DuMont's top managerial staff, Dr. DuMont was evacuated as leader of the organization, and DuMont Network activities stopped the next year. Nonetheless, no joined Paramount-DuMont arrange ever appeared; as indicated by TV student of history Timothy White, at this point "a TV station was no longer among Paramount's arrangements for abuse of the little screen"; a portion of the essential and optional subsidiaries, and even a portion of the programming of the two systems, moved to the rising, correspondingly approximately booked NTA Film Network. Fundamental sold its enthusiasm for DuMont (at this point renamed as the "Metropolitan Broadcasting Company") in 1959; the deal finished Paramount's first endeavors into system TV. 

Regardless of Paramount's inability to fabricate a national communicate broadcasting company, the organization held KTLA, and officials at Paramount kept on toying with entering the TV medium yet again. Foremost sold its library of shorts and kid's shows in isolated arrangements to U.M. and M. Television Corporation, Associated Artists Productions and Harvey Comics (the "Superman" kid's shows were at that point sold to National Comics when Paramount's permit to "Superman" lapsed). In 1957, Paramount sold the vast majority of its pre-1950 sound no frills highlight film library to EMKA, Ltd., an auxiliary of MCA. The no frills movies would finish up with what wound up Universal Television after MCA purchased Universal Pictures in 1962. KTLA was in the end sold to Golden West Broadcasters, an organization claimed by performing artist and artist Gene Autry, for $12 million of every 1964. 

In the wake of procuring Desilu Productions in 1967, the organization kept on creating arrangement for the "enormous three" communicate systems. Among them were "Here's Lucy", "" and "Mannix" for CBS; "The Brady Bunch", "The Odd Couple" and "Glad Days" for ABC; and (in later years) "Family Ties" and "Cheers" for NBC. 

In 1978, Paramount CEO Barry Diller wanted to dispatch the Paramount Television Service, another "fourth TV station"; its projects would have disclosed just a single night seven days. 30 "Motion pictures of the Week" would have pursued "" on Saturday evenings. This arrangement was prematurely ended when head of Gulf and Western Industries (Paramount's parent organization at the time), Charles Bluhdorn, dropped the venture because of a paranoid fear of draining cash; subsequently, Paramount settled on the choice to change "Stage II" into "". In spite of this disappointment, Diller would in the end dispatch a fruitful fourth system, when in late 1986, he joined the Rupert Murdoch-possessed News Corporation to make the Fox organize, which proceeded to be a standout amongst the best systems in the nation. 

During the 1980s, Paramount turned out to be progressively required with unique syndicated programming in the U.S., with such effective arrangement being "Stimulation Tonight", "", "" and "The Arsenio Hall Show", which were all among the most well known syndicated arrangement communicate amid that decade; with the proceeding with accomplishment of the "Star Trek" establishment (remarkably, "") and the buy of TV channel proprietor TVX Broadcast Group (which claimed autonomous stations in a few huge and fair sized markets), the basis for another system adventure was laid. 

On January 16, 1995, Paramount propelled another communicate telecom company, the United Paramount Network (UPN), in a programming association with Chris-Craft Industries; Viacom (which obtained Paramount Pictures and its related possessions in 1994) would procure half enthusiasm for the system in 1996 and gain Chris-Craft's outstanding stake in 2000. Amid its 11-year presence, UPN never made a benefit; "The New Yorker" detailed that the system had lost $800 million amid its initial five years of activity. UPN stopped activities in September 2006, when it converged with the WB Television Network to shape The CW Television Network. Today, Paramount's TV division is a piece of the CBS Corporation backup CBS Television Studios.