Katamari Damacy 

The diversion's plot concerns a small sovereign determined to reconstruct the stars, heavenly bodies, and Moon, which were incidentally pulverized by his dad, the King of All Cosmos. This is accomplished by rolling an enchanted, exceedingly glue ball called a "katamari" around different areas, gathering progressively bigger articles, going from thumbtacks to individuals to mountains until the ball has developed sufficiently extraordinary to turn into a star. "Katamari Damacy's" story, characters, and settings are strange and vigorously adapted, once in a while endeavoring any similarity to authenticity, however the brands and things utilized depend on those current in Japan amid the diversion's generation. 

In general, "Katamari Damacy" was generally welcomed in Japan and North America. The diversion was named a sleeper hit and won a few honors. "Katamari Damacy" roused the advancement of other computer games, and prompted the arrival of eight continuations in Japan and different domains: "We Love Katamari" (PlayStation 2), "Me and My Katamari" (PlayStation Portable), "Excellent Katamari" (Xbox 360), "I Love Katamari" (iOS, Windows Phone 7, Android), "Katamari Forever" (PlayStation 3), "Katamari Amore" (iOS), "Contact My Katamari" (PlayStation Vita), and "Tap My Katamari" (iOS, Android). A top quality remaster, "Katamari Damacy Reroll", was discharged on Microsoft Windows and the Nintendo Switch in December 2018. 

The essential story in "Katamari Damacy" manages the fallout of the planet-sized King of All Cosmos' hard-core boozing binge that cleared out every one of the stars and other heavenly bodies from the sky. The King (who gives off an impression of being constantly disappointed with his 5-cm-tall child's little size) charges the Prince to go to Earth with a "katamari"— an otherworldly ball that enables anything littler than it to stick to it and influence it to develop—and gather enough material for him to reproduce the stars and heavenly bodies. The Prince is fruitful, and the sky is come back to ordinary. 

A side-story pursues the Hoshino family as the Prince works at his errands. The dad, a space traveler, is unfit to go to the moon after it is cleared out by the King, and the little girl, whose name is Michiru, "faculties" the Prince's work—she can feel when every group of stars comes back to the sky. At last, the family, alongside their home and town, are moved up in the katamari that is utilized to redo the moon. 

The player controls the Prince as he rolls the katamari around houses, greenery enclosures, and towns so as to meet certain parameters set by the King of All Cosmos. The player utilizes the two simple sticks on the DualShock controller in a way like the exemplary arcade amusement "Battlezone" to control the bearing the katamari rolls. Different controls can be activated by the player to pick up a brisk burst of speed, flip the Prince to the opposite side of the katamari and that's only the tip of the iceberg. 

Articles that are littler than the katamari will stick to it when the player comes into contact with them, while more prominent items can be obstacles; crashing at fast with any may make objects tumble off the katamari, abating the player's advancement. The amusement utilizes size, weight, and surface zone to decide whether an article will adhere to the katamari. This permits slim articles, for example, pencils, that are longer than the katamari is wide, to be grabbed, and these will change how the katamari moves until more items are gotten. Creatures, for example, felines will pursue the katamari, thumping things from it, however once the katamari is sufficiently incredible, it will frighten the creatures off, and they can be moved up once they are pursued down. As articles adhere to the katamari, the katamari will develop, in the end permitting objects that were once obstacles to be gotten, and making access to zones that were once in the past blocked. Thusly, the player may begin the amusement by getting thumbtacks and ants, and gradually work up to the point where the katamari is grabbing structures, mountains, and mists. 

The run of the mill mission given by the King of All Cosmos is the "Make a Star" mode, where the player needs to become the katamari to a particular size inside a given time allotment. Different missions have progressively explicit gathering rules, for example, gathering the same number of things (swans, crabs, sets) as conceivable inside a given time, or gathering the biggest thing conceivable, (for example, a cow or bear). The player can endeavor a score assault mode for any dimension, in which they attempt to make the best katamari conceivable in the time designated. Certain dimensions can open an "unceasing mode" by making an especially huge katamari. In unceasing modes, the player can investigate the dimension with no time limit. 

Each dimension highlights two mystery things that can be found. The main thing is an "imperial present" that contains an item that the Prince can wear. Most endowments are non-utilitarian, however one incorporates a camera that can be utilized to take in-amusement screen captures. The other mystery thing is a cousin of the Prince, which, when moved up in primary ongoing interaction, can be utilized as a character in the different multiplayer modes. In any case, cousins must be found and moved up after the amusement is beaten. The amusement additionally tracks which questions the player has gathered whenever, enabling them to audit all the different articles inside the diversion. 

In the two-player mode, a player can play as either the Prince or one of his various Cousins. The screen is part vertically; player one on the left and player two on the right. Players contend at the same time in a little field to gather the most articles inside three minutes. The playing field is recharged with new items occasionally. Players can smash into one another, thumping things from their rivals' katamaris, and in the event that one player leads by a considerable lot, at that point it is conceivable to move up the rival's katamari. 

Keita Takahashi had contemplated workmanship and entered the Musashino Art University to think about chiseling in 1995. Amid his investigations, he went to a logic that his specialty expected to join reasonable components alongside a touch of eccentricity and cleverness. After graduation, Takahashi never again wanted to seek after chiseling as a full-time vocation, and saw the possibility to wind up engaged with computer games as a way to proceed with his specialty enthusiasm for a bigger medium. Joining Namco as a craftsman around 1999, Takahashi chipped away at various littler undertakings for the distributer. One of these was classified "Activity Drive", roused by "Insane Taxi" however with more government operative based components on the driving ongoing interaction. Amid this, Takahashi thought of the thoughts of the characters that would be vital to "Katamari Damacy": the King, the Queen, and the Prince of all Cosmos. His thought would have been that the ruler had been grabbed by specialists on Earth, and the sluggish King sends the Prince to save her. To do this, the player would utilize the humble Prince's head, molded like a mallet, to paralyze people, after which the Prince would then "drive" the people around by putting a guiding wheel on the back of the human's head. Takahashi felt this would prompt fascinating and imaginative ongoing interaction, enabling the player to make devastation as the Prince pursued the misinformed recommendations from the King, yet the undertaking head dismissed the thought. "Activity Drive" was in the long run dropped. 

While taking a shot at different ventures, Takahashi kept on endeavoring to consider amusement thoughts, trying to develop past being only a craftsman for Namco. Takahashi refered to two ideas that prompted the motivation of "Katamari Damacy". The first was a model appeared by Sony Computer Entertainment called "Densen" (Japanese for "control line") that had the player as a young lady navigate gliding islands of different homes associated by electrical cables. The diversion, however never discharged, gave Takahashi that the customary world could be made fascinating with just little changes to discernment, and that an amusement could be fun without the need to cause viciousness. The second thought was from the round of "tamakorogashi" played in Japanese school's "undōkai" or sports days. In "tamakorogashi", understudies endeavor to push a mammoth ball into an objective. Both those thoughts prompted him thinking about a diversion where turning a ball would fold conventional stuff into it, making the ball bigger and bigger after some time. The night he imagined this thought, he addressed a companion, one of the amusement architects in Namco, to check whether it made for a decent diversion thought, who concurred it had potential. The following day, he addressed his previous supervisor, Mitsutoshi Ozaki, about the idea, further adding an approach to reuse the King and Prince characters he had recently proposed, who likewise concurred it would make for an extraordinary diversion. 

Be that as it may, as Takahashi was in Namco's specialty division and not in amusement configuration, there was no simple course for him to propose this plan to Namco's bosses. Ozaki proposed a novel methodology for Takahashi through the Namco Digital Hollywood Game Laboratory. At the time, Namco had been following in the model that Konami had utilized in 1997: Konami set up the Konami Computer Entertainment School to help instruct new diversion designers which were in the end contracted in Konami, and a few of the test thoughts established by the School amid this time progressed toward becoming items inside the Konami Games and Music Division (later, Bemani) that were exceedingly effective, including "Beatmania", "GuitarFreaks", and "Move Dance Revolution". Namco trusted the Digital Hollywood Game Laboratory would pursue a comparative way. At the time, Masaya Nakamura was guideline of this school, and administered one senior proposition class where the understudies were being prepared on 3D displaying towards creating an amusement model with the assistance of other Namco representatives, which could conceivably be made into a full diversion. Ozaki proposed to Takahashi that he could have the understudies of this class make the 3D objects expected to populate his amusement world. 

Takahashi accepted Ozaki's recommendation, joining the venture to help produce the model for his amusement. Close by around ten understudies from the Digital Hollywood program, he had the capacity to increase some visual structure specialists from Namco to help with the model however experienced issues in getting any amusement improvement engineers, because of the low need of the school. He was blessed to locate that a portion of the specialists from Namco's arcade diversion division would have been laid off, and he had the capacity to persuade three regarding them to join his group to hold their employments inside Namco. 

One beginning trouble looked in building up the model was their decision of stage, the PlayStation 2. At the time the task began, Sony had quite recently reported the particulars for the comfort, which was developed starting from the earliest stage bolster 3D illustrations by means of the Emotion Engine, however had not given any refreshed programming improvement units, trusting that designers would almost certainly make sense of the equipment, yet resultantly made the support hard to create for at its dispatch. Conversely, Nintendo had as of late declared the GameCube and that it would give more designer cordial highlights as opposed to it past Nintendo 64 comfort. Subsequently, Takahashi's group chose to produce for the GameCube for their model despite the fact that the last diversion was relied upon to be a PlayStation 2 discharge. In making the model, Takahashi had imagined that while the ball the player moved around would develop as they moved over items, it would likewise recoil in the event that they crashed into deterrents and lost articles from it. This would have been attached to an intuitive music track, which would have begun off straightforward with a little ball and become progressively intricate and full as it got bigger. Actually, the group discovered they couldn't actualize this contracting technician because of memory confinements, and further discovered that with the intuitive music idea, it was terrible to shrivel down and hear the music relapse to a less complex structure. The contracting idea just as the intelligent music approach were hence dropped. The model was finished inside around a half year, in time for the year's Japan Media Arts Festival for show. Takahashi likewise exhibited the diversion for an inside survey, driving Namco to green light the amusement's full advancement. 

Full work on "Katamari Damacy" started in late 2001. Namco allocated Now Production, situated in Osaka, to help convey the amusement to the PlayStation 2. Takahashi was at first worried that working with an outer studio in an alternate area, however discovered that the Namco and Now Production groups functioned admirably together. The full group comprised of around twenty individuals between the two organizations, and Namco had assigned a financial plan of (about at the season of generation) for the amusement; this was about the tenth of the expense of spending plan dispensed for Namco's blockbuster titles, for example, "Edge Racer" or "Soulcalibur". The full diversion took 18 months to create, with eight months of prototyping from the Digital Hollywood adaptation. 

Takahashi said that the group was going for four key focuses in building up the amusement: curiosity, simplicity of getting, pleasure, and silliness. Iwatani contrasted the amusement with Namco's "Pac-Man", which concentrated on effortlessness and advancement and filled in as a format for future diversions from the organization. At a certain point amid improvement, Takahashi "proactively disregarded" guidance from Namco to expand the unpredictability of the diversion. 

The center ongoing interaction of "Katamari Damacy" is the subject of U.S. Patent 7,402,104, "Diversion performing technique, amusement mechanical assembly, stockpiling medium, information flag and program". The patent, issued in 2009, fundamentally depicts how the diversion keeps up the generally circular nature of the katamari when objects are gotten, however stretches out to ideas, for example, following items gathered dependent on temperature or weight esteems, which were modes included with later rounds of the arrangement. 

A solitary dimension show of the last form of "Katamari Damacy" was shown at the 2003 Tokyo Game Show (TGS). The demo was basically applauded by the press, with GameSpot's Jeff Gerstmann a "decent portion of bizarre fun". Sony communicated solid enthusiasm for pushing the diversion's discharge forward dependent on the TGS reaction, offering to deal with the amusement's advancement in return. Sony promoted the amusement on various bulletins and publications crosswise over Japan, and made a notorious TV advertisement of a specialist, hanging tight for an arrangement, moving up office furniture and staff. The first model amusement's spread work of art highlighted the extensive red ball utilized in "tamakorogashi", yet for the diversion's last discharge, Takahashi built up the amusement's spread craftsmanship, appearing vast katamari nearly moving over a city, underscoring the size of the diversion. 

The diversion was discharged in Japan on 18 March 2004, estimated at about , approximately 66% of the expense of most significant titles at the time. Namco had assessed that the amusement would sell more than 500,000 units in Japan amid its first year, and keeping in mind that the diversion did not make that measurement, it had remained as one of the main ten recreations sold in Japan through its initial nine weeks available, with in excess of 100,000 units sold amid that period, which was viewed as amazing for another licensed innovation. The open response to the amusement was sufficiently certain that Namco requested a spin-off by December 2004. 

Now, Namco had not thought about any Western discharge for the amusement. "Katamari Damacy" was first appeared in the United States at the Experimental Gameplay Workshop amid the March 2004 Game Developers Conference. A gathering of Western designers from the International Game Developers Association had recently brought "Mojib-Ribbon" to the 2003 Experimental Gameplay Workshop in the wake of seeing it showed at the 2002 TGS, and had been at the 2003 TGS to search for a comparative title to display in 2004. Finding "Katamari Damacy" as a perfect title to display, the gathering masterminded with Namco to have Takahashi gone to the United States to exhibit the diversion. The press response to the session was depicted as "electric", however were frustrated to gain from Takahashi that there were no designs for a Western discharge. Media consideration regarding the diversion from the Workshop, frequently called "Namco's snowball test system", prompted more weight on Namco for a Western discharge. Takahashi was again welcome to come present the amusement at the 2004 Electronic Entertainment Expo. Players needing the diversion to discharge in the West additionally wrote to Namco for a discharge. By July 2004, Namco formally declared the amusement's in the United States in September 2004. The diversion was never formally discharged in Europe on the PlayStation 2, however its consequent continuations would get European discharges. 

A superior quality remaster of the diversion, titled "Katamari Damacy Reroll", was discharged on the Nintendo Switch's eShop and on Microsoft Windows on 7 December 2018. The diversion incorporates support for the Switch's gyro controls notwithstanding its conventional control plot. 

In Japanese, signifies "bunch" or "block" and "Damashii" is the rendaku type of which signifies "soul" or "soul". Thusly, the expression approximates to "bunch soul". The two kanji that structure the name seem to be comparative (having a similar right-side component 鬼), in a sort of visual similar sounding word usage. The name is formally transliterated as "Katamari Damacy" in many discharges. In a meeting with "Dengeki Online", maker Keita Takahashi said that when gotten some information about the title, "It just flew into my head all of a sudden, and this is the thing that it has been from the earliest starting point." 

The music in "Katamari Damacy" was broadly hailed as inventive and unique (winning both IGN's and GameSpot's "Soundtrack of the Year 2004" grants) and was viewed as one of the amusement's best highlights. The soundtrack was discharged in Japan as "Katamari Fortissimo Damacy". Its mixed creation included components of customary electronic computer game music, just as overwhelming jazz and samba impacts (Shibuya-kei). The greater part of the tracks were made by Yuu Miyake, and many component vocals from prominent J-pop artists, for example, Yui Asaka from the "Sukeban Deka 3" TV arrangement, and anime voice performing artists, including Nobue Matsubara and Ado Mizumori. One track is sung and composed by Charlie Kosei, arranger of the "Lupin III" soundtrack. 

"Katamari Damacy" appreciated moderate accomplishment in Japan. The amusement was sold at around 66% of the cost of another diversion at the time. It was the top selling amusement the seven day stretch of its discharge with 32,000 units sold, and sold more than 155,000 duplicates in Japan before the finish of 2004. Nonetheless, Namco initially evaluated that more than 500,000 units would be sold in Japan. 

The diversion was not discharged in PAL regions, for example, Europe and Australia since distributers thought it was unreasonably "particular" for these business sectors; be that as it may, Electronic Arts grabbed the two continuations, "We Love Katamari" 

furthermore, "Me and My Katamari", for discharge in Europe. 

The North American arrival of the amusement was very generally welcomed by expert commentators, was referenced and adulated on TechTV, and was an included sidebar in the May 23, 2004, version of "Time" magazine. "Time" kept on commending the diversion in its November 22, 2004 "Best rounds of the year" extraordinary, calling it "the most unordinary and unique amusement to hit PlayStation2". Most retailers disparaged the interest for such a particular diversion, and just bought a couple of duplicates of this sleeper hit; it quickly sold out across the country, with deals outperforming 120,000 units in North America. It likewise won the U.S. grant for "Brilliance in Game Design" at the 2005 Game Developers Choice Awards, and G4 granted "Katamari Damacy" its "Best Innovation" prize in its G-Phoria of that year. "Katamari Damacy" was one of the beneficiaries of the 2004 Good Design Award in Japan, the first run through a computer game has won this honor. In 2015, the diversion put thirteenth on USgamer's The 15 Best Games Since 2000 rundown. 

Despite the fact that the diversion has quickly accomplished a clique following and has been commended by numerous analysts, it likewise has a lot of analysis. A typical grievance is that the amusement is moderately short and dreary—it very well may be finished in less than ten hours, and the ongoing interaction stays basically a similar completely through. Be that as it may, others, for example, "Electronic Gaming Monthly" commentator Mark McDonald (who gave the amusement 8.5 out of ten with his EGM staff), contend that the diversion's confinements are compensated for by its qualities: "Beyond any doubt, you're fundamentally doing likewise every mission, except Katamari's rich controls, executioner soundtrack, and fiendish cleverness make it impeccably appropriate for replay." As a first rate, non-conventional diversion, "Katamari Damacy" has been persuasive in the diversion advancement network. Since its discharge, various fashioners have created works roused by "Katamari": one precedent is "The Wonderful End of the World". 

On July 29, 2012, the diversion was incorporated into a display at the New York Museum of Modern Art, entitled "Century of the Child: Growing by Design". Here, the diversion was utilized to show the change in toys and "toys" over the twentieth century, explicitly commending the amusement for its "peculiar controls of scale" that makes it available for all ages. VP of advertising for Namco Bandai Games America, Inc. Carlson Choi depicted the consideration of "Katamari Damacy" to the display as "a demonstration of the imaginative structures typified in Namco Bandai's amusements ... notwithstanding being an approval of computer games as an advanced type of intuitive workmanship." 

On November 29 that year, the diversion was incorporated into the lasting accumulation of computer games of the Museum of Modern Art. Caretaker Paola Antonelli chose "Katamari Damacy" among the initial fourteen amusements to be shown in the historical center, which was picked by an assortment of criteria, including "visual quality, polish of the code and structure of playing conduct." 

"Katamari Damacy" has generated various spin-offs on the PlayStation 2 and more up to date diversion reassures. The diversion's immediate continuation on the PlayStation 2, , was discharged globally in 2005 and 2006. Its story is self-referential, after on the accomplishment of the main diversion, the vast majority of the dimensions depend on solicitations from recently discovered fanatics of the King and the Prince. Despite the fact that having similar mechanics, "We Love Katamari" presents new ongoing interaction highlights, for example, co-employable play, and new objectives, for example, gathering the most important articles, that would proceed through its continuations. was discharged for the PlayStation Portable in 2005 and 2006, highlighting levels dependent on helping the creatures of an island crushed by a tidal wave. 

"Lovely Katamari" () was a Xbox 360 title discharged in 2007 and 2008, after the Royal Family utilizing katamaris to quit for the day dark opening made while the King was playing tennis. The more current reassure took into consideration higher-goals designs and backing for online system play, leaderboards, and downloadable substance. While PlayStation 3 and Wii ports were made arrangements for "Delightful Katamari", these never were discharged. 

"Katamari Forever" () was discharged for the PlayStation 3 globally in 2009. "Katamari Forever" fuses a blend of past dimensions from the arrangement, encircled around the King endeavoring to recoup from amnesia, and new dimensions where the katamari is expected to fix the harm done by a rampaging "RoboKing". It further enhanced the designs capacities of "Delightful Katamari" and presented new moves for the player. 

"Korogashi Puzzle Katamari Damacy" was discharged for the Nintendo DSi by means of DSiWare in 2009. Comparative in play to "Tetris", the player utilized the ruler to drop a katamari into the playing field to clear the riddle field. "Contact My Katamari" () is a local dispatch title for the PlayStation Vita versatile diversion framework in late 2011 and mid 2012. The "No-Vita" moniker is a play on the Vita reassure name and the Japanese word "nobita", signifying "to stretch or broaden". While the center mechanics are like different recreations in the arrangement, "Contact My Katamari" enables the player to utilize the back touch cushion on the Vita to incidentally extend the katamari into an ovoid shape, enabling it to move through limited spaces or gather little items. 

A few versatile forms have additionally been discharged. "Moving With Katamari" was discharged in Japan in 2007 for the Mitsubishi P904i arrangement of telephones, utilizing their tilt-touchy innovation to give the player a chance to control the katamari. It was ported to J2ME for discharge in different nations. "Katamari Damacy Mobile" was discharged in 2009 for a few remote gadgets and is a 2D side-looking over variant of "Katamari Damacy" like a scaled down mode included with "Me and My Katamari". "I Love Katamari" was discharged in 2008 for the iPhone and iPod Touch, with later fixed for the iPad and different iOS gadgets and for Windows Phone 7. Another iOS amusement, "Katamari Amore", was discharged in mid 2011. 

WindySoft, a South Korean designer, reported designs for a "Katamari Damacy Online" amusement, which was expected to be discharged in 2007. It was never conveyed to the US. 

The character of the Prince turned into a mascot for Namco close by Pac-Man and shows up in some other Namco-Bandai amusements, for example, "Pac-Man World Rally", "Noby Boy", the "Taiko no Tatsujin" arrangement, "", and "Super Smash Bros. Extreme" as a major aspect of Pac-Man's insult called Namco Roulette.