1956 FA Cup Final 

The 1956 FA Cup Final was the last match of the 1955– 56 arranging of English football's essential container rivalry, the Football Association Challenge Cup, also called the FA Cup. The show-stopper occasion was challenged between Manchester City and Birmingham City at Wembley Stadium in London on Saturday 5 May 1956. Two-time victors Manchester City were showing up in their 6th last, though Birmingham City were looking to win the challenge out of the blue, having lost their solitary past last in 1931. 

Each club expected to win five matches to achieve the last. Manchester City's triumphs were close undertakings, each settled by the odd objective, and they required a replay to vanquish fifth-round rivals Liverpool. Birmingham City gained progressively agreeable ground: they scored eighteen objectives while yielding just two, and won each match at the main endeavor notwithstanding being attracted to play on their adversaries' ground in each round. They turned into the principal group to achieve a FA Cup last without playing at home. 

Birmingham City entered the match as top choices, in a challenge charged as a complexity of styles. Viewed by a horde of 100,000 and a TV group of onlookers of five million, Manchester City took an early lead through Joe Hayes, however Noel Kinsey leveled halfway through the primary half. Second half objectives from Jack Dyson and Bobby Johnstone gave Manchester City a 3– 1 triumph. The match is best associated with the heroics of Manchester City goalkeeper, Bert Trautmann, who kept playing regardless of breaking a bone in his neck in a crash with Birmingham City's Peter Murphy. 

As both Birmingham City and Manchester City were First Division clubs, they entered the challenge in the third round. Manchester City's container run began with a home tie against Blackpool. The guests led the pack after just 10 seconds (their quickest objective ever), yet halfway through the match, mist wrapped Maine Road. The match was relinquished amid the second half, following City had scored an evening out objective, and replayed the next Wednesday; City won 2– 1. In the fourth round Manchester City confronted Southend United at Roots Hall. The Essex club's ground had just opened five months already, and was experiencing seepage issues. Heavy precipitation implied that in the week prior to the match a channel was burrowed over the pitch, and sand included. In spite of the fact that Southend were a Third Division group, their nature with the uneven pitch implied the match was firmly challenged. Southend compelled the Manchester City objective, requiring Bert Trautmann to make a few recoveries, however Joe Hayes scored the main objective of the diversion on a City counter-assault to gain a fifth-round tie against Liverpool. 

In the fifth-round match, the groups saw out a 0– 0 draw at Maine Road, and the match was replayed at Anfield. Objectives from Jack Dyson and Bobby Johnstone gave Manchester City a 2– 1 lead, however the diversion completed in dubious conditions when the arbitrator blew his whistle for full time as Liverpool's Billy Liddell was weighing down on objective. Liddell put the ball in the net, however unbeknown to him the objective did not consider the match was at that point over. In the quarter last Manchester City again played restriction from Liverpool, confronting Everton at Maine Road. Trailing 1– 0 at half-time after a Jimmy Harris objective, City conquered the shortage in the second half with objectives from Hayes and Johnstone. Further debate followed in the semi-last against Tottenham Hotspur, when in the last minutes of the match, with the score at 1– 0 to Manchester City, Tottenham were denied a punishment after goalkeeper Trautmann got forward George Robb's leg. No further goalscoring open doors happened, and City held tight for the triumph. 

Supervisor Arthur Turner approached his group to coordinate their Third Division adversaries Torquay United for battling soul and to deliver an "hour and a half act". The players went along; driving 4– 0 at half-time, they completed as agreeable 7– 1 champs. In the fourth round, Leyton Orient, who had beaten Birmingham at a similar stage four years sooner, presented to a greater degree a potential issue. In actuality the success was similarly agreeable: Eddy Brown added two objectives to his cap trap at Torquay. A tight neighborhood derby amusement pursued on a snow-secured solidified pitch at The Hawthorns. In the primary half, goalkeeper Gil Merrick and his protection did well to keep West Bromwich Albion out; Trevor Smith needed to clear a Ronnie Allen header from under the crossbar. In the second half, Birmingham squandered a few possibilities before a one-two with Brown enabled Peter Murphy to score from the edge of the punishment zone. 

In the 6th round, Birmingham confronted Arsenal on a sloppy pitch. So as to alleviate the strain while in transit to imperative matches, supervisor Turner used to urge the players to sing. Scotsman Alex Govan's commitment, Harry Lauder's awakening "Keep directly on to the stopping point", was received by his partners. As the group mentor drew closer Highbury with the windows slowed down, the fans participate, proceeding with their interpretation amid the diversion. After first-half objectives from Gordon Astall and Murphy, Birmingham went 3– 0 up through Brown with twenty minutes left. After two minutes, Arsenal scored from , Birmingham were disrupted, and Merrick expected to make a fine spare from Vic Groves to keep a second Arsenal objective. Turner felt the inspiration from such an incredible tune had a huge impact in the day's triumph. 

Semi-last adversaries Sunderland discovered Birmingham without "hard-man" left-half Roy Warhurst, who had harmed a thigh against Arsenal, yet in Jack Badham they had a compelling substitution. The club's legitimate history portrays this as "most likely the best group execution against top class restriction at any point created" by a Birmingham group. They assaulted from the commencement and invalidated Sunderland's weight and the risk of Len Shackleton. Noel Kinsey scored early and the second objective originated from a passing move down the left side wrapped up by Astall. As Sunderland tossed everybody forward, which left them open at the back, Brown grabbed a long through ball and hurled the goalkeeper. Astall said a while later that he was astounded they had not scored five, and Brown wrote in his paper section: 

Presently Sunderland discovered that it is so difficult to score against this staggering resistance of our own. Not to no end have we scored 18 objectives against two (them two oddities) surrendered in five ties all far from home. What would i be able to state to do equity to that splendid goalkeeper Gil Merrick, to brilliant youthful Trevor Smith and to the supreme Jeff Hall and Ken Green? By and by they blended the old concrete and developed that splendid mass of a safeguard. Sunderland would have expected to bring in a firm of annihilation contractual workers to obliterate it. 

Birmingham City accordingly achieved the last without playing a solitary tie at home, an accomplishment which had never recently been practiced. 

The 1956 last was the second time that Birmingham had achieved the masterpiece coordinate, having lost 2– 1 to West Bromwich Albion in 1931. Manchester City were showing up in the last for the 6th time, and for the second continuous year. They had won the container twice already (in 1904 and 1934), and had been beaten in the last multiple times (in 1926, 1933 and 1955). In spite of the fact that Birmingham had less family in the challenge, the press saw them as top choices. The "Day by day Telegraph" differentiated Birmingham's "stunning Cup run" with the way in which Manchester City "scratched through", depicting the Midlanders as "firm top choices". Meetings with players were normally bullish in tone. Manchester City's Bobby Johnstone opined that "Even a fair fan must respect Manchester City with support", though Birmingham's Len Boyd measured assessment in an unexpected way: "They state Birmingham City are the most sultry Cup top picks since Wolves collided with Portsmouth in 1939". 

Amid the 1950s the FA Cup last was the main football match to be broadcast broadly, bringing about uplifted media consideration for the players and clubs included. The Players' Union effectively mentioned an extra £5 per man for showing up in a broadcast coordinate, the first run through such appearance cash had been paid. Birmingham's players marked a select contract with the BBC submitting them to seem just on BBC programs in the weeks paving the way to the last, however their post-coordinate festival would be secured live by the provincial business station ATV. The match itself pulled in a TV gathering of people of five million, a high figure for the period. 

Each club got 15,000 tickets for the last from the Football Association. Birmingham appropriated their offer by tally among those supporters who had pursued the group in the prior rounds of the challenge; 22,000 had gone to the semi-last, so a huge number were left frustrated. Of the rest of the tickets, 4,640 were dispensed to the FA, 40,640 to County Associations, 20,090 to Football League clubs, 2,550 to FA individuals and 2,080 to the FA Council and arena specialists. An enquiry into the bootleg market held after the earlier year's Cup Final implied ticket touts kept a lower profile than expected. Be that as it may, in the week paving the way to the amusement, the least expensive standing tickets, initially sold for 3s 6d, were changing hands in Birmingham for multiple times face esteem, or 35% of a manual laborer's week by week income. 

Manchester City went through the week going before the last at a preparation camp in Eastbourne. Two days before the last Bert Trautmann, who had initially touched base in England as a captive, was named Footballer of the Year. Eight players who had played in the earlier year's last were chosen in the beginning line-up. Press theory in the run-up to the match contemplated which of Don Revie and Bobby Johnstone would be chosen, as Johnstone had been experiencing a calf issue. Bill Leivers was additionally damage question because of a turned lower leg, and Billy Spurdle had a bubble to his left side arm speared on the eve of the last. Therefore, the Manchester City line-up was not named until the morning of the match. Leivers was passed fit in the wake of having two torment executing infusions, yet as opposed to squeeze desires Spurdle passed up a major opportunity. This implied both Revie and Johnstone showed up in the line-up, Johnstone changing to outside right. 

Birmingham additionally had questions over their choice. Commander Len Boyd had for quite a while been experiencing a weakening back issue, and depended on infusions to keep him playing. He missed five of the last seven rounds of the period, however was passed fit on the Wednesday before the diversion. Individual wing half Roy Warhurst had harmed his thigh in the 6th round match and had no further influence in the season, while Badham, who harmed a lower leg three weeks before the last, went on the Thursday with the remainder of the group to their base in Twyford, Berkshire. Jeff Hall was battling with an infection. At the point when chief Turner declared his group on the eve of the match, Boyd took Warhurst's situation at left-half, Badham, who had demonstrated a capable representative in the semi-last, was excluded, and the unpracticed 22-year-old Johnny Newman came in on the right. 

English Railways laid on 38 extraordinary trains to take somewhere in the range of 19,000 supporters to London, the first landed at St Pancras station from Manchester Central soon after 3 a.m. Out of the blue, the official projects were discounted from early morning trying to defeat dealers of informal forms. The "Birmingham Mail" set up an impermanent press in a Wembley vehicle park to deliver a unique version of their Saturday sports paper, the "Sports Argus", on blue paper instead of the typical pink. As the groups arranged in the changing areas, the group was driven in common singing, incorporating melodies with reverberation for every one of the two groups, "She's a lassie from Lancashire" and "Keep directly on to the stopping point", and the psalm "Live with Me", generally sung before each FA Cup last. As the groups rose up out of the passage, Manchester City commander Roy Paul caught one final chance to blend feeling inside the players by ceasing, raising his clench hand and yelling "On the off chance that we don't screwing win, you'll get a portion of this". 

The two groups utilized the development normal of the time: two full backs, a middle half, two wing parts, two outside advances, two inside advances and an inside forward. In any case, their strategic methodologies varied. Birmingham, portrayed by "The Times" as utilizing "iron assurance, incredible handling and open direct techniques", utilized the conventional English methodology of taking care of business the ball to the outside-advances as fast as would be prudent, though Manchester City received strategies propelled by the Hungarian group which had soundly beaten England at Wembley three years prior. The framework included utilizing Don Revie in a more profound position than a conventional focus forward so as to draw a protector out of position, and was along these lines known as the "Revie Plan". As the two groups' first-decision hues were blue, each group wore their change strip to counteract disarray. Manchester City in this manner sported maroon, and Birmingham City donned white. 

Birmingham won the hurl and Manchester City commenced. The Birmingham objective went under weight very quickly. Inside a moment a far post cross from Roy Clarke barely escaped Hayes. Two corners pursued, the second bringing about a shot by Roy Paul. The following assault, in the third moment, brought about the opening objective. Revie started the move, trading goes with Clarke, and back-behaving for the plain Hayes to clear the ball past Gil Merrick to put Manchester City ahead. Birmingham's certainty was shaken, bringing about a progression of Manchester City corners and a shot for Hayes, however they battled back to even out in the 15th minute. Astall slipped the ball to Brown, who helped it forward. It bounced back off a Manchester City safeguard into the way of Welsh universal inside‑forward Noel Kinsey, who terminated home through Trautmann's far post. For the rest of the principal half Birmingham had a large portion of the play, applying weight on Manchester City full-back Leivers, yet were unfit to make an achievement. Despite the fact that Birmingham put the ball in the net twice, Brown was pronounced to be offside on the two events. With Warhurst missing and Boyd out of position and not completely fit, Birmingham's quality and parity was upset, abandoning them especially powerless against Manchester City's eccentric style. 

Amid the half-time interim, a column emitted between the Birmingham director and a portion of his players about their wellness; in the Manchester City changing area, a warmed trade occurred among Barnes and Revie. Barnes had played protectively in the primary half to counter the danger of Peter Murphy, however Revie encouraged him to play further advance. In the interim, administrator Les McDowall urged his players to keep ownership and make their rivals pursue the ball. 

The period following half‑time saw few shots, yet at that point, after a little more than an hour's play, Manchester City recovered their walk and all of a sudden proceeded. A toss in to Revie prompted exchange on the conservative including Barnes, Dyson, and Johnstone, bringing about a through-ball which put Dyson clear of the safeguard to score. After two minutes, Trautmann gathered the ball toward the finish of a Birmingham assault and kicked the ball long to Dyson, over the leaders of the withdrawing Birmingham players. Dyson flicked the ball on to Bobby Johnstone, who scored Manchester City's third, turning into the principal player ever to score in continuous Wembley finals all the while. 

With 17 minutes outstanding, a Birmingham chance emerged when Murphy outpaced Dave Ewing. Goalkeeper Trautmann jumped at the feet of Murphy to win the ball, however in the crash Murphy's correct knee hit Trautmann's neck with an intense blow. Trautmann was thumped oblivious, and the official halted play right away. Mentor Laurie Barnett hurried onto the pitch, and treatment proceeded for a few minutes. No substitutes were allowed, so Manchester City would need to see out the diversion with ten men if Trautmann was unfit to proceed. Skipper Roy Paul felt sure that Trautmann was not fit to finish the match, and wished to put Roy Little in objective. Be that as it may, Trautmann, disoriented and insecure on his feet, demanded keeping his objective. He played out the rest of the minutes in incredible torment, with the Manchester City protectors endeavoring to clear the ball well upfield or into the stand at whatever point it drew close. Trautmann was called upon to make two further spares to deny Brown and Murphy, the second making him withdraw in misery because of a crash with Ewing, which required the coach to restore him. 

No further objectives were scored, and the official blew for full time with the last score 3– 1 to Manchester City. As the players left the field, the group sang a chorale of "For he's a happy decent individual" in tribute to Trautmann's grit. Roy Paul drove his group up the means to the illustrious box to get Manchester City's third FA Cup. Trautmann's neck kept on causing him torment, and the Duke of Edinburgh remarked on its warped state as he gave Trautmann his champ's award. After three days, an examination uncovered that Trautmann had broken a bone in his neck. 

Trautmann went to the night's post-coordinate dinner (where Alma Cogan sang to the players) in spite of being unfit to move his head, and hit the hay anticipating that his damage should recuperate with rest. As the agony did not retreat, the next day he went to St George's Hospital, where he was told he just had a cramp in his neck which would leave. After three days, he got a second supposition from a specialist at Manchester Royal Infirmary. A X-beam uncovered he had disengaged five vertebrae in his neck, the second was split in two. The third vertebra had wedged against the second, averting further harm which could have cost Trautmann his life. 

At the point when Manchester City's train from London achieved Manchester, the group were welcomed by cameras from Granada TV and an open-top transport. They set out on a voyage from London Road station to the town lobby in Albert Square, taking a course along a portion of Manchester's fundamental shopping boulevards. The size and soul of the groups drove the "Manchester Evening Chronicle" to make examinations with VE Day. The rambunctiousness of the groups in Albert Square implied the Lord Mayor attempted to give his discourse heard above serenades of "We need Bert". After the metro gathering at the Town Hall and a feast at a Piccadilly eatery, the group came back to the open-top transport and made a beeline for Belle Vue Pleasure Gardens, close to the club's previous home of Hyde Road in east Manchester, where the "Account" held a capacity. 

An expected 10,000 individuals met the Birmingham City party on their arrival to Snow Hill station. The players, in the first of a caravan of four mentors, waved to the collected groups through the open sun-rooftop as they continued to the Council House, where the Lord Mayor invited them in the interest of the city. Len Boyd tended to the groups from the overhang before the mentors proceeded through the downtown area and back to St Andrew's, Birmingham City's home ground. The next Wednesday, a supper was held to respect the club's accomplishments. Visitors incorporated the 84-year-old Billy Walton, who had joined the club in 1888, six individuals from Birmingham's 1931 glass last group, and an exchange designation from the Soviet city of Sverdlovsk. 

In spite of the fact that the thousands assembled outside the Council House thundered "No!" when Boyd said the group felt they had disappointed the supporters, there were recriminations concerning Birmingham's execution and group choice. The nearby press proposed that endeavors to battle "Wembley nerves" had brought about an "over-easygoing way to deal with the amusement". The column at half-time had done little for second-half resolve, however talking fifty years after the fact, Gil Merrick put the accuse less for Boyd's sketchy wellness than on an inability to examine how to stop Revie. Alex Govan, persuaded that "on the off chance that Roy Warhurst had been fit, at that point there would just have been one victor", accused "terrible group choice", saying that even without Warhurst he solidly trusted "that if Badham had been in we would have won that amusement. He could never have given Don Revie the space to run the match." Warhurst himself thought the determination of Newman "implied the group needed to adjust its style and at last we utilized diverse strategies to those that had been effective all season".