William Cragh 

William Cragh (conceived ca. 1262, kicked the bucket some time after 1307), was a medieval Welsh warrior and supporter of Rhys ap Maredudd, ruler of the grounds of Ystrad Tywi, in his disobedience to King Edward I of England. Caught in 1290 by the child of William de Briouze, the Cambro-Norman Lord of Gower, he was attempted and discovered blameworthy of having murdered thirteen men. Cragh was executed simply outside Swansea inside sight of de Briouze's Swansea Castle, twice, as the hangman's tree crumbled amid his first hanging. Woman Mary de Briouze chose for no good reason to mediate for Cragh's benefit, and appealed to the expired Bishop of Hereford, Thomas de Cantilupe, mentioning him to request that God bring Cragh resurrected. Cragh started to hint at life the day after his execution, and over the consequent couple of weeks made a full recuperation, living for in any event an additional eighteen years. 

The principle essential hotspot for Cragh's story is the record of the examination concerning the canonisation of Thomas de Cantilupe, which is held in the Vatican Library. Cragh's revival was one of thirty-eight supernatural occurrences introduced to the ecclesiastical magistrates who in 1307 were accused of analyzing the proof for Cantilupe's piety. The hanged man himself offered proof to the commission, after which nothing more is known about him. Cantilupe was formally consecrated by Pope John XXII on 17 April 1320. 

William Cragh was conceived in around 1262 in the Welsh area of Llanrhidian, Gower, to Rhys ap Gwilym and his better half Swanith. Somewhere in the range of 1282 and 1283 King Edward I of England pursued a military crusade in Wales that finished up with his extension of that nation. One of Edward's partners, Rhys ap Maredudd, found the post-war settlement unsuitable and propelled an insubordination to the lord in 1287. Edward's boundlessly unrivaled powers before long squashed the uprising, yet Rhys ap Maredudd stayed at freedom until his catch and execution in 1292. Cragh most likely partook in the resistance on the Welsh side. He was captured in 1290 by the child of William de Briouze, the Lord of Gower, who was protecting his dad's territories against attacks by the agitators still on the loose. Cragh was one of 14 prisoners caught by de Briouze, 12 of whom were consequently discharged. He was taken to Swansea Castle, where he was held in the prisons anticipating preliminary, blamed for executing 13 men. 

The law in Wales around then allowed sentenced men to make up for their violations by making an installment to their unfortunate casualties. Cragh's loved ones energized round to offer 100 dairy animals to de Briouze for his discharge, yet the offer was won't. The considerable size of the proposed pay demonstrates that Cragh was an imperative man, albeit a few observers portrayed him as a criminal instead of a revolutionary. Student of history Jussi Hanska has recommended that de Briouze's refusal to acknowledge the offer fortifies the case for Cragh being a renegade, as there is no other persuading motivation to clarify why he ought to have picked to "decay great pay just to hang a hoodlum". 

Cragh argued guiltlessness of the charges against him, however he was all things considered observed blameworthy and condemned to be hanged. 

Cragh was held tight a slope about a fourth of a mile (400 m) outside Swansea, in sight of de Briouze's Swansea Castle, on Monday 27 November 1290. He was executed alongside another "evildoer", Trahaern ap Hywel. In spite of the fact that the last was managed by the town killer, Cragh was hanged by one of his own relatives, Ythel Fachan, who was constrained into that administration by de Briouze. Trahaern ap Hywel was a vast and influential man who battled a lot as he was pulled up starting from the earliest stage his neck, making the crossbeam of the hangman's tree break. In spite of the fact that the killer, John of Baggeham, believed the two men to be as of now dead when they tumbled to the ground they were by and by hanged once more, "as an affront to their kinfolk", and on the grounds that it was the typical custom that hanged men couldn't be expelled from the hangman's tree without the ruler's consent. The execution occurred promptly in the first part of the day, and the two men were left swinging from the hangman's tree. John of Baggeham detailed that he chop down Cragh's body at about 4:00 pm and sent it into the town in line with William de Briouze's significant other, Lady Mary. It is misty what was the fate of Trahaern ap Hywel, however his body may have been covered by the hangman's tree. 

The more youthful William de Briouze visited the house in Swansea to which Cragh's cadaver had been taken that night, and what he saw persuaded him that Cragh was dead. Depicting the scene a few years after the fact he reviewed that: 

Witnesses revealed that Cragh had voided his entrails and bladder while swinging from the scaffold, which was considered around then to be an indication of death. 

Student of history Robert Bartlett has remarked that "one of the biggest vulnerabilities in the entire story of the passing and restoration of William Cragh is the reason Lady Mary [de Briouze] intervened for him", however mediate she did. John of Baggeham, when interrogated regarding her inspiration 18 years after the occasion, could just answer that "Woman Mary had looked for the body of this William, he didn't have even an inkling why". Before the execution she had requested that her significant other extra the two censured men, however he had won't. At that point on hearing that Trahaern ap Hywel was dead, and trusting that Cragh was as yet alive, she by and by asked that he be given over to her, yet de Briouze postponed until he was persuaded that Cragh was likewise dead. At that point "he conceded him [Cragh] to the said woman, for example, he was, and requested him to be brought down from the scaffold". Woman Mary had "an exceptional commitment" to Thomas de Cantilupe, the expired Bishop of Hereford, and in her very own words, after becoming aware of Cragh's passing, "on twisted knee, she asked Saint Thomas de Cantilupe to request that God reestablish life to William Cragh". 

Cantilupe had kicked the bucket in Italy on 25 August 1282; his tissue was covered in that nation in the wake of having been bubbled from his bones, which were reclaimed to England. Cantilupe's tomb at Hereford Cathedral before long turned into the focal point of a "traveler faction", and supernatural occurrences started to be credited to him. Woman Mary sent one of her women in-hanging tight to quantify Cragh's body with a length of string, which inferred a guarantee to offer to the holy person a flame the length of the individual for whose sake the holy person was being approached to mediate should the intervention be effective, a typical work on amid the medieval period. 

Cragh's recuperation started the day after his hanging, yet it was some time – one observer said 15 days – before he had the capacity to stand unaided. That he didn't recoup all the more rapidly provided reason to feel ambiguous about the legitimacy of the marvel, as supernatural occurrences should be quick, yet "fractional wonders" could be clarified by the "tepid confidence of the individuals who had made the pledge". Once adequately recuperated, Cragh was gathered to show up at Swansea Castle, before Lord and Lady Briouze. The minister, William of Codineston, was additionally present. Cragh clarified, "with extraordinary dread and fear" as indicated by the minister, that as he was being taken to the hangman's tree he petitioned Thomas de Cantilupe to spare him. His dread came about because of his worry that he may be executed once more, and he had valid justification to be concerned. Despite the fact that the individuals who endure were normally exonerated, it was not obscure for them to be hanged once more. Between the season of his hanging and his appearance at the mansion Cragh may have persuaded himself that he had been spared by Cantilupe, or he may just have concluded that it would be reasonable for him to oblige the story for his very own wellbeing. Cragh proceeded to guarantee that as he was swinging from the hangman's tree a priest dressed all in white showed up, and spared him either by supporting his feet or by supplanting his tongue in his mouth. 

When he was adequately recouped Cragh embraced a journey to Hereford, joined by Lord and Lady Briouze, to express gratitude toward Cantilupe for reestablishing his life. He strolled shoeless on the three-day trip, wearing the rope he had been hanged with around his neck. The rope was left at Cantilupe's place of worship, after which Cragh said that he would make a journey to the Holy Land, despite the fact that there is some uncertainty concerning whether he consequently even left Wales. Jussi Hanska has proposed that Cragh may have created the journey story to escape from his colleagues. 

Richard Swinefield, Cantilupe's successor as Bishop of Hereford, kept in touch with Pope Nicholas IV in a letter dated 19 April 1290 proposing the diocesan for canonisation, however it was not until 1307 that an examination concerning Cantilupe's righteousness was started by Pope Clement V. For the canonisation procedure to succeed, persuading proof regarding supernatural occurrences that Cantilupe had performed since his passing must be exhibited, one of which was that William Cragh had been brought resurrected by the diocesan's intervention. Three ecclesiastical chiefs were selected to lead the request: William de Testa, an ecclesiastical assessment gatherer in England, Ralph Baldock, Bishop of London, and William Durand the Younger, Bishop of Mende. 

The examination opened in London on 14 July 1307. The initial three of the nine observers to Cragh's hanging to be heard were Lady Mary de Briouze, William Codineston, and the more youthful William de Briouze; his dad had passed on in 1291. The magistrates were normally inquisitive about the subtleties of the execution, in such a case that Cragh had not really been slaughtered then there could plainly have been no supernatural occurrence. William de Briouze was in no uncertainty that the hanging had been legitimately led, and called attention to it was standard that "if any subterfuge or craftiness were discovered ... at that point the killer himself would be hanged thusly". He included that any trickery could be precluded due to the scorn that he and his dad had for Cragh, whom he depicted as "the most noticeably awful of criminals". A similar point was made by William of Codineston: "the master de Briouze and his judges, authorities, and workers despised William Cragh without question and celebrated incredibly at his hanging and demise". 

For the comfort of different observers the commission moved to Hereford, where it continued on 18 August 1307. The other six vouching for Cragh's execution incorporated the hanged man himself, in spite of William de Briouze's expressed conviction that he had passed on of regular causes around two years sooner. The official language of the procedures was ministerial Latin, however Cragh talked just Welsh, in this way two Franciscan monks from Hereford – John Young and Maurice of Pencoyd – were selected as interpreters. Cragh is recognized in the commission's records by his Welsh name, William ap Rhys, "of the area of Swansea in the see of Saint Davids". Of the eight different observers called, five affirmed in French and three in English. In his proof Cragh expressed that he trusted himself to have been around 28 at the season of his hanging, and that his last cognizant memory as he was dangling toward the finish of the rope was of the clamor made by the group when Trahaern was hanged alongside him. He precluded his before story from claiming having seen a dream of a white-clad priest while he was dangling from the hangman's tree, and rather guaranteed that the Virgin Mary had appeared to him on the morning of his execution, joined by "a noble figure" she presented as "St Thomas", who she said would spare him from the hangman's tree. Under addressing Cragh said that he assumed the figure to be Cantilupe on the grounds that he had been on journey to Cantilupe's sanctuary in Hereford, and in light of the fact that upon the arrival of his detainment he had "twisted a penny ... to the respect of Saint Thomas with the goal that he ought to free him". In the wake of hearing his declaration the magistrates physically inspected Cragh, to affirm that he was without a doubt the man who had been hanged 18 years sooner. In spite of the fact that they found no imprints around his neck they discovered some scarring on his tongue, as indicated by Cragh brought about by him having chomped it while hanging. 

The examination was directed in an inquisitorial style; witnesses were not expected to make proclamations but rather just to react to questions asked of them. Bartlett has seen that a portion of the inquiries asked by the chiefs were somewhat driving. Amid Cragh's cross examination, for example, he was inquired as to whether "in his nation after the season of his hanging, it was freely and ordinarily credited, and still is attributed, to a wonder performed by the benefits of the Lord Saint Thomas that he got and recouped life after the hanging". Cragh obviously had no inspiration other than to answer "yes", which he did. 

Nothing more is known about Cragh after his declaration to the ecclesiastical commission in 1307. Thirty-eight posthumous supernatural occurrences credited to Thomas de Cantilupe were inspected by the officials and submitted for thought by the pope and his guides. Twelve were dismissed after further examination, including Cragh's restoration, yet no reasons were recorded. Pope John XXII formally declared Cantilupe's canonisation on 17 April 1320, thirty-eight years after the new holy person's passing.