Beograd-class destroyer 

The "Beograd" class of destroyers comprised of three boats worked for the Royal Yugoslav Navy in the late 1930s, to a French structure. was developed in France and were worked in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. Amid the German-drove Axis attack of Yugoslavia in April 1941, "Zagreb" was left to keep its catch, and the other two were caught by the Italians. The Royal Italian Navy worked the two caught sends as guard escorts between Italy, the Aegean Sea, and North Africa. One was lost in the Gulf of Tunis in April 1943; the other was seized by the Germans in September 1943 after the Italian surrender and was along these lines worked by the German Navy. There are clashing reports about the destiny of the last ship, however it was lost in the last a long time of the war. 

In 1967, a French film was made about the leaving of "Zagreb". In 1973, the President of Yugoslavia and wartime Partisan pioneer Josip Broz Tito after death granted the two officers who left "Zagreb" with the Order of the People's Hero. 

Following the end of the Austro-Hungarian Empire at the finish of World War I, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (KSCS) was made. Austria-Hungary exchanged the vessels of the previous Austro-Hungarian Navy to the new country. The Kingdom of Italy was discontent with this, and persuaded the Allies to share the Austro-Hungarian boats among the successful forces. Therefore, the main current maritime vessels left to the KSCS were 12 torpedo water crafts, and it needed to fabricate its maritime powers nearly without any preparation. 

The name of the state was changed to the Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1929. In the mid 1930s, the Royal Yugoslav Navy (, KJRM) sought after the flotilla head idea, which included structure vast destroyers like the World War I Royal Navy V and W-class destroyers. In the interwar French Navy, these boats were planned to work with littler destroyers, or as half-flotillas of three boats. The Royal Yugoslav Navy chose to fabricate three such flotilla pioneers, sends that could achieve high speeds and would have long continuance. The perseverance necessity reflected Yugoslav intends to send the boats to the focal Mediterranean, where they would most likely work close by French and British warships. This brought about the development of the destroyer in 1930– 1931. Not long after she was requested, the beginning of the Great Depression implied that just a single ship of the arranged half-flotilla was ever manufactured. 

Regardless of the way that three huge destroyers were not going to be assembled, the possibility that "Dubrovnik" may work with various littler destroyers continued. In 1934, the KJRM chose to gain three such destroyers to work in a division driven by "Dubrovnik". The "Beograd" class was created from a French structure, and the name ship of the class, , was worked by "Ateliers et Chantiers de la Loire" at Nantes, France, though the rest of the boats of the class, and , were worked by "Jadranska brodogradilišta" at Split, Yugoslavia, under French supervision. Two additional boats of the class were arranged, however not constructed. 

The boats had a general length of , a light emission and an ordinary draft of . Their standard removal was , expanding to at full burden. "Beograd" was controlled by Curtis steam turbines, and "Zagreb" and "Ljubljana" utilized Parsons steam turbines. Despite the turbines utilized, they drove two propellors, utilizing steam produced by three Yarrow water-tube boilers. Their turbines were evaluated at and they were intended to impel the boats at a top speed of , despite the fact that they were just ready to achieve a down to earth top speed of in administration. They conveyed of fuel oil, which gave them a span of activity of . Their groups comprised of 145 work force, including officers and enrolled men. 

Primary deadly implement comprised of four Škoda L/46 superfiring weapons in single mounts, two forward of the superstructure and two toward the back, secured by firearm shields. Auxiliary weapon comprised of four Bofors against flying machine firearms in two twin mounts, situated on either side of the rearward sanctuary deck. The boats were likewise outfitted with two triple mounts of torpedo cylinders and two assault rifles. Their flame control frameworks were given by the Dutch firm of Hazemayer. As fabricated, they could likewise convey 30 maritime mines. 

At the season of the flare-up of World War II in September 1939, just two of the boats had been authorized, with the third being brought into administration three months after the war began. Their solitary noteworthy pre-war task was attempted by "Beograd" in May 1939, and included the transportation of an expansive bit of Yugoslavia's gold hold to the United Kingdom for supervision. On 24 January 1940, "Ljubljana" kept running into a reef off the Yugoslav port of Šibenik. The frame side was broken and in spite of endeavors to get the ship into the port, it sank near shore, and a portion of the team swam to security. One group part passed on, and the skipper was captured pending an examination. 

At the point when Yugoslavia was drawn into the war by the German-drove Axis attack on 6 April 1941, "Beograd" and "Zagreb" were apportioned to the first Torpedo Division at the Bay of Kotor alongside "Dubrovnik", yet "Ljubljana" was still under fix at Šibenik. On 9 April, "Beograd" and different vessels were entrusted with supporting an assault on the Italian enclave of Zara on the Dalmatian coast, however the maritime prong of the assault was prematurely ended when "Beograd" experienced motor harm close misses by Italian air ship. She came back to the Bay of Kotor for fixes. "Beograd" and "Ljubljana" were caught in port by Italian powers on 17 April, however around the same time, two of "Zagreb's" officers abandoned her to keep her catch, and were killed by the subsequent blasts. 

In Italian administration, "Beograd" and "Ljubljana" were fixed, re-furnished, and renamed "Sebenico" and "Lubiana" individually. "Sebenico" was charged into the Royal Italian Navy in August 1941, and "Lubiana" in October or November 1942. They both served fundamentally as caravan escorts among Italy and the Aegean and North Africa, with "Sebenico" finishing in excess of 100 guard escort missions over a two-year time frame. Neither one of the ships was associated with any striking activity. On 1 April 1943, "Lubiana" was either sunk off the Tunisian coast by British air ship, or steered into the rocks in the Gulf of Tunis and was lost. "Sebenico" was caught by the Germans in Venice after the Italian Armistice in September 1943 out of a harmed condition. She was fixed, re-outfitted, and renamed "TA43" and entered administration in the "Kriegsmarine" (German Navy). "TA43" served on escort and mine-laying obligations in the northern Adriatic Sea, yet observed little activity. One source expresses that she was harmed by big guns discharge on 30 April 1945 at Trieste and after that left, with others proposing she was abandoned on 1 May. 

In 1967, a French film, "Flammes sur l'Adriatique" (Adriatic Sea of Fire) was made, depicting the abandoning of "Zagreb" and the occasions paving the way to it. In 1973, the President of Yugoslavia and wartime Partisan pioneer Josip Broz Tito after death granted the Order of the People's Hero to the two officers who abandoned "Zagreb".