Misterioso (Thelonious Monk collection) 

Misterioso is a 1958 live collection by American jazz troupe the Thelonious Monk Quartet. When of its chronicle, piano player and bandleader Thelonious Monk had defeated an all-encompassing time of vocation troubles and accomplished fame with his residency at New York's Five Spot Café, starting in 1957. He returned there the next year for a second spell with his group of four, including drummer Roy Haynes, bassist Ahmed Abdul-Malik, and tenor saxophonist Johnny Griffin. Alongside "Thelonious in real life" (1958), "Misterioso" caught segments of the troupe's August 7 appear at the scene. 

The collection was one of the main effective live accounts of Monk's music and was created by Orrin Keepnews of Riverside Records. As indicated by Keepnews, the musician played more unmistakably here than on his studio collections in light of the gathering of people's excitement amid the execution. "Misterioso"s title was intended to bring out Monk's notoriety for being a confounding, testing entertainer, while its spread workmanship was a piece of Riverside's endeavor to benefit from his fame with scholarly and bohemian gatherings of people; it appropriated Giorgio de Chirico's 1915 painting "The Seer". 

"Misterioso" was initially met with a blended basic response; commentators acclaimed Monk's execution yet were reproachful of Griffin, whose playing they felt was strange with the group of four. The collection was remastered and reissued in 1989 and 2012 by Original Jazz Classics, and has since gotten review approval from pundits, some of whom saw Griffin's playing as the record's feature. 

In 1951, Thelonious Monk was sentenced for opiates ownership subsequent to declining to deceive his companion and piano player Bud Powell to the police; a police inquiry of the vehicle having a place with Powell's female friend had found his glassine envelope of heroin laying adjacent to Monk's feet. The conviction brought about the suspension of Monk's men's club card, the grant required by entertainers in New York for work in dance club. Despite the fact that the misfortune restricted him expertly, he recorded a few collections of unique music and got positive press amid the 1950s. Priest's chief, Harry Colomby, drove an intrigue for the piano player's sake before the State Liquor Authority (SLA) to have his card reestablished. Colomby contended to the SLA that Monk was "a medication free, reputable native, whose profitability and developing prevalence as a chronicle craftsman shows his remaining as a dependable working performer". 

In May 1957, the SLA said Monk expected to get a club proprietor to contract him first, inciting Colomby to consider the Five Spot Café in New York City's East Village. "I needed to discover a spot that was little", he later said. "I once drove past this spot in the Village and there was a bar and I heard music ... A spot where writers hung out." Joe Termini, who co-claimed the scene with his sibling Iggy, affirmed at Monk's police hearing, which brought about the restoration of his men's club card and his work at the Five Spot Café. In his first steady activity in years, Monk changed the little bar into one of the city's most prevalent settings, as it pulled in bohemians, fashionable people, and sincere enthusiasts of the piano player's music. With the residency, he had at long last discovered jazz fame following twenty years of profession battles and lack of clarity. 

Priest started his first stretch at the scene in July 1957, with saxophonist John Coltrane, bassist Ahmed Abdul-Malik, and drummer Shadow Wilson in his gathering. Be that as it may, when it finished in December, he had lost Wilson to weakness, while Coltrane left in quest for a performance profession and an arrival to Miles Davis' gathering. Priest came back to New York's club scene in 1958 with another group of four and got an eight-week offer from Joe and Iggy Termini to play the setting once more, start on June 12. He played most evenings amid the end of the week to limit swarms with Abdul-Malik, drummer Roy Haynes, and tenor saxophonist Johnny Griffin, who had performed with Monk previously. Griffin was new to the majority of his collection and, as Coltrane, thought that it was hard to solo over Monk's comping amid their initial couple of weeks. Amid their exhibitions, Monk regularly left the phase for a beverage at the bar or moved around, which allowed Griffin a chance to play with more space. Be that as it may, the group of four in the long run built up an adequate affinity and handle of the set rundown. 

Orrin Keepnews endeavored to record the group of four live at the Five Spot Café on two unique events in 1958 for his name, Riverside Records. His first account of the troupe was of two sets amid their July 9 appear. Priest was baffled with the chronicle and did not enable Riverside to discharge it, in spite of the fact that it was discharged later after his demise. 

Keepnews came back to the scene on August 7 when Monk played out a night appear in the club's stuffed room, which the maker had set up with chronicle hardware. It yielded both "Misterioso" and "Thelonious in real life"; the last was discharged first in 1958. The show was accepted to be the main effective live chronicle of Monk's music, until the account of his 1957 show with Coltrane at Carnegie Hall was found and discharged in 2005. The two live collections from the Five Spot Café are the main accounts that report Monk's time with Griffin. 

As indicated by jazz commentator Gary Giddins, "Misterioso" is a hard bop record. The melodies performed for the collection were orchestrated by Monk, who revised four of his before arrangements. In the collection's liner notes, Keepnews composed of Monk's way to deal with game plans: "It ought to be proverbial that Monk is an always self-recharging author arranger-artist, that each new account of an 'old' number, especially with various work force, speaks to a new perspective on it—right around another sythesis." In the maker's feeling, Monk played the piano more strikingly and less contemplatively than on his studio chronicles in light of the eager groups he attracted daily to the setting. 

On "Nutty", Griffin joined lines from "The Surrey with the Fringe on Top" and displayed a frantic swing that was supplemented by counterplay from Haynes and Monk. "Blues Five Spot", another structure by Monk for the collection, is a twelve-bar blues reverence to the Five Spot Café and included performances from every player. Griffin and Monk transfigured harmony structures and tunes all through the execution. Griffin's performance vamp kept up the mood while citing lines from different pieces, including the signature tune for the energized "Popeye" dramatic shorts; he played "The Sailor's Hornpipe" toward the finish of "Blues Five Spot". 

The group of four started "In Walked Bud" with an eight-bar piano introduction and thirty-two-bar structure. Griffin started his performance a moment into the tune with saxophone howls. In the third moment, Monk did not play, while Griffin played quick expressions at the highest point of his register with discontinuously slower R&B and free jazz components. Priest yelled favorably all through Griffin's performance before he continued piano and played a two-minute subject. "Only a Gigolo", a standard, was the main melody on the collection not made by Monk, who performed it in a short, unaccompanied form. It was played as a solitary melody rehashed finally. 

The title track—first recorded for Blue Note Records in 1948 with vibraphonist Milt Jackson—is a standout amongst Monk's most powerful chronicles and depends on a progression of minor second bunches. His execution of the melody at the Five Spot Café displayed his peculiar playing of one blue note by another. Priest superimposed melodic thoughts that veered off from the tune's unique tonal focus, adding a C blue note to the D-level blue note. Haynes' curbed drumming sponsored Griffin's forceful bop playing and expanded solo on "Misterioso". 

As indicated by Keepnews, the collection and its title track were named as a slight play on the words "fog" and "riddle", intended to inspire the impression of Monk's music as cryptic and testing at the time. Jazz commentator Neil Tesser said that the word, which is Latin for "in a puzzling way", was "utilized frequently as a melodic course in traditional music scores. Be that as it may, when Monk's group of four recorded this music [in 1958] 'Misterioso' had to a great extent come to distinguish Monk himself." 

To profit by Monk's fame with scholarly and bohemian fans from settings, for example, the Five Spot Café, Riverside discharged "Misterioso" and reissues of his more established records with structures that appropriated twentieth century gems. The collection's spread craftsmanship is a propagation of Giorgio de Chirico's 1915 painting "The Seer", which was initially painted as a tribute to French writer Arthur Rimbaud. 

As per Monk biographer Robin Kelley, Rimbaud had "approached the craftsman to be a diviner so as to plumb the profundities of the oblivious in the journey for hyper vision". This persuaded the canvas was the best decision for the collection spread. "The one-peered toward figure spoke to the visionary", he clarified. "The structural structures and the situation of the writing slate evoked the solidarity of craftsmanship and science—an ideal image for a craftsman whose music has been called 'numerical.'" In the feeling of musicologist Robert G. O'Meally, the spread mirrored "the strange infringement of tradition of point of view, the quiets, and strangely appealing edges (the in general modern quality) in Monk's music". 

"Misterioso" was discharged in 1958 by Riverside and was Monk's eighth collection for the name. The next March, Monk was casted a ballot piano player of the year in a yearly survey of worldwide jazz commentators from "Down Beat" magazine, who said he was heard "at his difficult, reliably imaginative best" on "Misterioso". Jazz pundit Nat Hentoff evaluated the record that May for "Hello Fi Review", in which he said it was not one of the musician's best collections. He watched "too little space for Monk's soloing and to some degree to an extreme" for Griffin, whose saxophone cry and timing were more great than his performances. Hentoff likewise trusted Haynes and Abdul-Malik did not bolster Monk as imaginatively as Wilbur Ware and Art Blakey had on his past Riverside collections, where he said Monk was in all the more convincing structure. Whenever "Misterioso" was discharged in 1964 in the United Kingdom, Charles Fox gave it a positive survey in "Gramophone". He discovered its music keeping pace with Monk's typical benchmarks and featured by extraordinary playing by him and the mood segment, especially Haynes, who indicated "by and by what an incredible drummer he was at that point, without a doubt, still is today". Notwithstanding, Fox felt Griffin did not fit in with the group of four and dominated Monk's sytheses, finding the saxophonist's performances diffuse and portrayed by unimportant citations as opposed to melodic advancement. 

In the "All Music Guide to Jazz" (2002), Lindsay Planer composed that Monk's group of four "ceaselessly rehashed" their solid, firm stable with "overpowering and instinctual limits" all through "Misterioso". He particularly applauded Griffin, saying he "reliably freed the exhibitions". Priest biographer Robin Kelley felt since he had aced Monk's melodies by then, his performances on "Misterioso" and "Thelonious in real life" were digressive and vivacious. Jazz pundit Scott Yanow discovered "Misterioso" to be the prevalent record in light of what he said was Griffin's remarkable solo on an energetic interpretation of "In Walked Bud", while music student of history Ted Gioia recorded Monk and Griffin's "freewheeling" execution on the title track as one of his prescribed chronicles of the creation. As per Robert Christgau, both this record and "Splendid Corners" (1957) spoke to Monk's imaginative pinnacle. He refered to "Misterioso" as his most loved collection and, in a 2009 article for "The Barnes and Noble Review", composed that Griffin's tenor solo amid "In Walked Bud" remained his "most loved five minutes of recorded music". Liam McManus from "PopMatters" was less excited about Griffin's playing, which he accepted was at times cumbersome and diminished the music, yet at the same time suggested "Misterioso" as an excellent Monk record including the piano player in an easygoing act with his group of four. 

In 1989, "Misterioso" was carefully restored by acing engineer Joe Tarantino for the collection's CD reissue. Tarantino utilized 20-bit K2 Super Coding System innovation at Fantasy Studios in Berkeley, California. On May 15, 2012, Concord Music Group reissued the collection as a feature of the organization's Original Jazz Classics Remasters arrangement, alongside "Jazz at Massey Hall" (1953) and Bill Evans' 1962 record "Moon Beams". The re-discharge highlighted 24-bit remastering by Tarantino and three extra tracks, including a variety of "Bye-Ya" and "Epistrophy" performed with drummer Art Blakey. Accord VP Nick Phillips, who delivered the reissue arrangement, said "Misterioso" was "an unsurpassed great live Thelonious Monk record" and "a permanent depiction of Monk live in the late '50s." McManus said that similarly as with most reissues of jazz collections, the extra tracks on "Misterioso" were profitable and exhibited uninhibited exhibitions of Monk's past sytheses. 

All melodies were created by Thelonious Monk, with the exception of where noted.