Experience Time 

Experience Time is an American dream vivified TV arrangement made by Pendleton Ward for Cartoon Network. Delivered by Frederator Studios and Cartoon Network Studios, the arrangement pursues the experiences of a kid named Finn (voiced by Jeremy Shada) and his closest companion and supportive sibling Jake (John DiMaggio)a hound with the supernatural capacity to change shape and size freely. Finn and Jake live in the dystopian Land of Ooo, where they connect with Princess Bubblegum (Hynden Walch), the Ice King (Tom Kenny), Marceline the Vampire Queen (Olivia Olson), BMO (Niki Yang), and others. The arrangement depends on a 2007 short delivered for Nicktoons and Frederator Studios' activity hatchery arrangement "Irregular! Kid's shows". After the short turned into a viral hit on the Internet, Cartoon Network authorized a full-length arrangement, which reviewed on March 11, 2010, and authoritatively debuted on April 5, 2010. 

The arrangement drew motivation from an assortment of sources, including the dream pretending diversion "Prisons and Dragons" and computer games. It was created utilizing hand-drawn activity; activity and exchange for scenes are chosen by storyboarding specialists based off harsh layouts. Since every scene took approximately eight to nine months to finish, numerous scenes were chipped away at simultaneously. The cast individuals recorded their lines in gathering accounts, and the arrangement consistently utilized visitor performing artists for minor and repeating characters. Every scene keeps running for around eleven minutes; sets of scenes are frequently broadcast to fill half-hour program openings. On September 29, 2016, it was reported that the arrangement would close in 2018, after the airing of its tenth season. The arrangement finale broadcast on September 3, 2018. 

"Experience Time" has been an evaluations accomplishment for Cartoon Network and a few scenes have pulled in over 3 million watchers; in spite of being pointed essentially at kids, it has built up a following among young people and grown-ups. The show has gotten positive surveys from pundits and won honors including: eight Primetime Emmy Awards, a Peabody Award, three Annie Awards, two British Academy Children's Awards, a Motion Picture Sound Editors Award, a Pixel Award, and a "Kerrang!" Award. The arrangement has additionally been assigned for three Critics' Choice Television Awards, two Annecy Festival Awards, a TCA Award, and a Sundance Film Festival Award, among others. Of the numerous comic book turn offs dependent on the arrangement, one got an Eisner Award and two Harvey Awards. Different types of authorized stock, including books, computer games and attire, have been roused by the arrangement. 

"Experience Time" pursues the undertakings of a kid named Finn the Human (voiced by Jeremy Shada), and his closest companion and assenting sibling Jake the Dog (John DiMaggio), who has enchanted forces to change shape and size voluntarily. Pendleton Ward, the arrangement's maker, portrays Finn as a "red hot little child with solid ethics". Jake, then again, depends on Tripper Harrison, Bill Murray's character in "Meatballs". This implies while Jake is to some degree lighthearted, he will "sit [Finn] down and give him some better than average guidance on the off chance that he actually needs it". Finn and Jake live in the dystopian Land of Ooo, which was attacked by a disastrous atomic war a thousand years before the arrangement's occasions. All through the arrangement, Finn and Jake communicate with significant characters, including: Princess Bubblegum (Hynden Walch), the sovereign of the Candy Kingdom and a conscious bit of gum; the Ice King (Tom Kenny), a threatening however generally misconstrued ice wizard; Marceline the Vampire Queen (Olivia Olson), a thousand-year-old vampire and shake music devotee; Lumpy Space Princess (Pendleton Ward), an exaggerated and youthful princess made out of "protuberances"; BMO (Niki Yang), an aware computer game reassure formed robot that lives with Finn and Jake; and Flame Princess (Jessica DiCicco), a fire natural and leader of the Fire Kingdom. 

As indicated by arrangement maker Pendleton Ward, the show's style was affected by his time going to the California Institute of the Arts (CalArts) and his encounters filling in as an essayist and storyboard craftsman on "The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack", an arrangement which kept running on Cartoon Network from 2008 until 2010. In a meeting with "Activity World Network", Ward said he endeavors to consolidate "Experience Time"s incendiary silliness with "lovely" minutes, utilizing Hayao Miyazaki's film "My Neighbor Totoro" as motivation for the last mentioned. Ward has likewise named "Home Movies" and "Dr. Katz, Professional Therapist" as impacts, to a great extent on the grounds that the two shows are "unwinding" and highlight "conversational discourse that feels regular [and is neither] over the top [nor] cartoony and piercing". 

The arrangement can follow its birthplace back to a seven-minute, independent energized short film of a similar name (this short would later be recognized as the show's pilot "post facto"). Ward made the short essentially without anyone else's input, and finished up its creation in mid 2006. It was first communicated on Nicktoons Network on January 11, 2007, and was re-communicated as a component of Frederator Studios' compilation show "Arbitrary! Kid's shows" on December 7, 2008. After its underlying discharge, the video turned into a viral hit on the Internet. Frederator Studios at that point pitched an "Undertaking Time" arrangement to Nicktoons Network, which rejected it twice. In the end, Nicktoons' rights to bonus a full arrangement terminated, and Frederatorthe short's creation activity studiopitched it to different channels. One of the studios that Frederator drew closer was Cartoon Network, which was keen on creating a full arrangement. Nonetheless, they would possibly focus on an arrangement if Ward could demonstrate that the pilot "was certainly not a one-hit wonder." Rob Sorcher, the central substance officer at Cartoon Network, was compelling in getting the system to take a risk on the show; he perceived the arrangement as "something that felt truly indie ... comic book-y [and] new". 

Animation Network requested that Ward present an example content for their thought, yet Frederator persuaded him to harsh out a storyboard rather, as "a board would give a superior feeling of what was at the forefront of Pen's thoughts", as indicated by Frederator's VP Eric Homan. Ward and his school companions Patrick McHale and Adam Muto (the previous of whom filled in as an essayist, storyboard craftsman, and inventive chief for the show amid its initial couple of seasons, while the last filled in as a storyboard craftsman and imaginative executive for the show before in the long run turning into its showrunner) started creating thoughts, at the same time focusing on "keep[ing] the beneficial things about the first short [while also] improv[ing] on" them. The gathering's first item was a harsh storyboard that included Finn and Princess Bubblegum going on a spaghetti-dinner date. Animation Network was not content with this story, thus Ward, McHale, and Muto made a storyboard for the scene "The Enchiridion!", which was their endeavor to deliberately copy the style of the first Nicktoons short. This strategy demonstrated effective, and Cartoon Network affirmed the primary season in September 2008. "The Enchiridion!" was the main scene to go into generation. 

Ward and his creation group started storyboarding scenes and composing plot diagrams, however Cartoon Network was still worried about the course of the new arrangement. McHale later reviewed that amid the pitch of a scene titled "Siblings in Insomnia" (which, for different reasons, was in the end rejected) the room was loaded up with administrators from Cartoon Network. The pitch went well, however the generation staff was before long immersed with inquiries regarding the elaborate idea of the arrangement. Wanting to determine these issues, Cartoon Network the board procured three veteran artists who had chipped away at "SpongeBob SquarePants": Derek Drymon (who filled in as official maker for the main period of "Experience Time"), Merriwether Williams (who filled in as head story editorial manager for the show's first and second seasons), and Nick Jennings (who turned into the arrangement's long-serving workmanship executive). Thurop Van Orman, the maker of "The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack", was likewise procured to control Ward and his staff for the initial two seasons. In the long run, the storyboard for "Detainees of Love" figured out how to soothe a large number of the apprehensions that some Cartoon Network officials had communicated. 

As creation for season one advanced, more specialists were expedited board. Dan "Ghostshrimp" Bandit, an independent artist who had likewise composed and storyboarded on "Pancake", was procured as the show's lead foundation fashioner; Ward instructed him to make foundation craftsmanship that set the show "in a 'Ghostshrimp World". Ghostshrimp structured significant areas, including Finn and Jake's home, the Candy Kingdom, and the Ice Kingdom. The situation of lead character architect was in the long run given to Phil Rynda, who held this job for over two seasons. The lead generation group for the show (which included Ward and McHale) were at first reluctant to expedite him board, however they were before long persuaded by chief Larry Leichliter, who guaranteed them that Rynda was capable and could attract an assortment of styles. With the makers fulfilled, Rynda rapidly started structuring characters that were straightforward however that still fell in accordance with "Pen's normal tasteful". Around this time, Rynda and McHale started drafting aesthetic rules for the show, with the goal that its movement style would dependably be to some degree steady. With a large number of the lead creation jobs filled, Ward directed his concentration toward picking storyboard craftsmen for the main season. He inevitably amassed a group made up to a great extent of "more youthful, unpracticed individuals", a large number of whom he found on the Internet. A considerable lot of these people had foundations in non mainstream funnies, and Pendleton Ward has called them "truly keen, smartypants individuals" who were in the end in charge of embeddings progressively peculiar and otherworldly thoughts into the arrangement. 

For the initial four-and-a-half periods of the show, Ward filled in as the showrunner for "Experience Time". In a meeting with "Moving Stone", Ward uncovered that he had ventured down from this job at some point amid the fifth season. As a normally contemplative individual, he discovered interfacing with and guiding individuals consistently to debilitate. Following Ward's acquiescence from the post, Adam Muto turned into the arrangement's new showrunner. Until late 2014, Ward kept on dealing with the animation as a storyboard craftsman and storyline author. After November 2014, he ceased routinely adding to scene traces, in spite of the fact that despite everything he investigated stories, gave infrequent info, and proceeded to storyboard for the arrangement on a restricted premise. 

As far as tone and kind, Warda self-claimed enthusiast of conflicted feelings, for example, feeling "glad and frightened at the equivalent time"has portrayed the show as a "dull parody". He has additionally refered to the dream pretending diversion "Cells and Dragons"of which a significant number of the show's journalists are devoteesas a motivation for the show. In the United States, the arrangement is appraised TV-PG; Ward said that he never needed to push the limits of the PG rating, writing in the "Specialty of Ooo" book that he "never actually even considered the rating ... we don't care for stuff that is excessively gross. We like adorable stuff and decent things." Ward proposed the show's reality to have a reasonable physical rationale, and albeit enchantment exists in the story, the show's scholars endeavored to make an inward consistency in the characters' collaborations with the world. 

In a meeting with "The A.V. Club", Ward said the show's composition procedure more often than not started with the essayists disclosing to one another what they had done the earlier week to discover something clever to expand on. He likewise stated, "A ton of the time, in case we're truly stuck, we'll begin saying everything that rings a bell, which is typically the most exceedingly bad stuff, and after that another person will imagine that is horrible however it'll give him a superior thought and the ball just begins moving that way". On account of the bustling calendar of composing and organizing a TV arrangement, the journalists did not have sufficient energy to play "Cells and Dragons", yet despite everything they composed stories they would "need to play D&D with". Here and there, the journalists and storyboard craftsmen met and played composition recreations. One amusement that was frequently utilized is called choice carcass; one essayist begins a story on a sheet of paper, and another author attempts to complete it. Be that as it may, while a couple of scenes, (for example, the fifth-season scene "Puhoy" and the 6th season scene "Jake the Brick") have been created utilizing this amusement, Ward has admitted that "the thoughts are generally awful". Previous storyboard craftsman and imaginative executive Cole Sanchez said scene contents are either made by growing the smart thoughts delivered by these composition amusements, or depend on a thought proposed by a storyboard craftsman in the expectation it tends to be formed into a scene. 

After the scholars pitched stories, the thoughts were aggregated onto an a few page layout that contained "the essential beats". The scenes were then passed to storyboard craftsmen (regularly alluded to casually as "visitors"). While numerous kid's shows depend on content pitches to arrange officials, Cartoon Network permitted "Experience Time" to "construct their very own groups naturally" and convey utilizing storyboards and animatics. Burglarize Sorcher said this novel methodology was authorized in light of the fact that the organization was managing "principally visual individuals", and that by utilizing storyboards the journalists and craftsmen could learn and develop "by really taking every necessary step". The storyboard specialists by and large chipped away at a scene in sets, autonomous from different storyboarders, which, as indicated by independent essayist David Perlmutter in his book "America Toons In", countered inventive apathy and kept scenes from being "similar in either substance or tone". The storyboard specialists were given seven days to "thumbnail" (generally sketch out) a storyboard and fill in the subtleties complete with activity, discourse, and jokes. The arrangement's showrunner and his imaginative executives at that point audited the storyboard and made notes. The specialists were then given one more week to execute the notes and to tidy up the scene. Storyboard composing and reconsidering as a rule took as long as a month. 

Following the composition amendments, voice performing artists would record their parts for the scenes and an animatic would be incorporated to lessen the running time to the essential eleven minutes. Particular specialists at that point made prop, character, and foundation structures. As indicated by previous lead character creator Phil Rynda, the greater part of this pre-generation was done in Photoshop. While the scenes' structure and shading was done in Burbank, California, the genuine activity was dealt with in South Korea by either Rough Draft Korea or Saerom Animation. Vitalizing a scene frequently took somewhere in the range of three and five months alone. The movement was hand-drawn on paper, which was then carefully composited and painted with advanced ink and paint. Official maker Fred Seibert contrasted the show's activity style with that of "Felix the Cat" and different Max Fleischer kid's shows, however said its reality was similarly propelled by "the universe of videogames ". 

While the scenes were being taken care of in South Korea, the generation team in the United States chipped away at retakes, music scoring, and sound plan. After being finished, the movement was sent back to the United States, so, all things considered it was assessed by the creation group, who searched for errors in the activity or "things that didn't quicken the way [the staff] expected". These issues were then fixed in Korea and the activity was finished. From story illustrating to communicate, it took somewhere in the range of eight and nine months for every scene to be made; along these lines, different scenes were taken a shot at simultaneously. 

While an incredible dominant part of the arrangement's scenes were energized by Korean activity studios, "Experience Time" once in a while highlighted visitor artists and executives. For example, the second-season scene "Watchmen of Sunshine" was halfway rendered in 3-D to copy the style of a computer game. The fifth-season scene "A Glitch is a Glitch" was composed and coordinated by Irish movie producer and author David OReilly, and highlights his unmistakable 3-D activity. Artist James Baxter vivified select scenes and characters in both the fifth-season scene "James Baxter the Horse" just as the eighth-season scene "Pony and Ball". The 6th season scene "Evolved way of life" was composed, storyboarded, and coordinated by Japanese anime executive Masaaki Yuasa, and was energized completely by Yuasa's very own studio. Another 6th season scene, "Water Park Prank", highlights Flash activity by David Ferguson. A stop-movement scene titled "Terrible Jubies", coordinated by Kirsten Lepore, disclosed close to the center of the show's seventh season. At last, Alex and Lindsay Small-Butera, noted for their web arrangement "Baman Piderman", contributed movement to the eighth-season scene "Past the Grotto" and the ninth-season scene "Ketchup". 

The arrangement's voice on-screen characters include: Jeremy Shada (Finn the Human); John DiMaggio (Jake the Dog); Tom Kenny (The Ice King); Hynden Walch (Princess Bubblegum); and Olivia Olson (Marceline the Vampire Queen). Ward gives voices to a few minor characters and Lumpy Space Princess. Previous storyboard craftsman Niki Yang voices the conscious computer game reassure BMO in English, just as Jake's better half Lady Rainicorn in Korean. Polly Lou Livingston, a companion of Pendleton Ward's mom Bettie Ward, plays the voice of the little elephant named Tree Trunks. 

The "Experience Time" cast individuals recorded their lines together at gathering recording sessions as opposed to independently, with the point of account regular sounding discourse. Hynden Walch has portrayed these gathering chronicles as being likened to "completing a play readinga outrageously out there play". The arrangement routinely utilized visitor on-screen characters for minor and repeating characters, and team individuals cast individuals with whom they were keen on working. For example, in a board, both Adam Muto and Kent Osborne said the "Experience Time" group frequently searched out performers who had jobs in the TV programs "" and "The Office" to play different supporting or foundation characters. 

The show is set in the anecdotal "Place where there is Ooo", in a dystopian future around a thousand years after an atomic holocaust called the "Incomparable Mushroom War". As per Ward, the show happens "after the bombs have fallen and enchantment has returned into the world". Before the arrangement was completely created, Ward planned the Land of Ooo to just be "mystical". After the creation of the scene "Business Time", in which an ice shelf containing restored businesspeople buoys to the outside of a lake, the show turned out to be expressly dystopian; Ward said the generation team "just kept running with it". Ward later portrayed the setting as "candyland superficially and dull underneath", taking note of he had never planned the Mushroom War and the dystopian components to be "hit over the head in the show". He restricted it to "vehicles covered underground out of sight [and different components that do not] raise any eyebrows". Ward has said the arrangement's dystopian components were impacted by the 1979 film "Distraught Max". Kenny considered the manner in which the components are worked into the plot "very fill-in-the-spaces", and DiMaggio stated, "it's been evident the Land of Ooo has a few issues". 

The arrangement has a standard mythologyor, an all-encompassing plot and backstorythat is developed in different scenes. The backstory includes mostly the Mushroom War, the cause of the arrangement's central rival the Lich, and the backstories of a few of the arrangement's chief and repeating characters. Ward has said the subtleties behind the Mushroom War and the arrangement's dim folklore structure "a story worth telling", however that he feels the show will "spare it and keep on moving around how substantial the back-history of Ooo is". 

At the point when Ward was building up the arrangement's title groupings, the unfinished copy variant comprised of speedy shots and vignettes that were "simply kind of insane [and] silly", which suggested the show's topic of idiosyncratic experiences. These drafts included "the characters ... simply punching irregular phantoms and beasts, bouncing through everything without exception [and] there were a cluster of nuclear bombs toward its finish". Ward later called this rendition "actually senseless". He sent the draft to Cartoon Network; they didn't care for it and needed something increasingly graphical like the prologue to "The Brady Bunch". Motivated by the title successions of "The Simpsons" and "Pee-small's Playhouse", Ward built up another title grouping that highlighted a panning scope of the Land of Ooo while a synthesizer note climbed gradually until the principle subject was played. Ward's draft for this thought was given to design artists, who at that point finished the planning for the arrangement. From that point, the grouping developed; while Ward included "senseless character stuff", Patrick McHale concentrated on the Ice King's shot and gave him a "secondary school [year]book" grin. The team likewise attempted to get the shadows in the shot including Marceline right. After the panning clear, the arrangement slices to the signature tune, which plays while shots of Finn and Jake adventuring are appeared. For this piece of the arrangement, Ward was propelled by the "straightforward" parts of the prologue to the 2007 satire film "Superbad". At the point when the topic makes reference to "Jake the Dog" and "Finn the Human", the characters' names are shown by their heads, with a strong shading out of sight. The grouping was finished preceding the arrangement circulated. 

The show's eponymous signature tune is sung by Ward, joined by a ukulele. It is first heard in the pilot scene; in that adaptation Ward is joined by an acoustic guitar. For the form utilized in the arrangement, Ward sung in a higher register to coordinate with the higher scope of the ukulele. The finished rendition of the signature tune was initially expected to be an impermanent form. Ward stated, "I recorded the verses for the opening title in the animatics room where we have this little horrendous receiver just with the goal that we could add it to the titles and submit it to the system. Afterward, we attempted re-recording it and I didn't care for it ... I just enjoyed the temp one!" Because the arrangement's settled signature melody was initially recorded as a temp track, encompassing commotions can be heard all through. For example, the sound of Derek Drymon composing can be heard while Jake is strolling through the Ice Kingdom. As indicated by Ward, a significant part of the arrangement's music has comparative "murmur and coarseness" since one of the show's unique authors, Casey James Basichis, "lives in a privateer transport he's worked within a condo [and] you can hear wood planks squeak and heaps of other strange sounds". As the show advanced, Basichis' companion Tim Kiefer joined the show as an extra writer. The two presently cooperate on its music. 

The show's title grouping and signature tune have remained for the most part predictable all through its run, with seven exemptions. Amid the Fionna and Cake scenes (viz. season three's "Fionna and Cake", season five's "Awful Little Boy", season six's "The Prince Who Wanted Everything", season eight's "Five Short Tables", and season nine's "Fionna and Cake and Fionna") the arrangement runs an alternate introduction grouping that reflects the first, with the significant exemption that every one of the characters are sexual orientation twisted, and the subject is sung by previous storyboard revisionist Natasha Allegri. In like manner, the introduction to the arrangement's three miniseries are every one of a kind: the prologue to the Marceline-driven "Stakes" (2015) puts a large portion of the accentuation on Marceline, and the signature tune is sung by Olivia Olson; the prologue to "Islands" (2017) embraces a nautical topic, features the essential characters in the miniseries, and is sung by Jeremy Shada; and the introduction to "Components" (2017) highlights symbolism mirroring the four essential components in the "Experience Time" universe (that is: fire, ice, ooze, and sweet) and is sung by Hynden Walch. The acquaintances with the visitor enlivened scenes "A Glitch Is a Glitch" and "Evolved way of life" are every one of a kind, including activity civility of David OReilly and Masaaki Yuasa, individually. At last, the arrangement finale, "Join Me", includes a presentation offering watchers a look at future Ooo, one thousand years after Finn and Jake. This introduction includes the new characters Shermy and Beth, and is sung by the last mentioned (voiced by Willow Smith). 

The arrangement consistently includes tunes and melodic numbers. A considerable lot of the cast membersincluding Shada, Kenny, and Olsonsing their characters' tunes. Characters frequently express their feelings in tune; instances of this incorporate Marceline's tune "I'm Just Your Problem" (from season three's "What Was Missing") and Finn's "Altogether Gummed Up Inside" (from season three's "Incendium"). While the arrangement's mood melodies is formed by Basichis and Kiefer, the tunes sung by characters are frequently composed by the storyboard specialists. And keeping in mind that it is a general irregularity, the show additionally once in a while alludes to famous music. Right on time amid the show's run, Frederator, Seibert's generation organization, infrequently transferred demos and full forms of melodies sung by the characters to their official site, and when the creation team set up an arrangement Tumblr account, this custom of distributing demos and full forms of tunes to the open was restored. On November 20, 2015, the mark Spacelab9 discharged a constrained version 12" LP highlighting a considerable lot of Marceline's melodies, which was trailed by a 38-tune arrangement soundtrack in October 2016. 

Each "Experience Time" scene is around eleven minutes long; sets of scenes are frequently broadcast so as to fill a half-hour program availability. Prior to the official introduction of the principal season, Cartoon Network circulated both "Business Time" and "Removed!" on March 11 and March 18, separately, publicizing these showings as "sneak peaks" of the arrangement to-come. The show authoritatively appeared with "Sleep Party Panic" on April 5, 2010. 

Amid the last piece of its run, the show started to try different things with the miniseries design. The first of these was "Stakes" (2015), which publicized amid the show's seventh season. The accompanying miniseries, "Islands" (2016) publicized as a feature of the eight season. The third and last miniseries, "Components" (2016), publicized amid the show's ninth season. 

For its initial six seasons, scenes would consistently air once per week. Be that as it may, beginning in November 2014, the show started to air new scenes by means of "bombs", or weeks in which new scenes appeared each day. This adjustment in airing style upset the survey examples of certain fans, as Dave Trumbore of Collider clarified: "Back when [the show] was consistently airing in a progressively conventional timetable, it was somewhat simpler to monitor the totally crazy scenes loaded with half-clarified folklore and parts and heaps of illogical conclusions. Amid the last couple of seasons, be that as it may, [when] the scenes began to land in to a greater extent a scattershot style booked around multi-part specials [it ended up simpler to miss] the irregular airings of specific scenes." 

The arrangement finished up in 2018, after the airing of its tenth season. Reruns have additionally circulated on Boomerang and Adult Swim. 

Upon its presentation, "Experience Time" was an appraisals accomplishment for Cartoon Network. In March 2013, it was accounted for that the show arrived at the midpoint of generally 2 to 3 million watchers a scene. As per a 2012 report by Nielsen, the show reliably positioned first in its schedule vacancy among young men matured 214. The show debuted on April 5, 2010, and was viewed by 2.5 million watchers. The scene was an appraisals achievement. As per an official statement via Cartoon Network, the scene's availability saw triple-digit rate increments from the earlier year. The program was seen by 1.661 million youngsters matured 211, which denoted a 110 percent increment from the earlier year's figures. It was viewed by 837,000 kids matured 914, a 239 percent increment on the earlier year's figures. 

Between the second and 6th seasons, the show's appraisals kept on developing; the second-season debut was viewed by 2.001 million watchers, the third-season debut by 2.686 million, the fourth-season debut by 2.655 million, the fifth-season debut by 3.435 million, and the 6th season debut by 3.321 million. The show's seventh-season opener took a generous evaluations tumble, being viewed by just 1.07 million watchers. Moreover, the eighth-, ninth-, and tenth-season debuts were viewed by just 1.13, 0.71, and 0.77 million watchers, separately. The arrangement finale, "Join Me", was seen by 0.92 million watchers and scored a 0.25 Nielsen rating in the 18-to 49-year-old statistic, which implies that the scene was seen by 0.25 percent of all people matured 18 to 49 years of age who were sitting in front of the TV at the season of the scene's airing. 

The show has gotten positive surveys from commentators. "The A.V. Club" commentator Zack Handlen called it "a fabulous show [that] fits flawlessly in that hazy area among child and grown-up amusement in a way that figures out how to fulfill both a craving for refined (i.e., odd) composing and plain old outlandishness". 

"Experience Time" has been complimented for its likeness to drawing of the past. In an article for the "Los Angeles Times", TV faultfinder Robert Lloyd contrasted the arrangement with "the kind of kid's shows they made when kid's shows themselves were youthful and savored the experience of bringing everything to rubbery life". Robert Mclaughlin of Den of Geek communicated a comparable assessment when he composed that "Experience Time" "is the principal animation in quite a while that is unadulterated creative ability". He complimented the show for "its non-dependence on persistently referencing popular culture". Eric Kohn of "IndieWire" said the show "speaks to the advancement of [cartoon] medium" in the present decade. 

Various surveys have emphatically contrasted the arrangement and its makers with other socially huge works and people, individually. In 2013, "Stimulation Weekly" analyst Darren Franich called the arrangement "a mixture science fiction/dream/ghastliness/melodic/fantasy, with echoes of "Calvin and Hobbes", Hayao Miyazaki, "Last Fantasy", Richard Linklater, "Where the Wild Things Are", and the music video you made with your secondary school carport band". Emily Nussbaum of "The New Yorker" applauded "Experience Time"s special way to deal with feeling, diversion, and rationality by comparing it to ""World of Warcraft" as recapped via Carl Jung". Zack Handlen of "The A.V. Club" reasoned that the show was "essentially what might occur on the off chance that you solicited a bundle from 12-year-olds to make an animation, just it's the most ideal variant of that, as if all the 12-year-olds were super virtuosos and some of them were Stan Lee and Jack Kirby and the Marx Brothers". 

"Experience Time"s ability to investigate dull, pitiful, and complex issues has gotten acclaim. Kohn hailed the way that the show "toys with an amazingly tragic subtext." Novelist Lev Grossman, in a meeting with NPR, applauded the backstory of the Ice King and the investigation of his condition in the third-season scene "Holly Jolly Secrets", the fourth-season scene "I Remember You", and the fifth-season scene "Simon and Marcy", taking note of that his inception is "mentally conceivable." Grossman lauded the manner in which the arrangement had the capacity to handle the issues of psychological sickness, saying: "It's influencing. My father has been experiencing having Alzheimer's, and he's overlooked such a great amount about who he used to be. Also, I take a gander at him and ponder my dad biting the dust." Critics have proposed that the show has developed and developed as it has matured. In a survey of season four, for example, Mike LeChevallier of "Inclination" magazine complimented the show for "growing up" with its characters. He presumed that the arrangement has "strikingly few blames" and granted the fourth season three-and-a-half stars out of four. 

The arrangement has been incorporated on various best-of records. "Excitement Weekly" positioned it number 20 (out of 25) in a rundown of the "Best Animated TV Series". Also, "The A.V. Club", in a non-positioned summary of the "best energized arrangement at any point", called the arrangement "a standout amongst the most unmistakable kid's shows as of now reporting in real time". 

The show has likewise gotten constrained analysis from commentators. LeChevallier, in a generally to a great extent positive audit of the third season for "Inclination" magazine, composed that "the short-structure group abandons some passionate substance to be wanted", and this was unavoidable for an arrangement with such short scenes. The free animation researcher and commentator David Perlmutter, who generally praised the show's voice acting and its capacity to outperform its source material, contended that the show's instability among high and low satire embodies the way that Cartoon Network is "uncertain of what heading to seek after". He noticed that "while some of ["Adventure Time"s] scenes function admirably, others [are] basically befuddling." The paper "Metro" refered to the show's alarming circumstances, incidental grown-up subjects, and utilization of allusion as motivation behind why guardians probably won't need their young kids watching it. 

A few previous storyboard specialists and generation team individuals who chipped away at "Experience Time" have proceeded to make their very own arrangement, including Pat McHale (a previous storyline author, storyboard craftsman, and innovative chief who proceeded to make "Over the Garden Wall"), Rebecca Sugar (a previous storyboard craftsman who proceeded to make "Steven Universe"), Ian Jones-Quartey (a previous storyboard revisionist and manager who proceeded to make "alright K.O.! How about we Be Heroes"), Skyler Page (a previous storyboard craftsman who proceeded to make "Clarence"), Julia Pott (a previous storyline essayist who proceeded to make "Summer Camp Island"), and Kent Osborne (the show's previous head story author who proceeded to make "Feline Agent"). 

Heidi MacDonald of "Slate" has contended that the exploring of independent comic makers utilized by "Experience Time" (just as a few other Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon arrangement) has prompted a "movement dash for unheard of wealth" in which significant studios are effectively looking for under-the-radar ability for their shows, with her article deriving that "your most loved splendid outside the box illustrator is likely storyboarding for "Experience Time"." MacDonald likewise brought up that "Experience Time" has impacted the tone of present day funnies, taking note of: 

In the event that anything, strolling around [comic] indicates like SPX, I've seen something of an "Undertaking Time" track among a large number of the little press funnies currently turning out: Where once youthful illustrators overwhelmingly delivered desolate manly self-ingestion and skepticism in the custom of Daniel Clowes or Chris Ware, nowadays numerous stalls highlight dream sagas with beautiful characters and developed universes substantial on the talking creatures. It shouldn't shock that best in class visual artists are engrossing the "Experience Time" tasteful. A 20-year-old making funnies currently could have been watching the show since she was 15, all things considered. 

"Experience Time" has pulled in scholastic enthusiasm for its introduction of sexual orientation and sex jobs. Emma A. Jane, a senior research individual at the University of New South Wales in Sydney, Australia, said in spite of the fact that the two principle characters are male, and that numerous scenes include them taking part in rough acts to spare princesses, "Finn and Jake are a piece of a sweeping gathering cast of characters who are definitely not cliché and who populate a program which subverts numerous customary sexual orientation related ideal models". She said the show highlights "generally rise to quantities of female and male characters in hero, enemy, and minor jobs"; incorporates characters with no fixed sex; utilizes "gendered 'structure components, for example, eyelashes and hair to represent character qualities as opposed to sexual orientation; similarly appropriates characteristics paying little heed to sex; benefits found, receptive families or more distant families; outlines sex in manners that propose it is liquid; and highlights components of eccentric and transgender sub-content. Carolyn Leslie, writing in "Screen", concurs, saying, "in spite of having two male leads, "Experience Time" is especially solid with regards to addressing and testing sexual orientation generalizations". She utilizes Princess Bubblegum, BMO, and Fionna and Cake as instances of characters who will not be promptly classified and genderized. 

Since its introduction, "Experience Time" has built up a solid after among youngsters, adolescents, and grown-ups; as per "A.V. Club" faultfinder Noel Murray, fans are attracted to "Experience Time" in view of "the show's senseless amusingness, inventive stories, and luxuriously populated world". While the show is regularly portrayed as having a religion following, Eric Kohn of "IndieWire" said that the arrangement has "began to appear as though one of the greatest TV wonders of the decade". As indicated by Alex Heigl of "Individuals" magazine, "The show's being a fan is particularly Internet-adroit also, with enormous networks on Reddit, Imgur and Tumblr, who swap GIFs, fan workmanship and hypotheses with intense normality." In 2016, an investigation by "The New York Times" of the 50 TV shows with the most Facebook Likes found that "Experience Time" "is the most mainstream appear among the youthful in our datajust more than 66% of 'likes' originate from watchers [aged] 1824". 

The show is famous at fan traditions, for example, the San Diego Comic-Con. Columnist Emma-Lee Moss stated, "The current year's [2014] Comic-Con plan reflected "Experience Time"s developing achievement, with a few screenings [as well as] a sensational perusing with the show's voice ability". The show is additionally prevalent with cosplayers, or execution craftsmen who wear ensembles and style accomplices to speak to characters from the "Experience Time" universe. Greenery stated, "Investigating the group, unmistakably [Finn's] particular blue shirt and white cap were being reflected by several Cosplayers, male and female." In a meeting, Olivia Olson (who voices the character Marceline) stated, "Truly, anyplace you look, anyplace in your range, you're going to see somewhere around two individuals spruced up like Finn. It's insane." 

On November 19, 2011, KaBOOM! Studios declared designs for an "Undertaking Time" comic book arrangement composed by free web comic maker Ryan North, who composed the arrangement "Dinosaur Comics". The arrangement propelled on February 8, 2012, with craftsmanship by Shelli Paroline and Braden Lamb. In October 2014, it was uncovered that North had left the comic arrangement following three years. His obligations were expected by Christopher Hastings, the maker of "The Adventures of Dr. McNinja". This comic book line finished in April 2018 with its seventy-fifth issue, which North came back to co-compose. 

After the achievement of the first comic book line, a few turn off small arrangement were propelled. In April 2012, a six-issue miniseries titled "Experience Time: Marceline and the Scream Queens" composed by Meredith Granwho made the arrangement "Octopus Pie"was declared. It was propelled in July 2012 and highlights the characters Marceline and Princess Bubblegum visiting the Land of Ooo as a major aspect of Marceline's musical crew, The Scream Queens. Another six-issue miniseries, "Experience Time with Fionna and Cake" was propelled in January 2013. This arrangement, drawn by "Experience Time" arrangement character fashioner and storyboard revisionist Natasha Allegri, pursues the sexual orientation bowed characters Fionna the Human and Cake the Cat from the scene "Fionna and Cake". Other turn off comic arrangement including "Treat Capers", "Flip Side", "Banana Guard Academy", and "Experience Time: Ice King", have been discharged, each composed and shown by various essayists and specialists. One-shot turn offs have additionally been reported; the first, "Spoooktacular #1", was discharged in October 2015. 

A different line of funnies, formally meant as realistic books, have likewise been discharged. Books in this line incorporate "Behaving recklessly" (June 14, 2013), "Pixel Princesses" (November 6, 2013), "Seeing Red" (May 2, 2014), "Severe Sweets" (November 11, 2014), "Graybles Schmaybles" (May 12, 2015), "Veiled Mayhem" (November 11, 2015), "The Four Castles" (May 17, 2016), "President Bubblegum" (September 27, 2016), "Marshall Lee Spectaculur" (18 January 2018), "Mind Robbers" (March 28, 2017), "The Ooorient Express" (July 18, 2017), "Princess and Princess" (January 30, 2018), "Thunder Road" (June 19, 2018), and "Marceline the Pirate Queen" (February 26, 2019). 

On July 21, 2018, it was declared that after the finish of the TV arrangement, BOOM! Studios would start serializing a comic book line entitled "Season 11". These funnies would get after the arrangement finale "Join Me" and spotlight on "every single new story in the repercussions of The Great Gum War." However, arrangement show sprinter Adam Muto later composed on his ASKfm account: "Nobody from the show is engaged with them so ... [c]alling it Season 11 feels like a stretch." He additionally affirmed that the funnies would not be standard to the fundamental show. 

On October 15, 2018, it was declared that a restricted run arrangement entitled "Marcy and Simon" would be discharged beginning in January 2019. Composed by performer Olivia Olson and delineated by Slimm Fabert, the arrangement will "happen after the show's arrangement finale as Marceline plans to help Simon in his journey to make up for his past time as the Ice King." 

Other "Experience Time"- themed books have likewise been discharged. "The Adventure Time Encyclopedia", distributed on July 22, 2013, was composed by comic Martin Olson, father of Olivia Olson and the voice of repeating character Hunson Abadeer. This was trailed by "Experience Time: The Enchiridion and Marcy's Super Secret Scrapbook!!!", which was discharged on October 6, 2015. Composed by Martin and Olivia Olson, it is exhibited as a mix of the "Enchiridion" and Marceline's mystery journal. An official "Craftsmanship of ..." book, titled "The Art of Ooo" was distributed on October 14, 2014. It contains interviews with cast and group individuals, and opens with a presentation by movie producer Guillermo del Toro. Two volumes with accumulations of the show's title cards have likewise been discharged, as has a cookbook with formulas enlivened by the show, and a progression of writing books distributed under the header "Epic Tales from "Experience Time"" (which incorporates "The Untamed Scoundrel", "Ruler of Rogues", "The Lonesome Outlaw", and "The Virtue of Ardor", which were all distributed under the pen name. T. MacDangereuse"). 

The arrangement has produced a few noteworthy computer game discharges. The primary diversion dependent on the arrangement, "", was reported by Pendleton Ward on his Twitter account in March 2012. The diversion was created by WayForward Technologies for Nintendo DS and Nintendo 3DS, and was discharged by D3 Publisher on November 20, 2012. After a year, the diversion "", which pursues Finn and Jake as they endeavor "to spare the Candy Kingdom by investigating the puzzling Secret Royal Dungeon far beneath the Land of Ooo", was discharged in November 2013. On November 18, 2014, "" was discharged for Nintendo 3DS, Xbox 360, PlayStation 3, PlayStation Vita, and Microsoft Windows. In October 2015, the fourth real "Experience Time" computer game, titled "", was discharged for 3DS, Windows PC and different consoles. It is the first in the arrangement to highlight full 3D designs. Another amusement, "Experience Time: Pirates of the Enchiridion", was discharged for the PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, Windows, and Xbox One in July 2018. The diversion was distributed by Outright Games, created by Climax Studios, and highlights the show's unique cast. That diversion won the honor for "Execution in a Comedy, Lead" with John DiMaggio at the National Academy of Video Game Trade Reviewers Awards, in which Jeremy Shada was likewise named for a similar classification. 

Different other minor computer games have likewise been discharged. A few, including "Legends of Ooo", "Fionna Fights", "Beemo Adventure Time", and "Ski Safari: Adventure Time", have been discharged on the iOS App Store. An amusement titled "Finn and Jake's Quest" was discharged on April 11, 2014, on Steam. Animation Network additionally discharged a multiplayer online fight field (MOBA) diversion titled "" on Cartoon Network's legitimate webpage, on June 23, 2014. In April 2015, two downloadable substance packs for "LittleBigPlanet 3" on PlayStation 3 and PlayStation 4 were discharged; one contained "Experience Time" ensembles, while the other contained a dimension unit with designs, stickers, music, protests, a foundation, and a reward Fionna outfit. A computer generated experience (VR) diversion entitled "Experience Time: Magic Man's Head Games" was likewise discharged to Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, and PlayStation VR. A second VR diversion, entitled "Experience Time: I See Ooo", was discharged on September 29, 2016. In that equivalent month, "Experience Time" characters were added to the "Lego Dimensions" amusement. Finn and Jake wound up playable characters in a computer game called "" which was discharged for the Nintendo 3DS, PlayStation 4, Xbox One on November 8, 2016 and the Nintendo Switch on October 31, 2017. 

An assortment of authoritatively authorized merchandiseincluding activity figures, pretending toys, bedding, dishware, and different other productshave been discharged. Since the sensational increment in notoriety of the arrangement, numerous realistic T-shirts have been authoritatively authorized through famous dress retailers. Pendleton Ward facilitated T-shirt planning challenges on the sites of both We Love Fine and Threadless. Different shirts can be acquired straightforwardly from Cartoon Network's store. A collectible card amusement called "Card Wars", enlivened by the fourth-season scene of a similar name, has been discharged. On March 11, 2016, it was declared by Lego by means of Lego Ideas that an official "Experience Time" Lego set from a thought by site client, aBetterMonkey, had met casting a ballot capabilities and was endorsed to be created in participation with Cartoon Network. The set was discharged in January 2017. 

In February 2015, it was accounted for that a dramatic "Experience Time" film was being created via Cartoon Network Studios, Frederator Films, Vertigo Entertainment, and Warner Animation Group. The film is being official created and composed by Pendleton Ward, and delivered by Roy Lee and Chris McKay. In October 2015, arrangement maker Adam Muto affirmed that arrangement maker Pendleton Ward is still as of now "taking a shot at the reason" for the film, however that there was "nothing official to declare yet". On July 22, 2018, Muto noticed that "a ["Adventure Time"] motion picture was never authoritatively reported." On August 31, 2018, Muto expressed that the finale of the show would not influence a potential motion picture, nor would the finale lead legitimately into a film. He additionally noticed that "all the legend and stuff would not work for a first time watcher", showing that a potential motion picture would need to be very available so as to be completely created. 

"Leela and the Genestalk", a scene from the seventh period of the enlivened Comedy Central program "Futurama", highlights an appearance of Finn and Jake, with DiMaggio repeating his job as Jake for the appearance. Thus, the twenty-eighth season debut of the Fox arrangement "The Simpsons", entitled "Monty Burns' Fleeing Circus", incorporates a love seat choke that spoofs the title grouping to "Experience Time", total with Pendleton Ward himself singing a farce of the "Experience Time" signature melody. As per Al Jean, the official maker of "The Simpsons", "[The lounge chair gag] was the mind offspring of Mike Anderson, our managing director ... It's an extremely wonderful, expound hybrid." 

From the get-go in the motion picture "Deadpool" (2016), there is where Wade is riding in a taxi. When he looks down at his wrist, he is seen wearing an "Experience Time" watch, which he has on topsy turvy. 

On the Portuguese television show "5 Para A Meia-Noite", the humorist Eduardo Madeira, who depicted a hater called Osório, utilized Princess Bubblegum and Marceline to deride the Eurovision Song Contest 2018's Portuguese hopefuls, Cláudia Pascoal and Isaura. 

On September 27, 2011, Cartoon Network discharged the locale 1 DVD "My Two Favorite People", which includes a determination of twelve scenes from the arrangement's initial two seasons. Following this, few other area 1 accumulation DVDs have been discharged, including: "It Came from the Nightosphere" (2012), "Jake versus Me-Mow" (2012), "Fionna and Cake" (2013), "Jake the Dad" (2013), "The Suitor" (2014), "Princess Day" (2014), "Experience Time and Friends" (2014), "Finn the Human" (2014), "Ice and Fire" (2015), "The Enchiridion" (2015), "Stakes" (2016), "Card Wars" (2016), and "Islands" (2017). Furthermore, the majority of the seasons have been discharged or are booked for discharge on DVD, and the initial six have been discharged on Blu-beam. A container set containing the whole arrangement is additionally planned for discharge on both DVD and Blu-beam on April 30, 2019. 

On March 30, 2013, the primary period of "Experience Time" was made accessible on the Netflix Instant Watch administration for web based gushing; the second season was made accessible on March 30, 2014. The two seasons were expelled from Netflix on March 30, 2015, in spite of the fact that the arrangement was in the end made accessible for spilling through Hulu on May 1, 2015.