Peru national football crew 

The Peru national football crew is composed, since 1927, by the Peruvian Football Federation (FPF) to speak to Peru in worldwide affiliation football. The FPF establishes one of the 10 individuals from FIFA's South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL). Peru has won the Copa América twice and met all requirements for FIFA World Cup finals multiple times (last showing up in 2018); it additionally partook in the 1936 Olympic football rivalry and has achieved the elimination rounds of the CONCACAF Gold Cup. The group plays the greater part of its home matches at the Estadio Nacional in Lima, the nation's capital. 

The Peruvian group is outstanding for its white shirts enhanced with a corner to corner red stripe, which join Peru's national hues. This essential structure has been utilized ceaselessly since 1936, and offers ascend to the group's regular Spanish epithet, "la Blanquirroja" ("the white-and-red"). Peruvian football fans are known for their unmistakable cheer "¡Arriba Perú!" ("Onward Peru!"). Peru has longstanding contentions with Chile and Ecuador. 

The Peruvian national group making the most of its best periods during the 1930s and the 1970s. During the 1930s, Peru partook in the debut FIFA World Cup in 1930 and appreciated triumphs in the 1938 Bolivarian Games and the 1939 Copa América, with goalkeeper Juan Valdivieso and advances Teodoro Fernández and Alejandro Villanueva assuming critical jobs. During the 1970s, Peru met all requirements for three World Cups and won the Copa América in 1975, accomplishing overall acknowledgment; the group at that point strikingly included protector Héctor Chumpitaz and the forward organization of Hugo Sotil and Teófilo Cubillas, regularly viewed as Peru's most noteworthy player. 

The national group's unsurpassed top goalscorer is Paolo Guerrero, with 35 objectives, and its most-topped player is Roberto Palacios, with 128 appearances. Under chief Ricardo Gareca, Peru earned third at the 2015 Copa América, achieved the quarterfinals of the Copa América Centenario, and took an interest in the gathering phase of the 2018 FIFA World Cup finals. 

Amid the nineteenth century, British outsiders and Peruvians coming back from England acquainted football with Peru. In 1859, individuals from the British people group in the nation's capital established the Lima Cricket Club, Peru's first association committed to the act of cricket, rugby, and football. These new games wound up mainstream among the neighborhood high society over the next decades, yet early improvements halted because of the War of the Pacific that Peru battled against Chile from 1879 to 1883. After the war, Peru's beach front society held onto football as an advanced development. In Lima's "barrios", football turned into a well known every day action, supported by managers who needed it to motivate solidarity and profitability among their laborers. In the nearby port of Callao and other business territories, British non military personnel laborers and mariners played the game among themselves and with local people. Sports competitions among local people and outsiders emerged in Callao, and among elites and specialists in Lima—as outsiders left, this turned into a contention among Callao and Lima. These components, combined with the game's fast development among the urban poor of Lima's La Victoria locale (where, in 1901, the Alianza Lima club framed), prompted Peru building up the Andean district's most grounded footballing society, and, as per student of history Andreas Campomar, "the absolute most rich and achieved football on the landmass". 

The Peruvian Football League, established in 1912, held yearly rivalries until it separated in 1921, in the midst of debate between the part clubs. The Peruvian Football Federation (FPF), framed in 1922, rearranged the yearly competition in 1926. The FPF joined the South American Football Confederation (CONMEBOL) in 1925 and, subsequent to rebuilding its funds, shaped Peru's national group in 1927. The group appeared in the 1927 South American Championship, facilitated by the FPF at Lima's Estadio Nacional. Peru lost 0– 4 against Uruguay in its first match, and prevailed upon 3– 2 Bolivia in its second. Peru next contended in the debut FIFA World Cup in 1930, however did not progress past the main stage. 

Amid the 1930s, Peruvian football's first brilliant period, Peruvians made a trip abroad for rivalry to additionally build up their football. A remarkable travel, held in Europe somewhere in the range of 1933 and 1934 by the "Combinado del Pacífico" (a squad made out of Chilean and Peruvian footballers), gave the South Americans much experience. Beginning with Ciclista Lima in 1926, Peruvian football clubs likewise visited Latin America, accomplishing various triumphs. Amid one of these visits—Alianza Lima's undefeated voyage through Chile in 1935—rose the "Rodillo Negro" ("Black Roller"), an adroit gathering driven by advances Alejandro Villanueva, Teodoro Fernández and goalkeeper Juan Valdivieso. Sports history specialist Richard Witzig portrayed these three as "a soccer triumvirate phenomenal on the planet around then", refering to their joined development and viability at the two finishes of the field. Peru and the "Rodillo Negro" awed groups at the 1936 Summer Olympics, won the debut Bolivarian Games in 1938, and completed the decade as South American victors. 

Ensuing years demonstrated less effective for the group; as indicated by student of history David Goldblatt, "notwithstanding all the obvious preconditions for footballing development and achievement, Peruvian football vanished". He credits this abrupt decrease to Peruvian specialists' constraint of "social, brandishing and political associations among the urban and provincial poor" amid the 1950s. By and by, Peru performed respectably at the South American Championships, gaining third in Brazil 1949 and Chile 1955, and just barely missed capability for the Sweden 1958 World Cup finals, losing more than two legs to possible victors Brazil. 

Triumphs amid the late 1960s, including capability for the Mexico 1970 World Cup finals, introduced a second brilliant period for Peruvian football. The imposing forward organization between Teófilo Cubillas and Hugo Sotil was a key factor in Peru's triumphs amid the 1970s. Peru achieved the quarter-finals in 1970, losing to the competition victors Brazil, and earned the first FIFA Fair Play Trophy; student of history Richard Henshaw portrays Peru as "the astonishment of the 1970 challenge, appearing and an abnormal state of aptitude". After five years, Peru turned out to be South American heroes for the second time when it won the 1975 Copa América (the then-rechristened South American Championship). The group next fit the bill for two back to back World Cup finals, achieving the second round in Argentina 1978 and the primary gathering stage in Spain 1982. Peru's initial end in 1982 denoted the finish of the side's all around respected "streaming football". Disregarding this, Peru scarcely missed the Mexico 1986 World Cup finals in the wake of setting second in a capability gathering to possible heroes Argentina. 

Recharged desires for Peru were fixated on a youthful age of Alianza Lima players referred to informally as "Los Potrillos" ("The Colts"). Sociologists Aldo Panfichi and Victor Vich compose that "Los Potrillos" "turned into the expectation of the whole nation"— fans anticipated that them should fit the bill for the Italy 1990 World Cup finals. The national group entered a break after its supervisor and a few of its players passed on in a plane accident conveying the vast majority of Alianza's group and staff in 1987. Peru along these lines just verged on achieving the France 1998 World Cup finals, missing capability just on objective distinction, however would proceed to win the 1999 Kirin Cup competition in Japan (imparting the title to Belgium) and achieved the elimination rounds at the 2000 CONCACAF Gold Cup (challenged as an invitee). 

Capability for the FIFA World Cup finals kept being a subtle goal for Peru amid the mid 21st century. As per student of history Charles F. Walker, player indiscipline issues defaced Peru's national group and football class. Inconveniences in the FPF, especially with its then-president Manuel Burga, developed the emergency in Peruvian football—FIFA briefly suspended the nation from universal challenge, in late 2008, on the grounds that the Peruvian government examined asserted debasement inside the FPF. In any case, Peru prevailing with regards to winning the 2005 and 2011 Kirin Cup competitions, and earned third spot in the 2011 Copa América. In mid 2015, agent Edwin Oviedo progressed toward becoming FPF president, succeeding Burga, whom two years after the fact dealt with indictments of racketeering, wire misrepresentation, and illegal tax avoidance in a football defilement preliminary in the United States. The FPF's new administration named Ricardo Gareca as Peru's director in March 2015. Under Gareca, Peru accomplished third spot in the 2015 Copa América, achieved the quarterfinals of the Copa América Centenario, and took an interest in the gathering phase of the Russia 2018 World Cup finals. 

The Peru national football crew plays in red and white, the nation's national hues. Its first-decision pack has been, since 1936, white shorts, white socks, and white shirts with an unmistakable red "band" crossing their front corner to corner from the best possible left shoulder to the correct hip and returning on the once more from the correct hip to the best possible left shoulder. This fundamental plan has been just marginally changed throughout the years. 

Peru's unit has won acclaim as one of world football's most alluring plans. Christopher Turpin, the official maker of NPR's "Everything Considered" news appear, praised the 1970 cycle as "the lovely amusement's most excellent shirt", additionally portraying it as "retro even in 1970". Miles Kohrman, football columnist for "The New Republic", recognized Peru's pack as "a standout amongst soccer's best-kept privileged insights". Rory Smith, Chief Soccer Correspondent for "The New York Times", alluded to Peru's 2018 adaptation of the pullover as "a work of art" with a nostalgic, fan-satisfying "dark red scarf". The variant worn in 1978 started things out in a 2010 ESPN rundown of the "Best World Cup pullovers ever", portrayed in that as "straightforward yet strikingly successful". 

Peru's first unit, made for the 1927 South American Championship, involved a white-and-red striped shirt, white shorts and dark socks. At the 1930 World Cup, Peru utilized a substitute structure since Paraguay had officially enlisted a comparable unit with white-and-red striped shirts. The Peruvians rather wore white shirts with a red neckline, white shorts and dark socks. The group added a level red stripe to the shirt for the 1935 South American Championship. The next year, at the 1936 Berlin Olympics, the group embraced the famous askew red scarf structure it has held from that point forward. As indicated by history specialist Jaime Pulgar-Vidal Otálora, the thought for the plan originated from school football coordinates in which hued bands worn over the shoulder would permit two groups wearing white shirts to play against one another. 

Peru wears as its identification the symbol of the Peruvian Football Federation. The main identification, introduced in 1927, had a warmer shield plan with the nation's name and the league's abbreviation (FPF). Eight distinct images pursued, with the longest-enduring plan being the cutting edge French crest structure embellished in the group's shirt from 1953 until 2014. This structure had the Peruvian banner at its base, and either the nation's name or the alliance's abbreviation at its boss. Since 2014, the identification has a retro-enlivened radiator shield structure, with the whole field contained by Peru's banner and the alliance's abbreviation, encompassed by a gold-hued outline. 

Eight sportswear producers have provided Peru's national group. The main, the German organization Adidas, provided the group's pack in 1978, and again between 1983-1985. The FPF have additionally marked contracts with producers from Brazil (Penalty, 1981– 82), Canada (Power, 1989-1991), Italy (Diadora, 1991-1992), England (Umbro, 1996-1997, 2010-2018), and another from Germany (Puma, 1987-1989). The group has additionally been provided by three nearby firms: Calvo Sporwear (1986-1987), Polmer (1993-1995), and Walon Sport (1998-2010). Since August 2018, the Ecuadorian Marathon Sports produce Peru's pack. 

The conventional home of Peruvian football is the nation's national arena, the Estadio Nacional in Lima, which houses 45,000 observers. The present ground is the Estadio Nacional's third manifestation, redesigned under the Alan García organization. Its official re-introduction, 24 July 2011, stamped 88 years to the day after the first ground opened on a similar site in 1923. 

To commend the centennial of Peru's freedom from Spain, Lima's British people group gave the first Estadio Nacional, a wooden structure with a limit of 6,000. Development started on 28 July 1921, regulated by President Augusto B. Leguía. The arena's re-introduction on 27 October 1952, under the Manuel A. Odría organization, pursued a burdensome battle for its redesign driven by Miguel Dasso, leader of the "Sociedad de Beneficencia de Lima". The remodeled arena flaunted a bond structure and bigger observer limit of 53,000. Its last redevelopment, in 2011, incorporated the development of a plaque-secured outside, an inside colorful light framework, two monster LED screens, and 375 private suites. 

An unmistakable element of the ground is the Miguel Dasso Tower on its northern side, which contains extravagance boxes (revamped in 2004). The Estadio Nacional as of now has a characteristic bermudagrass pitch, reinstalled as a major aspect of redevelopments finished in 2011. Already, the FPF had introduced counterfeit turf in the arena for the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Championship, making it the main national arena in CONMEBOL with such a turf. Regardless of the manufactured ground's appraising of "FIFA Star II", the most noteworthy accreditation allowed to fake pitches, players blamed the turf for causing them wounds, for example, consumes and wounds. 

Peru some of the time play home matches at different settings. Outside the desert-like coast district of Lima, the dainty climate at the high-elevation Estadio Garcilaso de la Vega in Cusco has been portrayed as giving vital points of interest to Peru against certain meeting groups. Other regular substitute scenes for the national group incorporate two different grounds in the Peruvian capital—Alianza's Estadio Alejandro Villanueva and Universitario's Estadio Monumental. 

The national group's preparation grounds are situated inside the "Estate Deportiva Nacional" (VIDENA) sports complex in Lima's San Luis region. Since 1981, the complex is overseen by the Peruvian Institute of Sport (IPD). In 2017, after Peru's capability for the Russia 2018 World Cup finals, the Peruvian Football Federation reported the production of another complex, the Center of National Teams, in Lima's Chaclacayo region. The new unpredictable will contain six preparing reason for both the male and the female squads, including the senior and the adolescent sides. 

Football has been the most famous game in Peru since the mid twentieth century. Initially to a great extent select to Lima's Anglophile first class and ostracizes, and isolated from the remainder of the city, football turned into a basic piece of more extensive mainstream culture amid the 1910s. Over the next decades, Augusto Leguía's administration systematized the game into a national side interest by advancing and sorting out its improvement. Thusly, the national football crew turned into an essential component of Peru's national personality. As indicated by the student of history Carlos Aguirre, patriot intensity spiked amid the capability stage for the 1970 World Cup finals, in light of the fact that the progressive legislature of General Juan Velasco Alvarado tied the national group's prosperity with the supposed social, social, and mental changes prodded by the nation's new political venture. 

Peruvian football fans are known for their unmistakable cheer "¡Arriba Perú!" ("Onward Peru!"), unabating mainstream serenade "¡Vamos peruanos!" (Let's go Peruvians!), just as for their utilization of customary Peruvian "música criolla" to express help, both at national group amusements and at club matches. "Música criolla" achieved national and worldwide acknowledgment with the approach of broad communications amid the 1930s, turning into a perceived image of Peru and its way of life. The national group's most mainstream songs of devotion are "Peru Campeón", a "polca criolla" (Peruvian polka) praising Peru's capability for the Mexico 1970 World Cup, and "Contigo Perú", a "vals criollo" (Peruvian three step dance) that paper "El Comercio" calls "the psalm of Peruvian national football crews". Peru's fruitless World Cup finals capability endeavors, from Mexico 1986 until Russia 2018, established the fans' wistfulness for the 1970s' brilliant period and expanded the fame of "Peru Campeón". 

The Estadio Nacional fiasco of 24 May 1964, including Peruvian supporters, is refered to as one of the most exceedingly terrible disasters in football history. Amid a passing counterpart for the 1964 Olympics between Peru's under-20 group and its partner from Argentina, the Uruguayan arbitrator Angel Payos refused a future Peruvian equalizer, asserting harsh play. Observers tossed rockets from the stands while two fans attacked the pitch and assaulted the official. Police tossed poisonous gas into the group, causing a charge; endeavoring to get away, fans were pulverized against the arena's bolted doors. An aggregate of 315 individuals kicked the bucket in the mayhem, with in excess of 500 others harmed. 

The Peru national football crew keeps up conspicuous competitions with its partners from neighboring Chile and Ecuador. The Peruvians have a positive record against Ecuador and a negative record against Chile. Peru confronted the two opponents in the 1939 South American Championship in Lima, which likewise denoted the first occasion when that Peru confronted Ecuador in an official competition; Peru won the two recreations. Peru additionally crushed its opponents amid fitting the bill for the Argentina 1978 World Cup, legitimately wiping out the two groups. 

The Chile– Peru football contention is referred to in Spanish as the "Clásico del Pacífico" ("Pacific Derby"). CNN World Sport editorial manager Greg Duke positions it among the main ten football contentions on the planet. Peru previously confronted Chile in the 1935 South American Championship, vanquishing it 1– 0. The football competition among Peru and Chile, mostly an impression of the geopolitical clash between both neighboring states, is fundamentally an aftereffect of both football squads competing for acknowledgment as the better group in South America's Pacific coast—as their football confederation is verifiably ruled by nations in South America's Atlantic coast. The two nations customarily rival each other over the position of fourth-best national group in South America (after Argentina, Brazil, and Uruguay). They likewise both case to have developed the bike kick; Peruvians consider it the "chalaca", while it is the "chilena" in Chile. 

The competition between the Ecuador and Peru football crews is established in the recorded outskirt struggle between the nations going back to the nineteenth century. In 1995, after the brief Cenepa War, CONMEBOL mulled over changing that year's Copa América gather stage to keep a match between the opposite sides, at the end of the day did not. As per social antiquarian Michael Handelsman, Ecuadorian fans consider misfortunes to Colombia or Peru "a reason to regret Ecuador's failure to set up itself as a universal soccer influence". Handelsman includes that "[t]he competitions are exceptional, and the diversions dependably convey a component of national pride and respect". 

The accompanying 23 players have been called up for the inviting matches against Paraguay and El Salvador on 22 and 26 March 2019 individually. 

<br>"Caps and objectives are right starting at 20 November 2018 after the match against Costa Rica." 

The players recorded beneath were excluded in the present squad, however have been called up by Peru over the most recent a year. 

A report distributed by CONMEBOL in 2008 portrayed Peru as customarily showing a "rich, specialized and fine football style", and lauded it as "a standout amongst the most faithful examples of South American football ability". In 2017, Argentine director Ricardo Gareca portrayed Peruvian footballers as "actually solid, [physically] solid and versatile", including that their flexibility came about because of Peru's assorted topography. 

Peruvian players noted in the CONMEBOL report as "genuine craftsmen of the ball" incorporate advances Teófilo Cubillas, Pedro Pablo León and Hugo Sotil, protector Héctor Chumpitaz and midfielders Roberto Challe, César Cueto, José del Solar, and Roberto Palacios. Cubillas, an assaulting midfielder and forward famously known as "El Nene" ("The Kid"), is broadly viewed as Peru's most prominent ever player. Chumpitaz is regularly refered to as the group's best safeguard; Witzig records him among his "Best Players of the Modern Era", and lauds him as "a solid peruser of the diversion with fantastic ball abilities and dissemination, [who] marshaled an able resistance to help Peru's assault". "El Gráfico", an Argentine games diary, portrayed Cueto, Cubillas, and José Velásquez as, all in all, "the best [midfield] on the planet" in 1978. 

Prior to Cubillas' appearance, Teodoro "Lolo" Fernández, a forward nicknamed "El Cañonero" ("The Cannoneer"), held the status of Peru's most prominent player—because of his amazing shots, marksmanship, and club steadfastness to Universitario. Fernández partook as a key individual from the "Rodillo Negro" group of the 1930s, alongside Alejandro Villanueva and Juan Valdivieso. Fernández scored the vast majority of the group's objectives; his accomplice in assault, the talented playmaker Villanueva, awed gatherings of people with his aerobatic abilities. Goalkeeper Valdivieso had a notoriety for being a punishment plug with remarkable physicality. 

In 1972, groups speaking to Europe and South America played a memorial coordinate in Basel, Switzerland, to support destitute kids. Cubillas, Chumpitaz, Sotil, and Julio Baylón played in the South American group, which won 2– 0; Cubillas scored the main objective. The groups held another match the next year, at Barcelona's Camp Nou, with the proclaimed plan of battling worldwide destitution. Cubillas, Chumpitaz, and Sotil again took an interest, with Chumpitaz named South America's skipper. Every one of the Peruvians scored in a 4– 4 draw, which South America won 7– 6 on punishments. 

An aggregate of 59 directors have driven the Peru national football crew since 1927 (counting different spells independently); of these, 36 have been from Peru and 23 have been from abroad. Sports examiners and students of history by and large consider Peru's best chiefs to have been the Englishman Jack Greenwell and the Peruvian Marcos Calderón. The previous oversaw Peru to triumph in the 1938 Bolivarian Games and the 1939 South American Championship, and the last driven Peru to triumph in the 1975 Copa América competition and trained it at the 1978 FIFA World Cup. Three different supervisors have driven Peru to competition triumphs—Juan Carlos Oblitas, Freddy Ternero, and Sergio Markarián each administered Peru's triumph in the Kirin Cup in Japan, in 1999, 2005 and 2011, individually. 

Not long after in the wake of framing Peru's national football crew, the FPF welcomed Uruguayan mentors Pedro Olivieri and Julio Borelli to deal with the squad. Olivieri got the FPF's first arrangement, for the 1927 South American Championship, because of his related knowledge overseeing Uruguay. Borelli turned into the national group's second chief, for the 1929 South American Championship, after certain long stretches of refereeing football coordinates in Peru. The Spaniard Francisco Bru, Peru's third administrator and first World Cup mentor at the debut competition in 1930, recently had been Spain's first supervisor. The FPF next delegated the national group's first Peruvian mentor, Telmo Carbajo, for the 1935 South American Championship. The group's administrator since 2015 is the Argentine Ricardo Gareca. 

Supervisors that conveyed exceptional changes to the Peru national group's style of play incorporate the Hungarian György Orth and the Brazilians Didi and Tim. Orth instructed Peru from 1957 to 1959; sports antiquarian Andreas Campomar refers to Peru's "4– 1 whipping of England in Lima" as proof of Orth's certain impact over the national group's hostile diversion. Víctor Benítez, Peru's cautious midfielder under Orth, properties the Hungarian with expanding the group's potential by precisely putting every player in their ideal positions. Didi instructed Peru from 1968 to 1970 and oversaw it at the 1970 FIFA World Cup; Campomar traits Didi's strategies as the explanation behind Peru's improvement of a "free-streaming football" style. "Placar", a Brazilian games diary, credited Tim, who oversaw Peru at the 1982 FIFA World Cup, with making Peru "a group that plays excellent, joining effectiveness with that swagger that individuals thought just existed in Brazil". 

Peru has partaken in the World Cup finals multiple times. The Peruvian group contended at the primary World Cup in 1930 by welcome, and has entered every competition at the passing stage since 1958, fitting the bill for the finals multiple times: in 1970, 1978, 1982 and 2018. Its untouched record in World Cup qualifying matches, starting at 2017, remains at 42 wins, 36 draws and 69 misfortunes. In the finals, the group has won five matches, drawn three and lost ten, with 19 objectives in support and 32 against. Peru won the debut FIFA Fair Play Trophy, granted at the 1970 World Cup, having been the main group not to get any yellow or red cards amid the challenge. Peru has the impossible to miss refinement of confronting the future FIFA World Cup champions amid the competition's finals stage. 

Luis de Souza Ferreira scored Peru's first World Cup objective on 14 July 1930, in a match against Romania. José Velásquez scored Peru's quickest World Cup finals objective—that will be, that scored soonest after commencement—two minutes into the match against Iran on 11 June 1978. Jefferson Farfán is Peru's top scorer and fifth-generally speaking top scorer in CONMEBOL World Cup capability, with 16 objectives. Teófilo Cubillas is the group's top scorer in the World Cup finals, with 10 objectives in 13 recreations. Amid the 1930 challenge, a Peruvian turned into the primary player sent off in a World Cup—his personality is debated between sources. Peru's Ramón Quiroga holds the uncommon record of being the main goalkeeper to submit a foul in the adversary's side of the contribute a match at the World Cup finals. 

Peru's national group has participated in 31 versions of the Copa América since 1927, and has won the challenge twice (in 1939 and 1975). The nation has facilitated the competition multiple times (in 1927, 1935, 1939, 1953, 1957 and 2004). Peru's general record in the challenge is 52 triumphs, 33 draws, and 57 misfortunes. Peru won the Fair Play grant in the 2015 release. 

Demetrio Neyra scored Peru's first objective in the challenge on 13 November 1927, in a match against Bolivia. Christian Cueva scored Peru's quickest Copa América objective, two minutes into the match against Brazil on 14 June 2015. Three competitions have highlighted a Peruvian top scorer—Teodoro Fernández in 1939 and Paolo Guerrero in 2011 and 2015. Fernández, the Copa América's third-generally scorer, was named best player of the 1939 competition; Teófilo Cubillas, casted a ballot the best player in the 1975 challenge, is the main other Peruvian to win this honor. 

Peru earned its first mainland title in 1939, when it won the South American Championship with progressive triumphs over Ecuador, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay. This denoted the first occasion when that the challenge had been won by a group other than Uruguay, Brazil, or Argentina. Peru turned out to be South American heroes for the second time in 1975, when it won that year's Copa América, the first to highlight every one of the ten CONMEBOL individuals. Peru came top of their gathering in the first round, taking out Chile and Bolivia, and in the elimination rounds drew with Brazil more than two legs, winning 3– 1 in Brazil however losing 2– 0 at home. Peru was pronounced the champ by illustration of parts. In the two-legged last among Colombia and Peru, the two groups won their individual home diversions (1– 0 in Bogota and 2– 0 in Lima), constraining a play-off in Caracas that Peru won 1– 0. 

Peru contended in the CONCACAF Gold Cup's fifth version in 2000. Peru took an interest, alongside Colombia and South Korea, as that year's invitees. The Peruvian group's general record in the competition is 1 triumph, 1 draw, and 2 misfortunes. 

Ysrael Zúñiga scored Peru's first objective in the challenge on 14 February 2000, in a match against Haiti. Roberto Palacios, the group's top scorer with two objectives in four matches, got a spot in that year's "group of the competition", including the challenge's eleven best players. 

Peru advanced past the North American competition's first stage, in spite of not winning any of its matches, as the second-best positioned group in Group B behind the United States. Peru next vanquished Honduras 5– 3 out of a warmed quarterfinals coordinate that finished a moment ahead of schedule because of a pitch attack by incensed Honduran fans. Colombia crushed Peru 2– 1 in the elimination rounds, in a match that incorporated a claim objective from Peru's Marcial Salazar. 

Peru's senior side has contended in the Olympic football competition once, at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, Germany. The multiracial 1936 group has been hitherto depicted by history specialist David Goldblatt as "the gem of the nation's first Olympic assignment". It had a record of two triumphs, scoring 11 objectives and surrendering 5. 

Teodoro Fernández scored Peru's first objective in the competition in the match against Finland on 6 August, and completed as the group's top scorer with six objectives in two amusements, including Peru's solitary cap trap at the Olympics. 

The 1935 South American Championship in Lima went about as the passing stage for the 1936 Olympic competition. Uruguay won undefeated and Argentina came next, yet neither took up their Olympic spot as a result of monetary issues. Peru, who had come third, properly spoken to South America. The Peruvian group started the challenge with a 7– 3 success over Finland, after which it confronted Austria, overseen by Jimmy Hogan and prominently known as the "Wunderteam", in the quarterfinals. After the amusement finished 2– 2, Peru scored twice in additional opportunity to win 4– 2. Peru expected to then face Poland in the elimination rounds, yet occasions off the pitch prompted the withdrawal of Peru's Olympic assignment before the match. 

The Peru national football crew has played 610 matches since 1927, including friendlies. The biggest edge of triumph accomplished by a Peru side is 9– 1 against Ecuador, on 11 August 1938 at the Bolivarian Games in Colombia. The group's record deficiency, 7– 0, happened against Brazil at the 1997 Copa América in Bolivia. 

The Peruvian player with the most global tops is Roberto Palacios, who spoke to the nation 128 times somewhere in the range of 1992 and 2007. Second is Héctor Chumpitaz, with 105 appearances; Jorge Soto is third with 101. The most topped goalkeeper is Óscar Ibáñez, who played for Peru 50 times somewhere in the range of 1998 and 2005. Second is Miguel Miranda with 47 appearances; Ramón Quiroga is third with 40. 

The group's record-breaking top goalscorer is Paolo Guerrero, with 35 objectives in 91 appearances. He is trailed by Teófilo Cubillas, who scored 26 goals in 81 appearances, and Jefferson Farfán, with 25 objectives in 86 diversions. Teodoro Fernández, with 24 goals in 32 games, holds the best objective per-appearance record out of the nation's main 10 scorers. Claudio Pizarro scored Peru's quickest objective, not exactly a moment into the match against Mexico on 20 August 2003. 

Peru's present commander is forward Paolo Guerrero. Midfielder Leopoldo Basurto was the group's first chief. Safeguard Héctor Chumpitaz held the Peruvian group's initiative position for a very long time, somewhere in the range of 1965 and 1981. Forward Claudio Pizarro had the second-longest term as Peru's commander, somewhere in the range of 2003 and 2016. Other outstanding commanders of the national group incorporate Rubén Díaz (1981-1985), Julio César Uribe (1987-1989), Juan Reynoso (1993-1999), and Nolberto Solano (2000-2003).