Kenneth Walker 

Brigadier General Kenneth Newton Walker (17 July 1898 – 5 January 1943) was a United States Army pilot and a United States Army Air Forces general who applied a huge impact on the advancement of airpower principle. He after death got the Medal of Honor in World War II. 

Walker joined the United States Army in 1917, after the American passage into World War I. He prepared as a pilot and turned into a flying educator. In 1920, after the finish of the war, he got a commission in the Regular Army. After administration in different limits, Walker moved on from the Air Corps Tactical School in 1929, and afterward filled in as a teacher there. He upheld the production of a different air association that isn't subordinate to other military branches. He was a compelling supporter of the adequacy of key assault, distributing articles regarding the matter and winding up some portion of a club known as the "Aircraft Mafia" that contended for the supremacy of barrage over different types of military flight. He propelled the thought that warriors couldn't keep a besieging assault. He took part in the Air Corps Tactical School's advancement of the convention of modern web hypothesis, which called for accuracy assaults against deliberately chosen basic mechanical targets. Without further ado before the United States entered World War II, Walker ended up one of four officers alloted to the Air War Plans Division, which was entrusted with building up a generation prerequisites plan for the war noticeable all around. Together, these officers formulated the AWPD-1 plan, an outline for the fast approaching air war against Germany that required the making of a tremendous aviation based armed forces to win the war through key barrage. 

In 1942, Walker was elevated to brigadier general and exchanged toward the Southwest Pacific, where he wound up Commanding General, V Bomber Command, Fifth Air Force. The Southwest Pacific contained couple of vital targets, consigning the planes to the job of prohibiting supply lines and supporting the ground powers. This brought about a doctrinal conflict among Walker and Lieutenant General George C. Kenney, an assault pilot, over the correct technique for utilizing aircraft. Walker every now and again flew battle missions over New Guinea, for which he got the Silver Star. On 5 January 1943, he was shot down and killed driving a sunshine besieging strike over Rabaul, for which he was granted the Medal of Honor. 

Walker was conceived in Los Cerrillos, New Mexico, on 17 July 1898 to Wallace Walker and his better half Emma "née" Overturf. The family along these lines moved to Denver, Colorado. Kenneth's dad left when he was youthful, and Emma turned into a single parent. Kenneth started his instruction at the Maria Mitchell School in Denver, Colorado, from 1905 to 1908, and after that went to the Columbian School there from 1908 to 1912. He went to Central High School for a period until 1913 when he began at the Omaha High School of Commerce, from which he graduated in 1915. From January to June 1917 he took a course at the YMCA Night School in Denver. He at that point considered business organization at La Salle Extension University. 

Walker enrolled in the United States Army in Denver, on 15 December 1917. He got flight preparing at the University of California's School of Military Aeronautics and at the pilot preparing base at Mather Field, close Sacramento, California. He was granted his Aircrew Badge and charged as a brief second lieutenant in the United States Army Air Service on 2 November 1918. He at that point went to the Flying Instructor's School at Brooks Field in San Antonio, Texas, and turned into an educator at the flight preparing focus at Barron Field. In March 1919, he was presented on Fort Sill as an educator at the Air Service Flying School. Amid 1918, the School for Aerial Observers and the Air Service Flying School were worked at close-by Post Field, where Walker went through the following four years as a pilot, educator, supply officer, and post aide. 

Walker ended up one of numerous officers holding wartime commissions to get a commission in the Regular Army, into which he was charged as a first lieutenant on 1 July 1920, however was thusly decreased in rank to second lieutenant on 15 December 1922, another normal event in the outcome of World War I when the wartime armed force was grounded. As of now an order pilot, he likewise qualified as a battle spectator in 1922. He was elevated to first lieutenant again on 24 July 1924. 

Walker sought Marguerite Potter, a sorority part and human science graduate at the Norman grounds of the University of Oklahoma. The two were hitched in September 1922. In lieu of a wedding trip, they boarded a troop transport to the Philippines on 12 December 1922. Walker at first moved toward becoming Commander of the Air Intelligence Section at Camp Nichols. He was then presented on the Philippine Air Depot, where he served at different occasions as property officer, supply officer, auxiliary, and stop controller, before eventually being doled out to the 28th Bombardment Squadron in 1924. In August 1923 he slammed an Airco DH.4 on take off yet left safe. The Walkers had two children, Kenneth Jr., conceived in February 1927, and Douglas, conceived in January 1933. 

Walker came back to the United States in February 1925 and was presented on Langley Field, where he turned into an individual from the Air Service Board. He served progressively as aide of the 59th Service Squadron, authority of the eleventh Bombardment Squadron, and activities officer of the second Bomb Group there. In June 1929 he moved on from the Air Corps Tactical School, where he contemplated under Captain Robert Olds, a previous associate to air control pioneer Billy Mitchell and an energetic backer of vital shelling. He at that point served at the Air Corps Tactical School as a teacher under Captain Olds in the Bombardment Section until July 1933, both at Langley and at Maxwell Field, where the school was moved in 1931. Walker turned out to be a piece of a little faction of Air Corps Tactical School educators that wound up known as the "Plane Mafia", that contended that siege was the most imperative type of airpower. Its individuals additionally included Haywood Hansell, Donald Wilson, Harold L. George, and Robert M. Webster, Their impact was with the end goal that, amid their residency, siege accomplished supremacy over interest in the improvement of Air Corps tenet. 

One of Walker's assignments was to revise the siege content. He felt it was imperfect since it neglected to commute home what he saw as the most imperative truth, that "barrage flight is the fundamental arm of the aviation based armed forces". Following the perspectives on air control scholars Billy Mitchell, Hugh Trenchard, and Giulio Douhet, Walker articulated two key standards: that siege would appear as light accuracy bombarding; and that it ought to be coordinated against basic mechanical targets. In his article "Driving Home the Bombardment Attack", distributed in the "Coast Artillery Journal" in October 1930, he contended that warriors couldn't keep a shelling assault and that "the most effectual strategy for ceasing a barrage assault would give off an impression of being a hostile against the siege airdrome." The Bomber Mafia contended that planes flew excessively high and too quick to even consider being caught by warriors, that regardless of whether they were captured, the aircraft had enough capability to drive off their aggressors, and enough protective layer and strength to assimilate any harm their assailants may endeavor to deliver. The Air Corps Tactical School built up a teaching that wound up known as mechanical web hypothesis, which called for exactness assaults against deliberately chosen basic modern targets. Walker drove home his confidence in assault with a popular proclamation from his addresses: "An efficient, all around arranged, and well-flown aviation based armed forces assault will establish a hostile that can not be halted." 

Walker distributed another expert article in 1933, entitled "Barrage Aviation: Bulwark of National Defense". "At whatever point we talk as far as 'flying corps' we are considering assault flight," he composed, rejecting different types of avionics. This was standard at the Air Corps Tactical School, which instructed that "each dollar which goes into the structure of assistant flying and extraordinary sorts, which types are not basic for the proficient working of the striking power can just happen to the detriment of that flying corps' hostile power." Walker's real proposition was that "a decided air assault, once propelled, is most troublesome, if not difficult to stop when coordinated against land destinations." At the finish of his article, he recharged his require the making of an autonomous flying corps "as a power with a particular mission, of significance parallel to that of the Army and the Navy." Walker's relentless support of key besieging prompted visit conflicts with Captain Claire Chennault, who drove guidance in interest flight at the Air Corps Tactical School from 1931 to 1936. Chennault trusted that the correct blend of warriors and ground safeguards could effectively overcome an aircraft attack and criticized Walker for proposing that planes couldn't be quit, prompting "incredible" banters between the two. 

In November 1934, Walker, presently an understudy at the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, affirmed with Robert Olds, Claire Chennault, Donald Wilson, Harold George and Robert Webster on the military parts of aeronautics before the Howell Commission on Federal Aviation. All were present or previous teachers at the Air Corps Tactical School, and all with the exception of Chennault were a piece of the Bomber Mafia. They contended for an autonomous aviation based armed forces, in logical inconsistency to Army principle. Walker told the commission: "except if we make a satisfactory and separate Air Force, this next war 'will start noticeable all around and end in the mud'- in the mud and flotsam and jetsam of the decimated enterprises that have pushed us to the edge of total collapse." They were unfit to convince the commission to suggest a free aviation based armed forces, in spite of the fact that it agreed that the Air Corps ought to be allowed more prominent self-sufficiency inside the Army. The commission presumed that "there is sufficient motivation to trust that air ship have now gone a long ways past their previous position as valuable auxiliaries ... A satisfactory striking power for use against destinations both close and remote is a need for a cutting edge armed force". 

The appearance in 1935 of the Boeing B-17 plane gave the assault advocates the weapon they had long longed for. Not exclusively would it be able to convey a noteworthy bomb heap of bombs for or for , yet its top speed of was quicker than that of the contemporary P-26 contender. Its rapid likewise drove the barrage backers to make light of the threat presented by antiaircraft flame. 

Walker's marriage finished in separation in 1934, after he took part in an extramarital entanglements. He remarried and had a child named John, yet his second marriage additionally finished in separation. Walker moved on from the Command and General Staff School in June 1935 and was presented on Hamilton Field, first as Intelligence and Operations Officer of the seventh Bombardment Group, and afterward as administrator of the ninth Bombardment Squadron. While finding a Martin B-12 aircraft, he overshot the runway. The station administrator, Brigadier General Henry Arnold detailed that Walker, "expected to be a standout amongst our best pilots, clearly removes totally, goes through lastly hits a solid square and crown jewels a flawlessly decent plane when he ordinarily would have given her the firearm and gone around once more." After fifteen years in the position, jokes coursed about his being the most senior first lieutenant in the Air Corps, however he was at long last elevated to commander on 1 August 1935. He was transitory major from 20 October 1935 to 16 June 1936, and again on 4 October 1938, preceding the rank at long last wound up substantive on 1 July 1940. He had another mishap in 1937, when he slammed a B-17 on take off from Denver Municipal Airport however this time his flying aptitudes were credited with sparing the whole group of nine from damage. 

In 1938 Walker started a three-year visit in Hawaii, where he was tasks officer of the fifth Bombardment Group at Luke Field, official officer at Hickam Field, and after that leader of the eighteenth Pursuit Group at Wheeler Field. Ordering an interest gather included a significant difference in pace for a man whose profession up to this point had been spent in planes. His auxiliary, First Lieutenant Bruce K. Holloway felt that Walker never showed the "enthusiastic elation toward flying an elite machine that is so regular of military pilots." Nor did he warm to the Curtiss P-36 Hawk warrior, particularly after a close deadly mishap. 

Walker came back to the United States in January 1941 and joined the Air War Plans Division in the Office of the Chief of the United States Army Air Corps in Washington, D.C., as an associate head of staff. Brigadier General Carl Andrew Spaatz was leader of the division. Lieutenant Colonels Olds and Muir S. Fairchild, old partners of Walker's from the Air Corps Tactical School, were two of Spaatz' associates. Walker was elevated to impermanent lieutenant colonel on 15 July 1941. In the June 1941 revamping of the Air Corps, Spaatz wound up head of staff to the Commanding General, United States Army Air Forces, Major General Henry H. Arnold, who delegated Colonel Harold L. George, a previous understudy of Walker at the Air Corps Tactical School from 1931 to 1932, to supplant Spaatz as leader of the Air War Plans Division. Walker joined George's arranging group, alongside Majors Haywood S. Hansell and Laurence S. Kuter. All were previous educators at the Air Corps Tactical School and individuals from the "Aircraft Mafia". 

The Air War Plans Division was entrusted with building up a creation necessities plan for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who needed it by 10 September 1941. In only nine days in August 1941, George, Olds, Fairchild, Walker, Kuter and Hansell drafted the AWPD-1 plan for a war against Germany. Mirroring their faith in assault as the vital type of aeronautics, the arrangement depended on the quantity of planes that they evaluated would be required to thump out Germany's key businesses – electric power, transportation and oil. So as to kill foreseen resistance from the German Air Force, they anticipated shelling flying machine manufacturing plants and the wellsprings of the light metals required for air ship generation. These objectives were grouped alongside the assessed tonnage of bombs required to crush them. 

The arrangement required a plane power of 98 medium, overwhelming and exceptionally substantial aircraft gatherings, totaling 6,834 air ship. Sixteen warrior gatherings would safeguard the aircraft's bases. Should this plane power demonstrate inadequate to overcome Germany without a noteworthy land hostile, arrangement was made for a strategic aviation based armed forces of 13 light aircraft gatherings, two photograph surveillance gatherings, five contender gatherings, 108 perception squadrons and 19 transport gatherings. Everything considered, this piece of the arrangement spoke to an extensive think little of. The arrangement required 2,164,916 staff, including 103,482 pilots. Right now however, the United States had, as General Arnold put it, "designs yet not planes". Because of poor security, verbatim concentrates of AWPD-1 were distributed in the "Chicago Tribune" and different papers on 4 December. 

The war in Europe had provided reason to feel ambiguous about grave the Air Corps' convention that contenders couldn't shoot down planes and the aircraft will dependably overcome. In the Battle of Britain the British Royal Air Force had shown that it could shoot down planes, while its very own aircraft compel had endured such substantial misfortunes over Germany that it had deserted sunlight shelling for night assaults. In any case, the organizers held firm in their conviction that, since American planes were preferable outfitted and defensively covered over their British or German partners, the aircraft would get past, even in sunlight, and that foe warrior quality could be devastated on the ground by shelling airbases and industrial facilities. "Every one of us," Kuter composed years after the fact, "laughed at the possibility that warriors would be expected to ensure aircraft, to empower planes to achieve their goal. In getting ready AWPD-l, we remained in that groove." Walker was elevated to colonel on 1 February 1942. 

In April 1942 Walker joined the Operations Division (OPD) of the War Department General Staff as official officer of Brigadier General St. Clair Streett's Theater Group. He co-created a reminder with Brigadier General Dwight Eisenhower in which they propelled the position that the judgments of the Joint Chiefs of Staff "must be taken as definitive except if and until altered by the equivalent or more recognizable specialist." After his demise, Walker was granted the Legion of Merit in acknowledgment of his commitments as a staff officer at OPD. 

Walker was elevated to brigadier general on 17 June 1942 and was exchanged toward the Southwest Pacific Area, traveling to Australia in the organization of Brigadier General Ennis Whitehead, another recently advanced brigadier general. The administrator of Allied Air Forces there, Lieutenant General George Brett, mindful that he would before long be supplanted, sent the two newcomers on an examination trip. Walker took in a lot. He joined three battle missions over New Guinea, encountering for himself the troubles that his aircrews confronted. He additionally encountered an air attack in Port Moresby. For this, Walker was granted the Silver Star. His reference read: 

Brett's substitution, Major General George Kenney, landed in the auditorium in August, and Walker was designated Commanding General, V Bomber Command, Fifth Air Force on 3 September, with his central command in Townsville. As of now, Port Moresby was liable to visit Japanese air assaults, so the aircraft were commonly situated in the Townsville zone and arranged through Port Moresby to limit their opportunity of misfortune or harm on the ground. In mid-September 1942, at the tallness of the Kokoda Track battle, Kenney sent Walker to Port Moresby for half a month to coordinate the propelled echelon, to give Whitehead a rest and Walker more experience. Walker endeavored to lift assurance by improving the men's living conditions. He tried little motions of association, for example, remaining in accordance with the men at feast times. Be that as it may, what charmed him most to his men was his ability to share the perils just as their hardships, by flying a mission seven days by and large. In October, General Douglas MacArthur gave Kenney a dressing down for flying over the Owen Stanley Range. Thusly, Kenney requested Walker, Wilson and Whitehead not to fly any more missions. For an assortment of reasons, each of them four in the long run resisted their requests. 

The Southwest Pacific was not a promising battlefield for the vital aircraft. The aircraft of the day did not have the range to achieve Japan from Australia, and there were no common key focuses in the auditorium other than a couple of oil refineries. Therefore, "The air mission was to forbid Japan's ocean supply paths and empower the ground powers to lead an island-bouncing procedure." This set up a doctrinal conflict between Kenney, an assault pilot, and Walker, the plane promoter. The long-standing Air Corps strategy for assaulting shipping called for vast developments of high-height aircraft. With adequate mass, so the hypothesis went, planes could section any ship with dividers of bombs, and do as such from over the compelling scope of the ship's enemy of flying machine fire. Anyway the hypothetical mass required was two requests of size more noteworthy than what was accessible in the Southwest Pacific. Twelve or so planes was the most that could be assembled, attributable to the modest number of airplane in the theater and the challenges of keeping them useful. The outcomes were subsequently commonly ineffectual, and tasks acquired overwhelming setbacks. 

Walker protested Kenney's proposal that the planes direct assaults from low dimension with bombs furnished with immediate circuits. Kenney requested Walker to attempt the quick breakers for two or three months, with the goal that information could be increased about their adequacy; half a month later Kenney found that Walker had ceased the utilization of the immediate wires. In November, Kenney organized an exhibit assault on the SS "Pruth", a ship that had sunk off Port Moresby in 1924 and was regularly utilized for target practice. After the assault Walker and Kenney took a vessel out to the disaster area to investigate the harm. Of course, none of the four bombs dropped had hit the stationary wreck; however the immediate circuits had exploded the bombs when they struck the water, and bomb parts had torn gaps in the sides of the ship. Walker reluctantly surrendered the point. "Ken was alright," Kenney later reviewed. "He was obstinate, over-touchy, and a diva, yet he worked extremely hard constantly. His group preferred him a ton however he would in general get a staff of 'yes-men'. He didn't care to assign expert. I was anxious about the possibility that that Ken was not sturdy enough to keep going extremely long under the high pressure of this show." 

In December, Kenney discovered that Whitehead had been ready a B-25 in which a Japanese antiaircraft weapon had punctured the wing "sufficiently enormous for him to hop through without contacting the sides", and that Walker had flown on a B-17 that had cut a tree and lost piece of a wing. Kenney then rehashed his before request, clarifying the explanations for it: 

On 9 January 1943, MacArthur issued a report lauding the powers under his direction for the triumph that had been accomplished at Buna and declaring the honor of the Distinguished Service Cross to twelve officers, including Walker. 

On 3 January 1943, Kenney got knowledge from Allied Ultra codebreakers that the Japanese were going to endeavor a support keep running from their fundamental base at Rabaul to Lae, on the terrain of New Guinea. He requested Walker to do a full-scale first light assault on the harbor's delivery before it could withdraw. Walker disputed. His planes would experience issues making their meeting in the event that they needed to leave Port Moresby in obscurity. He suggested an early afternoon assault. Kenney recognized Walker's worries yet was unshakable; he favored aircraft out of development to planes shot somewhere around the foe contenders that were sure to capture a light assault. Despite this, Walker requested that the assault be made around early afternoon on 5 January. 

Terrible climate over northern Australia counteracted cooperation by the aircraft there, which left Walker with just those based at Port Moresby: six B-17s and six B-24s. This power was extremely little for the strategies that he needed to utilize. He flew in the number one spot plane, B-17 #41-24458, nicknamed "San Antonio Rose I", from the 64th Bombardment Squadron, 43rd Bombardment Group, which was guided by Lieutenant Colonel Jack W. Bleasdale, the gathering's official officer. The 64th Bombardment Squadron's leader, Major Allen Lindberg was likewise ready. The instructions officer for the mission, Major David Hassemer, did not feel that it was a smart thought for such a significant number of senior officers to fly in a similar plane, however his protest was overruled. 

They experienced overwhelming fire and ceaseless contender assaults. Attributable to the deferral, the ten-transport guard that they were sent to assault had left two hours sooner, however there were still a lot of targets. Forty and twenty four bombs were dropped from . The mission guaranteed hits on nine boats, totaling 50,000 tons. After the war, JANAC affirmed the sinking of just a single Japanese dealer dispatch, the 5,833-ton "Keifuku Maru". Two different boats were harmed, similar to the destroyer . Two B-17s were shot down, including Walker's. 

Fred Wesche flew the 5 January mission over Rabaul. He later reviewed: 

Kenney was angry when he found that Walker had changed the departure time without notice, yet had additionally resisted his requests by going with the mission. He disclosed to MacArthur that when Walker showed up he was going to give him a denounce and send him back to Australia on leave for about fourteen days. "Okay George," MacArthur answered, "yet in the event that he doesn't return, I will send his name in to Washington suggesting him for a Congressional Medal of Honor." All accessible flying machine were sent to look for Walker, avoiding assaults on the Japanese guard as it set out toward Lae. They figured out how to find and protect the team of the other B-17 that had been shot down in the strike, however not Walker's. 

MacArthur's proposal consequently proceeded. The Adjutant General, Major General James A. Ulio, questioned whether it was "considered well beyond what would have been acceptable anyway for the leader of a plane direction to go with it on bombarding missions against adversary held region." Major General George Stratemeyer, the head of the air staff, answered that it was. In March 1943, Roosevelt displayed Kenneth Walker Jr. with the award in a service at the White House. It was one of 38 Medals of Honor granted to flying staff of the US Army Air Forces in World War II. The reference read: 

Nor Walker's body nor the disaster area of his flying machine was found. Walker was in this way recorded on the Tablets of the Missing at Manila American Cemetery and Memorial, Philippines, where servicemen long gone or covered adrift in the Southwest Pacific are remembered. On 7 December 2001, a tombstone marker was raised in Section MC-36M of Arlington National Cemetery to give relatives a spot to accumulate in the United States. 

General Walker's military honors include: 

In January 1948, Roswell Army Air Field in Roswell, New Mexico, was renamed Walker Air Force Base out of appreciation for Walker. The base was inactivated on 2 July 1965 and shut on 30 June 1967. Walker Hall, and its Walker Air Power Room, at Maxwell Air Force Base, home of the Air Force Doctrine Development and Education Center, are additionally named after him. The Walker Papers is an Air Force Fellows program that yearly distinctions the best three research papers delivered via Air Force Fellows with the Walker Series grant. The Walker Series perceives the commitments every Fellow has made to look into supporting air and space power and its utilization in the execution of US key approach.