Fabulous Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia 

Fabulous Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia (; – 24 November 1960) was the most youthful offspring of Emperor Alexander III of Russia and more youthful sister of Emperor Nicholas II. 

She was raised at the Gatchina Palace outside Saint Petersburg. Olga's association with her mom, Empress Marie, the little girl of King Christian IX of Denmark, was stressed and far off from youth. Conversely, she and her dad were close. He passed on when she was 12, and her sibling Nicholas progressed toward becoming ruler. 

In 1901, at 19, she wedded Duke Peter Alexandrovich of Oldenburg, who was secretly accepted by family and companions to be gay. Their marriage of 15 years stayed unconsummated, and Peter at first rejected Olga's solicitation for a separation. The couple had separate existences and their marriage was in the end dissolved by the Emperor in October 1916. The next month Olga wedded mounted force officer Nikolai Kulikovsky, with whom she had experienced passionate feelings for quite a long while previously. Amid the First World War, the Grand Duchess filled in as a military attendant and was granted an award for individual valor. At the ruin of the Romanovs in the Russian Revolution of 1917, she fled with her significant other and youngsters to Crimea, where they lived under the danger of death. Her sibling Nicholas and his family were shot by progressives. 

Olga got away progressive Russia with her second spouse and their two children in February 1920. They joined her mom, the Dowager Empress, in Denmark. In a state of banishment, Olga went about as partner and secretary to her mom, and was frequently searched out by Romanov impostors who professed to be her dead relatives. She met Anna Anderson, the best-known impostor, in Berlin in 1925. After the Dowager Empress' demise in 1928, Olga and her better half bought a dairy ranch in Ballerup, close Copenhagen. She had a straightforward existence: bringing up her two children, chipping away at the ranch and painting. Amid her lifetime, she painted more than 2,000 show-stoppers, which gave additional salary to both her family and the beneficent causes she upheld. 

In 1948, feeling compromised by Joseph Stalin's routine, Olga and her close family migrated to a homestead in Ontario, Canada. With propelling age, Olga and her significant other moved to a cabin close Cooksville, Ontario. Colonel Kulikovsky passed on there in 1958. After two years, as her wellbeing weakened, Olga moved with companions to a little condo in East Toronto. She kicked the bucket matured 78, seven months after her more seasoned sister, Xenia. Toward an incredible finish and a short time later, Olga was broadly named the last Grand Duchess of Imperial Russia. 

Olga was the most youthful girl of Emperor Alexander III and his partner, Empress Marie, earlier Princess Dagmar of Denmark. She was conceived in the purple (i.e., amid her dad's rule) on 13 June 1882 in the Peterhof Palace, west of focal Saint Petersburg. Her introduction to the world was declared by a customary 101-weapon salute from the defenses of the Peter and Paul Fortress, and comparable salutes all through the Russian Empire. Her mom, exhorted by her sister, Alexandra, Princess of Wales, set Olga being taken care of by an English caretaker, Elizabeth Franklin. 

The Russian supreme family was a regular focus for professional killers, so for wellbeing reasons the Grand Duchess was raised at the nation castle of Gatchina, about 50 miles (80 km) west of Saint Petersburg. In spite of the fact that Olga and her kin lived in a royal residence, conditions in the nursery were unassuming, even Spartan. They dozed on hard camp beds, ascended at first light, washed in virus water, and ate a straightforward porridge for breakfast. 

Olga left Gatchina without precedent for 1888 when the majestic family visited the Caucasus. On 29 October, their arrival train moved toward the community of Borki at speed. Olga's folks and their four more established youngsters were having lunch in the eating vehicle when the train staggered brutally and fell off the rails. The carriage was torn open; the substantial iron rooftop collapsed, and the haggles of the vehicle were cut off. Survivors asserted the Tsar crept out from underneath the squashed rooftop, and held it up with "a Herculean exertion" so the others could get away; a story along these lines thought about mind blowing. There were 21 fatalities. Sovereign Marie tended the injured, and made stopgap swathes from her very own garments. An official examination found that the accident was a mishap, yet it was generally and erroneously trusted that two bombs had been planted hanging in the balance. 

The Grand Duchess and her kin were educated at home by private guides. Subjects included history, topography, Russian, English, and French, just as illustration and moving. Physical exercises, for example, equestrianism were educated at an early age, and the kids wound up master riders. 

The family was profoundly religious. While Christmas and Easter were seasons of festivity and excess, Lent was carefully watched—meat, dairy items and any type of excitement were dodged. 

Ruler Marie was saved and formal with Olga as a youngster, and their relationship remained a troublesome one. Be that as it may, Olga, her dad, and the most youthful of her siblings, Michael, had a cozy relationship. Together, the three as often as possible went on climbs in the Gatchina timberlands, where the Tsar instructed Olga and Michael woodsmanship. Olga said of her dad: 

Family occasions were taken in the mid year at Peterhof, and with Olga's grandparents in Denmark. Be that as it may, in 1894, Olga's dad turned out to be progressively sick, and the yearly excursion to Denmark was dropped. On 13 November 1894, he passed on at 49 years old. The enthusiastic effect on Olga, matured 12, was horrendous, and her oldest sibling, the new Tsar Nicholas II, was pushed into a job for which, as Olga would like to think, he was badly arranged. 

Olga was expected to enter society in mid-1899, however after the passing of her sibling George at 28 years old, her first official open appearance was postponed by a year until 1900. She detested the experience, and later revealed to her official biographer Ian Vorres, "I felt just as I were a creature in an enclosure—showed to people in general out of the blue." From 1901, Olga was selected privileged Commander-in-Chief of the twelfth Akhtyrsky Hussar Regiment of the Imperial Russian Army. The Akhtyrsky Hussars were well known for their triumph over Napoleon Bonaparte at the Battle of Kulm in 1813, and wore an unmistakable darker dolman. 

By 1900, Olga, age 18, was being escorted to the theater and musical drama by a removed cousin, Duke Peter Alexandrovich of Oldenburg, an individual from the Russian part of the House of Oldenburg. He was 14 years her senior and known for his energy for writing and betting. Diminish requested Olga's turn in marriage the next year, a recommendation that shocked the Grand Duchess totally: "I was so shocked that everything I could state was 'thank you'," she later clarified. 

Their commitment, declared in May 1901, was startling by family and companions, as Peter had appeared earlier enthusiasm for ladies, and individuals from society expected he was gay. At 19 years old, on 9 August 1901, Olga wedded 33-year-old Peter. After the festival the love birds left for the Oldenburg castle on the Field of Mars. Olga spent her wedding night alone in tears, while her better half left for a betting club restoring the following morning. Their marriage stayed unconsummated, and Olga suspected that Peter was pushed into proposing by his yearning mother. Biographer Patricia Phenix thought Olga may have acknowledged his proposition to pick up freedom from her own mom, the Dowager Empress, or evade marriage into an outside court. The couple at first lived with her in-laws Alexander Petrovich and Eugénie Maximilianovna of Oldenburg. The plan was not amicable as Peter's folks, both surely understood for their charitable work, scolded their solitary child for his sluggishness. Olga took an aversion towards her relative; in spite of the fact that Eugénie, a dear companion of the Dowager Empress, gave her little girl in-law numerous endowments, including a ruby tiara that had been a present to Joséphine de Beauharnais from Napoleon. Half a month after the wedding, Olga and her significant other headed out to Biarritz, France, from where they cruised to Sorrento, Italy, on a yacht advanced to them by King Edward VII of Great Britain. 

On their arrival to Russia, they sunk into a 200-room royal residence (the previous Baryatinsky house) at 46 Sergievskaya Street (today Tchaikovsky Street), Saint Petersburg. The royal residence, a blessing from Tsar Nicholas II to his sister, presently houses the Saint Petersburg Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Olga and Peter had separate rooms at inverse closures of the structure, and the Grand Duchess had her very own craft studio. Troubled in her marriage, she fell into episodes of melancholy that made her lose her hair, compelling her to wear a wig. It took two years for her hair to regrow. 

Close to the Oldenburg's bequest, Ramon in Voronezh region, Olga had her own manor, called "Olgino" after the neighborhood town. She financed the town school out of her own pocket, and built up an emergency clinic. Her little girl in-law later stated, "She endeavored to help each poor individual to the extent her qualities and means would allow." At the emergency clinic, she learned fundamental restorative treatment and legitimate consideration from the neighborhood specialist. She exemplified her solid Orthodox confidence by making religious symbols, which she disseminated to the magnanimous undertakings she bolstered. At Ramon, Olga and Peter delighted in strolling through the adjacent woods and chased wolves together. He was benevolent and accommodating towards her, yet she yearned for affection, a typical marriage, and youngsters. 

In April 1903, she was acquainted with a Blue Cuirassier Guards officer Nikolai Kulikovsky by her sibling Michael amid an imperial military audit at Pavlovsk Palace. Olga and Kulikovsky started to see one another, and traded letters consistently. That year, at 22 years old, she faced her significant other and requested a separation, which he declined with the capability that he may reexamine following seven years. All things considered, Oldenburg selected Kulikovsky as a confidant, and enabled him to live in a similar living arrangement as Oldenburg and the Grand Duchess on Sergievskaya Street. The connection among Kulikovsky and the Grand Duchess was not open, yet tattle about their sentiment spread through society. 

From 1904 to 1906, Duke Peter was delegated to a military post in Tsarskoye Selo, a complex of royal residences only south of Saint Petersburg. In Tsarskoye Selo, the Grand Duchess developed near her sibling Nicholas and his family, who inhabited the Alexander Palace close to her own living arrangement. Olga prized her association with the Tsar's four girls. From 1906 to 1914, Olga took her nieces to gatherings and commitment in Saint Petersburg, without their folks, consistently all through the winter. She particularly favored the most youthful of Nicholas' girls, her god-little girl Anastasia, whom she called "Shvipsik" ("minimal one"). Through her sibling and sister-in-law, Olga met Rasputin, a so called blessed man who implied to have recuperating powers. Despite the fact that she made no open reactions of Rasputin's relationship with the royal family, she was unconvinced of his alleged forces and secretly despised him. As Olga developed near her sibling's family, her association with her other enduring sibling, Michael, crumbled. To her and Nicholas' repulsiveness, Michael ran off with his paramour, a twice-separated from ordinary person, and correspondence among Michael and the remainder of the family was basically cut off. 

Open agitation over the Russo-Japanese War and requests for political change expanded in the early long periods of the twentieth century. At Epiphany 1905, a band of progressives terminated live adjusts at the Winter Palace from the Peter and Paul Fortress. Olga and the Dowager Empress were showered with glass chips from a crushed window, yet were safe. After three weeks, on "Wicked Sunday", somewhere around 92 individuals were killed by Cossack troops amid a showing, and after a month Olga's uncle, Grand Duke Sergei Alexandrovich of Russia, was killed. Uprisings happened all through the nation, and parts of the naval force mutinied. Olga upheld the arrangement of the liberal Pyotr Stolypin as executive, and he set out on a program of steady change, yet in 1911 he was killed. The open agitation, Michael's elopement, and Olga's trick marriage put her under strain, and in 1912, while visiting England with her mom, she endured a mental meltdown. Tsarina Alexandra was additionally unwell with weariness, worried by the weakness of her hemophiliac child, Alexei. Olga remained in for the Tsarina at open occasions, and went with her sibling on a voyage through the inside, while the Tsarina stayed at home. 

On 1 August 1914, with World War I approaching, Olga's regiment, the Akhtyrsky Hussars, showed up at an Imperial Review before her and the Tsar at Krasnoe Selo. Kulikovsky volunteered for administration with the Hussars, who were positioned on the bleeding edges in Southwestern Russia. With the Grand Duchess' earlier restorative learning from the town of Olgino, she began fill in as a medical attendant at an under-staffed Red Cross emergency clinic in Rovno, close to where her very own regiment was positioned. Amid the war, she went under overwhelming Austrian flame while going to the regiment at the front. Medical caretakers once in a while worked so near the forefront and subsequently she was granted the Order of St. George by General Mannerheim, who later moved toward becoming President of Finland. As the Russians lost ground to the Central Powers, Olga's emergency clinic was moved eastwards to Kiev, and Michael came back to Russia from outcast abroad. 

In 1916, Tsar Nicholas II repealed the marriage between Duke Peter Alexandrovich and the Grand Duchess, enabling her to wed Colonel Kulikovsky. The administration was performed on 16 November 1916 in the Kievo-Vasilievskaya Church on Triokhsviatitelskaya (Three Saints Street) in Kiev. The main visitors were the Dowager Empress, Olga's brother by marriage Grand Duke Alexander, four officers of the Akhtyrsky Regiment, and two of Olga's individual attendants from the clinic in Kiev. 

Amid the war, inside pressures and financial hardship in Russia kept on mounting and progressive feelings developed. After Tsar Nicholas II renounced in mid 1917, numerous individuals from the Romanov line, including Nicholas and his close family, were kept under house capture. Looking for security, the Dowager Empress, Grand Duke Alexander, and Grand Duchess Olga headed out to Crimea by exceptional train, where they were joined by Olga's sister (Alexander's significant other) Grand Duchess Xenia. They inhabited Alexander's home, Ay-Todor, about 12 miles (19 km) from Yalta, where they were set under house capture by the nearby powers. On 12 August 1917, her first kid and child, Tikhon Nikolaevich was conceived amid their virtual detainment. He was named after Tikhon of Zadonsk, the Saint loved close to the Grand Duchess' bequest at Olgino. 

The Romanovs segregated in Crimea knew little of the destiny of the Tsar and his family. Nicholas, Alexandra, and their youngsters, were initially held at their official living arrangement, the Alexander Palace, however the Provisional government under Alexander Kerensky migrated them to Tobolsk, Siberia. In February 1918, the vast majority of the magnificent family at Ay-Todor was moved to another home at Djulber, where Grand Dukes Nicholas and Peter were at that point under house capture. Olga and her significant other were left at Ay-Todor. The whole Romanov family in Crimea was sentenced to death by the Yalta progressive gathering, however the executions were deferred by political contention between the Yalta and Sevastopol Soviets. By March 1918, the Central Power of Germany had progressed on Crimea, and the progressive watchmen were supplanted by German ones. In November 1918, the German powers were educated that their country had lost the war, and they cleared homewards. United powers assumed control over the Crimean ports, in help of the supporter White Army, which permitted the enduring individuals from the Romanov family time to escape abroad. The Dowager Empress and, at her request, a large portion of her family and companions were cleared by the British warship HMS "Marlborough". Nicholas II had just been shot dead and the family accepted, accurately, that his better half and youngsters had likewise been slaughtered. 

Olga and her better half would not leave Russia, and chose to move to the Caucasus, which the White Army had cleared of progressive Bolsheviks. A supreme protector, Timofei Yatchik, guided them to the place where he grew up, the substantial Cossack town of Novominskaya. In a leased five-room farmhouse there, Olga brought forth her second child, Guri Nikolaevich, on 23 April 1919. He was named after a companion of hers, Guri Panayev, who was executed while serving in the Akhtyrsky Regiment amid World War I. In November 1919, the family set out on what might be their last voyage through Russia. Only in front of progressive troops, they got away to Novorossiysk, and took asylum in the habitation of the Danish representative, Thomas Schytte, who educated them of the Dowager Empress' protected landing in Denmark. After a concise remain with the emissary, the family was transported to a displaced person camp on the island of Büyükada in the Dardanelles Strait close Istanbul, Turkey, where Olga, her better half and kids imparted three rooms to eleven different grown-ups. Following two weeks, they were cleared to Belgrade in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes where she was visited by Prince Regent Alexander. Alexander offered the Grand Duchess and her family a lasting home, however Olga was gathered to Denmark by her mom. On Good Friday 1920, Olga and her family landed in Copenhagen. They lived with the Dowager Empress, at first at the Amalienborg Palace and afterward at the regal domain of Hvidøre, where Olga went about as her mom's secretary and sidekick. It was a troublesome plan on occasion. The Dowager Empress demanded having Olga available to her no matter what and discovered Olga's young children excessively clamorous. Having never accommodated with the possibility of her girl's marriage to an everyday citizen, she was cold towards Kulikovsky, infrequently permitting him in her quality. At formal capacities, Olga was relied upon to go with her mom alone. 

In 1925, Olga and Colonel Kulikovsky headed out to Berlin to meet Anna Anderson, who professed to be Olga's niece, Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia. Anderson had endeavored suicide in Berlin in 1920, which Olga later called "presumably the main undeniable truth in the entire story". Anderson asserted that with the assistance of a man named Tchaikovsky she had gotten away from progressive Russia by means of Bucharest, where she had brought forth his kid. Olga thought the story "tangibly false", since Anderson made no endeavor to approach Queen Marie of Romania, amid her whole affirmed time in Bucharest. Olga stated: 

Anderson expressed she was in Berlin to advise Princess Irene of Prussia (sister of Tsarina Alexandra and cousin of Tsar Nicholas II) of her survival. Olga remarked, "[Princess Irene] was a standout amongst the most straightlaced ladies in her age. My niece would have realized that her condition would have to be sure have stunned [her]." 

Olga met Anderson, who was being treated for tuberculosis, at a nursing home. Of the visit Olga later stated: 

Olga likewise said she was frightened that Anderson talked just German and hinted at no knowing either English or Russian, while Anastasia talked both those dialects fluidly and was insensible of German. All things considered, Olga stayed thoughtful towards Anderson, maybe in light of the fact that she imagined that she was sick instead of intentionally tricky. Olga later clarified: 

Possibly, Olga was at first either open to the likelihood that Anderson was Anastasia or unfit to decide. Anderson's biographer and supporter Peter Kurth asserted that Olga kept in touch with the Danish minister, Herluf Zahle, toward the finish of October 1925: "My inclination is that she isn't the one she accepts—yet one can't state she isn't as a reality". Inside a month she had decided. She kept in touch with a companion, "There is no likeness, and she is without a doubt not An." Olga sent Anderson a scarf and five letters, which were utilized by Anderson's supporters to guarantee that Olga perceived Anderson as Anastasia. Olga later said she sent the blessing and letters "out of pity", and called the cases "a total manufacture". At the point when Olga would not perceive Anderson as Anastasia freely and distributed an announcement denying any likeness in a Danish paper, Anderson's supporters, Harriet von Rathlef and Gleb Botkin, guaranteed that Olga was following up on guidelines gotten from her sister Xenia by wire, which Olga denied in private letters and sworn declaration. She revealed to her official biographer, "I never gotten any such message." The wire was never delivered by Anderson's supporters, and it has never been found among any of the papers identifying with the case. Xenia stated, 

The Dowager Empress kicked the bucket on 13 October 1928 at Hvidøre. Her home was sold and Olga obtained "Knudsminde", a ranch in Ballerup about 15 miles (24 km) from Copenhagen, with her segment of the returns. She and her better half kept ponies, in which Colonel Kulikovsky was particularly intrigued, alongside Jersey dairy animals, pigs, chickens, geese, puppies and felines. For transport they had a little vehicle and a sledge. Tihon and Guri (age thirteen and eleven, individually when they moved to Knudsminde) experienced childhood with the homestead. Olga ran the family unit with the assistance of her old, steadfast woman's house cleaner Emilia Tenso ("Mimka"), who had joined her from Russia. The Grand Duchess lived with effortlessness, working in the fields, doing family unit errands, and painting. 

The ranch turned into a middle for the Russian monarchist network in Denmark, and numerous Russian wanderers visited. Olga kept up an abnormal state of correspondence with the Russian émigré network and previous individuals from the royal armed force. On 2 February 1935 in the Russian Orthodox Church in Copenhagen, she and her better half were godparents, with her cousin Prince Gustav of Denmark, to Aleksander Schalburg, child of Russian-brought into the world Danish armed force officer Christian Frederik von Schalburg. During the 1930s, the family took yearly occasions at Sofiero Castle, Sweden, with Crown Prince Gustaf of Sweden and his better half, Louise. Olga started to offer her very own artistic creations, of Russian and Danish scenes, with presentation barters in Copenhagen, London, Paris, and Berlin. A portion of the returns were given to the foundations she bolstered. 

Impartial Denmark was attacked by Nazi Germany on 9 April 1940, and was involved for the rest of World War II. Sustenance deficiencies, correspondence limitations, and transport terminations pursued. As Olga's children, Tikhon and Guri, filled in as officers in the Danish Army, they were interned as detainees of war, however their detainment in a Copenhagen lodging kept going under two months. Tikhon was detained for a further month in 1943 in the wake of being captured on charges of reconnaissance. Other Russian émigrés, quick to battle against the Soviets, enrolled in the German powers. In spite of her children's internment and her mom's Danish beginnings, Olga was involved in her countrymen's plot with German powers, as she kept on meeting and stretch out help to Russian émigrés battling against socialism. On 4 May 1945, German powers in Denmark surrendered to the British. Whenever financial and social conditions for Russian outcasts neglected to improve, General Pyotr Krasnov kept in touch with the Grand Duchess, specifying the pathetic conditions influencing Russian workers in Denmark. She thus solicited Prince Axel from Denmark to support them, yet her solicitation was cannot. 

With the finish of World War II, Soviet troops involved the Danish island of Bornholm, and the Soviet Union kept in touch with the Danish government denouncing Olga and a Danish Catholic cleric of intrigue against the Soviet government. The enduring Romanovs in Denmark became dreadful of a death or capture endeavor, and Olga chose to move her family over the Atlantic to the overall wellbeing of rustic Canada. 

In May 1948, the Kulikovskys ventured out to London by Danish troopship. They were housed in an effortlessness and support loft at Hampton Court Palace while game plans were made for their voyage to Canada as agrarian outsiders. On 2 June 1948, Olga, Kulikovsky, Tikhon and his Danish-conceived spouse Agnete, Guri and his Danish-conceived wife Ruth, Guri and Ruth's two youngsters, Xenia and Leonid, and Olga's given friend and previous house cleaner Emilia Tenso ("Mimka") left Liverpool on board the "Sovereign of Canada". After an unpleasant intersection, the ship docked at Halifax, Nova Scotia. The family lived in Toronto, until they bought a ranch in Halton County, Ontario, close Campbellville. 

By 1952, the homestead had turned into a weight to Olga and her significant other. They were both older; their children had moved away; work was difficult to find; the Colonel endured expanding sick wellbeing, and a portion of Olga's outstanding adornments was stolen. The homestead was sold, and Olga, her better half and her previous servant, Mimka, moved to a littler five-room house at 2130 Camilla Road, Cooksville, Ontario, a suburb of Toronto currently amalgamated into Mississauga. Mimka endured a stroke that left her an invalid, and Olga breast fed her until Mimka's passing on 24 January 1954. 

Neighbors and guests to the area, including outside and regal dignitaries, looked into Olga, and visited her home; these included Princess Marina, Duchess of Kent, in 1954, and Louis Mountbatten and his significant other Edwina, in August 1959. In June 1959, Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip visited Toronto and welcomed the Grand Duchess for lunch on board the imperial yacht "Britannia". Her house was likewise a magnet for Romanov impostors, whom Olga and her family thought about a threat. 

By 1958, Olga's significant other was practically incapacitated, and she sold a portion of her outstanding adornments to raise reserves. Following her significant other's passing in 1958, she turned out to be progressively decrepit until hospitalized in April 1960 at Toronto General Hospital. She was not educated or didn't know that her senior sister, Xenia, passed on in London that month. Unfit to think about herself, Olga went to remain with Russian émigré companions, Konstantin and Sinaida Martemianoff, in a condo over a wonder salon at 716 Gerrard Street East, Toronto. She slipped into a trance like state on 21 November 1960, and passed on 24 November at 78 years old. 

She was entombed by her better half in York Cemetery, Toronto, on 30 November 1960, after a memorial service at Christ the Savior Cathedral, Toronto. Officers of the Akhtyrsky Hussars and the Blue Cuirassiers stood protect in the little Russian church, which flooded with grievers. Despite the fact that she lived just, purchased shoddy garments, and did her own shopping and planting, her domain was esteemed at in excess of 200,000 Canadian dollars (about $1.5 million starting at 2013) and was for the most part held as stock and bonds. Her material belongings were assessed at $350 altogether, which biographer Patricia Phenix thought about a think little of. 

Olga started drawing and painting at a youthful age. She disclosed to her official biographer Ian Vorres: 

She painted for an amazing duration, on paper, canvas and fired, and her yield is assessed at more than 2,000 pieces. Her typical subject was view and scene, yet she additionally painted pictures and still lifes. Vorres composed, 

Her little girl in-law composed, 

Her works of art were a productive wellspring of pay. As indicated by her girl in-law, Olga wanted to show in Denmark to maintain a strategic distance from the corporate greed of the North American market. The Russian Relief Program, which was established by Tikhon and his third spouse Olga to pay tribute to the Grand Duchess, showed a choice of her work at the home of the Russian diplomat in Washington in 2001, in Moscow in 2002, in Ekaterinburg in 2004, in Saint Petersburg and Moscow in 2005, in Tyumen and Surgut in 2006, at the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow and Saint Michael's Castle in Saint Petersburg in 2007, and at the Vladimir Arsenyev Museum in Vladivostok in 2013. Pieces by Olga are incorporated into the accumulations of the British ruler Elizabeth II and her better half Philip, the Norwegian lord Harald V, and private accumulations in North America and Europe. Ballerup Museum in Pederstrup, Denmark, has around 100 of her works.