U.S. Highway 31 in Michigan 

US Highway 31 (US 31) is a piece of the United States Numbered Highway System that keeps running from Alabama to the Lower Peninsula of the US territory of Michigan. In Michigan, it is a state trunkline expressway that keeps running from the Indiana– Michigan state line at Bertrand Township north to its end at Interstate 75 (I-75) south of Mackinaw City. Along its course, US 31 pursues the Michigan segment of the St. Joseph Valley Parkway just as different interstates and separated roadways northward to Ludington. North of there, the trunkline is a rustic unified parkway through the Northern Michigan vacationer goals of Traverse City and Petoskey before ending south of Mackinaw City. Along its course, US 31 has been devoted in memory of a couple of various associations, and segments of it convey the Lake Michigan Circle Tour (LMCT) moniker. Four scaffolds utilized by the parkway have been perceived for their notable character too. 

The first parkways along the course of the cutting edge US 31 passage were the West Michigan Pike, an auto trail from 1913, and later a couple of state trunklines (the first M-11 and M-58) in 1919. These state interstates were redesignated US 31 on November 11, 1926, when the US Highway System was endorsed. From that point forward, the interstate has been realigned in spots. The expressway crossed the Straits of Mackinac by ship for about 10 years during the 1930s before the Mackinac Bridge was manufactured, associating with US 2 north of St. Ignace. Afterward, areas were changed over into expressways beginning during the 1950s. These portions opened through the resulting a very long time with the last one opening in 2003. Feasible arrangements by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) are to complete the St. Joseph Valley Parkway and sidestep Grand Haven. 

Between Lake Michigan Beach and the northern end south of Mackinaw City, the vast majority of US 31 shapes a part of the Lake Michigan Circle Tour (LMCT) with the exception of where the different business circles keep running between the principle roadway and Lake Michigan. Also, a significant part of the thruway from the Indiana– Michigan state line to Ludington is worked to interstate norms. Two prominent exemptions are a short fragment along Napier Avenue between the St. Joseph Valley Parkway and I-94 close Benton Harbor, and among Holland and Ferrysburg. The rest of US 31 is a two-or four-path roadway with certain areas in urban areas including five paths. The whole length of the roadway is recorded on the National Highway System, a system of streets imperative to the US's economy, guard, and versatility. 

US 31 and the St. Joseph Valley Parkway crosses into Michigan from Indiana southwest of Niles and parallels the St. Joseph River as the two run northward through southwest Michigan. The expressway goes through farmland before intersection US 12 at the first of a lot of three trades situated between Niles on the east and Buchanan on the west. US 31 crosses the stream north of the exchange with Niles– Buchanan Road. North of the Walton Road trade, the expressway swings northwesterly to recross the St. Joseph River close Lake Chapin south of Berrien Springs. The expressway bends around the west part of town before intersection the stream for a third time. As US 31 proceeds with northward parallel to the stream, it enters the eastern edges of the Benton Harbor– St. Joseph zone. Traffic is compelled to leave the turnpike at the exchange with Napier Road in spite of the fact that the expressway proceeds with northward for not exactly . 

In the wake of isolating from its expressway, US 31 turns west along Napier Avenue for about before meeting I-94 and converging with it. I-94/US 31 runs simultaneously on a northeasterly course through an incomplete trade with Business Loop I-94 (BL I-94) preceding gathering the southern end of I-196 in Benton Charter Township. At this trumpet trade, I-196/US 31 runs north from I-94 and goes toward the west of the Point O'Woods Golf and Country Club. It proceeds with northward in rustic Berrien County through ranch fields. The trunkline turns northwesterly close to the Lake Michigan Hills Golf Course and crosses the Paw River. Past the waterway, the road turns northeasterly and runs generally parallel to the Lake Michigan shoreline a few miles inland. At the network of Lake Michigan Beach, I-196/US 31 meets the northern end of M-63 at exit 7, and the LMCT joins the road out of the blue. North of this trade, the expressway parallels a district street (A-2, the Blue Star Highway) that is the previous course of US 31. 

Further north, I-196/US 31 crosses into Van Buren County and accept the Gerald R. Passage Freeway name. The inland side of the turnpike is forested while the lakeward side is prevalently either timberland or fields. As it approaches South Haven, the road goes close to the Palisades Nuclear Generating Station and Van Buren State Park. North of the power plant and park, the interstate turns more remote inland to sidestep the city of South Haven. There is an exchange on the south part of town that gives access to BL I-196 and M-140. The interstate traverses M-43 without a trade and afterward meets the opposite end of the business circle about later. It crosses the Black River close to the Van Buren– Allegan area line. 

In Allegan County, I-196/US 31 passes a couple of fairways and proceeds with northward through ranch fields. Close to the network of Glenn, A-2 traverses the turnpike and runs parallel to it on the east. The two streets exchange puts again when I-196/US 31 turns northeasterly on the south side of the twin urban areas of Saugatuck and Douglas. The turnpike traverses an area of Kalamazoo Lake, a more extensive segment of the Kalamazoo River that streams between the two towns. A-2 crosses back toward the eastern side of the road north of Saugatuck, and I-196/US 31 proceeds with north-northeasterly toward Holland. 

On the south side of Holland, US 31 and I-196 isolated as the Interstate turns northeasterly around the city to keep on great Rapids. US 31 pursues the BL I-196 interstate northward into Holland around the north side of the West Michigan Regional Airport. The business circle has a trade for A-2 (Blue Star Highway) and Washington Avenue before the expressway finishes in the southern scopes of Holland. The trunkline then keeps running as an isolated interstate northward, bypassing downtown Holland toward the east and meeting M-40. Upper east of downtown Holland, BL I-196 leaves US 31 and the LMCT at an exchange to pursue an interstate along the course of Chicago Drive while US 31 turns northwesterly without anyone else turnpike arrangement. 

Northwest of Holland, the thruway keeps running as a four-path road and separated parkway parallel, yet inland from, the Lake Michigan shoreline. This area of US 31 goes through a blend of ranch fields and woodlands as it hurries to the network of Agnew. There, US 31 crosses the western end of M-45 (Lake Michigan Drive) before proceeding into the southern end of Grand Haven. In that city, the roadway pursues a four-path avenue with a grass middle. On the northern edge of the city of Grand Haven, US 31 crosses the Grand River on a bascule connect that opens about 450– 500 times every year. North of the structure, US 31 advances into an interstate at the exchange with the western end of M-104 in Ferrysburg. This interstate proceeds with northward through the rural edges of the Muskegon region and meets the western end of I-96 close to the Muskegon County Airport in Norton Shores. 

At this exchange with I-96, US 31 has its southernmost business circle as U.S. Highway 31 Business runs westerly and northward into downtown Muskegon. The primary expressway proceeds through the rural eastern edge of the city through a few exchanges, incorporating one with M-46 (Apple Avenue). Only south of the Muskegon River, the business circle converges once more into the primary expressway. US 31 crosses the stream and turns northwesterly through woodlands. The interstate goes toward the east of Michigan's Adventure, an entertainment mecca, and crosses the White River close to the networks of Whitehall and Montague; a business circle bends off toward the west to interface the two networks with the road. Around there, US 31 goes through the southern bit of the Manistee National Forest too. 

As the road proceeds with northward, US 31 meets the western end of M-20 in New Era in Oceana County. The scene around there is overwhelmed by timberland land as the trunkline crosses the Hart-Montague Trail State Park, a straight state park that pursues a bicycle trail in the zone. North of the trail crossing, US 31 has a business goad for Hart that runs east into that town; north of this exchange, the road crosses the Pentwater River close to the network of Pentwater which likewise has its very own business circle. 

North of Pentwater, US 31 crosses into Mason County and passes Bass Lake and the Ludington Pumped Storage Power Plant, which utilizes a repository beside the interstate to create power. Only north of that repository, the turnpike swings toward the upper east and Ludington's business goad keeps running off toward the northwest. US 31 bends around the east side of Ludington, crossing the Pere Marquette River. Due east of downtown, the road closures and US 31 swings east to converge with US 10. The simultaneous expressways pursue a four-path roadway to Scottville. On the west side of that town, US 31 isolates from US 10, swinging northward to sidestep Scottville. 

US 31 keeps running due north through Northwest Michigan woodland land bypassing Freesoil toward the west. Northwest of that town, the thruway crosses the Big Sable River before entering Manistee County. Over the region line, the trunkline runs northwesterly parallel to Manistee Lake as US 31 enters Manistee. The roadway pursues Cypress Street to a drawbridge over the Manistee River and after that Cleveland Street on the northern side. As the trunkline rounds the northern shore of Manistee Lake, it passes the SS "City of Milwaukee", a vehicle ship protected as an exhibition hall. From that point, the interstate runs northeasterly, meeting the western end of M-55 (Caberfae Highway). Alongside the Little River Casino, the roadway meets the southern end of M-22 (Orchard Highway), and the LMCT isolates from US 31. 

The roadway proceeds on a northeasterly course running inland along Chippewa Highway to the network of Bear Lake. US 31 rounds the east side of the network's namesake waterway on Lake Street and ways out town on Pleasanton Highway. The trunkline proceeds with northward and northeasterly through Pleasanton and crosses into Benzie County. Over the region line, it pursues Benzie Highway northward to a crossing point with M-115 (Cadillac Highway). The two consolidation and run north into Benzonia, following Michigan Avenue nearby. Close to the south shore of Crystal Lake, M-115 turns westbound toward Frankfort and US 31 pursues Michigan Avenue into Beulah, going around the eastern end of the lake. Close to the eastern end of Platte Lake, US 31 swings to run easterly into Honor before intersection into Grand Traverse County. 

Over the province line, US 31 proceeds with eastbound, passing north of the network of Interlochen. At Interlochen Corners, it converges M-137. The interstate at that point edges northeasterly north of Duck Lake and south of Silver Lake. A couple of miles more remote east, US 31 meets M-37 at an area known as Chums Corners. The two thruways join and run northward through the unincorporated network. It passes Wuerfel Park, the home arena for the Traverse City Beach Bums, a small time baseball crew. From that point, US 31/M-37 runs downhill into Garfield Township. Around there, the interstate goes through a group of retail locations and vehicle vendors close to the Grand Traverse Mall. North of the convergence with fourteenth Street, the trunkline pursues Division Street into Traverse City. From that point it hurries toward the east of Grand Traverse Commons, the previous Traverse City State Hospital, before US 31/M-37 meets Grandview Parkway alongside the West Arm of the Grand Traverse Bay. 

At that crossing point, the trunkline meets the northern end of M-22, which is running simultaneously with M-72 along the turnpike. As US 31/M-37 swings east to keep running along the inlet north of downtown, the interstate converges with M-72 and gets the LMCT once more. Grandview Parkway keeps running between the Boardman River and the narrows. Close to the mouth of the stream, US 31/M-37/M-72 swings to pursue Front Street along the rest of the sound's shoreline. At Garfield Avenue, M-37 swings northward to keep running up the Old Mission Peninsula, and US 31/M-72 proceeds over the base of the promontory toward the East Arm of the Grand Traverse Bay. The interstate runs north of the Cherry Capital Airport close to the east arm as it edges southeasterly to Traverse City State Park. East of the recreation center, the trunkline exits rural Traverse City and rounds the inlet to run northward along its eastern shore. In the network of Acme, M-72 turns eastbound while US 31 proceeds with north past the Grand Traverse Resort. 

About north of Acme, US 31 crosses into Antrim County as it keeps running between Elk Lake and the Grand Traverse Bay. Between towns, the scene is for the most part farming terrains with blended patches of woods. A couple of miles north of the region line, the trunkline goes through Elk Rapids and crosses a channel interfacing the Spencer Bay part of Elk Lake to Lake Michigan. North of this intersection, US 31 proceeds with northeasterly, running on an isthmus between Torch Lake and Grand Traverse Bay. The roadway goes through Eastport at the northern end of Torch Lake and meets the western end of M-88. Further north, US 31 goes through Atwood and crosses into Charlevoix County. 

As US 31 bends around toward the upper east and east in Charlevoix County, it pursues a segment of the Lake Michigan shoreline that isn't viewed as a component of any straight. The interstate proceeds through Northern Michigan farming regions toward the southeast of Charlevoix. When it enters the city, the trunkline converges the northern end of M-66 and pursues a progression of city avenues to a drawbridge over the channel that associates Lake Charlevoix to Lake Michigan. South of the structure it is Bridge Street, and north of the scaffold it is Michigan Avenue. The parkway swings eastbound to leave town on Petoskey Avenue and pursue the Lake Michigan shoreline. Close to the network of Bay Shore, US 31 crosses into Emmet County. The trunkline proceeds past the Bay Harbor advancement on Charlevoix Avenue into the city of Petoskey. 

Once in Petoskey, US 31 converges the northern end of US 131 (Spring Street) and turns northward along Spring Street through downtown. The thruway bends around to pursue Mitchell Street to cross the Bear River and after that pursue Bay View Road. US 31 keeps running along the Little Traverse Bay through the eastern end of Petoskey and into Bay View. From that point, it meets the southern end of M-119 and goes through a couple of communities, Conway and Oden, that fringe inland lakes like Round Lake and different coves of Crooked Lake. 

North of Oden, US 31 goes through Ponshewaing before entering the town of Alanson. There the roadway converges the western end of M-68 and runs parallel to the Crooked River, some portion of the Inland Waterway. North of town, US 31 goes through the town of Brutus before entering Pellston. The parkway keeps running past the Pellston Regional Airport and proceeds due north to Levering. From that point, US 31 turns northwesterly and after that northeasterly on Mackinaw Highway to round Lake Paradise in the network of Carp Lake. North of the lake, US 31 pursues a constrained access interstate into Cheboygan County. Not exactly east of the region line, US 31 interfaces with I-75 of every a fractional exchange. At this trade, northbound traffic defaults onto northbound I-75 and US 31 ends. 

The primary major overland transportation passageways later on province of Michigan were the Indian trails. Just a single of these pursued piece of the way of US 31; the Mackinac Trail generally paralleled the course of US 31 from Petoskey northward. 

In the age of the auto trail, the streets that later framed US 31 through Michigan were given a couple of various roadway names. The West Michigan Lake Shore Highway Association was established on January 10, 1912, and the gathering revamped on May 30, 1913, as the West Michigan Pike Association. Their auto trail was set apart by a progression of solid markers tall along the roadway from the Indiana state line northward to Mackinaw City. 

The thruway was likewise a piece of the Western Mainline of the Dixie Highway in Michigan, another auto trail that was manufactured beginning in 1915. In 1916, the northern intersection between the West Michigan Pike and the East Michigan Pike, which filled in as the association for the two mainlines of the Dixie Highway in Michigan in Mackinaw City, was set apart with a stone landmark at the intersection of Central Avenue and Huron Street. By the center of 1921, the trail utilized about of roadways along its western branch parallel to Lake Michigan. Michigan drove every single other state in the Dixie Highway Association by 1922 at enhancements to its segments of the roadway. 

The State Trunkline Highway System was made on May 13, 1913, by a demonstration of the Michigan Legislature; at the time, one of the framework's divisions related to US 31. Division 5 pursued a course from Niles northward to Mackinaw City. In 1919, the Michigan State Highway Department (MSHD) signposted the interstate framework out of the blue, and the future US 31 passageway was doled out two numbers. From the state line north through Niles to St. Joseph, it conveyed the first M-58 assignment and from that point northward it was the first M-11. 

The American Association of State Highway Officials (AASHO) endorsed the United States Numbered Highway System on November 11, 1926, and the MSHD assigned US 31 in Michigan as indicated by AASHO's arrangement to run northward from the Indiana state line and along the Lake Michigan shoreline to Mackinaw City. An area in the Benton Harbor– St. Joseph region covered US 12 and the advanced simultaneousness with US 10 was additionally set up. Before the finish of the following year, the thruway was stretched out over the Straits of Mackinac on the state vehicle ships to interface with US 2 in the Upper Peninsula north of St. Ignace. In 1930, Muskegon was skirted; the new thruway east of downtown was numbered US 31A. 

Before the finish of 1936, the last area of US 31 in the state was cleared close Charlevoix, making the whole thruway in Michigan a hard-surfaced street. Early the following year, the course of US 2 was realigned to keep running into St. Ignace; after the change, US 2 and US 31 ran simultaneously. Soon thereafter, a lot of bends were rectified south of Ludington and the courses of US 31 and a US 31A among Saugatuck and Holland were exchanged, and US 31 was realigned to sidestep downtown Ludington. 

In 1938, the southern end of US 31 was given a second assignment when US 33 was reached out into the state from Indiana to end in St. Joseph. Soon thereafter, the US 31A in the Holland zone was decommissioned. The following year, the US 31 simultaneousness was expelled from US 2 in the Upper Peninsula and the previous interstate never again crossed the Straits of Mackinac, ending rather in Mackinaw City. By the mid 1940, the Muskegon Bypass was given the US 31 assignment, and the course downtown was redesignated US 31A. 

Amid World War II, a detour of downtown South Haven was assembled; the previous course of US 31 through the core of the city was assigned Bus. US 31 around then. After the war, the course of US 31 north of Charlevoix was realigned to pursue the shoreline; this segment opened by the center of 1949. The course of the thruway among Holland and West Olive was changed to keep running on an increasingly rakish course northwesterly in 1950. A couple of years after the fact, a detour toward the south and east of Holland opened and the previous course through down was redesignated as a business circle in 1954. 

On November 1, 1957, the Mackinac Bridge opened to traffic. For the opening of the extension, the interstates coming into Mackinaw City from the south were realigned to associate with it; US 31 ended at the southern way to deal with the Mackinac Bridge. In November 1960, segments of I-75's road opened from Indian River north toward the southern Mackinac Bridge methodologies, and US 31 was rerouted to pursue fragments of that expressway from the momentum northern end south of Mackinaw City northward. Before the decade's over, another expressway section opened along the Muskegon Bypass also. The following year, US 33 was expanded northward along US 31 from St. Joseph for about . 

In 1962, a segment of expressway along US 31 was opened between I-94 and the Berrien– Van Buren province line. This segment was initially assigned as a major aspect of I-96/US 31; the previous course close to the lakeshore turned out to be simply US 33. The MSHD requested of government parkway authorities to switch the Interstate assignments west of Grand Rapids, turning around the I-96 and I-196 numbers to their present setups. After the assignment switch was affirmed in 1963, an extra was opened from the northern end of the expressway close Benton Harbor to Holland as I-196/US 31. The road was likewise stretched out northward from Muskegon to the Muskegon– Oceana region line north of Montague in 1963. 

When I-196 was finished among Holland and Grandville in 1974, the BL I-196 assignment was connected along US 31 and Bus. US 31. The following year, the US 31 interstate was stretched out northward into Oceana County to New Era. In 1976, this turnpike was stretched further to Hart. The segment of I-196/US 31 in everything except Berrien County was devoted as the "Gerald R. Portage Freeway" in July 1978. Likewise that year, the US 31 turnpike was reached out toward the southern side of Pentwater. 

Toward the finish of the 1970s and into the mid 1990s, US 31 increased extra interstate portions on the two closures of the parkway. The primary segment of the St. Joseph Valley Parkway was finished in 1979 and kept running from the Indiana state line north to US 12. The expressway was stretched out northward from Pentwater to the Oceana– Mason area line in 1980. Development of the Niles Bypass was done in 1987, conveying the turnpike north to Walton Road northwest of Niles. Transport. US 31 was made along the previous steering in Niles. The northern expressway was expanded further into Mason County in two phases. In 1989, it was extended toward the south side of Ludington. The following year, Ludington was avoided, finishing the interstate to its present northern end at US 10 east of town. One more detour, this time a non-road steering toward the west of Scottville, opened in 1991. The Berrien Springs Bypass was finished in late 1992. From that point forward, MDOT constructed a turnpike portion north from Berrien Springs to Napier Avenue that was opened on August 27, 2003, at an expense of $97 million (identical to $ in ). The last change to the directing of US 31 happened in August 2004 when the course of Bus. US 31 in Holland was swung back to neighborhood control; BL I-196 was rerouted to chase after US 31 downtown as opposed to following the previous business circle through it. 

Beginning in 1996, Traverse City-territory occupants and sightseers mentioned an interstate detour the city. These occupants chose to not manufacture the thruway. In 2001, The thought was restored, yet MDOT surrendered these plans in June of that year. 

The MSHD began contemplates for an expressway directing of US 31 from the state line northward to I-94 of every 1967. The main area northward to Niles was affirmed in 1972, and the rest of the course was endorsed in 1981. From that point forward, MDOT reexamined the St. Joseph Valley Parkway augmentation east of Benton Harbor, because of ecological, financial, and verifiable site issues. One of the natural worries that was contemplated identifies with the living space of a jeopardized species, the Mitchell's satyr butterfly, which has its living space in the territory of the proposed interstate. The natural surroundings is home to the second-biggest populace of the uncommon butterfly. The interstate among Niles and Benton Harbor was arranged as a progression of five fragments when endorsed in 1981. Since that endorsement, the butterfly was found in the Blue Creek Fen in the late 1980s, and it was recorded as an imperiled species in 1992. This posting slowed down MDOT's arranging and development of the fifth interstate portion north of Berrien Springs. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) issued a sentiment two years after the fact that the venture would endanger the species. MDOT was offered consent to change the recently endorsed turnpike to cross the Blue Creek on longer scaffolds; the USFWS likewise necessitated that any development be done from raised stages, among different confinements. Meanwhile, MDOT continued with development of the southern bit of the last interstate fragment, finishing it northward from Berrien Springs to the Napier Avenue trade in August 2003. 

A reexamined ecological effect concentrate to represent the butterfly's territory in the northern region of the road was affirmed in 2004. The investigation thought about the first steering for this augmentation that included interfacing straightforwardly to I-196 at I-94 with a backup course of action that included an indirection association by means of the BL I-94 trade and an I-94 simultaneousness close Benton Harbor. The investigation prescribed utilizing a rendition of the substitute association with maintain a strategic distance from the Blue Creek Fen, both to set aside extra cash and reduction effect to the Mitchell's satyr. At the time the road section opened in 2003, MDOT expected the rest of the portion would not take any longer to finish, however from that point forward, financing has not been accessible. MDOT did exclude development of the augmentation thus in the division's 2014– 18 parkway undertakings plan discharged in 2013, albeit the greater part of the structure work and land procurement has been finished. Until the missing road portion is assembled, US 31 pursues a stretch of Napier Avenue, which was redesigned related to the St. Joseph Valley Parkway opening to that guide, westbound to I-94. The US 31/I-94/BL I-94 trade will be changed over to a cloverleaf exchange and extra paths will be added to I-94 too. The St. Joseph Valley Parkway name has just been connected to this unbuilt segment. MDOT's 2017– 21 plan draft discharged in July 2016 split the rest of the work into three stages. The division has recorded financing for just the initial two of these three stages, and development is foreseen to begin in 2021. 

On December 6, 2018, MDOT reported that a $20 million optional allow had been gotten to finish the last period of development, constructing the remainder of interstate required to interface US 31 to I-94. 

, voyagers needed to utilize either US 31 through Grand Haven or 68th Avenue through Eastmanville to cross the Grand River in Ottawa County. Another thruway, some portion of a long-run intend to manufacture a US 31 sidestep of Grand Haven, gives a waterway crossing practically equidistant between the two, significantly lessening drive times between zones north and south of the stream. A drive from Nunica to Robinson is an excursion; the new expressway gives a course closer to long. Called M-231, this parkway is a downsized detour of US 31 through Grand Haven, despite the fact that it won't physically interface with US 31. By January 4, 2013, MDOT had finished work for this parkway, including a scaffold over North Cedar Drive, extra slopes at the I-96 and M-104 trade, and remaking and broadening of M-104 close I-96. The division had likewise finished a reconfiguration of the crossing point between M-104 and Cleveland Drive and augmenting the scaffold that conveys M-104 over I-96. The normal date of consummation for M-231 was set for at some point in 2016 pending subsidizing accessibility. MDOT intended to work of the new interstate beginning in 2013, including the extensions over the Grand River and Little Robinson Creek. The 2005 SAFETEA-LU transportation bill gave financing reserved to the venture by US Representative Pete Hoekstra from Holland just as coordinating assets from the state's Michigan Jobs Today program. The complete expense of the undertaking was required to be close $150 million. On October 30, 2015, the roadway opened to traffic. 

The segments of the course of US 31 in Michigan has been devoted a few times to different associations. The course of US 33 in the state, which at the time was simultaneous with US 31, was committed as the Blue and Gray Trail in 1938 to respect veterans of the American Civil War. The Blue Star Memorial Highway assignment was connected to the parkway to respect those serving in the military. The assignment was committed on October 10, 1948 by the State Highway Commissioner Charles Ziegler. 

In 1917, the Upper Peninsula Development Bureau made a vacationer course that is a forerunner of the cutting edge Great Lakes Circle Tours (GLCT). The Great Lakes Automobile Route was a progression of streets on both the Upper and Lower landmasses of Michigan. It included US 31 among Manistee and the Benton Harbor– St. Joseph territory. The idea did not most recent a year; the American section into World War I and an absence of spotlight on a solitary course relegated the thought into lack of clarity. The possibility of a vacationer course around the Great Lakes was resuscitated in 1986 as a pet undertaking of Michigan First Lady Paula Blanchard. MDOT and its partners in Wisconsin, Minnesota and Ontario made the GLCT conspire which incorporates the LMCT that pursues US 31 from Lake Michigan Beach northward to Manistee and from Traverse City north to the end close Mackinaw City barring areas where business circles run nearer to the lake at South Haven, Muskegon, Whitehall– Montague and Pentwater. 

A gathering of zone occupants started a push to have the previous West Michigan Pike assigned what is currently called a Pure Michigan Byway. The assignment would organize the zone for memorable protection awards. A Preserve America allow supported an overview from June 2007 through September 2010, the aftereffects of which were a lot of reports through the Michigan State Historic Preservation Office on the verifiable idea of the West Michigan Pike. In 2011, the gathering was verifying goals from districts along the thruway in help of the assignment. As per authorities taking a shot at the byway, it can take as long as seven years to finish the procedure. The underlying recommendations had the byway proceeding to Mackinaw City, yet as affirmed in 2016, it keeps running from New Buffalo on I-94 to Ludington, following US 31 aside from between business circles at South Haven, Muskegon, Whitehall– Montague and Pentwater. 

MDOT keeps up a posting of the notable scaffolds in the state; along US 31, the office has recorded four structures. In downtown Charlevoix, the US-31– Island Lake Outlet Bridge conveys the roadway over a channel dug between Lake Michigan and Round Lake that likewise associates with Lake Charlevoix. Worked from 1947 through 1949, it is the fifth scaffold at the area. It is a twofold leaf bascule connect. In Petoskey, the thruway crosses Bear Creek on a solid support connect worked in 1930. At long, it is the fourth longest such extension in Michigan. In Manistee, the Manistee River is traversed by a twofold leaf bascule connect worked in 1933. North of Hart in Pentwater Township, the US 31– Pentwater River Bridge is a long-length steel connect that crosses the Pentwater River. It was recorded on the National Register of Historic Places on December 20, 1999. It conveys Oceana Drive along a previous steering of US 31.