Ho 

Ho, otherwise called VH-1 Presents RuPaul: Ho, is a 1997 Christmas collection and the third studio collection by American vocalist and drag ruler RuPaul. Discharged on October 28, 1997 by the record mark Rhino, it is RuPaul's first collection including Christmas music and fills in as a follow-up to his 1996 collection "Charming Lady". RuPaul co-created the collection with Fenton Bailey and Randy Barbato from the generation organization World of Wonder. "Ho" comprises of thirteen tracks, including ten fronts of Christmas models and ditties, and three unique melodies composed by Joe Carrano and RuPaul. Music pundits much of the time depicted the collection for instance of camp however RuPaul cleared up that it incorporated a few progressively genuine spreads, explicitly "In solitude on Christmas" and "Hard Candy Christmas". 

"Ho" was applauded by faultfinders following its discharge and amid review audits; its lively and hilarious sytheses were much of the time refered to as the collection's features, however a few reporters reacted contrarily to the record's utilization of cleverness and the absence of lucidity in its general message. It was incorporated into a 2016 farce list talking about the far right, the "War on Christmas", and the washroom bill. The collection crested at number 27 on the Heatseekers Albums "Announcement" diagram, selling somewhat more than 4,000 duplicates in a single week. To help the record, RuPaul shot a TV extraordinary as a component of his VH1 syndicated program "The RuPaul Show" (1996). 

"Ho" was recorded in RuPauls' front room in New York City; it was finished over the range of three days in July 1997. RuPaul ascribed the collection's prosperity to his science with American vocalist Michelle Visage, saying: "You can hear us having a decent time. So whether it was a Hanukkah collection or a Kwanzaa collection, it didn't have any kind of effect, in light of the fact that the science is there." RuPaul and Visage translated Christmas tunes as instances of camp while depicting them as yet holding clear messages; RuPaul clarified: "Even the camp stuff still holds the genuine significance of Christmas, the sweetness and the affection about one more year passed by." The collection's record name Rhino official advanced the collection through the slogan: "Observe Christmas with great occasion tunes and camp, RuPaul style!" 

"Ho" was made accessible on October 28, 1997 by Rhino on tape and CD. It was rereleased as an advanced download in 2009 through Rhino and Tommy Boy Records. The collection was otherwise called "VH-1 Presents RuPaul: Ho". RuPaul advanced the record by featuring a 1997 Christmas unique, entitled "A RuPaul Christmas Special", as a piece of his VH1 syndicated program "The RuPaul Show". The extraordinary highlighted a visitor appearance from American band Nirvana. RuPaul later discharged a second Christmas collection ("Slay Belles") in 2015, after he invested years planning to record one with maker Lucian Piane. 

The opening track for "Ho" is "With Bells On", a "disco-impacted nation" translation of the Dolly Parton and Kenny Rogers melody of a similar name. Appearance is included on the track, and sings about batteries as her solitary essential Christmas present. The second track is RuPaul's rethinking of "Rudolph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer" as "RuPaul, the Red-Nosed Drag Queen". In "All I Want For Christmas", the vocalist makes a rundown of solicitations for different plastic medical procedure methodology that he might want to get for the occasion, including cheek inserts, jawline inserts, and a butt cheek increase. He additionally recorded a front of "In solitude on Christmas", calling it his most loved Christmas melody; he cleared up that he needed to complete a genuine translation of the track. 

RuPaul's fronts of "I Saw Daddy Kissing Santa Claus" and "Hard Candy Christmas" were noted for their utilization of camp. He distinguished "Hard Candy Christmas" as one of the "genuine ones" on the collection, and said it was just viewed as camp because of "the way that [he was] doing it". When recording the melody, Visage was new to its source "The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas", and sang it as indicated by RuPaul's bearing. Ditty Hall, who had composed the tune, had depicted RuPaul's spread as her most loved form, and positioned it above Dolly Parton's understanding. The collection likewise incorporates a front of "You're a Mean One, Mr. Grinch", fusing components from funk, and "Christmas Train (Medley)", filling in as a club remix of different Christmas tunes. The last track is a remix of the tune "Commend"; the first form had recently showed up on RuPaul's second collection "Saucy Lady" (1996). 

Upon its discharge, "Ho" got principally positive audits from music faultfinders. "Vibe's" Shawnee Smith depicted the collection as a "gathering of reinterpretations ensured to lift your spirits", and complimented it for its up-beat instrumentals and capacity to turn around "occasion sadness". While featuring the progressions made to the tunes' titles, Ken Veeder of "The Advocate" decidedly reacted to RuPaul's translations of the Christmas great in "the gay way". Veeder indicated "I Saw Daddy Kissing Santa Claus" as his most loved track. "E! News"' Joal Ryan noticed that the collection was a standout amongst the most limit pushing Christmas arrivals of the year. "Announcement's" Melinda Newman considered the collection an oddity record, commending it as an increasingly clever case of the class. 

"Ho" has likewise been the subject of recognition from a few review surveys. Amid a 2015 meeting with the "Gay Times", RuPaul and Visage expressed that "Ho" had turned into an "exemplary Christmas conventional collection" nearby discharges by American vocalists Johnny Mathis and Barbra Streisand. In a 2015 article, Idolator's Robbie Daw portrayed it as a "yuletide great". That year, Darren Scott of the "Gay Times" applauded it as one of his most loved Christmas collections ever, and an essayist from OutTV alluded to it as an "accumulation of brassy and merry tunes". Then again, in a 2017 article, Junkee's Bel Ryan felt that the collection had "generally, fallen into the strong abyss of lack of clarity". 

In a 2016 review audit, Serene Dominic of "Tucson Weekly" tongue in cheek included RuPaul as a component of its rundown of craftsmen who ought not have discharged a Christmas collection for "Ho". The article was composed as a satire of the far right and the "War on Christmas", Dominic clowning that the collection prompted the production of the washroom bills. 

A few faultfinders have adversely reacted to RuPaul's utilization of cleverness in "Ho". "AllMusic's" Thomas Erlewine censured RuPaul's dependence on camp in the collection, composing that it was "drained, unsurprising, and basically not amusing" and that it was a "dismal showcase from a performer who used to be hip, sharp, and clever". Newman scrutinized the adequacy of the record's general message, taking note of that RuPaul's message in the liner notes about "making one's very own family for the occasions" did not fit with the picture of "Ru's Christmas undies around his lower legs". While she reacted emphatically to a lion's share of the tunes, Newman saw "You're A Mean One, Mr. Grinch" as a fruitless spread. In a meeting with "Queerty", American drag ruler Hedda Lettuce uncovered that RuPaul's front of "Hard Candy Christmas" was her least most loved Christmas tune ever; Lettuce said that the melody "makes [him] need to push a sweet stick in [his] eye". 

In the United States, "Ho" achieved a pinnacle position of number 27 on the Heatseekers Albums "Board" diagram, and stayed on the graph for about fourteen days. It sold somewhat more than 4,000 duplicates in a single week. The remix of "Celebrate" crested at number 31 on "Board" Dance Club Songs outline on October 11, 1997 and stayed on the diagram for a sum of seven weeks. 

Credits adjusted from the liner notes of "Ho". All tunes delivered by Joe Carrano and Welcome. 

Notes 

Credits adjusted from "AllMusic".