Nigel (cleric of Ely) 

Nigel (c. 1100 – 1169) was an Anglo-Norman Bishop of Ely. He originated from a religious family; his uncle Roger of Salisbury was a cleric and government serve for King Henry I, and different relatives likewise held workplaces in the English Church and government. Nigel owed his progression to his uncle, as did Nigel's plausible sibling Alexander, who like Nigel was progressed to episcopal status. Nigel was instructed on the mainland before turning into an illustrious head. He filled in as Treasurer of England under King Henry, before being selected to the see, or church district, of Ely in 1133. His residency was set apart by clashes with the priests of his house of God section, who trusted that Nigel kept pay for himself that ought to legitimately have gone to them. 

Following the promotion of Henry I's successor, King Stephen, Nigel stayed as treasurer just quickly before his family was expelled from political office by the new lord. Nigel revolted and left to Stephen's opponent Matilda, yet in the end accommodated with Stephen. Despite the fact that he in this manner held some minor regulatory posts, he never recovered high office under Stephen. On the lord's demise, Nigel was come back to the treasurership by the new ruler, Henry II. Nigel's second residency as treasurer saw him return the organization to the acts of Henry I. He pulled back from quite a bit of his open work after around 1164, after an assault of loss of motion. He was prevailing as treasurer by his child, Richard fitzNeal, whom he had prepared in the activities of the Exchequer, or Treasury of England. Most history specialists, at that point and now, have felt that Nigel's authoritative capacities were phenomenal; he is considered to have been more gifted as a chairman than as a religious figure. 

Nigel's date of birth is unsure, yet it is probably going to have been some time around 1100. Students of history sometimes allude to him as Nigel Poor or Nigel of Ely, yet before his height to the episcopate he was ordinarily known as Nigel, the religious administrator's nephew, or Nigel, the treasurer. He was most likely a Norman by family in spite of the fact that he was raised in England, which in 1066 had been vanquished by the Duke of Normandy, William the Conqueror. Following William's demise in 1087 his domain was partitioned between two of his children. His center child, William Rufus, acquired the Kingdom of England, and the Duchy of Normandy go to his oldest child, Robert Curthose. The most youthful child, Henry, got an allow of cash, which he used to buy a lordship in Normandy. The siblings battled among themselves for the following twenty years; the underlying clash was among Rufus and Robert, yet after Rufus' passing in 1100 Henry, who succeeded Rufus as King of England, likewise wound up included. In the long run, in 1106, Henry caught Robert, detained him forever, and assumed responsibility for Normandy. 

Nigel's uncle Roger of Salisbury, Bishop of Salisbury, saw to Nigel's training at the school of Laon in France, where he most likely considered science under Anselm of Laon. Almost certainly, his dad was Roger's sibling Humphrey. Different understudies at Laon included William de Corbeil, later Archbishop of Canterbury, Robert de Bethune, who moved toward becoming Bishop of Hereford, Geoffrey le Breton, future Archbishop of Rouen, and other men in this way to hold priestly districts in the Anglo-Norman domains. 

When he accepting promises as a priest is unrecorded, yet Nigel held a prebend, a religious office in the house of God, in the see of London before holding one of the workplaces of archdeacon in the see of Salisbury, in spite of the fact that which archdeaconry he held is vague. Most current antiquarians trust that Nigel was sibling to Alexander of Lincoln, later Bishop of Lincoln, yet this relationship isn't explicitly validated in the sources, which just express that both were Roger's nephews. William of Malmesbury, a medieval recorder, thought about both Alexander and Nigel to be knowledgeable and steady. Nigel went to the sanctification of Bernard as Bishop of St David's at Westminster in 1115, and may have come back to England from Laon by 1112. From the season of his arrival until around 1120 he filled in as an imperial minister and verified various regal sanctions. 

Nigel first moved toward becoming Treasurer in the rule of Henry I, and appears to have held that office from around 1126. He was at that point a beneficiary, or reviewer and overseer, in the treasury of Normandy, and he filled in as treasurer for the two domains, moving with the lord and court among England and Normandy. The date of his arrangement is hazy, as until he turned into a religious administrator, regal sanctions recorded him as "nephew of the diocesan" (Roger of Salisbury), as opposed to by any office he held. In 1131, however, he was recorded in an ecclesiastical letter as "Nigel, the treasurer", which safely builds up that he held the workplace at that date. 

In 1133, Roger of Salisbury verified the ministerial office of Ely for Nigel. Ely had been without a minister since 1131; after the two-year opening, King Henry made the arrangement since he was settling exceptional business before leaving England to come back to Normandy. As of now Henry additionally designated Geoffrey Rufus to Durham, and Æthelwold to the recently made Diocese of Carlisle. Nigel was blessed on 1 October 1133 at Lambeth by William de Corbeil—who was by then Archbishop of Canterbury—potentially with the help of Roger of Salisbury. Nigel kept on holding the workplace of treasurer until 1136, when he was supplanted by a relative, Adelelm, despite the fact that the antiquarian C. Warren Hollister put his takeoff from the workplace in 1133 with his arrangement to Ely. The "Constitutio domus regis", or "Foundation of the King's Household", may have been composed by Nigel, or potentially for his utilization, and likely was made around 1135. 

Ely had until 1109 been a free cloister, however its last abbot, Richard, had proposed to the ruler an arrangement by which the monastery would turn into a church district, probably with the abbot himself as priest. Richard kicked the bucket before the proposition could be put into task, however in 1109, the caretaker of the empty monastery verified authorization to roll out the improvement, and turned into the principal Bishop of Ely. Be that as it may, the authoritative changes expected to make the nunnery into a ward took longer, were as yet uncertain at the season of Nigel's arrangement. In any case, Nigel was always at court, as appeared by his appearance 31 times as an observer to contracts amid the last 10 years of Henry I's rule. This allowed for organization of his see, and Nigel delegated a wedded minister, Ranulf of Salisbury, to regulate the ward. Ranulf appears to have tyrannized the priests of the church building part, and Nigel seems to have done little to shield his priests from maltreatment. Afterward, amid the early long periods of Stephen's rule, Nigel professed to have revealed a plot driven by Ranulf to kill Normans. The precise idea of the intrigue is dark, and it is indistinct what incited it. The medieval writer Orderic Vitalis asserted that Ranulf wanted to murder every one of the Normans in the administration and hand the nation over to the Scots. After the revelation of the plot, Ranulf fled the nation and Nigel made harmony with the priests of his house of God part. Another wellspring of contention with his priests was the longing of the house of God part to appreciate the equivalent "freedom" as a corporate body that the religious administrators did in the bishopric. This freedom was a gathering of rights that the nunnery had initially held, and had exchanged to the religious administrator when the monastery turned into a ministerial office. The rights included purpose and soke, or the privilege to direction contribution from the land, and the privilege to collect tolls. They likewise incorporated the privilege to hold courts managing robbery. Around 1135, Nigel yielded this point to the priests. In spite of the fact that he reestablished a portion of the terrains that had been taken from the priests by Ranulf, the "Liber Eliensis" (the house narrative of the priests of Ely) kept on criticizing his organization of the see and the grounds of the basilica part, charging that "he held back for himself a few properties of the congregation which he needed, and great ones they were". The narrative contains various grumblings that Nigel abused the priests or pillaged them. 

Following King Henry's demise in 1135, the progression was debated between the ruler's nephews—Stephen and his senior sibling, Theobald II, Count of Champagne—and Henry's enduring genuine kid Matilda, normally known as the Empress Matilda in view of her first marriage to the Holy Roman Emperor, Henry V. Lord Henry's solitary real child, William, had passed on in 1120. After Matilda was bereaved in 1125, she came back to her dad, who wedded her to Geoffrey, Count of Anjou. Every one of the magnates of England and Normandy were required to pronounce fealty to Matilda as Henry's beneficiary, however when Henry I passed on in 1135, Stephen hurried to England and had himself delegated before either Theobald or Matilda could respond. The Norman nobles acknowledged Stephen as Duke of Normandy, and Theobald satisfied himself with his assets in France. Matilda, however, was less cheerful, and verified the help of the Scottish ruler, David, who was her maternal uncle, and in 1138 likewise the help of her relative, Robert, Earl of Gloucester, an ill-conceived child of Henry I. 

After Stephen's increase, Nigel was at first held as treasurer, yet the ruler came to associate him and his family with furtively supporting the Empress Matilda. The prime movers behind Stephen's doubts against the priests were the Beaumont family, headed by the twin siblings Robert, Earl of Leicester, and Waleran, Count of Meulan, who wished to be the primary consultants of the ruler. Roger, Alexander, and Nigel together held key mansions, including Salisbury, Devizes, Sherborne, Malmesbury, Sleaford, and Newark. The Beaumonts claimed that Roger and his family were bracing the palaces they held in anticipation of turning them over to Matilda. They encouraged the lord to reallocate the mansions before they were lost. Despite the fact that the "Gesta Stephani", or "Deeds of King Stephen", a medieval annal of the occasions of Stephen's rule, claims that Roger was backstabbing to Stephen, the proof is against such activity by Roger, as he had been a rival of Matilda since 1126, when she was first advanced as her dad's beneficiary. Roger and his family likewise had been early supporters of Stephen's seizure of the crown after Henry I's demise. The contemporary writer Orderic Vitalis felt that Roger's family would double-cross the lord, however William of Malmesbury trusted that the claims depended on jealousy from "ground-breaking laymen". Whatever Roger's position, Nigel's own situation on Matilda is less clear, and it is conceivable that he was never instead of her as his uncle. No proof endures that he was repelled from Stephen, in any case, as Nigel kept on seeing sanctions all through the initial four years of Stephen's rule. As indicated by the history specialist Marjorie Chibnall, Nigel's family may have been gotten up to speed in a question between Henry of Blois and the Beaumonts. 

In 1139, supporters of Roger and his family fought in broad daylight with certain men who upheld Alan of Brittany. The fight may have been incited by the Beaumonts, for Alan was regularly connected with them. At a court held at Oxford in June 1139, Stephen required Roger of Salisbury, Alexander of Lincoln, and Nigel to surrender their mansions as a result of the fight. Whenever Roger and his family deferred, the ruler requested their capture. Nigel figured out how to escape capture by escaping to the manor of Devizes, and the ruler pursued and started an attack. The ruler took steps to hang Roger before the stronghold except if it abdicated, and Nigel, under strain from Roger's better half, surrendered the château after the attack had endured three days. Each of the three priests at that point submitted and surrendered their mainstream workplaces and palaces. They were, notwithstanding, permitted to hold their wards. Nigel surrendered Newark Castle and Sleaford Castle, the two of which had been developed by Alexander. Stephen expeditiously offered Newark to Robert, Earl of Leicester, who was thus suspended by Alexander of Lincoln. 

Stephen's sibling, Henry of Blois, who was Bishop of Winchester and ecclesiastical legate in England, called a ministerial gathering at Winchester on 29 August 1139, and brought the lord to answer charges that he had unlawfully captured church. The lord wouldn't visit, and sent an agent. Subsequent to meeting for a couple of days, the gathering was rejected on 1 September without choosing anything but to speak to the pope in Rome. At last, the intrigue never achieved Rome. Some portion of the issue standing up to the gathered religious administrators was that Stephen had not ousted Roger's family from their ministerial workplaces, simply their mainstream ones. Stephen's delegates contended that the clerics had surrendered their strongholds and cash deliberately to keep away from mainstream charges. The protection taken by the lord was not novel; it had been utilized before by William I and William II against Odo of Bayeux and William de St-Calais, separately. 

Customarily, the capture of the religious administrators has been viewed as a defining moment in Stephen's rule, and the occasion that turned the clerical chain of command against him. Ongoing antiquarians have held a vivacious discussion on the issue; a couple of still hold to the customary understanding, however most have chosen that responses in the English church were progressively undecided. One current student of history, David Crouch, trusts that the capture of the religious administrators flagged the beginnings of the Anarchy, not as a result of any distance of the congregation, yet through court legislative issues, where Stephen showed himself unequipped for controlling the groups of his court. The ascendency of the Beaumonts was set apart by the arrangement of one of their protégés, Philip de Harcourt, as Chancellor. 

Roger kicked the bucket in December 1139 while in the ruler's guardianship. After the demise of his uncle, Nigel, at that point in East Anglia, revolted. In January 1140, he sustained the Isle of Ely, yet was before long attacked and compelled to escape. Indeed, even his own house of prayer part would not bolster him, and his revolt fallen in January. Nigel took asylum at the court of Stephen's opponent, the Empress Matilda, who had arrived in England in the south on 30 September 1139 of every an offer to take the position of authority. The revolt stood minimal shot of succeeding, for there were no supporters of Matilda near East Anglia, and almost certainly, Nigel responded increasingly out of dread and outrage at his uncle's demise than all else. It seems likely that Nigel engaged Pope Innocent II as of now, for in October 1140 Innocent issued an ecclesiastical bull, or ecclesiastical guidance, requesting the rebuilding to Nigel of the terrains of his ministerial office, and it creates the impression that after the catch of Stephen, Matilda figured out how to reestablish Nigel to Ely quickly. In 1141, Nigel, alongside his sibling Alexander, was one of the supporters of Matilda who, after the catch of Stephen by Matilda's powers, achieved a concurrence with Henry of Blois to supplant Stephen with Matilda on the position of authority. Eventually, this understanding came to nothing when Matilda's main supporter, her stepbrother Robert of Gloucester, was caught and later traded for Stephen. Stephen's discharge implied that the lord was allowed to send Geoffrey de Mandeville against Nigel, and Nigel submitted to the ruler, most likely in 1142. 

In 1143, Nigel ended up engaged with a squabble with the incredible Henry of Blois. Charges of denying a cleric of a congregation, giving church property to laymen, and empowering subversion were brought against Nigel, and he was compelled to go to Rome to shield himself, just achieving Rome in 1144. He didn't come back to his bishopric until 1145. He most likely went with Theobald of Bec, the Archbishop of Canterbury, who went to Rome around this time on independent business. While he was in Rome, Pope Lucius II issued various decisions to support Nigel, requesting his compensation to Ely. He was then at long last accommodated with Stephen by paying a fine of £200 and offering his child Richard fitzNeal as a prisoner. While Nigel was at Rome, Ely was assaulted by the lord's powers. The priests sent to Geoffrey de Mandeville for help, and Geoffrey came and involved the Isle of Ely, while the lord's powers involved the terrains of the see outside the Isle. Both possessing powers damaged to the terrains of the bishopric and the house of God section. The priests, in the "Liber Eliensis", grumbled that Nigel had taken things from the congregation to fund his outing to Rome, and that they were required to help add to the influence when Nigel was accommodated with Stephen. 

By 1147, Nigel was again seeing Stephen's contracts, and in 1153 or 1154 he was named in an allow of grounds to St Radegund's Priory in Cambridge. He helped with the sanctification of Hilary of Chichester as Bishop of Chichester in August 1147. He participated in shire courts in both Norfolk and Suffolk in 1150, and kept on helping with episcopal sanctifications all through the rest of Stephen's rule. No records exist of him being included with treasury undertakings amid this time. His seeing of sanctions is meager, and quite often in organization with different religious administrators; this proposes he was just at court for committees or other comparable occasions. Nigel was an observer to Stephen's sanction that left England to Matilda's child, Henry of Anjou. At the point when Henry succeeded Stephen, Nigel was available at the crowning ritual. 

After the promotion of Henry II, Nigel was gathered to rearrange the Exchequer, or treasury, that was in charge of the creation of the administration's money related records, including the Pipe Rolls. The lord needed to ask Nigel a few times to return before the religious administrator concurred, and one purpose behind Nigel's hesitance may have been that he would need to work with Robert, Earl of Leicester, one of the Beaumonts, who had been in charge of turning Stephen against Nigel's family in 1139. Another of Nigel's partners in the organization was a layman, Richard de Lucy, who filled in as an equity until 1178. Nigel was the main enduring pastor of Henry I, and his insight into the Exchequer was expected to help revamp the incomes of the lord and reestablish regulatory practices lost amid Stephen's rule. The solitary pipe move to make due from Henry I's rule, for the year 1130, might be Nigel's very own duplicate, conveyed with him to the Exchequer when he returned under Henry II. Nigel had the capacity to expand the incomes contrasted with what had been gathered under Stephen, however he was unfit to rapidly return them to the sums gathered under Henry I. It might have been Nigel who encouraged the ruler to endeavor to recuperate homes that had been distanced amid Stephen's rule. 

The pipe move for 1155– 1156 has a few sections which pronounce that Nigel was settling on choices about fiscal issues and issuing writs, yet later pipe rolls don't contain any such passages. It seems likely that after the underlying rearrangement of the Exchequer, Nigel's contribution decreased. He kept on being dynamic, however, and got charge exceptions and different benefits until his passing in 1169. His child, Richard fitzNeal, who is the primary hotspot for data about Nigel's profession in the Exchequer, expressed that he satisfied Nigel's treasury obligations when Nigel was sick. Nigel kept on competing with Robert, the Earl of Leicester, and Richard fitzNeal transfers an anecdote about Nigel and Robert standing up to one another at the Exchequer over conventional exclusions of the noblemen of the Exchequer, or judges of the Exchequer. Among the changes did by Nigel were the reclamation of the "whiten ranch" framework, whereby an arbitrary example of mint pieces was tested and any deficiency was gathered from the sheriff, and the rebuilding of accumulations from a swath of provinces that had stopped making good on regulatory obligations amid Stephen's rule. The most considerable change was the arrival to a bound together arrangement of accounts, which thus required a compromise of the two unique frameworks being used by Stephen and Matilda. In spite of Nigel's restoration to the Exchequer, and the designation of his child as treasurer, Nigel did not appreciate the power that his uncle had employed under Henry I. The careful date of Richard's arrangement as treasurer is dark, yet it was at some point somewhere in the range of 1158 and 1160, as he is safely validated as treasurer in 1160. The "Liber Eliensis" states that Nigel paid the lord £400 to verify the workplace for Richard. A few history specialists have considered Nigel to be Henry II's "clergyman of fund". 

Nigel additionally filled in as a regal equity under Henry II. Despite the fact that his relations with the legislature had improved, his relations with the priests of his church building part, which had never been great, kept on being set apart by squabbles. In 1156, the English Pope Adrian IV took steps to suspend Nigel from office except if the diocesan reestablished every one of the grounds that had a place with the congregation when Nigel progressed toward becoming cleric. The compensation was hampered by the nonappearance of the lord from England, and the debate delayed until at last it was settled by Nigel vowing before Theobald of Bec, Archbishop of Canterbury, to reestablish the terrains. By 1158, Nigel had figured out how to reestablish enough belongings that Adrian loosened up the conditions. Indeed, even this did not end the fights with the priests, as Nigel then named a wedded representative as sacrist of Ely, an activity which was denounced by Thomas Becket, the new Archbishop of Canterbury. Nigel managed to verify a decrease in the appraisal of knight's charges due from the ward, from the 60 fees that were expected under Henry I, to 40 out of 1166. 

Nigel kicked the bucket on 30 May 1169. In either 1164 or in 1166, or potentially both, he had been struck by loss of motion, and after this he appears to have pulled back from dynamic illicit relationships. He took little part in the question between the lord and Thomas Becket, in spite of the fact that he agreed with his kindred religious administrators who restricted the ruler's endeavor to lessen administrative advantages. He may have been covered at Ely, where a twelfth century marble chunk potentially denotes his tomb. 

Nigel was a hitched diocesan, and his child Richard fitzNeal was later Lord Treasurer and Bishop of London. Another child was William, called William the Englishman. Richard, who composed the "Dialogus de Scaccario", or "Discourse concerning the Exchequer" about the systems of the Exchequer, had been shown those methodology by his dad. Nigel's uncle Roger had somewhere around one child, Roger, who was King Stephen's chancellor; Adelelm, who succeeded Nigel as treasurer after his first term, was likely Roger's child too. Another relative was William of Ely, who succeeded Richard fitzNeal as treasurer in 1196, despite the fact that the definite relationship is misty. 

Nigel was dynamic in depleting the Fens, the swampy land around Ely, to build the horticultural grounds around his church district. He likewise sustained the Isle of Ely with stone protections, most likely beginning around 1140. The remaining parts of one palace on Cherry Hill in Ely likely date to Nigel's fortresses. From the get-go in his time as minister he was dynamic in recouping grounds of the congregation that had been conceded to knights by his forerunners, and not long after his sanctification he requested an investigation made into the terrains really possessed by the bishopric and house of prayer section. The religious administrator went through the majority of his time on earth in the red, however in the year he kicked the bucket he figured out how to clear it with his child's assistance. The priests of his house of God part disliked the way that they were required to pay for the diocesan's interests to Rome to recuperate his see, or pay for recapturing the lord's support. Their abhorrence of their minister is apparent in the "Liber Eliensis". The craftsmanship antiquarian C. R. Dodwell composed of Nigel's endeavors: When ... Nigel ... expected to fund-raise so as to fix his very own political fortunes, he stripped down, sold, or utilized as security, a very bewildering number of Ely's religious fortunes. These numbered Crucifixes of gold and silver from the Anglo-Saxon past, and they incorporated an alb with gold-weaved attire, given by St Æthelwold, and a chasuble, given by King Edgar, which was practically all of gold. A gold and bejeweled material covering ... was sold to the Bishop of Lincoln, Alexander, who took it with him to Rome as an endowment of specific quality. It is a gnawing editorial on demeanors of the Anglo-Norman episcopy to Anglo-Saxon workmanship, that it was left to the pope to bring up that such a creative legacy ought to never have left Ely in any case and to arrange its arrival. 

Most students of history have considered Nigel to be a director, not a religious minister. The student of history David Knowles composed that Nigel "had dedicated every one of his energies and capacities to issues simply mainstream; in the branch of money related organization he was incomparable, and more than some other man he guaranteed the congruity and advancement of the astounding managerial practice started under Henry I". The history specialist W. L. Warren said that "Stephen most likely paid the consequences for the expulsion of Bishop Roger of Salisbury and Bishop Nigel of Ely, for the skill of the exchequer was stopped in their aptitude." Whatever Nigel's authoritative ability, his religious capacities are commonly held to be low; the "Gesta Stephani" says of both him and Alexander that they were "men who cherished showcase and were impulsive in their rash presumption ... ignoring the blessed and basic way of life that befits a Christian cleric they dedicated themselves so absolutely to fighting and the vanities of this world that at whatever point they went to court by arrangement they ... stimulated general surprise because of the uncommon concourse of knights by which they were encompassed on each side."