Group of Gediminas 

The group of Gediminas is a gathering of relatives of Gediminas, Grand Duke of Lithuania (ca. 1275– 1341), who collaborated in the fourteenth century. The family incorporated the kin, youngsters, and grandkids of the Grand Duke and assumed the crucial job in the historical backdrop of Lithuania for the period as the Lithuanian respectability had not yet procured its impact. Gediminas was likewise the ancestor of the Gediminid administration, which managed the Grand Duchy of Lithuania from 1310s or 1280s to 1572. 

Gediminas' beginnings are vague, yet late research proposes that Skalmantas, a generally obscure recorded figure, was Gediminas' granddad or father and could be viewed as the administration's originator. Since none of his siblings or sisters had known beneficiaries, Gediminas, who sired somewhere around twelve youngsters, had the preferred standpoint in building up sway over his kin. Known for his strategic aptitudes, Gediminas orchestrated his youngsters' relational unions to suit the objectives of his outside approach: his children united Lithuanian power inside the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, while his little girls set up or reinforced unions with the leaders of regions in advanced Russia, Ukraine and Poland. 

The connections among Gediminas' kids were commonly amicable, with the outstanding exemption of Jaunutis, who was ousted in 1345 by his siblings Algirdas and Kęstutis. These two siblings proceeded to give a praised case of quiet power-sharing. In any case, Gediminas' numerous grandkids and their relatives occupied with power battles that proceeded with well into the fifteenth century. Gediminas' grandkids changed over Lithuania to Christianity and introduced the main individual association with Poland. 

Since composed wellsprings of the time are rare, Gediminas' family, early life, and suspicion of the title of Grand Duke in ca. 1316 are dark and keep on being the subject of academic discussion. Different speculations have guaranteed that Gediminas was either his antecedent Grand Duke Vytenis' child, his sibling, his cousin, or his hostler. For a few centuries just two variants of his causes circled. Accounts—composed long after Gediminas' passing by the Teutonic Knights, a long-standing foe of Lithuania—asserted that Gediminas was a hostler to Vytenis; as indicated by these narratives, Gediminas slaughtered his lord and expected the position of authority. Another adaptation presented in the Lithuanian Chronicles, which additionally seemed long after Gediminas' demise, announced that Gediminas was Vytenis' child. Be that as it may, the two men were nearly a similar age, making this relationship improbable. In 1868, a letter issued by the Council of Riga in 1323 was distributed that contained a little note referencing Vytenis as "the sibling and ancestor" of Gediminas. After the letter became exposed, course books generally spoke to Vytenis and Gediminas as siblings. Be that as it may, antiquarian Tomas Baranauskas trusts "sibling" has been translated too actually, and that the two were in certainty cousins. 

Great Duke Vytenis' sources are moderately entrenched; he was the child of Butvydas, who was Grand Duke of Lithuania from 1291 to 1295. No agreement exists about the personality of Butvydas' dad. While a few ancestries give Traidenis as the progenitor, this has been portrayed as impossible: the later marriage of Gediminas' little girl Eufemija and Traidenis' incredible grandson Boleslaw-Yuri would have abused ordinance law, since the two would have been connected by blood, and this infringement would almost certainly have been seen by the pope. 

Ongoing examination shows that Gediminids' predecessor may have been Skalmantas. In 1974 antiquarian Jerzy Ochmański noticed that "Zadonshchina", a lyric from the finish of the fourteenth century, contains a line in which two children of Algirdas name their precursors: "We are two siblings – children of Algirdas, and grandsons of Gediminas, and incredible grandsons of Skalmantas." This revelation prompted the conviction that Skalmantas was the long-looked for progenitor of the Gediminids. Ochmański set that the sonnet skirted the age spoken to by Butvydas, and bounced back to the obscure predecessor. Baranauskas deviates, trusting Skalmantas was Butvydas' sibling as opposed to his dad, and that Vytenis and Gediminas were in this manner cousins. 

It is realized that Gediminas, brought into the world around 1275, had one sister (or conceivably two, see beneath for the spouse of Andrei of Kozelsk) and a few siblings: Vainius, Fiodor of Kiev, perhaps Vytenis, and potentially Margiris. In the event that Vytenis, who was Grand Duke of Lithuania from around 1295 to 1315, was without a doubt Gediminas' sibling, he was most likely the oldest child. Students of history remember one child of Grand Duke Vytenis, Žvelgaitis, who may have kicked the bucket before his dad. In 1310 Žvelgaitis, as of now a develop man, drove a military to close-by Livonia in advanced Latvia and Estonia. After Vytenis passed on in around 1315, Gediminas turned into the Grand Duke. There are no sources showing that Vytenis' siblings or other relatives progressed contending claims. 

Vainius first shows up in composed sources in 1324. In 1326, as Duke of Polatsk, he marked a bargain with the Livonian Order and Novgorod. Researchers place his passing at some point somewhere in the range of 1338 and 1342. Vainius' solitary known child, Liubko, kicked the bucket in 1342 amid a fight with the Livonian Order. 

Fiodor, whose relationship to Gediminas was not set up until the twentieth century, was the longest-lived sibling, making due until no less than 1362. In around 1325, with assistance from Gediminas, he turned into a Duke of Kiev. Fiodor was purified through water in the Eastern Orthodox ritual and his agnostic name is obscure. Kiev was still affected by the Golden Horde, and Fiodor recognized fealty to the Horde's Khan. This subjection kept going until 1363, when Gediminas' child Algirdas soundly vanquished the Horde in the Battle of Blue Waters. Insightful conclusion had since a long time ago considered Fiodor a Rurikid, as opposed to a Lithuanian, in light of his Christian name. In 1916, be that as it may, a rundown of property having a place with Theognostus, a perished Metropolitan of Moscow, and assembled during the 1330s, was distributed; among the things recorded were two silver containers talented by "Fiodor, sibling of Gediminas". 

Margiris, the safeguard of Pilėnai, is regularly recommended as the no doubt contender for the fourth sibling. The accounts of Hermann de Wartberge notice that in 1329 Gediminas and two of his siblings struck Livonia. At that point Vytenis was at that point dead and Fiodor was most likely busy with setting up himself in Kiev. One of these two siblings should then have been Vainius; the character of the other still riddles history specialists. Alvydas Nikžentaitis recommends that he was Margiris in light of the fact that sources verify his high status and riches. Sources notice one child of Margiris, who was caught by the Teutonic Knights not long after his dad's suicide in 1336 and did not return. 

The main direct composed notice of Gediminas' sister is a legend depicting the homicide of two Franciscan ministers who came to Vilnius to spread Christianity. This legend was first introduced in "Chronica XXIV Generalium", an account composed before 1369. The occasions most likely occurred around 1340, and a few observers could in any case have been alive when the annal was composed. As per the legend Friar Ulrich's proclaiming irritated townspeople. He and his sidekick, Martin, were seized and brought before Gediminas, who requested the monks slaughtered. Ulrich was tormented and his body hurled into a stream. Martin's body was protected by Gediminas' sister, an Orthodox religious woman. She covered Martin at the religious community where she lived. The legend was conceivably as the reason for the legend of 14 Franciscan saints of Vilnius, first recorded in the Bychowiec Chronicle. 

It is unsure what number of spouses Gediminas had. The Bychowiec Chronicle makes reference to three spouses: Vida from Courland; Olga from Smolensk; and Jewna from Polotsk, who was Eastern Orthodox and kicked the bucket in 1344 or 1345. Most present day history specialists and reference works state Gediminas' better half was Jewna, expelling Vida and Olga as imaginary, since no sources other than this annal notice the other two spouses. The antiquarian S. C. Rowell contends that Gediminas' significant other was a nearby agnostic duchess, in light of the fact that his marriage to a princess from a neighboring area would have been noted in other contemporary sources, and that the unwavering quality of the Bychowiec Chronicle has been addressed. 

A contention has been propelled that Gediminas had two spouses, one agnostic and another Orthodox. This case is bolstered just by the "Jüngere Hochmeisterchronik", a late fifteenth century annal, referencing Narimantas as relative to Algirdas. Different students of history bolster this case by belligerence this would clarify Gediminas' generally baffling assignment of a center child, Jaunutis, as his progression would be reasonable if Jaunutis were the primary conceived child of Gediminas and a second spouse. 

Since none of Gediminas' kin had solid beneficiaries, Gediminas and his youngsters were in a good position to expect and merge control in the Grand Duchy. Gediminas had somewhere around five girls and seven children, whose quick relational unions combined and extend the Grand Duchy's impact to territories east and west of Lithuania. Those relational unions address Gediminas' strategic ability in structure coalitions with the neighboring states that common his objectives to pulverize the Teutonic Order and contain the developing intensity of Moscow and Poland. The relational unions of Gediminas' children solidified the administration's control over different domains as of now inside the Grand Duchy, while his little girls' and granddaughters' relational unions attempted to reinforce Lithuanian associations with neighboring forces. 

In 1320 Maria wedded Dmitri of Tver, leader of a Russian realm. The marriage occurred not long after Mikhail Yaroslavich, Dmitri's dad, was murdered; his children were hunting down solid partners against Yury of Moscow, their foremost rival for the position of royalty of Vladimir and All Rus'. After 1327 Lithuania started to displace Tver as Moscow's central adversary for matchless quality in the Rus'. At the point when Tver looked to match Moscow, it required a union with Lithuania. Dmitri was slaughtered in 1325 and Maria never remarried. Maria's brother by marriage, Alexander I, by and by kept up well disposed associations with the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and his girl Uliana wedded Algirdas, the child of Gediminas, who proceeded with the Gediminid line. The participation among Lithuania and Tver kept going admirably into the fifteenth century. 

Aldona (sanctified through water as Ona or Anna; her agnostic name is known just from the compositions of the sixteenth century recorder Maciej Stryjkowski) wedded Casimir III of Poland, child of Władysław I of Poland, when he was 15 or 16 years of age. The marriage occurred on either 30 April or 16 October 1325, and was an absolutely political move to fortify the Polish– Lithuanian alliance against the Teutonic Knights (a union anticipating the Union of Krewo in 1385 and the Union of Lublin in 1569, with the last bringing about a steady and incredible new express, the Polish– Lithuanian Commonwealth). This starter alliance was brief, crumbling in around 1330, however there is no proof of military clash among Poland and Lithuania while Aldona was alive. 

The marriage into the Lithuanian line that had ruled since around 1289 may have loaned authenticity to the standard of Władysław I of the Piast tradition, who was delegated in 1320, supplanting the Přemyslid administration. Yet, Aldona kicked the bucket out of the blue toward the finish of May 1339 and was covered in Kraków. Aldona had two little girls: Cunigunde (d. 1357) wedded Louis VI the Roman, the child of Louis IV, Holy Roman Emperor, and Elisabeth (d. 1361) wedded Duke Bogislaw V of Pomerania, a territory in cutting edge Germany and Poland. Elisabeth's little girl, Elizabeth of Pomerania, was the fourth spouse of Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor. 

Gediminas' girl Elzbieta wedded Wacław of Płock, one of the dukes of Masovia in current eastern Poland. Her second name is recorded in works by Maciej Stryjkowski as "Danmila" and Teodor Narbutt as "Damila". It has been proposed these names are misread forms of "Danutė", a name got from "Daniel". Another understanding is that history specialists confounded Danutė of Lithuania, girl of Kęstutis, with Elzbieta. As a collusion, the marriage was huge in light of the fact that entries to and from western Europe needed to go through Masovia; it very well may be viewed as an endeavor to restore Grand Duke Traidenis' and his girl Gaudemunda's connection with Masovia during the 1270s. The marriage's significance is verified by Elzbieta's share: 720 Kraków silver imprints and nine characteristics of gold – multiple times in excess of a normal recorded endowment of the time. This marriage most likely occurred around 1316, when Gediminas upheld Wacław amid a common war in the isolated Duchy of Masovia. After Wacław's demise in 1336, Elzbieta dealt with her own riches. She is referenced once and for all in 1361, when her sibling Kęstutis got away from Marienburg and looked for shelter at his sister's home; antiquarians put her date of death at around 1364. In 1337 Elzbieta's little girl Anna, first referenced in late 1323, wedded Henry of Żagań, in cutting edge western Poland. Her child Bolesław III or Bolko passed on without a male beneficiary in 1351 and his territory was partitioned among different dukes. 

Eufemija (otherwise called Marija, Ofka, and Anka) wedded Bolesław Jerzy II of Galicia, in current Ukraine, in 1331. The marriage was designed in 1323 when the siblings Lev and Andrew of Galicia were killed without leaving beneficiaries. Rather than supplanting them with his own child Liubartas and gambling a war with Poland, Gediminas produced a trade off with Władysław I of Poland. The two gatherings consented to introduce Bolesław, cousin of Władysław I and nephew of Gediminas' child in-law Wacław of Płock, with the marriage to happen later. Bolesław at the time was fourteen years of age. Along these lines the war for control of Galicia– Volhynia was deferred until after Bolesław's harming in 1340; control of the region was not balanced out until 1370. As indicated by Teodor Narbutt, Eufemija was suffocated underneath the ice of the Vistula River on 5 February 1342 so as to keep her out of the progression question. 

Aigusta was purified through water as Anastasia so as to wed Simeon of Russia in 1333; he ended up Grand Prince of Moscow in 1341. There is no immediate proof that she was a girl of Gediminas, but since the marriage was prominent, most history specialists have presumed that she was an individual from Gediminas' family. The marriage had incredible potential since Lithuania and Moscow were wild adversaries for amazingness in Ruthenia, yet clashes broke out again in 1335, only two years after the marriage. Her two children Vasilei and Konstantin did not endure early stages; her little girl Vasilisa wedded Mikhail Vasilevich of Kashin, a Tverite sovereign restricting Lithuania. Her sibling Jaunutis looked for her assistance when he was removed by Algirdas in 1345. Preceding her demise on 11 March 1345 Aigusta turned into a religious recluse. She was covered inside the Moscow Kremlin at a devout church whose development she had supported. 

It is conceivable that Gediminas had two additional little girls. As indicated by Maciej Stryjkowski, one of Gediminas' little girls was hitched to David of Hrodna, his most loved war pioneer. In any case, a few students of history can't help contradicting the end that David was Gediminas' child in-law, communicating doubt about the unwavering quality of Stryjkowski's sources. The presence of another little girl, or conceivably another sister, has been guessed dependent on the rundown of Metropolitan Theognostus' property distributed in 1916. The rundown contains a note depicting Andrei Mstislavich, Duke of Kozelsk (ruled ca. 1320 — 1339), as Gediminas' child in-law. Then again, the Ruthenian word "ziat"' ("зять") can mean either "child in-law" or "sister's better half". Thus Andrei of Kozelsk could have been Gediminas' brother by marriage. 

The narrative of John of Winterthur contains a reference to Gediminas' eight children. The names of seven children can be found in different composed sources, while the character of the eighth stays questioned. Alvydas Nikžentaitis proposes that this child was the Duke of Trakai who died in 1337 in the assault on Bayernburg. Duke of Trakai was a critical position held either by the Grand Duke himself or his second-in-direction. In this way, eighteenth and nineteenth century antiquarians trusted that it was Gediminas himself who kicked the bucket at Bayernburg. Nikžentaitis further proposes that the name of the obscure child may have been Vytautas, as records notice a youthful and incredible Yuri, child of Vytautas and agent of Andrei, child of Algirdas. Yuri kicked the bucket in 1348. His high position in youth could without much of a stretch be represented by being a grandson of Gediminas. Be that as it may, others debate these speculations, contending that the note in John of Winterthur's annal was misconstrued. 

It is vague why, yet Jaunutis, a center child not referenced in any composed sources before the "rebellion" achieved by his siblings, was assigned by Gediminas as his beneficiary in Vilnius and therefore turned into the Grand Duke. His sibling Kęstutis, Duke of Trakai, was helping him in Samogitia. Regardless of assistance from Narimantas, Jaunutis was dismissed by his siblings Algirdas and Kęstutis in 1345, only four years after Gediminas' demise. Jaunutis attempted, however fizzled, to request assistance from his brother by marriage Simeon of Russia and was immersed as "Iwan" simultaneously. He was compelled to accommodate with Algirdas and in remuneration got the Duchy of Zasłaŭje, which he managed until his passing in 1366. 

A few children of Gediminas proceeded with his male line, however it was Algirdas who proceeded with the fundamental Gediminid line. Before ousting his sibling Jaunutis in 1345, he controlled Kreva and, regardless of staying agnostic, wedded Maria, a little girl of the last ruler of Vitebsk. After 1345 he turned into the Grand Duke of Lithuania and imparted his capacity to his sibling Kęstutis. Their fruitful joint effort is praised in Lithuanian historiography, and offered ascend to a much discussed hypothesis that a convention of co-guideline or diarchy in Lithuania was standard and emerged as right on time as 1285. The Grand Duchy encountered its most prominent development amid their rule. While Algirdas was generally dynamic in the east, Kęstutis involved himself by dealing with the Duchy's communications with the Teutonic Knights, Poland, and other western European elements. In 1350 Algirdas gotten every second marriage with Uliana of Tver; he picked their child Jogaila as the following Grand Duke. In 1385 Jogaila opened another part in the historical backdrop of Lithuania by changing over the nation to Christianity and marking an individual association with Poland, getting to be King of Poland. This Polish– Lithuanian association, in different structures, made due until the third parcel of the Polish– Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1795. Jogaila's part of the Gediminids is known as the Jagiellon tradition. 

Kęstutis, Duke of Trakai, in spite of practicing significant self-rule while controlling the western regions of the duchy, was faithful to Algirdas and recognized his prevalence. Kęstutis was a committed agnostic and devoted his life to protecting Lithuania from the Teutonic Knights. A mainstream sentimental legend emerged about his marriage to the agnostic priestess Birutė of Palanga. They had seven or eight kids, including Vytautas the Great. After Algirdas' passing in 1377, his child Jogaila turned into the Grand Duke. At first Kęstutis and his child Vytautas recognized Jogaila's standard, however after Jogaila marked the disputable Treaty of Dovydiškės with the Teutonic Knights, Kęstutis caught Vilnius and turned into the Grand Duke in late 1381. In August 1382 he was detained in Kreva and kicked the bucket there. Vytautas proceeded with his battle for matchless quality, and the contentions between the relatives of Algirdas and Kęstutis kept going great into the fifteenth century. 

Manvydas was the oldest child of Gediminas and acquired the regions of Kernavė and Slonim from his dad. Little is thought about him, and he passed on not long after Gediminas. It is trusted that he was executed in the Battle of Strėva in 1348 alongside his sibling Narimantas. 

Narimantas was the second child of Gediminas. He was absolved as Gleb and proceeded to lead Pinsk, Polotsk, and – as his patrimony by welcome of Novgorod's nobles – Ladoga, Oreshek and Korela. He started a custom of Lithuanian hired fighter administration north of Novgorod on the Swedish fringe that endured until Novgorod's tumble to Moscow in 1477 and helped keep Moscow under control. In 1345 Narimantas turned into the most grounded supporter of his ousted sibling Jaunutis and went to Jani Beg, Khan of the Golden Horde, to request support against Algirdas and Kęstutis. There are gossipy tidbits that Narimantas hitched a Tatar princess, yet they need believability. Following a couple of years the siblings accommodated, and it is trusted that Narimantas drove the Battle of Strėva for the sake of Algirdas and kicked the bucket there. He abandoned three to five children who established Russian regal families, including Kurakin and Galitzine. 

Karijotas was purified through water as Mikhail and acquired Navahrudak in Black Ruthenia. In 1348 he was sent by Algirdas to Khan Jani Beg to arrange an alliance against the Teutonic Knights, yet was given over to Moscow for payment. He kicked the bucket around 1363. It is questionable what number of kids he had: the number shifts somewhere in the range of four and nine. 

Liubartas (purified through water Dymitr) was Gediminas' most youthful child. In the mid 1320s he wedded a little girl of Andrew of Galicia and ruled Lutsk in eastern Volhynia. After Andrew's and his sibling Lev of Galicia's demises around 1323, Galicia– Volhynia encountered a power vacuum. Instead of advancing Liubartas and gambling a war with Poland, Gediminas wedded his little girl Eufemija to Boleslaw-Yuri II of Galicia. War with Poland was in this way deferred until 1340. The Galicia– Volhynia Wars were settled after 1370, when Poland got Galicia, while Lithuania held Volhynia. Liubartas passed on around 1385, having ruled Volhynia for about sixty years. He had three children.