Divine force of War: Chains of Olympus 

Divine force of War: Chains of Olympus is a third-individual activity experience computer game created by Ready at Dawn and Santa Monica Studio, and distributed by Sony Computer Entertainment (SCE). It was first discharged for the PlayStation Portable (PSP) handheld comfort on March 4, 2008. The amusement is the fourth portion in the "Lord of War" arrangement, the second sequentially, and a prequel to the first "Divine force of War". It is inexactly founded on Greek folklore and set in antiquated Greece, with retribution as its focal theme. The player controls Kratos, a Spartan warrior who serves the Olympian Gods. Kratos is guided by the goddess Athena, who teaches him to discover the Sun God Helios, as the Dream God Morpheus has made a large number of the divine beings sleep in Helios' nonappearance. With the intensity of the Sun and the guide of the Titan Atlas, Morpheus and the Queen of the Underworld Persephone expect to demolish the Pillar of the World and thus Olympus. 

The ongoing interaction is like the past portions, with an attention on combo-based battle, accomplished through the player's primary weapon—the Blades of Chaos—and optional weapons gained all through the amusement. It includes speedy time occasions that require the player to finish amusement controller activities in a planned arrangement to overcome more grounded adversaries and managers. The player can utilize around three otherworldly assaults as elective battle alternatives. The amusement likewise includes baffles and platforming components. The control setup was reconfigured for the PSP, as it has less catches than the PlayStation 2's controller. Prepared at Dawn's answer for the controls got acclaim from commentators. 

Appearing at No. 5 on the North American outlines, "Chains of Olympus" accomplished the most noteworthy composite score for a PSP title from Metacritic and GameRankings. 1UP expressed that the amusement is "a specialized show-stopper for Sony, and seemingly the most attractive diversion on the framework." It won a few honors, including "Best PSP Action Game", "Best Graphics Technology", and "Best Use of Sound". In September 2010, "GamePro" named "Chains of Olympus" the best PSP amusement. By June 2012, the diversion had sold 3.2 million duplicates around the world, making it the fourth top of the line PlayStation Portable round ever. Together with "", "Chains of Olympus" was remastered and discharged on September 13, 2011, as a feature of the "" for the PlayStation 3 (PS3). The remastered adaptation was incorporated into the "Divine force of War Saga" discharged on August 28, 2012, likewise for PlayStation 3. 

"Divine force of War: Chains of Olympus" is a third-individual single-player computer game saw from a fixed camera point of view. The player controls the character Kratos in combo-based battle, platforming, and bewilder diversion components, and fights adversaries who principally come from Greek folklore, including cyclopes, Gorgons, satyrs, wenches, minotaurs, hoplites, and sphinxes. Morpheus monsters, shades, banshees, fire monitors, fire guards, hyperion watchmen, and passing knights were made explicitly for the diversion. Platforming components require the player to climb dividers, bounce crosswise over gaps, swing on ropes, and parity crosswise over pillars to continue through segments of the amusement. A few riddles are basic, for example, moving a case so the player can utilize it as a hopping off point to get to a pathway inaccessible with typical bouncing, however others are increasingly perplexing, for example, finding a few things crosswise over various zones of the amusement to open one entryway. 

Kratos' principle weapon is the Blades of Chaos: a couple of sharp edges appended to chains that are folded over the character's wrists and lower arms. In ongoing interaction, the sharp edges can be swung obnoxiously in different moves. As the amusement advances, Kratos procures new weapons—the Sun Shield and Gauntlet of Zeus—offering elective battle alternatives. Kratos just learns three mysterious capacities, rather than four in past portions, including the Efreet, the Light of Dawn, and Charon's Wrath, giving him an assortment of approaches to assault and execute foes. He secures the relic Triton's Lance—like Poseidon's Trident in "Lord of War"— which enables him to inhale submerged; an important capacity as parts of the amusement require extensive stretches of time there. 

The test mode in this diversion is known as the Challenge of Hades (five preliminaries), and expects players to finish a progression of explicit undertakings (e.g., Burn 50 fighters with the Efreet). It is opened by finishing the diversion. The player may open extra outfits for Kratos, off camera recordings, and idea specialty of the characters and situations, as remunerations. Fulfillment of every one of the amusement's trouble levels opens extra rewards. 

Similarly as with the past diversions in the "Divine force of War" establishment, "Lord of War: Chains of Olympus" is set in a substitute variant of old Greece, populated by the Olympian Gods, Titans, and different creatures of Greek folklore. Except for flashbacks, the occasions are set between those of the recreations "" (2013) and "Lord of War" (2005). A few areas are investigated, including this present reality areas of the old urban communities of Attica and Marathon, the last including anecdotal settings of the Temple of Helios and the Caves of Olympus, and a few other anecdotal areas, including the Underworld, which highlights scenes at the River Styx, Tartarus, the Fields of Elysium, and the Temple of Persephone. 

Attica is a war-torn city under strike by the Persian Empire and their pet basilisk, and is the site of Eurybiades' last fight. The city of Marathon is shrouded operating at a profit haze of the Dream God, Morpheus. Just past the city is the Temple of Helios, which sits on the Sun Chariot, which has dove to Earth in Helios' nonappearance. Boreas, Zephyros, Euros, and Notos, divine forces of the north, west, east, and south breezes, separately, dwell in the sanctuary and guide the chariot. The Caves of Olympus is a natural hollow underneath Mount Olympus and houses the goddess Eos, the Primordial Fires, and a statue of Triton. The Underworld is the underground domain of the dead and is host to the River Styx and ferryman of the dead, Charon. Tartarus is the jail of the dead and the Titans where the enormous Titan Hyperion is tied. The Fields of Elysium are home to meriting spirits that wander gently and are ignored by the Temple of Persephone. 

The hero of the amusement is Kratos (voiced by Terrence C. Carson), a previous Captain of Sparta's Army, and once worker to the God of War, Ares. He currently serves the other Olympian Gods with the expectation that they will free him of his bad dreams. Different characters incorporate Kratos' coach and partner Athena (Erin Torpey), the Goddess of Wisdom; Eos (Erin Torpey), the Goddess of Dawn and sister of Helios; Persephone (Marina Gordon), the Queen of the Underworld and the primary rival; and Atlas (Fred Tatasciore), a four-outfitted Titan detained in Tartarus after the Great War. Kratos' perished little girl Calliope (Debi Derryberry) quickly reunites with him in the Fields of Elysium and his better half Lysandra shows up in a flashback. Minor characters incorporate Helios (Dwight Schultz), the caught Sun God; Charon (Dwight Schultz), the ferryman of the Underworld; and the Persian King (Fred Tatasciore), pioneer of the Persian powers assaulting Attica. The Dream God Morpheus is a concealed character that influences the plot. 

Amid Kratos' ten years of administration to the Olympian Gods, he is sent to the city of Attica to help protect it from the attacking Persian armed force. After effectively executing the Persian King, devastating his military and killing their pet basilisk, Kratos watches the Sun tumble from the sky, diving the world into murkiness. As he battles his way through the city of Marathon, the Spartan observers the dark mist of the Olympian Morpheus spread the land. He hears a frightful woodwind song, which he perceives as a tune once played by his expired girl Calliope. Finding the Temple of Helios, Kratos is entrusted by Athena to locate the missing Sun God, as Morpheus has made huge numbers of the divine beings fall into a profound sleep without light. The Spartan in the long run finds Helios' sister, Eos, who reveals to Kratos that the Titan Atlas has stole her sibling. Eos encourages Kratos to look for the Primordial Fires, which he uses to stir the flame steeds of Helios. The steeds take the Spartan to the Underworld, where he has two experiences with Charon at the River Styx. In spite of the fact that Charon at first thrashings Kratos and expels him to Tartarus, the Spartan returns and annihilates the ferryman. 

Subsequent to finding the Temple of Persephone and standing up to the Queen of the Underworld, Kratos is given a decision: disavow his capacity and be with his perished little girl (at an expense to humanity) or continue with his main goal. Kratos penances his weapons and capacity to be brought together with his little girl, yet finds that Persephone is disenthralled by Zeus' selling out and her detainment in the Underworld with her better half Hades. While he was occupied by his gathering with Calliope, Persephone's partner Atlas was utilizing the intensity of the hijacked Helios to demolish the Pillar of the World, which would likewise end Olympus. Forsaking Calliope always, Kratos reclaims his capacity and ties Atlas to the Pillar of the World he tried to obliterate, constraining the Titan to hold the heaviness of the world on his shoulders. Kratos then fights Persephone until the very end. Albeit triumphant, he is cautioned by a withering Persephone that his enduring will never end. Map book likewise cautions Kratos that he will in the end lament helping the divine beings and that he and Atlas will meet once more. Kratos then rides the Sun Chariot back to the human world and into the sky as Morpheus withdraws. 

In a post-credits scene, Kratos is as yet riding Helios' chariot once again into the sky and subsequent to seeing the arrival of the Sun, Kratos loses cognizance from the effort and plunges to the ground. Finally, Kratos is spared by Athena and Helios, and Athena reveals to Helios that "He will live." 

Diversion designer Ready at Dawn pitched the possibility of a "Divine force of War" amusement for the PlayStation Portable to SCE Santa Monica Studio not long after the first "Lord of War" propelled. In February 2007, Ready at Dawn posted a secret including "Coming Soon" in the "Divine force of War" text style. An editorial manager from 1UP acquired an early duplicate of "Divine force of War II" and posted the diversion's guidance manual, including a one-page secret with "PSP" in the Omega image and expressing "Coming 2007". On March 12, 2007, "Divine force of War II" was propelled at the Metreon: "Lord of War II" Game Director Cory Barlog formally affirmed the improvement of "Chains of Olympus", expressing "It is its own story that interfaces with the general story. "Lord of War", "Divine force of War II", and after that if every one of the stars adjust "Divine force of War III" will be the recounting a set of three. This PSP story will be a further fleshing out." An underlying trailer for "Chains of Olympus" was discharged on April 25, 2007, harmonizing with the declaration of a demo on UMD—the optical plate mechanism for the PSP. The trailer is described by voice performing artist Linda Hunt. 

"Lord of War: Chains of Olympus" utilizes an exclusive, in-house motor alluded to as the Ready at Dawn motor, which developed the motor made for their past diversion, "Daxter" (2006), to incorporate a liquid and material test system. The camera framework was altered to oblige the fixed true to life camera for "Lord of War" interactivity, and the lighting framework was improved to help in showing reasonable designs. The diversion was initially intended for the PlayStation Portable's limited 222 megahertz (MHz) processor. Prepared at Dawn more than once reached Sony in regards to expanding the clock speed of the PSP because of the distinction to the diversion and had built up an adaptation of the amusement with higher speed. Sony discharged a firmware overhaul that enabled diversions to utilize the full 333 MHz processor. The quicker processor took into account increasingly reasonable blood impacts, lighting impacts, and shadows just as improved foe knowledge. The update, nonetheless, perceptibly diminished battery life. After the diversion's finish, Game Director Ru Weerasuriya expressed multiplayer alternatives and different riddles, characters, and exchange must be expelled because of time limitations. 

Two of the voice on-screen characters came back from the past portions to repeat their jobs, which were Terrence C. Carson and Linda Hunt, who voiced Kratos and the storyteller separately. Erin Torpey received the double jobs of Athena and Eos. Fred Tatasciore, who voiced diverse characters in past portions, returned, and in this amusement, voiced both Atlas and the Persian King. Carole Ruggier and Michael Clarke Duncan did not come back to repeat their jobs, which were Athena and Atlas individually. Voice performing artist Dwight Schultz voiced both Charon and Helios; Debi Derryberry voiced Calliope and proceeded with this job in a later portion; and Marina Gordon gave the voice of Persephone. Brian Kimmet, Don Luce, and Andrew Wheeler gave the voices of a few minor characters and Keythe Farley was the Voice Director. 

The soundtrack was made by Gerard K. Marino, however was never financially discharged. After the arrival of the demo circle, Ready at Dawn offered pre-request clients a music track on plate titled "Skirmish of Attica". Writer Gerard Marino expressed that it was the main prompt composed for the diversion, in view of idea workmanship and screen captures. Marino made about thirteen minutes out of music for the amusement and re-worked other music from the past titles. Three tracks from the soundtrack are incorporated as extra tracks on the . 

The demo circle, formally titled "Lord of War: Chains of Olympus – Special Edition: Battle of Attica", was discharged on September 27, 2007. In the demo, Kratos fights Persian warriors and a monster basilisk. The demo advances through the city of Attica as Kratos pursues the basilisk, coming full circle with Kratos battling the Persian King. The circle likewise incorporated a designer video and a cord in the state of the Greek letter Omega. Following the demo's discharge, a downloadable form was made accessible through the PlayStation Store in North American and European districts. Because of the deferral of the diversion, Ready at Dawn offered an "exceptional release" variant of the demo to pre-request clients, with one Ready at Dawn engineer expressing that arrangement of the extraordinary demo circle took up to 40% of the group's creation time. 

"Lord of War: Chains of Olympus" was initially planned to be discharged amid the final quarter of 2007, however it was rescheduled and discharged on March 4, 2008, in North America, March 27 in Australia, March 28 in Europe, and July 10 in Japan, where it was distributed by Capcom. The amusement was a business achievement, appearing at No. 5 on the North American outlines with 340,500 duplicates sold in the principal month. The diversion was re-discharged in Europe on October 17, 2008, as a feature of Sony's Platinum Range and was likewise re-discharged in Japan and North America in April 2009 under Capcom's Best Price and Sony's Greatest Hits marks, individually. It ended up accessible for download from the PlayStation Store on September 30, 2009, in North America, October 1 in Europe, and November 11, 2010, in Japan. Sony discharged a restricted release group pack just in North America, on June 3, 2008. The pack incorporated the diversion, an UMD of the 2007 film "Superbad", a voucher for the PSP title "", and a red release of the support engraved with a picture of Kratos' face on the back. As of June 2012, "Chains of Olympus" has sold more than 3.2 million duplicates around the world. 

Together with "", the diversion was discharged for the PlayStation 3 as a feature of the "" (called "Divine force of War Collection – Volume II" in Europe) on September 13, 2011, in North America, September 16 in Europe, September 29 in Australia, and October 6 in Japan. The accumulation is a remastered port of the two amusements to the PS3 equipment, with highlights including top quality goals, stereoscopic 3D, against associated designs bolted at 60 outlines for every second, DualShock 3 vibration capacity, and PlayStation 3 Trophies. "Lord of War: Origins Collection" and full preliminaries of its two diversions were additionally discharged for download on the PlayStation Store on September 13, 2011, in North America. By June 2012, the accumulation had sold 711,737 duplicates around the world. On August 28, 2012, "Divine force of War Collection", "Lord of War III", and "Starting points Collection" were discharged as a feature of the "Divine force of War Saga" under Sony's line of PlayStation Collections for the PlayStation 3 in North America. 

"Divine force of War: Chains of Olympus" got "all inclusive approval" as indicated by audit aggregator Metacritic with a score of 91 out of 100, and a 91.44% at GameRankings, accomplishing the most noteworthy composite score for a PlayStation Portable title. The amusement was adulated for its illustrations and introduction. Matt Leone of 1UP asserted "Chains of Olympus" is "a specialized show-stopper for Sony, and ostensibly the most attractive amusement on the framework." Robert Falcon of Modojo.com also adulated the introduction, calling it "an outright shocker, the apex of PSP improvement". He likewise applauded the visuals as "completely stunning," and that the "amusement moves delightfully all through, with next to no misfortune in detail or speed." However, G4's Jonathan Hunt said that it "once in a while experiences screen tearing and framerate drops." 

A few analysts applauded Ready at Dawn's answer for the controls and ongoing interaction. Since the PlayStation 2 (PS2) controller has two simple sticks and the PSP just has one, "GamePro" expressed "the absence of a second simple stick could have been dangerous yet it's most certainly not." Modojo.com likewise expressed that regardless of the absence of a second simple stick, "Kratos handles eminently on the PSP" and that the weapon and enchantment assaults are "mapped out consummately around the PSP's control set-up." IGN's Chris Roper even asserted the control plot "works superior to on the PS2." Roper further guaranteed that Ready at Dawn "has completed an excellent activity of keeping Kratos' turn set flawless," expressing that "battle is incredibly responsive." Matt Leone of 1UP also adulated designers answer for the control conspire just as the diversion's "phenomenal" pacing. Notwithstanding, "GamePro" condemned the general absence of assortment in adversaries. The riddles were scrutinized, and G4 guaranteed that some "are so maddeningly hard to explain", while GameSpot's Aaron Thomas noticed the absence of riddles, asserting that it "could have utilized more". "GamePro" additionally reprimanded the way that "despite everything you need to haul boxes around to fathom ecological riddles". Kristan Reed of Eurogamer likewise scrutinized Ready at Dawn for cutting a few riddles, just as cutting center play, multiplayer, discourse, and characters. 

GameSpot and IGN censured the short length and insignificant supervisor battles, in spite of the fact that "GamePro" expressed that it has "a similar epic feel" as the past portions and guaranteed that on the off chance that it was the main "Divine force of War" title, "it would in any case remain without anyone else merits." Cheat Code Central asserted "Chains of Olympus" is "a standout amongst the best recreations at any point made for the PSP." They asserted that it is "unquestionably an absolute necessity purchase diversion for every present fan" and that it "has all that you've generally expected from "Lord of War", just in a little plate and on a littler screen." GameTrailers proceeded to laud the replay an incentive for having the capacity to "bring your fueled up strategies for devastation with you." 

In IGN's Best of 2008 Awards, "Chains of Olympus" got the honors for "Best PSP Action Game", "Best Graphics Technology", and "Best Use of Sound". In GameSpot's Best Games of 2008, it got the "Perusers' Choice Award". Diehard GameFAN granted it "Best PSP Game" for 2008. At the 2008 Spike Video Game Awards, it was a chosen one for "Best Handheld Game". It was Metacritic's 2008 "PSP Game of the Year". In September 2010, "GamePro" named "Divine force of War: Chains of Olympus" the best PSP diversion.